this sme area is price-sensitive, hasn't upgraded for years, has no it management: it's where linux can make a difference, and it's where i reckon it's hardest for linux to enter - for reasons that i will describe later.
why ever would someone  using sun sparc workstations want windows?
who should avoid it?
meanwhile, novell had changed their os completely to version 4, which no  one i knew found easy to use.
well, for freedom, odd as this may seem given the current context.
james is the coordinator of lg's "windows defectors" series.
linux gazette is not  produced, sponsored, or endorsed by its prior host, ssc, inc. published in issue 97 of linux gazette, december 2003  home faq site map mirrors translations search archives authors  contact us home > december 2003 (#97) > article
so things went on, and as they went on the problems of this windows computing paradigm - which had always been apparent in contrast to the novell/diskless paradigm - became more and more cogent.
pretty soon we were selling networks made up of windows for workgroups workstations with a windows nt 3.51 server, for a much lower overall cost than the previous novell-plus-diskless workstations solution, and with pretty reasonable reliability and performance.
we could put a network of  twenty-five peer-to-peer workstations into a site for much less than we could  do a novell installation.
many people say that windows  is unstable.
it still crashed unpredictably, and took even longer to fault-find or reinstall.
people who  still like windows, use windows grudgingly, or deal with linux-windows  integration in lans will also find the information useful.
they had introduced large-scale management tools, which merely muddied the waters for our typical installs of 5 to 10 clients, and it cost more than version 3.x.
and the price of a  network card?
meanwhile the workers and researchers,  who just wanted to get things done, were bringing in their own windows machines  and running spss or mathcad or some custom sample analysis software on them  just to get the work done, and meanwhile the new spectrometers in the lab came  with windows-based software that had to be copied by hand to the unix system!
this sme area is price-sensitive, hasn't upgraded for  years, has no it management: it's where linux can make a difference, and it's  where i reckon it's hardest for linux to enter - for reasons that i will  describe later.
also the  clients could install their own extra software packages without invoking our  aid (and paying for it).
but it did work, and did the job well.
i adopted nt4 workstation as my personal desktop as soon as it was released, but i had to dual-boot with 98 because nt4 did not run games well - and i like games.
we don't like the licence (it's a potential problem for most solicitors/lawyers and anyone else with a duty of confidentiality), we don't like the desktop (it's an insult), we don't like the vulnerabilities, or the slow performance, or the sheer undocumented mass of it all.
windows 2000 server, 2000 as or especially windows server 2003 are a ridiculous overkill for an office with six client machines, as well as being much more expensive and needing huge hardware resources to run.
windows 95 was effective - it's a masterpiece of forward and backward compatibility in my view - but it was not stable.
i could  source the same lead (apart from the blanked hole) for $7.
...making linux just a little more fun!
but in some areas the alternatives may have strengths that gnu/linux lacks.
copyright © 2003, james roberts.
all such discussions have a context, and the context i intend here is that  of the small and medium enterprise, or sme.
it was also abstruse, non-intuitive (indeed, counter-intuitive at times) and completely non-user-friendly.
i've had win nt 4 boxes stay up for years.
but that's not thereal problem.
it's  a long and somewhat sad story, but in the end, you'll maybe see why, once,  windows nt was better for our clients than xenix/sun, and why now linux may be  better than nt.
also the clients could install their own extra software packages without invoking our aid (and paying for it).
the psu failed one day, and i  managed to migrate the system to a different box and a bigger hard drive and  get it all working again (i never was sure how).
but it is the sme area that has in  the current, somewhat-recessive economic circumstances, consistently been  identified by the it industry as the last largely untapped potential growth  area.
in spite of the series title, it's not just for those who have stopped using windows completely.
but in some areas the alternatives may have  strengths that gnu/linux lacks.
in 1996/7 we sold this system into various sites that were running sun  solaris/sparc.
the plague years then the viruses started to really hit.
in fact, for  both these extremes the issues are arguably simpler: at one end it's just  personal choice of platform, at the other the resources are available to  implement customised solutions as needed.
it was pretty solid, pretty easy to use, fast, adequately  tuned, and a good desktop system.
but that gnu/linux could so easily match or exceed this performance impressed me.
i installed it and played with it, but it didn't do anything i needed.
windows 95 was effective - it's a masterpiece of forward and backward  compatibility in my view - but it was not stable.
we don't sell xp, if we can help it.
i remember two issues.
but it is the sme area that has in the current, somewhat-recessive economic circumstances, consistently been identified by the it industry as the last largely untapped potential growth area.
that i'll have to emphasise.
moreover, with the windows system, the clients had the illusion of a familiar system - most of the decision-makers who wanted to introduce networked systems already had windows boxes at home.
released under the open publication  license unless otherwise noted in the body of the article.
and for the client, again it gave  the illusion of familiarity - it looked like windows.
we got used to reformatting and reinstalling.
not only are there lots of interestingly geeky x-desktops  available, but two mainstream competitors for windows 2k/xp, with generally  enhanced capabilities.
workstation would only handle ten clients; this was  reminiscent of the intel tricks with the 486 series.
we could put a network of twenty-five peer-to-peer workstations into a site for much less than we could do a novell installation.
pretty soon we were installing a lot more windows for workgroups than novell.
it still crashed unpredictably, and took even longer to  fault-find or reinstall.
was windows actually as reliable?
any minor configuration error was often  fatal.
was windows actually as  reliable?
if the problems can be solved here, then linux will become 'sticky' at this level of the 'ordinary' user.
then we put some test boxes into  clients, mostly as mail servers/file servers with av integrated, and they have  on the whole been working flawlessly ever since.
within about  ten days of starting i'd been bumped up into a systems and end-user support  role as well.
then the viruses started to really hit.
if the problems can be solved here, then linux will become  'sticky' at this level of the 'ordinary' user.
within about ten days of starting i'd been bumped up into a systems and end-user support role as well.
well, yes, given the age of the systems being replaced, it was in  fact more reliable.
there are some problems to overcome in retro-fitting gnu/linux into a windows network, and now i've given the history i've just laid out, i hope you'll see them a little differently.
overall the server/diskless workstation was a very good fit for the  clients' needs; it was reliable, fast (the 10 mbps network was faster than  contemporary ide drives) and easy to maintain (all the configuration files were  in one place).
nonetheless, i kept an eye on gnu/linux and installed most builds of slack, then red hat.
but windows 2000 pro had a deliberately  broken networking model, presumably to force a contrast with windows 2000
i expect so - and that's part of the  point of the quote.
the target business that i'd like us to keep in mind is a small office - say eight or ten users altogether - and if this small office has a history in computing, it will generally have been in dos and windows.
many of our clients are running windows nt 4 server.
however, nt workstation was too expensive to sell into our  clients in general, so our standard install was windows 98 on the desktop and  windows nt 4 server on the back end, and this worked pretty well.
the alternative options are also imperfect, that's  why we're looking at linux.
not only are there lots of interestingly geeky x-desktops available, but two mainstream competitors for windows 2k/xp, with generally enhanced capabilities.
i installed every mainstream  distro i could get, on every box i could test it on.
-sluggo.] "those who ignore history are doomed to repeat it."
-george  santayana have you heard that quote before?
at the particular sites in question, 'the sun' was under the exclusive control of 'the system administrator' - who would install only what they wanted to install, after triplicate written requests, passed back up to company hq and triple signed off by company it.
we don't like the licence (it's a potential  problem for most solicitors/lawyers and anyone else with a duty of  confidentiality), we don't like the desktop (it's an insult), we don't like the  vulnerabilities, or the slow performance, or the sheer undocumented mass of it  all.
what are the problems?
i'm not addressing the issues for the single desktop, or for the large multinational corporation.
what are the benefits, if any?
linux gazette is not produced, sponsored, or endorsed by its prior host, ssc, inc. published in issue 97 of linux gazette, december 2003
the psu failed one day, and i managed to migrate the system to a different box and a bigger hard drive and get it all working again (i never was sure how).
what should be migrated?
who should consider this option?
next month i'll start discussing what sorts of problems we've encountered and how we've tried to work with them.
in this first article i'd like to set the scene, and this is why i started with the santayana quote.
i'd just joined a small uk sme var as hardware tech.
of course, it didn't take long for the downside to be apparent - no central installation of applications, no central control of rights, no user controls whatsoever, big problems with workstation backup, insecure peer-to-peer networking.
i've noticed that people with a unix background often have had little contact with those who have been weaned on dos - and vice versa.
any company that exploits a monopoly in this way develops users who detest it.
the next article in this issue (by tom brown) is also a window defectors article.
by james roberts [james has agreed to coordinate the "windows defectors" series longrequested in the mailbag.
two years ago, with the launch of xp and the developments in samba, i  decided to seriously evaluate the potential of linux for replacing windows nt 4  on the backend with a gnu/linux box running samba.
in this first article i'd like to set the scene, and this is why i started  with the santayana quote.
so things went on, and as they went on the problems of this windows  computing paradigm - which had always been apparent in contrast to the  novell/diskless paradigm - became more and more cogent.
of course, building all the  workstations took time, so i developed a custom cloning system that could build  ten identical workstations in about fifteen minutes each.
many people say that windows is unstable.
windows nt server was pretty darn stable (after a few  service packs), and so we all looked forward to windows nt 4 coming in 1996,  with the back-end stability of nt and the new interface of 98.
they'd done a good job for their owners, but the replacement - with windows 95 on the desktop and windows nt 3.51 on the server - was like jumping forward a whole epoch, compared with the 9600 baud green-screen serial terminals in previous use.
i played with it, broke  it, fixed it (sometimes) and did my sums.
well, for freedom, odd as this may  seem given the current context.
two years ago, with the launch of xp and the developments in samba, i decided to seriously evaluate the potential of linux for replacing windows nt 4 on the backend with a gnu/linux box running samba.
but windows 2000 pro had a deliberately broken networking model, presumably to force a contrast with windows 2000 server.
add third-party software (and a different mix of such software on every box)  and problems would arise that no-one reliably could solve.
it was big, and the interactions within the systems were unpredictable.
many of our clients are running  windows nt 4 server.
overall the server/diskless workstation was a very good fit for the clients' needs; it was reliable, fast (the 10 mbps network was faster than contemporary ide drives) and easy to maintain (all the configuration files were in one place).
why ever would someone using sun sparc workstations want windows?
meanwhile, it took twenty minutes to link the lab pc talking to the machinery into the network - something that had been on request for a year.
and for me, it came from the architect of digital vms - it was written by someone who did know what they were doing.
by then (and we are getting to 1995 or so), we had become pretty well-known  and had a good reputation for looking after clients, so more than one solicitor  came to us to replace their 286/386 xenix-based system, which was by then  getting pretty long in the tooth (like me now!).
the outlook mail/groupware client was also broken, in that core functionality had been moved to exchange server, and as far as i could see for one reason only: to make clients buy exchange server.
enter the band-wagon then windows for workgroups came along.
but windows 2k was still a good bet for  our clients, although it was getting really overblown in size and slower and  slower every issue.
the video lead - which if i remember correctly was standard  apart from the blanking off of one pin - was $150, about, from sun.
i'm referring here to small installations of between two and a hundred  desktops and servers.
they had introduced large-scale management tools,  which merely muddied the waters for our typical installs of 5 to 10 clients,  and it cost more than version 3.x.
i never installed any rs232  terminals, but i removed a lot.
in spite of the series title,  it's not just for those who have stopped using windows completely.
the var was then primarily a novell reseller and customiser, and  i quickly got to know the advantages and disadvantages of novell 3.1.
moreover, gnu/linux has over the last few years transformed its graphical  desktop capacity.
of course, building all the workstations took time, so i developed a custom cloning system that could build ten identical workstations in about fifteen minutes each.
now, back in 1993 i had ran into slackware, presented as a cover disk with personal computer world uk.
windows defectors: why linux is worth migrating to, sometimes by james roberts [james has agreed to coordinate the "windows  defectors" series longrequested in the mailbag.
the video lead - which if i remember correctly was standard apart from the blanking off of one pin - was $150, about, from sun.
and the price of a network card?
we have a few problems with it.
then windows for workgroups came along.
before we start, let me state that i am convinced that gnu/linux is a masterly piece of work on the whole, and an astonishing achievement.
please take the comments in the appropriate light.
any minor configuration error was often fatal.
there are some problems to overcome in  retro-fitting gnu/linux into a windows network, and now i've given the history
this series is for those new to linux who come from a windows background.
moreover, with the windows system, the clients  had the illusion of a familiar system - most of the decision-makers who wanted  to introduce networked systems already had windows boxes at home.
but there will  soon be no more security updates or support for this version, and we will have  to migrate clients to something else.
it's a long and somewhat sad story, but in the end, you'll maybe see why, once, windows nt was better for our clients than xenix/sun, and why now linux may be better than nt.
anti-flame note before we start, let me state that i am convinced that gnu/linux is a  masterly piece of work on the whole, and an astonishing achievement.
at that  time most of the clients were solicitors (lawyers), and their systems typically  were running a novell server on a i386 or i486 with scsi drives, with up to  twenty-five diskless net-booted i386 workstations, running wordperfect.
windows 2000 is as good as windows has got.
pretty soon we were installing a lot more windows for workgroups than  novell.
then windows xp came out.
i played with it, broke it, fixed it (sometimes) and did my sums.
then windows nt came out - and it was cheaper than novell, both for the  server and for the client access licences.
then we put some test boxes into clients, mostly as mail servers/file servers with av integrated, and they have on the whole been working flawlessly ever since.
moreover, gnu/linux has over the last few years transformed its graphical desktop capacity.
enter the penguin now, back in 1993 i had ran into slackware, presented as a cover disk with  personal computer world uk.
we bought in a pre-configured gnu/linux  slackware box in about 1996 to run as our mail server, initially on dial-up and  then isdn, and over 5 years it never crashed.
it was also abstruse, non-intuitive (indeed, counter-intuitive at times)  and completely non-user-friendly.
yes, windows and windows networking at that time actually represented more 'freedom' for these people, and eventually the lab sun systems were retired and sold off.
but all is not sweetness and light.
-george santayana have you heard that quote before?
in 1996/7 we sold this system into various sites that were running sun solaris/sparc.
in fact, for both these extremes the issues are arguably simpler: at one end it's just personal choice of platform, at the other the resources are available to implement customised solutions as needed.
i've noticed that people with a unix background often  have had little contact with those who have been weaned on dos - and vice  versa.
windows 98 was better, and more reliable, but much bigger again, for no very good reason.
i installed it and played with it, but it didn't do  anything i needed.
windows 98 was better, and more reliable, but much bigger again, for no  very good reason.
with the nt series and all relevant patches on supported hardware - i just don't think that's true.
the outlook mail/groupware  client was also broken, in that core functionality had been moved to exchange  server, and as far as i could see for one reason only: to make clients buy  exchange server.
i could source the same lead (apart from the blanked hole) for $7.
unlike lg's other  series, this one will be written by multiple authors, since there is such an  interest on writing on this subject.
it aims to ask,  and perhaps answer, questions such as: why should anyone defect - or migrate - from windows to linux?
there's a problem in another area too.
the real problem we have is that soon we won't be able to get windows 2000 any more.
yes, windows and windows networking at that time actually represented more  'freedom' for these people, and eventually the lab sun systems were retired and  sold off.
not only that, all the hardware was readily available  and used standard parts (the diskless workstations needed specific types of psu  and weren't easily upgradeable).
so what else can we install to replace nt4?
at the particular sites in question, 'the sun' was under the exclusive  control of 'the system administrator' - who would install only what they wanted  to install, after triplicate written requests, passed back up to company hq and  triple signed off by company it.
they'd done a good job for their owners, but  the replacement - with windows 95 on the desktop and windows nt 3.51 on the  server - was like jumping forward a whole epoch, compared with the 9600 baud  green-screen serial terminals in previous use.
one was concerning a video lead  for a monitor.
people who still like windows, use windows grudgingly, or deal with linux-windows integration in lans will also find the information useful.
i installed every mainstream distro i could get, on every box i could test it on.
i've just laid out, i hope you'll see them a little differently.
released under the open publication license unless otherwise noted in the body of the article.
it aims to ask, and perhaps answer, questions such as: all such discussions have a context, and the context i intend here is that of the small and medium enterprise, or sme.
windows 2000 is as good as  windows has got.
since it's made by humans however, it's not perfect, and inevitably it's the imperfections that i'll have to emphasise.
i'm referring here to small installations of between two and a hundred desktops and servers.
so our recommended system included a novell server,  which solved some (but not all) of these problems.
windows nt server was pretty darn stable (after a few service packs), and so we all looked forward to windows nt 4 coming in 1996, with the back-end stability of nt and the new interface of 98.
not only that, all the hardware was readily available and used standard parts (the diskless workstations needed specific types of psu and weren't easily upgradeable).
so our recommended system included a novell server, which solved some (but not all) of these problems.
i'm not addressing the issues for  the single desktop, or for the large multinational corporation.
at that time most of the clients were solicitors (lawyers), and their systems typically were running a novell server on a i386 or i486 with scsi drives, with up to twenty-five diskless net-booted i386 workstations, running wordperfect.
the target business that i'd like us to keep in mind is a small office -  say eight or ten users altogether - and if this small office has a history in  computing, it will generally have been in dos and windows.
however, nt workstation was too expensive to sell into our clients in general, so our standard install was windows 98 on the desktop and windows nt 4 server on the back end, and this worked pretty well.
but that gnu/linux could so easily match or exceed this performance impressed  me.
it was interesting how this came about.
but there will soon be no more security updates or support for this version, and we will have to migrate clients to something else.
the real problem we have  is that soon we won't be able to get windows 2000 any more.
meanwhile, novell had changed their os completely to version 4, which no one i knew found easy to use.
please take the comments in the appropriate  light.
i'd like us to think back ten years or so - at which time (by mere coincidence)
we bought in a pre-configured gnu/linux slackware box in about 1996 to run as our mail server, initially on dial-up and then isdn, and over 5 years it never crashed.
this series is for those  new to linux who come from a windows background.
this is the first article in a series aimed at the many people who are interested in linux, but currently use windows.
unlike lg's other series, this one will be written by multiple authors, since there is such an interest on writing on this subject.
one was concerning a video lead for a monitor.
meanwhile, it took twenty minutes to link the lab pc  talking to the machinery into the network - something that had been on request  for a year.
we're considering changing the series title to something less negative (e.g., "linux for your mom", "leaning towards linux", "windows immigrants help box", "c:\>, drive-in for windows users", "at liberty under the hood", "linux incognito" -- all suggested by petar marinov), but we're leaving it as "windows defectors" initially because that's what it has been known in the mailbag.
by then (and we are getting to 1995 or so), we had become pretty well-known and had a good reputation for looking after clients, so more than one solicitor came to us to replace their 286/386 xenix-based system, which was by then getting pretty long in the tooth (like me now!).
i adopted nt4 workstation as my personal desktop as soon as it was  released, but i had to dual-boot with 98 because nt4 did not run games well -
workstation would only handle ten clients; this was reminiscent of the intel tricks with the 486 series.
we got used to  reformatting and reinstalling.
the var was then primarily a novell reseller and customiser, and i quickly got to know the advantages and disadvantages of novell 3.1.
the next article in this issue (by tom  brown) is also a window defectors article.
we're considering changing the series title to something less negative  (e.g., "linux for your mom", "leaning towards linux",  "windows immigrants help box", "c:\>, drive-in for windows  users", "at liberty under the hood", "linux incognito"  -- all suggested by petar marinov), but we're leaving it as "windows  defectors" initially because that's what it has been known in the mailbag.
meanwhile the workers and researchers, who just wanted to get things done, were bringing in their own windows machines and running spss or mathcad or some custom sample analysis software on them just to get the work done, and meanwhile the new spectrometers in the lab came with windows-based software that had to be copied by hand to the unix system!
but windows 2k was still a good bet for our clients, although it was getting really overblown in size and slower and slower every issue.
since it's  made by humans however, it's not perfect, and inevitably it's the imperfections
i never installed any rs232 terminals, but i removed a lot.
nonetheless, i kept an eye on gnu/linux and installed most  builds of slack, then red hat.
and for me, it came from  the architect of digital vms - it was written by someone who did know what they  were doing.
then windows nt came out - and it was cheaper than novell, both for the server and for the client access licences.
of course, it didn't take long for the downside to be apparent - no  central installation of applications, no central control of rights, no user  controls whatsoever, big problems with workstation backup, insecure  peer-to-peer networking.
this is the first article in a series aimed at the many  people who are interested in linux, but currently use windows.
well, yes, given the age of the systems being replaced, it was in fact more reliable.
add third-party software (and a different mix of such software on every box) and problems would arise that no-one reliably could solve.
any company that exploits a monopoly in this way develops users who  detest it.
are there work-rounds for the problems?
the alternative options are also imperfect, that's why we're looking at linux.
i expect so - and that's part of the point of the quote.
so we get up to 1999 and windows 2000 pro.
with the nt series and all relevant patches on supported hardware  - i just don't think that's true.
blast from past i'd like us to think back ten years or so - at which time (by mere  coincidence)
pretty soon we were selling networks made up of windows for workgroups  workstations with a windows nt 3.51 server, for a much lower overall cost than  the previous novell-plus-diskless workstations solution, and with pretty  reasonable reliability and performance.
it was pretty solid, pretty easy to use, fast, adequately tuned, and a good desktop system.
and for the client, again it gave the illusion of familiarity - it looked like windows.
windows 2000 server, 2000 as or  especially windows server 2003 are a ridiculous overkill for an office with six  client machines, as well as being much more expensive and needing huge hardware  resources to run.
i also have to say that all trademarks are acknowledged.
so let's review where this typical office is now, and how it got here.
next month i'll start discussing what sorts of problems we've encountered  and how we've tried to work with them.
back in the future so we get up to 1999 and windows 2000 pro.