windows is the best, i think i still like linux because its source is open
i'll stick with linux, whenever i can, - which is on all computers apart from the kids pc (due to games) and my work-laptop (company rules/policies).
and that's why they are so afraid.
it is mentioned on asus forums with no denials: http://vip.asus.com/forum/view.aspx?board_id=20&model= eee+pc+1002hae&id=20090526115622143&page =1&slanguage=en-us " topic :
carla, i wondered if it might be a fake.
word!may 29, 2009 8:45 am
i'm surprised why micro$soft didn't use something more appealing like "get the facts"... ....whooops they already used that in the past...what did that help..?
wow, i would expect linux today to run a whois.
dell, unfortunately, is about the only other maker who has the control, tab, shift and tilde keys all in the correct places and that just drives me silly when they screw up the keyboard silly i tell you!may 30, 2009 6:53
the file formats of which are not compatible with anything, including microsoft office.
i also couldn't care less if someone wants to use windows but to launch a propaganda campaign buddying up with microsoft like this?
(dad has forgotten how to shave or wash, which may be why they don't let him come home.)
notice the carefully-ethnic  leave it to beaver family, with stressed-out dad off to workaholic-ville all  the time, while perfect housewife and children visit absent dad via windows  live messenger.
there were no numbers, and ballmer was making the point that windows biggest competition was pirated copies of windows.
ms have way more to fear from os x than crappy open office-based linux.
what do you suppose is actually going on, here?may 29, 2009 5:04 pm
they have developed anentourage of followers, fanboys and developers.
the ads are pretty good, which means they must have been produced by asus  because microsoft has never ever been able to produce a decent ad campaign.
the funniest thing about the video is that the kids are using microsoft works for their homework.....
and while i'm at it, i wish i could type school book reports on a 83% keyboard while laying on a bed.
but i suspect that it has something to do with the % of those xp licenses on shiny new netbooks that have never been activated or phoned home...
let's see how quickly they start crying when they cannot open that cute ppt or doc from their friends....may 29, 2009 10:39
dad gets to be the hero here; he is actually home, though still unshaven and wrinkled, and he gets to protect young son from internet evils with family safety from windows live one-care.
in saying that i found the windows xp that was installed lacking so i removed it and installed mandriva linux instead and now i get much better performance - i must add i upgraded it to 2gb ram and 500gb sata hdd and now my apps and gaming is even better runing
even though it appears on asus' site, i bet that microsoft is behind it because they are notorious for pushing windows to the front of the line, no matter how it might damage their partners.
big microsoft terror by carla schroder on may 28,  2009 10:47 pm | permalink | comments (22) | trackbacks (0)
big microsoft terror.
it could be a trial, a test to see if it's worth launching as a bigger campaign.
quite true, since the eee pc is running xp.
its owned by a private uk citizen.
may 29, 2009 3:23 pm you haven't proven anything, kelson.
notice the carefully-ethnic leave it to beaver family, with stressed-out dad off to workaholic-ville all the time, while perfect housewife and children visit absent dad via windows live messenger.
may 29, 2009 1:25 pm where can you e-mail asus and tell them that you no longer will do business with them?may 29, 2009 1:35 pm i don't care what micro$oft does or does not do.
it could be a rogue marketing person or team.
if linux is so insignificant, why do they pay so  much attention to it?
it's very elaborate and there is no punchline.
its kind of funny when you think about it.
listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: tiny 1% linux =
legal notices, licensing, permissions, privacy policy.
i have no good data to share; i base my assessment on experience and  knowing the industry.
if it is a hoax, what's the point?
some have questioned if these  ads are legitimate, and claim they are satire or a hoax.
it does show 4 minutes worth of asus.
dad gets to be  the hero here; he is actually home, though still unshaven and wrinkled, and he  gets to protect young son from internet evils with family safety from windows
for me, linux is much much better.
for all of our billions we can't advance beyond an eight-year old operating system, or fix the darned thing."
i also hate windows for alot of reasons ,, but find what they are doing are wrong!
am say what you will about microsoft's other products, they truly do excel at creating fud.
major disappointment and fail at investigative journalism.
in no other market could companies get away with such clear and blatant illegal behaviour.
this whole thing, frankly, is completely bizarre.
advertise | newsletters | e-mail offers
its free advertising for asus.
just another monopoly,, but asus netbooks are so much better with linux in my honest opinion.
the answer is... it depends on who you are and what you're using it for.
the ads are pretty good, which means they must have been produced by asus because microsoft has never ever been able to produce a decent ad campaign.
what a deal pretty laptops.
i don't  believe that the desktop linux market share is barely 1%.
all dad has to do is click some checkboxes, and son is safe.
i'm sticking with linux.
but its all about how they're presenting this propaganda.
it may be a linux joke.
some have questioned if these ads are legitimate, and claim they are satire or a hoax.
andnow i see from your replies to others in this blog that asus have confirmed that the campaign is real after all.
like this new asus/windows eee pc "it's better with  windows" ad campaign: it's better with windows "windows helps you quickly  and easily get online and connect to your devices and services-- without  dealing with anunfamiliar environment or major compatibility issues .
hmm i almost bought a new asus netbook when i saw this crap.
at first i thought to myself, wow, it really must be fake.
i would imagine there are others who have done this too....
i think it is a lot  higher.
pm asus has gone the full 90 on this which leads me to believe microsoft are paying them for the privilege of putting their product on asus hardware.
i can see how people would think its petty to boycott asus entirely over this, sure business is business and to the average user windows might be what they want.
hint: i'm posting this from one of them...)
well personaly i bought a asus n10jc-hv006 netbook its brilliant little netbook.
i guess they won't say things like "antiquated.
it's a direct shot at linux, so i guess that little bitty one percent is a  bigger one percent than it's given credit for.
wow on it is a lot smoother than it ever was in windows , the compressed 1024x768 resolution with the new nvidia drivers for windows xp is horrible..
claims a 92% scale keyboard versus other ads which just call the keyboard "ergonomic".
whois itsbetterwithwindows.com - godaddy in the u.s. and some guy with a hotmail account.
asus links to them, so  they're for real.
references is it better with windows?
(i had nightmares over those pervy guys in big blue butterfly suits invading people's homes; that was beyond creepy.)
but who on earth would go to such great lengths for something that is to all intents and purposes an epic trolling moment?
people dump linux netbooks simply because openoffice is so bad.
the last one is unintentionally hilarious because it hypes "windows family safety."
i was thinking: "i wish i could use an antiquated os with more viruses than a 3rd floor amsterdam window lady.
this is a legal issue that must be furthered.
i guess i'll just have to stick with my bleeding edge technology and ergonomic workstation.
what nobody else much seemed to pick up, and what ballmer himself never mentioned, was that the linux slice of the pie-chart he showed was almost as big as the mac osx slice, at what i would guess would be around 10% of the pie.
the most convincing evidence that its real is this: http://promotions.newegg.com/asus/041609/?cm_sp=subcat_netbooks-_-asus/041609-_-http%3a%2f%2fpromotions.newegg.com%2fasus%2f041609%2f478x88.jpg i'm going to wait about a week and see if i can find out for sure if this real or fake before buying anything.
anti-microsoft hate runs so high in the linux community it blinds you to basic common sense and skepticism.
i've been trying to figure out if its real or not so i can either boycott asus or buy myself a sweet new netbook (had my eyes on a 1000he).
but they remain the world's premier producer of fear, uncertainty and doubt.
http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/gallery/ms-logos.mspx?finish=yes so much for legit.
there is something else that is even more persuasive, and  that is how microsoft behaves.
trackbacks listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: tiny 1% linux =
vunet claims they verified that the site is legitimate: "asus confirmed to vnunet.com that the campaign was legitimate..." http://www.vnunet.com/vnunet/news/ 2243158/asus-microsoft-join-forces the story has been prominent for several days now, and neither asus nor microsoft have issued denials.
the excel clone is particilary weak - even weaker than office 2008 (which microsoft have purposely not supported vs. 2007).may 29, 2009 2:33 pm
there isn't much from asus to make me think its legit.
that marketing video is completely fraudulent.
then i ran a few commands to download everything at thehttp://www.asus.co.uk domain.
it's better with windows "windows helps you quickly and easily get online and connect to your devices and services-- without dealing with anunfamiliar environment or major compatibility issues .
they'll never grant anyone access to their code.
asus.co.uk isn't on the asus dns servers -.-
it's a direct shot at linux, so i guess that little bitty one percent is a bigger one percent than it's given credit for.
i kind of like to use microsoft's own words: "in a world without walls .... who needs windows?", of course i edited it to make sense.
also, if you read the whole thing it is quite different from every single other ad on any asus site.
i have given a "live cd"to several friends, and a shoe loving absolutely no-tech daughter too, telling them to use the cd whenever they plan on doing nothing other than going online to browse/surf/what-ever, with a 2 minute explanation of how to boot into them and then go online in a safe and secure environment.
marketplace partnersmarketplace partners internet.commerceinternet.commerce linuxtoday newsletterslinuxtoday newsletters internet.com / blogsinternet.com / blogs internet.cominternet.com
there is no way the video rendering of web pages is that fast from a click action on netbooks with windows.
so i could learn a lot of things i don't care a about its freedom because windows price is not too expensive search: the network for technology professionals about internet.com
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/8159
may 29, 2009 2:31 am wasn't there a powerpoint slide from some presentation that ballmer did a couple of months back that showed what ms believed the current international market installed os share was, i.e. as opposed to the us-centric sales view most market share figures take?
your familiar, friendly  viruses and worms, and all the performance defects you've become accustomed to.
(i  had nightmares over those pervy guys in big blue butterfly suits invading  people's homes; that was beyond creepy.)
" watch the videos, they're pretty funny.
apart from raising fud, and occasional laughs from people who knows better.
if you're going to call hatred and hoax, you need something more than whois data, which in this case are not even close to a smoking gun.
they even go to the beach without him.
(dad has forgotten how to shave or wash, which may be why they don't let him come home.)watch the videos, they're pretty funny.
may 29, 2009 12:36 pm more importantly, microsoft are anti-competitively applying a tax to the 10% that reformat and install linux.
there may be quite some number of folks who are using a "linux livecd" to "go online" and not a whole lot more.....
with ubuntu 9.04 you can get speeds close to that opening a second window in firefox.
maybe we linux users are still a bit touchy after getting stabbed in the back by sco but it seems to me they first come out supporting the idea of people choosing their own os without the bias and lame smear campaign, then sell out to microsoft (probably for a large some of money) and join in their effort to screw the open source community.
are asus netbooks better with windows?
[feedback and suggestion]campaign - its better with windows" may 29, 2009 4:20 pm
the commercial is actually repetitive and i who thinks that works is a great selling point.
your familiar, friendly viruses and worms, and all the performance defects you've become accustomed to.
it turns out that the information page about the 1000he (and its link to the windows campaign) is the only original page at that site.
if it does turn out to be a hoax i will laugh only if a very clever reason for it is revealed :)may 29, 2009 7:51 pm any copy is good copy.
maybe it is their having to drop the price of xp from about $50 to $5 and whatever other "tricks" they had to pull in order to "win" back the netbook market...
the last one is unintentionally  hilarious because it hypes "windows family safety."
(if they haven't "phoned home" to redmond and they haven't been returned then what happened to them...
some guy, that is a good question.
so i did the whole whois stuff that others have mentioned, without much luck.
it could be a big dumb blunder, which wouldn't be the first time microsoft made a hash of a new ad campaign.
may 31, 2009 2:37 am fake video!
i hope i'm wrong because its really hard to find a netbook with a decent keyboard layout.
i personally hate windows and microsoft with a fiery passion for a number of reasons.
copyright 2010 quinstreet inc.
may 30, 2009 2:09 am
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/8159 yeah-
everything else redirects to http://uk.asus.com.
the way that the logo is being used is probably illegal.
the chief of department of education here signed contract with m$ stating that any device used by edu department that has a capability to run windows operating system must have a license key purchased regardless of the fact that the servers run with linux, and a lot of the department use the google android phones.
(dad has forgotten how  to shave or wash, which may be why they don't let him come home.)
for all of our billions we can't advance beyond an eight-year old operating  system, or fix the darned thing."
the ads are the only thing that even look remotely real, but hd camcorders and tripods are cheap.
asus links to them, so they're for real.