unlike windows where someone has to pay  for the product, the acquisition of linux does not require an individual to pay  anything, making it very cost effective and affordable to use!
one limitation of microsoft dedicated server is that, for each software package, separate licenses are needed.
the main advantage of linux dedicated server is that they  run for a long time with minimal maintenance.
no responses » why should you choose linux dedicated server hosting over others?
people who prefer to use a linux dedicated server as opposed to windows do so because the process of installing applications is very easy.
asp is more common on windows servers but php is generally more useful.
it is better to have your own dedicated server for your website.
if you have a large business which is spread over many locations or if you have a website which has multiple database retrievals in a short span of time, dedicated server host helps you maintain uninterrupted flow of data when you want to access it.
there aren’t half as many viruses that attack a linux system as they do for some other platforms.
one of the major advantages of using linux dedicated server is the reliability it offers.
as linux increases in popularity  though the quality of the software that will run on it is increasing steadily.
in addition, linux offers the best client security because viruses and malwares do not affect it, but rather affect windows usually.
all that you will have to do is to make sure that  you negotiate for alinux dedicated server hosting.
also, in contrast to windows dedicated server host, linux dedicated servers do not require separate licenses for each tool or software released each time.
wow, see the advantages of having the dedicated linux servers!
jan 06 2012 since more people are turning to the internet to learn more about  companies, many companies find a need to ease the website traffic that may  cause clients to back-off if the websites begin to function at slower rates.
you might find using a shared server service for hosting your website to be  affordable, but it will be difficult to continue for long.
choice isn’t just about the software available though, especially if you will still be primarily using your server for hosting your website.
your operating system is in safe hands, meaning that the downtime that you will be experiencing for your site will be reduced.
all that you will have to do is to make sure that you negotiate for alinux dedicated server hosting.
the most popular choice of dedicated servers is linux server.
they require almost no interference.
a dedicated server host is a costly internet solution.
one has to make decisions such as whether a business will  require a shared server or a dedicated server, and also, the operating system  to use.
also, most of the operating systems in the market today, are  easily compatible with linux servers.
with the ever increasing necessity for companies to have websites, it is important to find yourself a host that will offer the best kind of package, considering the financial ability of the company.
these operating systems are preferred because of the many advantages they offer the users, and knowing each one is very important since they are different.
you can obtain a linux based dedicated server host for a large business or a website to maintain it effectively.
linux dedicated servers are built for business operations with enough tenacity to withstand massive block outs of internet service or huge internet traffic.
next, the linux platform is known to have experienced administrators, who  make it more efficient for you to work on your website.
unlike windows where someone has to pay for the product, the acquisition of linux does not require an individual to pay anything, making it very cost effective and affordable to use!
finally, linux is freely available to everyone who is interested in using it.
compared to other servers, linux dedicated servers are cost efficient.
your operating system  is in safe hands, meaning that the downtime that you will be experiencing for  your site will be reduced.
it is better to have your own  dedicated server for your website.
the main advantage of linux dedicated server is that they run for a long time with minimal maintenance.
the programming languages you can run from  servers are important as well with linux being perhaps the most versatile which  usually includes asp and perl but also php.
also, in contrast to windows dedicated server host, linux  dedicated servers do not require separate licenses for each tool or software  released each time.
since more people are turning to the internet to learn more about companies, many companies find a need to ease the website traffic that may cause clients to back-off if the websites begin to function at slower rates.
the programming languages you can run from servers are important as well with linux being perhaps the most versatile which usually includes asp and perl but also php.
it brings more power  to someone’s business since it provides a way for visitors to go in and  out of websites with total freedom.
in turn, there is a lot more security with the linux platform.
in addition,  there are very few viruses that are known to attack the linux platforms.
as the traffic  starts growing on your website, the speed decreases leading to inconveniences  of accessing the website for the visitors.
you will have your own operating system to  control and applications which will be helpful to boost your business.
as linux increases in popularity though the quality of the software that will run on it is increasing steadily.
but  if you are looking for a dedicated server host for linux platforms, they are  relatively cheaper.
you can obtain a linux based dedicated server host for a  large business or a website to maintain it effectively.
it brings more power to someone’s business since it provides a way for visitors to go in and out of websites with total freedom.
one limitation of microsoft dedicated server is that,  for each software package, separate licenses are needed.
these operating systems are preferred because of the many advantages they offer  the users, and knowing each one is very important since they are different.
a  business must have assurance that their information, as well as client  information, is safe at all times.
if server access options are important to you then windows and linux dedicated servers both offer ftp access but linux is more likely  to offer telnet or ssh as well.
browse online and read various customer forums to know more about linux dedicated servers.
jan 04 2012 before choosing a server for your business, it is important to look at the  requirements of your business and then decide on the type of server that is  suitable for it.
no  responses » linux versus windows for cloud computing dec 22 2011 linux continues to increase its share of the server market while windows  server stays at a constant level.
for linux, there is the provision of root access, which might not be the  case in windows.
choice isn’t just about the software available though, especially if you  will still be primarily using your server for hosting your website.
operating linux  servers is also easy.
finally, linux is freely available to  everyone who is interested in using it.
but this is not required in case of linux dedicated servers and there is no cost involved.
people who prefer to use a linux dedicated server as  opposed to windows do so because the process of installing applications is very  easy.
most of the businesses opt forlinux dedicated servers as they are affordable.
for linux, there is the provision of root access, which might not be the case in windows.
the best option for companies is to go for dedicated web hosting, where they  can have all the resources they need for their operations.
the best option for companies is to go for dedicated web hosting, where they can have all the resources they need for their operations.
linux continues to increase its share of the server market while windows server stays at a constant level.
there are many hosts on  offer, but one of the best choices will come with hosts that make use of linux  systems.
losing important data on a personal computer and losing data on a large business database are not the same.
windows is expensive but the software is seen as reliable and complete.
in turn, there is a lot more security with the linux  platform.
before choosing a server for your business, it is important to look at the requirements of your business and then decide on the type of server that is suitable for it.
you might find using a shared server service for hosting your website to be affordable, but it will be difficult to continue for long.
no responses » benefits of choosing a linux dedicated server mar 03 2012
if you have a large  business which is spread over many locations or if you have a website which has  multiple database retrievals in a short span of time, dedicated server host  helps you maintain uninterrupted flow of data when you want to access it.
benefits of using linux dedicated servers mar 06 2012
firstly, other hosting services come with their own viruses.
there are many hosts on offer, but one of the best choices will come with hosts that make use of linux systems.
most of linux’s acquisition has come  from people migrating from other unix systems but they still put the system in  a strong position relative to windows.
one of the major  advantages of using linux dedicated server is the reliability it offers.
this  means that the systems will become more secure, and more efficient than  whenever other platforms are being used!
in addition, there are very few viruses that are known to attack the linux platforms.
jan 09 2012 with the ever increasing necessity for companies to have websites, it is  important to find yourself a host that will offer the best kind of package,  considering the financial ability of the company.
as the traffic starts growing on your website, the speed decreases leading to inconveniences of accessing the website for the visitors.
you will have your own operating system to control and applications which will be helpful to boost your business.
linux offers a lot of opens source solutions but they may be a little incomplete at times.
linux dedicated servers are built for business operations with  enough tenacity to withstand massive block outs of internet service or huge  internet traffic.
in addition, linux offers the best client security because  viruses and malwares do not affect it, but rather affect windows usually.
most of the businesses opt forlinux dedicated  servers as they are affordable.
linux offers a lot of opens source solutions but  they may be a little incomplete at times.
if server access options are important to you then windows and linux dedicated servers both offer ftp access but linux is more likely to offer telnet or ssh as well.
but if you are looking for a dedicated server host for linux platforms, they are relatively cheaper.
also, most of the operating systems in the market today, are easily compatible with linux servers.
two main operating systems are most commonly used; linux and windows.
one reason why you may opt for windows though is that you can use it to run an access database but my sql is more commonly used for database driven websites and available on linux or windows.
apart from having one of the most respected names in the world, linux has been known to bring reliability as a host platform.
microsoft is another dedicated server which is equally popular as linux servers in the market.
losing important data on a personal computer and losing data  on a large business database are not the same.
microsoft is another dedicated server which is equally popular as linux  servers in the market.
this gives it more reputation, and being  in competition with the microsoft powerhouse, linux offers features that are  attractive to many server hosts all over the world.
next, the linux platform is known to have experienced administrators, who make it more efficient for you to work on your website.
this gives it more reputation, and being in competition with the microsoft powerhouse, linux offers features that are attractive to many server hosts all over the world.
linux is a most popular name all over the world.
windows is expensive but the software is  seen as reliable and complete.
browse  online and read various customer forums to know more about linux dedicated  servers.
one reason why you may opt for  windows though is that you can use it to run an access database but my sql is  more commonly used for database driven websites and available on linux or  windows.
apart from  having one of the most respected names in the world, linux has been known to  bring reliability as a host platform.
for the dedicated linux server, you will not have to  acquire all the licenses needed for each software package you use (which tend  to become expensive).
asp is more common on windows  servers but php is generally more useful.
most of linux’s acquisition has come from people migrating from other unix systems but they still put the system in a strong position relative to windows.
this means that your resources will not be shared by other clients, who would otherwise ‘bottleneck’ your operations on the internet.
no responses » march 2012 m t w t f s s « feb 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22  23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 categories
no responses » get to know why linux dedicated servers beat their windows counterparts!
choosing linux hosting services comes with its own pros that will give the company an edge above the rest when it comes to website management.
they require almost no  interference.
linux provides one of the best platforms to make this work.
but this is not  required in case of linux dedicated servers and there is no cost involved.
to avoid any lapses in data  access or retrieval, choose linux based dedicates server host service.
besides reliability, linux servers also have the capability of running for  longer time.
this means that the systems will become more secure, and more efficient than whenever other platforms are being used!
a business must have assurance that their information, as well as client information, is safe at all times.
the software packages for linux are free.
operating linux servers is also easy.
compared to  other servers, linux dedicated servers are cost efficient.
to avoid any lapses in data access or retrieval, choose linux based dedicates server host service.
choosing linux hosting services comes with its own pros that will give  the company an edge above the rest when it comes to website management.
there  aren’t half as many viruses that attack a linux system as they do for  some other platforms.
this means  that your resources will not be shared by other clients, who would otherwise  ‘bottleneck’ your operations on the internet.
for the dedicated linux server, you will not have to acquire all the licenses needed for each software package you use (which tend to become expensive).
besides reliability, linux servers also have the capability of running for longer time.
one has to make decisions such as whether a business will require a shared server or a dedicated server, and also, the operating system to use.