why, simple: i`ve using it for about a year, excusively using it.
my main machine that i use right now i play games on some native others with the aid of wine and cedega.
i am not anti linux, i use linux and work day to day on a unix/bsd os (aka os x).
afaik last year  was declared as "linux desktop year" (or is it current year?).
linux is the house which you have to build yourself, but make it roofless or perhaps underwater if you like to.
change it in any place from the  top to the bottom, and see how it works on any level.
i'd like to echo yuri's comments and add the following, my primary machine is a laptop at home and at workand i'd love to challenge anyone to show me a linux laptop functioning on a wpa2 psk wireless network.
october 29, 2006 3:15 pm @dima um, you got that wrong, it goes like this: "linux is ready for the desktop, as long as you don't have 10 years of windows experience.
doesn't mean os x isn't ready for the desktop.
the developent is not as in the windows version...
occasionally i use windows xp.
january 14, 2007 3:11 am my thoughts on the "is linux ready for desktop?" discussion.. http://www.prestonlee.com/archives/94march 29, 2007 9:58
but at least its a vast improvement on command line operating system, man that went out in the 60's, get with the times guyes.
the linus gui (the kde and the gnome,etc..) are very beautiful and very fast to be loaded than the slowly gui of the windows os, but the console settings is kinda complex and need alot of time to make the people get used to it (the shell commands in my viw is hard to memorize and sux)
by that time, i started to realize the "cultural" difference between linux and windows.
jeeez, why would any non techie person care about this?
there is no 'ready for the desktop', only whether a solution is suitable for a particular person or business.
my biggest problem was inability to use the ide cd-rom drive, because that kernel didn't support it.
mplab, mikroc, mikrobasic)
so i copied this tutorial word for word, editing in the terminal with copy and paste for 100% certainty, and i also made a back-up etc, all in the terminal...
and photoshop runs ok under wine, plus if you can afford photoshop you can afford windows + a good firewall and antivirus and you probably have no need for linux.
no need to decicate a blog on that.
if you search for "linux ready for desktop" on google it will  tell you there are about 15 million pages on that topic--some telling it is  ready, some telling it is not.
well, in windows every possible display is displayed in the control panel, and it is easy and fast to adjust the screen resolution.
- tens of millions will be using linux on their mobile phone or other portable device.
after ten years, i'm still using the same window  manager--icewm--because i can configure it in a way that's convenient forme , not for the average joe that microsoft interface designers have in mind.
kde is celebrating 10 years of existence.
at the moment, linux does everything i need it to do, without the added windows hassle.
windows gaming is on life support, most people use consoles instead.
you don't need them to go to australia, so nobody needs them.
2)windows is just as flexible as linux for experts 3) windows desktop has dozens of times more apps for it than linux.
i'll tell you in later posts why windows is (still?)
i use mandriva linux powerpack, which i happily pay for.
legal notices, licensing, permissions, privacy policy.
after ten years, i'm still using the same window manager--icewm--because i can configure it in a way that's convenient forme , not for the average joe that microsoft interface designers have in mind.
since that time, i tried to use os x on a mac - hated it.
what about vaccinations before going away on holidays?
pm search: the network for technology professionals about internet.com
a  "we-tuned-it-for-you" software, with (mostly) good defaults and an  easy learning curve, but with a severily limited capability to change anything  or to see how things are working behind the curtain (like a black box).
another allegory is appropriate here.
windows has more  options and tunables, linux comes preconfigured with a lot of  "default" settings.
october 29, 2006 1:08 pm naaa, it is not ready.
as for the wpa2-psk under linux, not a problem.
october 29, 2006 3:14 pm
i got a nice baseball cap from novell on linuxworld san francisco, which says "your desktop is ready."
windows is unsuitable for many linux users as it fails to provide the flexibility they require.
when you buy a pc and windows is already installed most users will use it.
is this user friendly?
connect to the internet wirelessly.
but guess what, i had an x display problem on next log-in, no gui.
you forget we mere humans do not care for a cli and want easy app/package installation.
as for the desktop itself, get a grip please !!
october 29, 2006 7:34 pm
there are getting to be some not bad hobby grade / semi-pro grade ee packages for linux that are free.
for example i recently installed ubuntu 6.05 on my pc.
me, i just want to change my screen resolution, not waste half a day of my life finding out, trawling through inadequate documentation, searching on various forums and reading through stupidly in depth tutorials, how to alter the inner workings of a text file on linux in the terminal.
we dont want "retro" computing, we want leading edge.
but i don't think it is there yet.
pm is linux ready for the desktop?
linux guys, really have to get over this "desktop" thing.
recent additions to linux desktop includes nice visual effects, similar to those in latest mac os x and windows vista.
you were either using a ridiiculously old kernel, or you are mistaken.october 30, 2006 12:40
as a solution for them, even the easiest current free linux distros like freespire are too unfriendly for the average, 100 iq windows user.
in this case, truth is very subjective.
oh, some run on this one and others run on this one, or one is optimized for this one and not for the other?
as said by someone above, you're missing the whole point of the article.
this is the one thing that windows has, a layer of ease of use.
not ready for me... 2 trackbacks listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: is linux ready  for desktop?.
well, if u consider your self like this kind of user, give a try..october 29, 2006 2:29 pm linux is awesome
most things worked great except i was really annoyed by the fact the only resolution i could get was 1024x786, where i had a display capable of 1600x1200.
when i install linux onto a computer, i boot it for the first time and am welcomed with a fully functional desktop.
most of the commenters here have completely missed the point.
linux was more of a diy, a lego style--stick the pieces together and you get what you want if you have enough construction skills.
october 30, 2006 4:16 am it drives me mad to see people complaining about lack of games for linux, try www.tuxgames.com or www.linuxgamepublishing.com, or www.happypenguin.org.
i mean comeon, there is a learning curve to anything to do with computers, why should we continue "making it easier" rather than "making it better".
linux can be great yes, but needs to evolve more before it can replace windows.
does this mean you gain an understanding of the inner working of your os, that through painful discovery you understand how your os works, how it was built, how it can be altered in nigh on impossible ways compared to windows, yes.
i remember using x window, icewm as a window manager, netscape for local intranet and email, and of course terminal, vim, and midnight commander.
this is not a general linux problem, it is probably just specific to ubuntu 6.05 and my specific hardware configuration (i did not have this problem with suse and fedora for example, but they in turn had other, more serious problems requiring the terminal).
give linux a few years in this area and use it for hobby projects.
i  remember using x window, icewm as a window manager, netscape for local intranet  and email, and of course terminal, vim, and midnight commander.
is linux ready for desktop? october 27, 2006 7:27 am | permalink |  comments (31) | trackbacks (2) over the years, this question is raised again and again.
well in my opinion linux still need a long time to pass till it will be ready for the desktop computers, because : 1.
but, no way it is ready for mainstream desktop.
it would be necessary to run two operating system, and i would have to switch to windows everytime i needed to do any real work.
in short--the situation is always improving, and currently pretty much every app i need is available for my platform of choice.
dieser blog-eintrag (englisch) spricht mir aus der se...read moretracked on october 29, 2006 7:33 pm i get sick and tired of this issue.
listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: is linux ready for desktop?.
windows is easy, you do not have to have esoteric knowledge of command lines to discover the ideal screen resolution.
i had to rewrite the x display in terminal and my lack of knowledge messed everything up (i was following a tutorial specific to my distribution and version number, and specific to my problem word for word with copy and paste from web browser).
i think the argument here should be "is windows ready for the desktop?"
if not, stick with what you're familiar with.
but i don't care about this.
but then again - there are very few apps and games to do all this.
i look forward to the day when linux is a real alternative
i also use gnucash for my personal finances which is just as powerful as quickbooks.
ok, so i checked on the internet to see if this a common problem with an easy solution, and wow, i found an article named something like 'easy way to increase resolution on ubuntu 6.05'.
while i do agree with most of what the writer says, i definitely would  like people to stop beating the dead horse.
my mum can change the screen resolution in windows, but not in ubuntu which requires the terminal.
i've dabbled with various linux distros for a couple years, and the main reason i keep ending up back on the m$ teat is the lack of apps/packages i like for linux.
i think most of the people want a gui that work as the shell command (like the control panel in the windows for better access and beautiful icons,etc,,,) 3.
november 28, 2006 7:08 pm ofcourse linux is ready for the desktop, it just depends on your level of expertise, and your technical requirements.
now, after 10 years, this difference is diminished.
is the same question, you'll get lots of people saying a 1960 hillman is "ready for the road".
walk through an office building, and quickly glance at what people are running on their computers.
let me tell  you why.
i found it in preferences.
--- are you guys completely oblivious to what you're saying?
i had a screen capable of 1600x1200.
i am a linux newbie (had about 4 months experience overall)
mir ist das relativ egal, ich benutze seit über einem jahr  nichts anderes, außer ich muß an fremden computern arbeiten.
but i really can't be bothered to invest a portion of my life understanding the inner working of an os just to do basic things, like adjust screen resolution, alter settings, print something, etc...
its great for the desktop if your a programmer or geek, but for the general users, or power users.
people to check mails, whatch movies and thats all?
but it will not reach the mainstream until it gets a lot more windows-like.
but, why dont i use the open/linux version or options to those softwares?
don't bother saying "but linux comes with $1000s of dollars worth of free (as in beer) software."
still, there is much more freedom in how you set up your linux box, compared to windows.
december 31, 2006 10:15 am quote:: linux is ready for the desktop, as long as you have 10 years experience in linux.
you linux people just don't get it - the only couple of reasons why the majority of people in the world run windows are as follows: 1) windows is easy to learn and hard to break for novice (yes, i said hard to break compared to linux.
they might one day decide to buy something like a new printer, and following the basic 3 instructions to install a driver for it, insert a cd, double click on install.exe, click
great, so i can run two (or a dozen) different desktops on my os?
although it got many bugs and many security hole but if you come to the games (as you know that they use directx ) for the games and also use opengl (limitied) and most of the gmaes run on the direct x.
recent additions to linux desktop includes  nice visual effects, similar to those in latest mac os x and windows vista.
october 30, 2006 5:27 pm @ ubuntulover.
altough there are a few that has linux versions, those are not the same as in windows..
but all the programs were very similar that she used.
openoffice, gimp, etc. work on windows too.
off course it will be the windows.
october 29, 2006 3:26 pm erm..i got the wrong poster, it should have been @sdc.october 29, 2006 3:27 pm what people mean is "is linux ready for the >mainstream< desktop?"
for them, it would take a long time to learn to become productive with linux.
desktoptauglich from moritz lenz - blog linux auf dem desktop: dazu gibt es millionen von meinungen und  kommentare.
the professional grade stuff for linux is still quite expensive.
for me personally, linux on the desktop was ready a long time ago, and windows on a desktop was never ready for me.
i have been using linux since about 1996-1997; it was an ancient slackware  distribution with kernel 1.0.9 installed on a i486 box with 16mb of ram.
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/2377 »linux is ready for the desktop, and this is no longer a debatable matter  from rudd-o a post in the linux today blog wondered whether the linux desktop has  arrived.
since i knew some basic cli i reverted to a back-up, but it did not solve my display woes.
i don't even have to google to install a program, i just type one line and ten seconds later the program is open.
linux is fine for the desktop if your requirements are not too great.
yes, it is, for the simple reason i've been using it daily (since 2000) and excusively (since 2003).
windows was (and still is, to my mind)
(except computer scince) ...
afaik last year was declared as "linux desktop year" (or is it current year?).
runs great under ubuntu on my laptop.
first, where in creation did you get the 1.0.9 kernel at this time and where did you get the 1.1.x dev kernel?
in windows, it takes 10 minutes of google searching to find it, then i have to download it, then find the .exe, double click it, then click next a half a dozen times, wait for it to do it's thing, only then can i run it.
but, maybe linux is ready, but to who?
oh and what it doesn't have, and probably never will have, is security, stability and a clear conciounse.
windows come pre-installed on almost every desktop / laptop sold, most people do not install from scratch, they get a new computer via fedex, sign for it, plug it in and everything works.
as the russian proverb says, "what is good for russian is death for german"--a colorful equivalent of "tastes differ."
it is not surprising that "the masses" are uninterested in linux, when linux advocates are full of contempt for anyone with less than a phd or msee.october 29, 2006 3:54 pm
lets face it, if you want to do anything serious or commercial with your computer you need to use an operating system that is commercially compatable.
when should a user switch from win to lin?
most non-it professionals will go for windows or mac, because there are all the needed apps for them, while linux is only good for running services/servers.
october 29, 2006 4:56 pm i have been running multiple desktops and laptops on linux for years.
linux is ready for the desktop, when users realise it's not windows!
so the first thing i did was decide on her behalf to install ubuntu.
it does generally require more license fee's for the pro grade sw.
i challenge every linux expert out there to reliably run run their system for an extended period of time after it has been configured for professional use (video editing, photo processing, sound editing, or even games).
october 29, 2006 4:52 pm
with linux, i type less than one line to install my favourite program.
or, when the hassle of switching is less than the hassle of keeping antivirus and antispyware software working.
for me personally, linux on the desktop was ready  a long time ago, and windows on a desktop was never ready for me.
if you compare the linux to windows from all the aspects who do you think will win??!!
give a desktop pc to a user for a month and see what happens).
ease of use and usefulness is objective.
advertise | newsletters | e-mail offers
i do all my photo editing w/ gimp with the photogimp makeover.
if you have an interest in computers as something more than another piece of equipment you have to work with like a tv or a calculator, you should give linux a try.
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/2377»linux is ready for the desktop, and this is no longer a debatable matter from rudd-o a post in the linux today blog wondered whether the linux desktop has arrived.
drivers problem: although in the recent years many companies made nice collection of drivers but still there are some companies still dont have drivers on the linux and therefore if you got a hardware that has no driver on linux then you will enjoy it alot.
linux is, in fact, ready: the cohesiveness of modern d...read moretracked on october 29, 2006 9:30 am linux auf dem desktop: dazu gibt es millionen von meinungen und kommentare.
windows is a standard mass-production house where you can change the color of walls or perhaps a floor coating.
of course linux works well as a desktop for the people who like to learn about computers and those who have invested many hours to learn its ins and outs.
still, there is much more freedom in how you set  up your linux box, compared to windows.
when i read that, i stopped.
but does the average joe really care?
guess what, i have work, and my coffee is going cold, then later on i have a social life, i don't want to find out nor do i gain any kind of happiness by learning about cli.
i would like to see windows die, and in fact i already work with os x to avoid using windows.
i organize all my photos with fspot and music is handled easily by amarok as is my ipod.
ubuntu did not recognize this.
as a guy, you might have no use for tampons, but would you then say that nobody needs them?
his entire point was that there is no point at which any technology becomes suitable for everybody.
because it sure doesn't supply the simplicity and ease of use our friendly penguin does.
in terms of my specific problem, well luckily i do know some basic cli so was able to overwrite the file with a back-up and reinstate the previous working x, but this means i have to have a low resolution to work with.
windows doesn't configure my graphics card, so most games complain of no 3d acceleration, and those that run don't run very well at all.
the whole article must be as dishonnest as this statement.
i`m a graduated student of electronic engineering and i use a list of softwares (matlab, multisim, opnet, protel, orcad, superpcb, labview, proteus.
but if you be a little more specific, you can ask is a 1960's hillman hunter beter than a 2007 lexus.
i do however belive that linux can be a serious competitor to windows in the future, but it needs a unity, perhaps have one desktop environment for example?
i just happened to discover linux when i had time and desire to explore.
maybe someday linux will have enough gui configuration and there will be a version that is similar enough to windows to help the average user, but that day is a long way off.
you cant be leading edge by copying what everyone else does, you'll always be behind.
" someone who is new to computers will find linux is just as easy to use.
windows is a standard mass-production  house where you can change the color of walls or perhaps a floor coating.
as the russian proverb says,  "what is good for russian is death for german"--a colorful equivalent  of "tastes differ."
i got  a nice baseball cap from novell on linuxworld san francisco, which says  "your desktop is ready."
of course under the surface it is ridden with bugs, and problems are always there to thwart you.
by that time, i started to realize the "cultural" difference  between linux and windows.
a "we-tuned-it-for-you" software, with (mostly) good defaults and an easy learning curve, but with a severily limited capability to change anything or to see how things are working behind the curtain (like a black box).
its ok, i ve everything working but when it comes to use a specific application there is no way we can say it is ready.
now each time i visit i ask how the pc is going and the reply is always the same great no problems.
software is getting better every day, the alternatives to windows are numerous, but come on, get real linux is still a geek os.october 30, 2006 7:53
for me i think that the mac os is better to be used than both the linux and the windows....october 29, 2006 3:53 pm shorter timothy: most people are too stupid to use linux.
but this is the most sensible "ready for the desktop" post i've yet read.
it's the majority of users that aren't "ready" for desktop use.
when the hassle of switching is less than the cost they save by not buying windows when they get their computer (well under $100 for xp home oem).
sometimes it's a pain in the butt with hardware, but it has a lot to offer.
linux is, in fact, ready: the  cohesiveness of modern d...
dimaoctober 29, 2006 3:11 pm shorter kir kolyshkin: linux is ready for the desktop, as long as you have 10 years experience in linux.
when i saw the title of this article my first thought was "not another one..."
kde  is celebrating 10 years of existence.
development was in the 1.3.x tree.
change it in any place from the top to the bottom, and see how it works on any level.
clearly both are ready for the desktop (road), and if you dont mind not having cruse control, air bags, much performance or relaibility then your 1960's gelipie will be fine.
- many millions of students worldwide will be using linux on their school-issued $100 olpc portable computers.
no.. when it comes to scince there just is not..
i like linux, i think it has some great distributions, but it still requires, even in ubuntu (the currnet 'flavour of the month' distribution), a knowledge of cli.
and that's what i like onmy desktop.
the only time users will use linux is when manufacturers say up yours to the extra cost of pre installed windows on all machines.
linux is unsuitable for many windows users due to being too confusing or just plain different.
well, just maybe, and i really hope it happens, a distribution will revolutionize linux enough to make it distinct, user friendly, free, and powerful enough to compete against the monolith that is windows, but right now it doesn't exist.
btw games and photoshop are not the problem.
i have been using linux since about 1996-1997; it was an ancient slackware distribution with kernel 1.0.9 installed on a i486 box with 16mb of ram.
i've been using linux since around 1993, and i specifically remember using kernel 1.2.3 around 1996-1997.
and linux is far from being a commercial grade product.
what this demonstrates to me is that problems still crop up which require a visit to the terminal, which is not my idea of fun.
windows/intel started out being the leader for low-end functionality and price (compared to alternatives apple's mac, sun/hp/ibm/
and if i can't connect to the internet, how am i supposed to install drivers for my machine?
having used unix when there was windows 3.0, before there was linux for electronics design, i can say that one can do some truly impressive ee work in a non-windows os.
october 29, 2006 3:04 pm joel, what you said is not response for "is linux ready for desktop" but "is people ready for linux", because linux as os is ready for desktop for many years but when people dont use it, programmers don't build programs for it.
that i am sure will continue to change though.
i'm primarily a windows user, and there is a lot i dislike about both windows and linux.
and if driving a 1960's car is all you require then yes, linux is ready for you.
the most successful linux implementations are of the type where the user doesn't even know what operating system they are using.
october 30, 2006 9:08 pm linux, particularly distros like ubuntu, are definitely "ready" for desktop use.
in short--the  situation is always improving, and currently pretty much every app i need is  available for my platform of choice.
the option did not exist.
october 30, 2006 7:06 am linux will be ready when you don't have to use the command line, manually edit config text files, and you can explain to your mom over the phone how to do pretty much anything...(the real sign of ease of use)october 30, 2006 9:22 am i was able to resize the screen size in ubuntu.
the problem arises when trying to take away something that someone is already used to, to replace it with something new and different.
until you have those, there will be no wide acceptance... especially "games" :) linux user since 1998.october 29, 2006 3:01 pm
two words: "adobe photoshop" and "games".
there is free software to do virtually everything in windows too.
windows has more options and tunables, linux comes preconfigured with a lot of "default" settings.
os x is the fastest of the bunch overall though.
if you search for "linux ready for desktop" on google it will tell you there are about 15 million pages on that topic--some telling it is ready, some telling it is not.
there will never ever ever be a linux tt3080 satellite telephone system configuration software by thrane & thrane.
marketplace partnersmarketplace partners internet.commerceinternet.commerce linuxtoday newsletterslinuxtoday newsletters internet.com / blogsinternet.com / blogs internet.cominternet.com over the years, this question is raised again and again.
what continues to amaze me is how much sympathy people who have a clue how to use a computer (or a given os) have for people who don't know how to edit a text file.
copyright 2010 quinstreet inc.
while i do agree with most of what the writer says, i definitely would like people to stop beating the dead horse.
i'm an economist and linux offers all of the software tools i need.
ok, they could then go ahead and use it (on a reboot of course!).
i just do not agree that linux is ready for mainstream yet, it needs to have an amazing desktop, a simple (hidden a la os x) filesystem and rock solid package installation.
its just not possible, to get the applications required with linux to do your work.
anyway, my point is, ready for desktop?
my biggest  problem was inability to use the ide cd-rom drive, because that kernel didn't  support it.
linux  is the house which you have to build yourself, but make it roofless or perhaps  underwater if you like to.
i should not need to know how to use a cli just to use an os the way i want, this is not the 1980's!
i told her it would be a bit different than xp
you don't believe me?
read more tracked on october 29, 2006 9:30 am » linux ist
then this will open a new market that will see linux apps developed at a improved rateoctober 29, 2006 6:36 pm
install programs easily.
catering to people who don't want to know how anything works, just want to click a button and it happens "automagically" means trading off the options, freedom of choice, and in general dumbing down everything til all it can do is what the developer decided it "should" do, not necessarily what the user "needs" it to do.
windows doesn't install sound drivers.
i had not had this problem on other distributions such as suse and fedora, which in turn had their own problems (3d acceleration etc).
october 29, 2006 6:23 pm three months ago i had to rescue a windows installation that my grandma has trashed again (4th time in four months).
i think your viewpoint is flawed.
wow, but hey, which one runs all the programs i need?
i have all the support i need in open office 2.0.x and firefox / thunderbird.
dieser  blog-eintrag (englisch) spricht mir aus der se...read more tracked on  october 29, 2006 7:33 pm
i don't like that pretty much for the same reason.
i solved it by switching to the 1.1.50 development kernel.
the important question is users are ready just not well informed.
october 29, 2006 3:33 pm
ready for linux gurus more like.
windows looks like a ferrari compared to linux when it boots up.
so, where is the truth?
and i hope to god it never becomes like windows.
sure there arent as many as in windows, but there are games, good ones!
linux  was more of a diy, a lego style--stick the pieces together and you get what you  want if you have enough construction skills.
i also find the boot and shutdown times on linux, in general, to be painfully slow compared to windows.
am the microsoft advertisements on this site make me sick.
for instance: - tivo users, numbering in the millions, are all gnu/linux users.
thats why, tomorrow, i ll have to reformat my harddrive and reinstall windows, not becose the operating system, but because of the dependecies and software that linux, cant, yet, port to.
the mainstream is users who are not too smart and have painfully and slowly become used to windows over the course of years.
when i boot windows for the first time, i can not do the following as i can in linux: 1.
you'll not even consider linux for your desktop for a second.
as you know there are many linux versions and not a single united version of linus and every company claims that its linux os is the best among the other.
that distinction is now linux's.october 29, 2006 7:43 pm something chronologically wrong with the author's history here.
i never saw linux beforeoctober 30, 2006 1:43 pm
::quote i've been using linux on my desktop since 2000, full time since 2002, a total of a little under 6 years (as jan 2007), linux on the desktop was ready for me in may 2002.
mir ist das relativ egal, ich benutze seit über einem jahr nichts anderes, außer ich muß an fremden computern arbeiten.
with windows, you need a second pc to install.
if asked is a car ready for the road ?.
shorter barius: linux is ready for the desktop, if you're too stupid to know the difference between linux and windows.
not the desktop, sure its there, but they will have wordprocessors, speadsheets, email clients and so on, you dont see the desktop.
i've been using it since 2002.
it's different enough and i don't have a desire to figure out the differences.
they dont have the apps, and they never will..
i could rezise my screen as well, but no more than 1024.
i haven't touched the subject of available software.
but if you want performance, relaibility, support and so on, including greatly reduced legal issues.