in fact, some database and accounting apps have actually taken performance hits from the advent of the windows gui.
jon "maddog" hall, president and executive director of linux international, pointed to third-party tools, available from vendors such as ibm and computer associates (ca), for managing linux along with mvs and unix, for example.
"there's no reason to have a gui to punch in numbers," ivens said.
the os may 28, 2004, 21 :15 utc (6 talkback[s]) (8484 reads) (other stories byjacqueline emigh)
citing materials produced by  microsoft itself, petreley said that many of the growing population of worms  targeting windows let outside hackers "completely take over" a server.
openoffice and its derivatives lack some of the features of microsoft office, according to mark minasi, a writer and consultant petreley, though, argued that ei (evermore integrated) office, an office suite from evermore software, contains a similar feature set to microsoft office.
"(administrative) controls are a lot better (in windows)," ivens asserted, citing printer set-up as one example.
desktop gaming, however, is one area where linux still lags, according to petreley.
" yet most users take advantage of only a small fraction of office features,  and migration to microsoft office 2003 has been particularly slow, ivens  observed.
microsoft office, she quipped, seems to be evolving under an illusion in  redmond that "everyone in the world is collaborating on a single  document.
openoffice and its derivatives lack some  of the features of microsoft office, according to mark minasi, a writer and  consultant petreley, though, argued that ei (evermore integrated) office, an office  suite from evermore software, contains a similar feature set to microsoft  office.
linux todaylinux today linuxtoday newsletterslinuxtoday
given that linux is a more secure environment, it's tough to know whether this is because linux is "inherently more secure," or because windows is still the more prevalent environment, ivens said, during a panel moderated by paul gillin, vp of editorial at techtarget.
quicken, for instance, is  now available for linux, said hall.
hall said that he'll be more than happy if linux ultimately captures 30  percent of the desktop space.
are openoffice and its derivatives actually as good as  microsoft office?
hall said that he'll be more than happy if linux ultimately captures 30 percent of the desktop space.
next step systems us-ny-new york post a job | post a resume :linux vs.
she harkened back to the days when the mas 90 accounting system was at  its zenith.
"competition is good," he declared.
generally speaking, though, windows is still easier to administer, according to several of the panelists.
hall reasoned that, as a result, no operating system -- not even linux -- should totally dominate any market.
also during the session, nicholas petreley, an analyst and consultant at  evans data, contended that regardless of the numbers of exploits per platform,  windows exploits are often much more severe.
she harkened back to the days when the mas 90 accounting system was at its zenith.
citing materials produced by microsoft itself, petreley said that many of the growing population of worms targeting windows let outside hackers "completely take over" a server.
yet, he admitted, companies need to pay for such tools.
one rather obvious reason is that some font creators charge for the  fonts, according to hall.
ivens, however, argued that guis aren't necessarily the way to go for all applications.
"there's no reason to have a gui to punch in numbers," ivens  said.
these are just a couple of the questions debated this week by  a panel of experts at the cebit america show in new york city.
"(administrative) controls are a lot better (in windows)," ivens  asserted, citing printer set-up as one example.
by jacqueline emigh linux today correspondent do linux security exploits really belong in the same league as windows security holes?
unlike microsoft office, however, ei office doesn't allow anti-aliasing of fonts, he acknowledged, attributing this distinction to a decision by authors of the java-based program to reduce overhead.
"my clients loved it," according to ivens.
"that's where linux is behind,  especially in directory services," petreley observed.
"my  clients loved it," according to ivens.
in fact, some database and accounting apps have actually taken  performance hits from the advent of the windows gui.
comparing linux and windows security amounts to a "chicken and egg" issue, according to kathy ivens, an author and consultant.
what about linux on the desktop?
one linux exploit, for instance, permits information in firebird servers to be overwritten.
ivens, however, argued that guis aren't necessarily the way to go for all  applications.
microsoft office, she quipped, seems to be evolving under an illusion in redmond that "everyone in the world is collaborating on a single document.
" yet most users take advantage of only a small fraction of office features, and migration to microsoft office 2003 has been particularly slow, ivens observed.
hall reasoned that, as a  result, no operating system -- not even linux -- should totally dominate any  market.
generally speaking, though, windows is still easier to administer,  according to several of the panelists.
many users don't know how tricky windows can be to install, since windows still comes pre-installed on most pcs, members of the cebit audience were told.
related stories: builder au: oracle to switch its programmers to linux (may 27, 2004) ap/boston.com: saving firms money to be top theme at  shrunken cebit technology fair(mar 12, 2003)
comparing linux and windows security amounts to a "chicken and  egg" issue, according to kathy ivens, an author and consultant.
also during the session, nicholas petreley, an analyst and consultant at evans data, contended that regardless of the numbers of exploits per platform, windows exploits are often much more severe.
newsletters internet.cominternet.com cacti makes device monitoring simple unix / linux:
"in enterprise environments, that's what (you're) looking for," said hall.
raspberry pi works with a 30-year-old mini crt display 10gen takes open source nosql mongodb commercial with red hat how canonical's next moves could repaint the linux landscape red hat storage 2.0 aims to unify file and object access linberry – blackberry phone manager for linux applications management engineer sr (nyc)
next step systems us-ny-new york
windows: cebit panelists  weigh
these are just a couple of the questions debated this week by a panel of experts at the cebit america show in new york city.
to gain more traction on the desktop, linux needs a better gui, he insisted.
in terms of third-party desktop applications, linux is now starting to  catch up with windows, panelists generally concurred.
openoffice types of suites also tend to come with fewer fonts, indicated hall.
on an overall basis, linux applications still lack the "fit and finish" of windows apps, minasi charged.
one linux  exploit, for instance, permits information in firebird servers to be  overwritten.
"that's where linux is behind, especially in directory services," petreley observed.
by jacqueline emigh linux today correspondent do linux security exploits really belong in the same league as windows  security holes?
cacti makes device monitoring simple unix / linux: display color man page of microsoft, netscape, patents and open standards instagram's $billion sale powered by ubuntu linux cloudstack to apache: brilliant or boneheaded?
given that linux is a more secure environment, it's tough to know whether  this is because linux is "inherently more secure," or because windows  is still the more prevalent environment, ivens said, during a panel moderated  by paul gillin, vp of editorial at techtarget.
to gain more traction on the  desktop, linux needs a better gui, he insisted.
raspberry pi works with a 30-year-old mini crt display 10gen takes open source nosql mongodb commercial with red hat how canonical's next moves could repaint the linux landscape red hat storage 2.0 aims to unify file and object access linberry blackberry phone manager for linux applications management engineer sr (nyc)
windows: cebit panelists weigh the os linux vs.
unlike microsoft office, however, ei office doesn't allow anti-aliasing  of fonts, he acknowledged, attributing this distinction to a decision by  authors of the java-based program to reduce overhead.
saving firms money to be top theme at shrunken cebit technology fair(mar 12, 2003)
your name: enter your comments below:
index mode   |   flat mode    |   thread mode   |   thread flat talkback(s) name  and date
many users  don't know how tricky windows can be to install, since windows still comes  pre-installed on most pcs, members of the cebit audience were told.
desktop gaming, however, is one area where linux still lags, according to  petreley.
in terms of third-party desktop applications, linux is now starting to catch up with windows, panelists generally concurred.
"in enterprise environments, that's what (you're) looking for,"  said hall.
related stories: builder au: oracle to switch its programmers to linux (may 27, 2004) ap/boston.com:
in contrast, linux exploits are generally more limited in scope, and more  likely to lend themselves to insider attacks, petreley suggested.
yet with increasing improvements to game consoles such as game cube,  more consumers are migrating from windows-based pc games to consoles.
one rather obvious reason is that some font creators charge for the fonts, according to hall.
are openoffice and its derivatives actually as good as microsoft office?
ivens would also like to see fewer features in today's office suites.
openoffice types of suites also tend to come with fewer fonts, indicated  hall.
quicken, for instance, is now available for linux, said hall.
on the other hand, windows doesn't necessarily hold much of an edge when it  comes to ease of installation, according to the cebit panelists.
meanwhile, other panelists pointed to freely available linux tools such as samba.
yet with increasing improvements to game consoles such as game cube, more consumers are migrating from windows-based pc games to consoles.
jon "maddog" hall, president and executive director of linux  international, pointed to third-party tools, available from vendors such as ibm  and computer associates (ca), for managing linux along with mvs and unix, for  example.
meanwhile, other panelists pointed to freely available linux tools such as  samba.
on an overall basis, linux applications still lack the "fit and  finish" of windows apps, minasi charged.
back then, mas 90 was sold in unix and dos flavors.
ei office runs on both linux and windows.
ei office runs on both  linux and windows.
in contrast, linux exploits are generally more limited in scope, and more likely to lend themselves to insider attacks, petreley suggested.
on the other hand, windows doesn't necessarily hold much of an edge when it comes to ease of installation, according to the cebit panelists.
display color man page of microsoft, netscape, patents and open standards instagram's $billion sale powered by ubuntu linux cloudstack to apache: brilliant or boneheaded?