i think a better solution would be to tell homer bush to get the hell outta  iraq and stop giving subsidies to us farmers to manufacture wheat for  bio-fuels.
these computers are aimed to help the students learn the basics of  desktop computing.
however, i would  like to answer a question that some might ask: how will the computer teachers  teach the students if they themselves are not even familiar with linux?
bio-fuel is fueling a massive price rise for wheat based food and that bloody war has led the world into recession.
well  let me tell you this;my wife is not technologically proficient
i do use different varieties of gnu/linux from time to  time.
with that said,  i must add that i am not taking sides, and i simply wanted to point that out to  help the other side.
the money could have been used for other  important projects or simply to help the needy.
this recent global predicament may not be  felt that much in highly developed countries like the us and japan, but  developing country like ours and underdeveloped countries like most of africa
imagine how much money our government could have saved if they opted for  costless alternative like linux.
this is  a fact: thousands of personal computers courtesy of the government are handed  out each year to philippine public schools.
man's most basic need  is low on supply but high in demand.
there's a world food crisis right now, as we all know it.
however, i would like  to insist that if we stop using windows now and start using linux, we could  make a considerable difference for tomorrow.
stop using windows, use linux posted by jun auza  on 5/03/2008
but she has  easily adapted to using linux, so there's no doubt that a computer teacher can  do the same.
there are actually plenty of ways to make linux adoption  in this country a lot easier without having to spend big.
and i believe that there are still a  lot of rational methods that could help solve this issue.
am @jagadees: jmmaranan said,  may 13, 2008 9:14 pm
we even have our own  linux distro namedbayanihan linux that makes technical support and resources  within our reach.
just read  some of my articles here if you want to know more.
linus is just a kernel anonymous said,  may 12, 2008 1:05
an original copy of windows xp will cost around  $100.
state leaders and legislators have plenty  of proposed solutions with the goal of alleviating the current food shortage.
i'll stick with windows xp because i prefer that all my programs actually work.
oh as for linux, yes i  love it
am i'll stick with windows xp because i prefer that all my programs actually  work.
mark said,  may 31, 2008 12:50
but, most of these propositions will almost always be unrealistic and will  likely fail in the end.
anonymous said,  may 4, 2008 11:34
get real, a days worth of bombs and  bio-fuels would no doubt be worth a years worth of money saved with linux  adoption.
linus is just a kernel @jagadees: linus is the programmer :-) i suggest going for ubuntu... is bayanihan still alive?
oh as for linux, yes i love it but would it help the world crisis?
to all our lawmakers, i have a suggestion that may  sound radical to some of you --stop using windows, use linux.
get real, a days worth of bombs and bio-fuels would no doubt be worth a years worth of money saved with linux adoption.
you might also want to read  this post by a good man entitled:foss and option for the poor.
jagadees said,  may 5, 2008 6:18 pm
although i agree with your point, i must say that a portion of the sales of microsoft windows go to helping developing countries.
i know that my recommended solution  if implemented cannot instantaneously solve the present crisis that we as well  as other poor nations are experiencing.
office suite is not  included.
i think a better solution would be to tell homer bush to get the hell outta iraq and stop giving subsidies to us farmers to manufacture wheat for bio-fuels.
related posts: 8 response to "stop using windows, use linux" deric said,  may 4, 2008 5:14 am very well said.
i suggest going for ubuntu... is bayanihan still alive?
although i agree with your point, i must say that a portion of the sales of  microsoft windows go to helping developing countries.
if only our government leaders know how to make proper use of  what we have, things could change.
^^^ generic ignorant microsoft fanboys strike again.
anonymous said,  may 4, 2008 10:49 am
with that said, i must add that i am not taking sides, and i simply wanted to point that out to help the other side.
anonymous said,  may 29, 2008 9:45
i do use different varieties of gnu/linux from time to time.
i don't have to explain why linux is better than windows and the many  advantages of using linux and other free and open source software.
for our less fortunate  fellowmen, a hundred dollars is equivalent to two months of hard-earned income.
bio-fuel is fueling a massive price rise for wheat based food and  that bloody war has led the world into recession.
but would it help the world crisis?
generic ignorant microsoft fanboys strike again.
are struggling for survival.
every pc comes with a genuine copy  of windows xp and some educational cds --microsoft