no pax without hardware nx is emulated nx and you incur some performance hit.
first of all, you would have a much better support team as they would really know the product, being the linux powered operating system of choice, and secondly if you doled out the support costs of one of these enterprise class operating systems to your staff who are to support the os, you would have much more longevity out of your employees, and there would be much less turnover.
first of all your percentages are the advisories!
a lot of routers, and cable/dsl modems have it.
quoting from the same source as your figures: criticallity: for win xp extremely: 4% highly: 30% moderately: 31% less: 27% not: 8% for linux 2.6.x extremely: 0% highly: 0% moderately: 15% less: 55% not: 31% and don't look at the location of exploit figures, or you'll never ever trust a windows machine on a network ever again.
" the number of vulnerabilities directly relates to the security of the software out of the users control.
now try doing the math.
"red hat", "debian", "suse" are organizations/companies that have created their own operating system powered by the linux kernel.
regardless software dep is present on windows xp sp2 and vista adds aslr.
stop listing the secunia "advisory" totals which is not an accurate listing of the vulnerabilties.
- that means at least 5 extreme and 42 high criticallity vulnerabilities (4% and 30% of 140 respectively).
and while i would love to see the day when more people buy linux on a pc than windows, it does not seem doable as the games and everything are not written for linux, windows and mac...
"i do think microsoft owes its customers using xp the ability to fix some of the problems with hardware dep.
a firewall's main purpose is to provide security from attacks and the windows xp sp2 firewall is an excellent solution that does just that.
that is not defining it but giving an opinion on the feature set.
what i dislike is someone acting in a deceptive manner."
microsoft since windows xp was released provided documentation for game developers to program their games correctly.
" dep (or pax) only shine when you are running a server or a multiuser machine.
"impartial analysis of popular trends and technology" copyright  © 2004-2011 popular technology sunday, january 14, 2007 windows xp more secure than linux anyone who tracks security vulnerability reports knows of the  ridiculous amount that reference holes in linux.
the lack of aslr put the whole scheme at risk."
to simplify things i took the latestlinux kernel v2.6.x and compared it to windows xp.
no it wouldn't if it connected as ie.exe!
and why should anyone trust that woeful excuse for a firewall that comes with windows?
blocking the wrong service can lead to the internet appearing as if it's unreachable.
again read this until you understand.
while it can run, this is irrelevant since the average user runs windows as full admin.
until then, i will be using both, using windows for complete compatability, while linux will be my play system.
on a limited user account windows xp does not let "anything" change the registry.
in my case, i changed to linux (from windows) many years ago, because linux (and its associated applications software) was far more stable and reliable.
you don't dep is provided through software in windows too.
the fact remains it is the ultimate desktop failure ever!
i don't see any problems with it
and since i strongly suspect i started doing it stuff before you were born (the age you exhibit in your post suggests early to mid teens), i suspect i know an awful lot more about what i'm talking about than you do.
servers, workstations and embedded applications are the leading adopters of linux."
"give it up, this is nonsense.
that's the only real valid point you have in the whole of your article.
" partially and it is not full nx.
"until the next ms patch and reboot sequence.
second i have no credentials in security so this is coming from a security novice.
"for example the complete lack of outbound filtering?
i am not challenging the methodology, only the conclusions.
the fact remains that when testing real world applications there is no distinguishable difference between the protection offered by pax without nx, and dep with nx.
servers, workstations and embedded applications are the leading adopters of linux.
i will reconsider my views when it can come near the depth of openbsd's pf or linux's iptables.
i stand by my original opinion that home users could benefit from outbound filtering.
those that do already use a third party firewall.
"at least it would raise the bar significantly.
though nx support makes it even more secure.
either way it is irrelevant since all of those linux "operating systems" include these vulnerabilities.
when arguments were made involving what you call linux "operating systems" and windows xp, the zealots cried that you should only compare the kernel.
i have never seen more excuses in my life.
nothing has gotten more press to fail so badly.
the article i linked to proves conclusively why it is impossible to guarantee outboung filtering with someone running as an administrator in windows xp.
do you realize what you are trying to do?
i am sure a network administrator would be more than happy to tell you about the wide difference in intended usage and sad functionality even for end users.
even with open  source advocates finally admitting thatlinux is insecure they still try to  claim it is more secure than windows.
those are not taking into account the vulnerabilities.
and ssp and technology that works through the compiler cannot be enforced with the majority of the software for vista that comes in binary only.
using the supervisor bit is just a trick and not a substitute for real nx hardware support.
this one version of the linux kernel (v2.6.x) has more vulnerabilities than windows xp which has been out for 5 years.
and for legacy support, exes distributed without flags set for protection won't benefit from aslr by default.
so this comparison isn't really any better than the other previously listed comparisons, which is disappointing seeing as the author did attempt to discredit those additional mislabeled comparisons.
i made a very logical analysis based on the data provided.
it's currently higher for xp.
i do think microsoft owes its customers using xp the ability to fix some of the problems with hardware dep.
regardless it is in vista.
talk to anyone who works at a microsoft helpdesk and they will tell you one of their #1 problems with people loosing internet access is the third party firewall blocking it.
once patches stop you cannot guarantee security.
most of the unix installations i administer have no requirement for gaming.
since the technicalities of what linux stands for can be manipulated at will by the open source zealots to try and confuse the average person.
the difference with antivirus is it is designed to catch the infection before it can do anything.
however there is noticable bias in the writing of many articles on this site.
just click the 2006 one.
ssp, and other source fortification are the new techniques windows will never benefit from as long as the majority of software made for the platform comes from outside microsoft.
i could sit a child down and they would probably be able to bypass the weak architecture.
in addition, the aslr implementation in vista has some weaknesses.
ipsec sounds good at first, but in reality is too static for typical usage for anything other than a server.
a firewall should be able to manipulate any activity that pertains to the tcp/ip stack.
i prefer a simple practical test: which os works better for me?
"the rating is based on the most severe vulnerability discovered.
" i am not giving up anything.
no the article only makes use of the all time vulnerabilities!
i fully grasp that windows is more secure than linux.
as with  firefox, linux vulnerabilities are frequently lumped together in single  advisories misleading the true vulnerability count: windows  xp -170 advisories = 213 vulnerabilities.
almost no one drives around in a rolls royce, but it is certainly not because it is a bad car !
please all the popular distributions include the latest kernel (v2.6.x) thus include these vulnerabilities.
it doesn't make linux any more secure.
that doesn't excuse the vulnerabilities in linux.
aslr was invented by pax. i just found it ironic that microsoft accuses linux of violating its ip, makes no concrete claims, yet gives no credit to aslr's original author.
motorola's successor to the razr is supposed to use linux.
unlike the linux one that lists 18, or the firefox one which lists 27!
" i understand and see how it can be useful in a server environment
they are linux kernel vulnerabilities.
windows xp can run in limited user accounts just as easily.
thirdly, windows allows any program really to change the registry and has no security features to prevent that like linux does.
" um did you miss service pack 2 for xp in 2004?
this is about linux not unix.
most of the unpatched vulnerabilities in windows are blocked with dep protection enabled anyway, the rest via a firewall why should need a new processor when pax has offered equivalent protection for linux without the need for nx support since 2000?
if linux "sucks" because you can not play your favorite games, you should change the article title.
windows firewall: the best new security feature in vista?
linux is not more stable and reliable than xp.
this is identical to linux.
"it is emulation in the sense that no nx bit is present.
there is nothing to fool.
not emulation as you claim.
for example the complete lack of outbound filtering?
the olpc has it (i think it is a joke, though.)
i wouldn't tell someone that windows is more secure, or that linux is.
it still doesn't randomize the stack or heap.
i don't care for zealous os advocates of any kind, they seem to ignore the fact people can judge for themselves.
software dep provides more protection than no software dep.
linux kernel v2.6.x - 108  advisories = 231 vulnerabilities.
like i said you will not find me using anything but windows 2000 or xp.
my question still stands, if you knew that someone needed windows 95, and only accessed the outside world through a web browser, what security issues would be presented by loading a recent copy of opera or firefox and putting them behind a decent firewall?
" windows xp came with a firewall from day 1.
you don't even know yet make bullshit claims?
"it is a widely accepted fact that the windows firewall offers no protection against outbound connections which offers no protection against phone-home attacks which means personal data could window up in the hands of those who would like to exploit it."
"and since when is "it still provides protection" a good answer"?
0% extreme or high criticality advisories means 0 extreme or high criticality vulnerabilities.
until the next ms patch and reboot sequence.
i haven't seen much of anything with a linux os in it.
no one who wants to get work done wants to compile something, they simply want to use it.
"even ignoring the malicious, a user might want some notification that an application is calling home.
the statistics given for 2006 are not all time!
did you not read the page?
it is of no surprise that linux users are clueless about windows security and spread lies and misinformation about the windows xp firewall.
one might want to read up on both to realize this.
even giving something away for free doesn't help.
maybe you have missed all the updates to internet explorer (ie7), windows media player and all the other components that are included with xp?
sure - you point out that linux kernel 2.6.x has more vulnerabilities then winxp.
what you are saying makes no sense.
"i understand your frustration with bad claims like linux is more secure than windows, but why return the same nonsense in a different form?" i don't consider it nonsense and am merely addressing a little known fact of the number of vulnerabilities present in linux.
the main competition seems to come from vxworks on networking devices and symbian/windows mobile on smart phones/pdas.
if we say install a few im clients, office, photoshop, adobe reader, flash, winamp, realplayer, and many other programs you need to actually use xp-you'll find out the windows has a huge amount of total vulnerabilities.
that is widely acknowleged and i'll refer you to incidents such as this.
"maybe you should try linux with a less spiteful view.
a user's security is never out of their control.
here are the problems with this article, coming from me, and what i have observed on both operating systems.
working in the role of an administrator tends to taint my view of what a firewall should do.
"i am quite certain that leaktest could run under a limited user account.
the windows search returned 103 million hits, the linux search returned 201 million hits.
what is all this virtualization bit all about...could that not be consolidation?
the facts are clearly stated.
they kept it basic because doing otherwise would be considered monopolistic.
even beyond that, the many that haven't been addressed at all will pose an issue to your system's security.
what is listed is the total amount of vulnerabilities, which is a very simple comparison.
sdl and opengl are wonderful replacements for directx. nvidia even provides its cg toolkit.
but i am not talking about it.
you took some time to look at statististics and then in some omniscient attitude, you make a blanket statement.
if someone doesn't want to cough up the cash for isa/commercial firewall/hardware firewall, pf or iptables does become useful.
the constant distro mess and lack of game and driver support.
the lack of aslr put the whole scheme at risk.
but that is the power of windows and the great depth of software that is available for the windows platform.
working around something is standard practice but the vulnerabilities are definitely out of the users control in terms of them appearing.
the resources for game developers are there.
"the article makes use of these statistics to make its claim, but does a bad job."
also note that novell suse and microsoft windows meet eal4.
it environments in the real world do not have these problems regardless of patch time.
" rebooting is irrelevant.
in other words they are fewer (18 as opposed to 32) and less critical for linux as for the rest of a gnu-linux os, apart from some parts of xorg, as far as i know everything else runs in userspace, thus can't do any significant damage.
and for the record - i did not say xp was unstable - i said that linux is more stable and reliable.
this is common with open source software and is very misleading.
winxp has to be restarted when you install the teeniest-tinyest piece of software, while linux can run for years and still have up-to-date software.
have linux users even used windows before?
some windows xp vulnerabilities are also grouped such as advisoriessa21417 and sa22341.
it is designed for home desktop users, which is an area linux still does not understand.
" where did i ignore this?
without hardware backing you at best get emulation which is never a guarantee.
to be fair, the way you would calculate your exploits would be to first identify all the exploits of the kernel, then add any additional exploit that does not include the previously listed kernel exploits to "an" operating system.
you can get enhanced aslr for free: wehntrust aslr is the least of my concerns however.
seems you fail basic logic.
but if you do, at least use them right!
remember that), but the rest of the gnu-linux os (no matter what disttro you use), has little to offer in terms of serious vulnerabilities, since most things run in user-space.
you are ignoring the true impact of linux.
funny you should bring up the windows "grouping" which were counted, and you show 2-3 vulnerabilities.
it isn't software though.
without complex hijacking of a process in memory malware can simply try to connect as ie.exe.
security "ratings" are widely debateable on how insecure they make you.
i suppose your solution is to buy a new computer and vista when a pentium iii with linux or openbsd could have the same level of protection?
"i find it hilarious you mention both the "insane amount of games" and limited user accounts on the same page.
the time to develop, test and publish a patch is irrelevant since this data can easily be manipulated and the testing of a linux patch does not effect anywhere near the amount or scope of windows users and software.
but if you do, at least use them right!"
i said equivalent, not crippled.
emulation means it is running in software and thus pretending to be something aka "fooling".
the tomtom gps device uses it.
"that was the role i had in mind.
where did i ignore this?
all the games i want to play are either overly complicated to setup or do not run.
part of  the confusion lies with the complexity of the open source linux model that  separates linux "distributions" from linux "kernel"  vulnerabilities.
the windows firewall might be good enough for you, but it certainly lacks the functionality most would expect."
the rating is based on the most severe vulnerability discovered.
"you also ignored the fact linux had this protection before windows xp even came out.
and since when is "it still provides protection" a good answer"?
i have heard tons of hype about it in tech news though.
and once again, yes linux is just the kernel (plus drivers!
"all i'm going to say andrew is that your failing to understand the meaning of analysis.
i spend no time searching for or updating anything.
with, what was it, 140 winxp advisories?
now if you start looking into and adding up linux  "distribution" vulnerabilities that can take you into thehundreds upon hundreds of security holes that are never talked about.
" must be the 0.37% marketshare or the lack of platform api standardization?
2006 windows xp - 44 advisories = 62 vulnerabilities.
most users would just let it through.
that would be done from a central location and has nothing to do with the xp firewall!
"what evidence do you have for this accusation?"
windows xp is more secure than linux and sexier ;) posted by andrew
i do not have any stability or reliability problems with xp.
unix and linux are not far apart, so it is easier to refer to them as one entity.
that would seem to be a bit more useful in determining how "insecure"/"secure" something is, but then again, there are those of us who realize "nothing truely is secure", all it really boils down to is minimizing risk.
thus including the distribution vulnerabilities would be much worse for linux.
" sorry you are not going to get away with it that easily.
red hat will compile it for their customers with this technology already implemented.
you are attempting to stop something from connecting to the internet after it has already infected your machine!
i too have seen users get nervous when popups regarding system processes that look foreign are asking permission to act as servers or clients to alien ip addresses.
"anyone can do a search to see the massive problems windows users encounter trying to run games and other applications under a limited account.
too bad this is now proven to be another  myth.
which is why outbound filtering is irrelevant on xp.
no it is not, it is emulated, which means it can never be guaranteed.
alright, i won't mention unix anymore.
i am surprised no one knows the true abysmal market share linux has!
linux is less secure than windows xp.
and i really have a hard time understanding why you cannot just pick a distribution and stick with it.
your view of which os/kernel is most secure is coming from historical advisory numbers and isn't taking account of the time it takes to develop,test and publish a patch.
linux kernel v2.6.x - 108 advisories = 231 vulnerabilities.
"security is never a guarantee.
you should break out the numbers before quoting them."
all that someone can promise is to issue patches to known vulnerabilities within a reasonable period.
when you take the average user's computer skills into question, the argument for third party firewalls does need a fair amount of skepticism.
that has been my entire point.
i still run into os 9 users quite frequently.
vista has put in system safe guards that make this extremely difficult to do even with full system access.
windows 2000 is similiar to xp
it is all automatic and i don't get infected with anything.
winxp is "finished" and linux is always under development.
even as they are grouped it doesn't make it useless.
none of which changes the fact of the insane amount of games that run natively (not through emulation) in windows xp nor all the designed for windows xp compatible games that run as a limited user.
i don't consider linux to be insecure but i consider it no more secure than windows and this is just another reasons why.
web servers mainly but the desktop share is pathetic and since windows xp is a desktop os that is where the comparison is.
"my question still stands, if you knew that someone needed windows 95, and only accessed the outside world through a web browser, what security issues would be presented by loading a recent copy of opera or firefox and putting them behind a decent firewall?" i wouldn't run it and wouldn't put my reputation behind it.
i am already employed in it and deal with security daily, i do not irrationally take online gossip as a decision to use certain software but
that is very telling of the insecure state of linux which is overly hyped as "secure".
"linux" is nothing more than a kernel.
these are the application not designed to circumvent a third party firewall.
see http://www.grc.com/lt/leaktest.htm for an example of an application that can completely bypass the windows firewall.
the average user does not care.
i mean, you even said it yourself...
to andrew: the article makes use of these statistics to make its claim, but does a bad job.
i find it hilarious you mention both the "insane amount of games" and limited user accounts on the same page.
that was the role i had in mind.
i would also like to add that the ones you pay for do not add the "professional" into the mix, but it's the user...the admin.
it wouldn't have had anywhere near as the same effect if windows firewall was on by default which is why microsoft introduced a basic firewall.
but i was never discussing that.
and to throw out another twist, any linux user and recompile their own kernel, therefore we could have thousands of different versions out there.
also remember when we are talking about the linux kernel, this includes any drivers (open-source that is) the system uses.
as for regular applications?
" you don't dep is provided through software in windows too.
if you had memory protection testing suites you would know that the protection offered by pax nx emulation (pageexec) has is the same as hardware nx under windows.
there is a set engineering cost for a vendor to adopt either linux or ce to their devices.
who knows the distros are a huge confusing mess.
outbound filtering does not guarantee anything unless you running vista.
your statement of "windows xp" is more secure than linux isn't a relevant comparison because first you would either be comparing it to a kernel, and then next alot of operating systems.
they wait for it to be "digested" by their distribution of choice.
it is emulation in the sense that no nx bit is present.
maybe you should try linux with a less spiteful view.
another use would be simple port blocking (or something more sophisticated) if you didn't want people behind a gateway engaging in some activity.
this article talks about all time vulnerabilities!
that is widely acknowleged and i'll refer you to incidents such asthis.
your point is irrelevant.
linux is still currently used even with only 0.37% market share, it is actively developed.
only linux could get away with fabricating some imaginary number like 29 million users based onestimating a 118k registered users!
i don't exactly buy into this model of buying support, especially based on my experience with novell for example, when the consultants were constantly badgering me for my documentation to prove my points against their suggestions, which in retrospect, are they not the ones who are supposed to be providing us with said information?
windows xp is more secure than linux and sexier ;) posted by andrew labels: linux, open source, software, windows and they also said it would be cheaper :) ->
" have you ever heard of the "designed for windows xp" logo?
a small detail of 57% of all vulnerabilities for windows xp beingremotely accessible (the figure for linux 2.6.x is 19%, which isn't good but still better).
"i will reconsider my views when it can come near the depth of openbsd's pf or linux's iptables.
so if i were managing a company, i would much rather hire people who know the os really well and pay "them" to be my support.
you'll just distort them or someone elses figures to try and reinforce your (lost) point.
"the reason for the windows firewall is clear : use it to get on the internet, get your updates and security software then get rid of it."
and the technology uses an underutilized component of the processor, the supervisor bit.
just because some software "suite" is fooled does not make it a replacement for real nx through hardware.
yes i am well aware of that but it is not relevant to this discussion.
ui is okeay if all used it and not used console for all.
absolutely no security is just one of many problems with 95.
i am glad microsoft pushed it more heavily to customers in sp2.
home users don't use ipsec, it is mainly used with vpns and ssl communications.
the longer vulnerabilities are out in the wild the more potential damage is being done.
once something has system access as admin it impossible to guarantee this.
honestly i really don't care about who, what and where about aslr.
linux on the desktop is still a convoluted joke.
it is impossible to prevent outbound access in windows xp.
i think linux users need to use windows once in a while.
something does not have to gain system access to severly affect your security.
how many routers have you seen with ce?
the only people that would want to block skype are businesses or educational institutions.
which guarantees it will run as a limited user.
actually, pax includes aslr as well.
even with a cost of 5 dollars per device, the ultimate amount adds up.
"i stand by my original opinion that home users could benefit from outbound filtering.
it provides security easily and unobtrusively.
give it up, this is nonsense.
even ignoring the malicious, a user might want some notification that an application is calling home.
these unix installations mostly exist in the background, so your statistics are not valid.
"out of those linux security whole-how many are on the os and not on other programs installed on the base system?
according to secunia, linux kernal 2.6.x has 18 unpatched advisories, windows xp professional has 32, home edition has 29.
if you don't trust these values then don't use them at all.
"if you had memory protection testing suites you would know that the protection offered by pax nx emulation (pageexec) has is the same as hardware nx under windows."
nothing is deceptive.
this is why a system running dep is much less vulnerable to any exploit that uses an unknown unpatched vulnerability like this.
os/2 does seem dead.
no, it doesn't excuse the vulnerabilities of linux.
windows consistently benefits from new techniques, sp2 is an example as is the new security in vista.
i agree with your point.
it is more of a widely misinformed inaccurate myth.
so you dislike yourself?
to my opinion, the insecurity found in windows is partly the driver vendors fault (and of course some design philosophies)
windows xp is frikkin' 5 years old!!!
in 2001 when it was released attacks like blaster were a non issue, which is why they updated and enabled the xp firewall in sp2 by default.
unix got this right from the beginning.
summary " between january 2005 and december 2005 there were 5198 reported vulnerabilities: 812 windows operating system vulnerabilities;2328 unix/linux operating vulnerabilities; and 2058 multiple operating system vulnerabilities" post a comment
because you heard some ignorant unknowledgeable moron say so?
without it dep is vulnerable to an exploit technique known as return-to-libc.
there are 45 secunia advisories released for winxp for 2006 and there are 44 for linux 2.6.x for the same year.
anyone can do a search to see the massive problems windows users encounter trying to run games and other applications under a limited account.
i found massively infected machines with third party firewalls and all the malicious ports and applications were allowed access.
linux has had more vulnerabilities than windows xp.
i find it hilarious how uninformed linux users are.
and still 57% of the remotely accessible!
obviously there is a trend here!
wow looks like you should check you facts before you embarrass yourself further!
during that entire time.
" not at all, stopping buffer overflow attacks prevents many exploits that malware uses to install.
end users don't all have websites and the majority probably have myspace or blog pages where they talk about anything but computers or windows or linux.
this is not comparing 2006 but all time!
even with open source advocates finally admitting thatlinux is insecure they still try to claim it is more secure than windows.
they scare them with ridiculous fud.
nt is way beyond dos in terms of sound architecture.
i strongly suggest you get a clue, since i have been in it for over 15 years.
windows and linux have many vulnerabilities to be discovered, and there is a good possibility at least one hasn't been publicly disclosed.
" yes i am well aware of that but it is not relevant to this discussion.
unless if you are working for microsoft, i can't see a reason for you to make this claim.
the problem is so called windows "experts" irresponsibly recommend third party firewalls to people who do not need it.
the rest doesn't address security.
" port blocking is irrelevant if you are trying to block outbound activity on a windows xp machine running as an admin with a software firewall.
" well useless from the perspective of actual damage to the user, since different breaches of security effect different people in different ways.
and by the way, i use windows, linux, solaris, aix, mac os x and others.
what kind of idiotic comment is this?
mac os 9 and os/2 are great examples of operating systems that have close to no vulnerabilities yet provide pathetic security.
so, "red hat as4", or "suse linux enterprise server" are "operating systems".
now, having cleared that up, you are making a comparison first, with a kernel, and then second, with a slew of operating systems.
as with firefox, linux vulnerabilities are frequently lumped together in single advisories misleading the true vulnerability count: windows xp -170 advisories = 213 vulnerabilities.
"i did a simple web-search for "linux" and "windows xp".
malware authors would have to corrupt the running firewall (zonealarm, for instance) to get it to apply the same rules as it would for ie.
what the hell does unix have to do with anything?
you are still failing to grasp the point aren't you?
i use winxp at work, and i can tell you that i have not seen anything to convince me that situation has changed at all.
if games are that important to you then i would not recommend linux.
yet you can't provide any documentation showing your bullshit claims?
people that embrace a distro of the week attitude are just as confusing to me.
managed systems use limited accounts and setup outboundfiltering on hardware firewalls or servers.
imagine apache releases a new version.
i had a passport advantage account with ibm and even they wanted to get rid of it.
they kept it basic because outbound protection is useless running as an admin!
" if you don't trust these values then don't use them at all.
"when your router, cell phone, web site, tivo, and gps handheld run linux without blatantly advertising it, it is hard to marginalize it within the framework of a desktop perspective.
i already stated aslr is in vista and maybe they stole it from openbsd?
but telling the average user they need one is irresponsible.
since a piii is unable to play the latest games let alone the fact that linux and openbsd have next to no game support, then yes.
what is stated is very clear.
first i'm going to say that i sit on the fence between open source & : software is software and i don't mix politics and software for that matter.
but i can't imagine how many vulnerabilities would exist in linux if it had window's market share.
all i was claiming was that even an unpatched windows 95 user or rhl 1.1 user still can have a "secure" computing experience.
you mean platform vulnerabilities?
the data is all there and linked.
when your router, cell phone, web site, tivo, and gps handheld run linux without blatantly advertising it, it is hard to marginalize it within the framework of a desktop perspective.
what are you talking about?
andrew, i love your definition of "secure".
"if games are that important to you then i would not recommend linux.
once you have system access there are many ways to bypass a third party firewall and with the freely available rootkits, it can easily go undetected.
you are completely right!
"and that, of course, has nothing to do with the fact that xp hasn't been developed any further in 5 years, while the linux kernel has been in constant development (and still is!)
outbound filtering would be useful if you had a nat configuration, and wanted to block certain activities from egressing.
regardless there is a performance hit as opposed to true nx.
the number of vulnerabilities directly relates to the security of the software out of the users control.
sorry you are not going to get away with it that easily.
i am quite certain that leaktest could run under a limited user account.
i really don't know what happened, but you clearly wasted your time if using windows games was your primary concern.
i just proved security is not an argument anymore.
as i said, you aren't interested in any facts that upset your world view.
i do not have any stability or reliability problems with xp."
how many years has linux been out?
i have a computer with xp x64 that i use regularly.
i know that a billion vulnerabilities are probably waiting to be exploited, but if the user was knowledgeable, and had no one malicious on the local network or using the machine locally what security issues are there?
so yeah, focus your beady little eyes on secunia-statistics.
linux is a convoluted mess that all starts with the linux kernel yet people try to make some illogical argument that the comparison is not accurate?
must be the 0.37% marketshare or the lack of platform api standardization?
so i'm not sure if this person is thinking that this is an attempt at centralization or not, but each (centralization/distributed) models have benefits and risks.
they are out of control in terms of appearing.
i don't compile my own software, unless there is a special situation that truly requires it.
yes, you can download the os and software but the ones that you have to use professionally cost big time and lets centralize all at one place (it takes me back to the 70s, 80s).
since we are playing with number published by secunia, compare windows xp http://secunia.com/product/22/?task=statistics_2006 with linux kernel 2.6.x http://secunia.com/product/2719/?task=statistics_2006 for 2006 -criticality linux kernel 2.6.x: extremely=0%, highly=0% winxp: extremely=7%, highly=27% -where from linux kernel 2.6.x: remote=27% winxp: remote=53% -impact: linux kernel 2.6.x: system access=0% winxp: system access=54%!
my point is that microsoft tends to deliver suboptimal solutions later than competitors, despite their financial advantages.
i understand your frustration with bad claims like linux is more secure than windows, but why return the same nonsense in a different form?
that won't change the fact that linux and all the gnu/linux distributions are miles ahead of windows xp.
too bad this is now proven to be another myth.
for whatever reason this is never talked about and linux gets this magic aura of invulnerability.
if you want to compare them individually, that would be fine, but otherwise, it would be like
of course (as secunia say), these figures are not a valid basis for comparing oss.
i used to have a handheld laptop like device from lg that ran ce, but i have not seen it since.
actually no i am comparing the linux kernel to windows xp.
i work with end users daily and they simply say yes and let everything connect.
this is more than a fair comparison for the shocking results to follow.
i actually don't use or recommend anything but windows 2000 or xp for many reasons.
"another use would be simple port blocking (or something more sophisticated) if you didn't want people behind a gateway engaging in some activity.
too bad the facts are against them.
this article only talks about all time vulnerabilities for windows xp vs linux kernel v2.6.x!
the windows xp firewall is strictly an end user based firewall since xp is a end user os.
there is nothing wrong with the xp firewall.
that just shows even clearly how little you know.
beyond that, the costs per device is what matters.
not all followed and some users were still running legacy games.
most people wouldn't check and when you look in the program control section you would find two separate programs, one would be the real internet explorer the other would be ie.exe using the same exact icon but be a malicious program!
i realize that, when i use xp x64 i don't get much of a choice.
at least it would raise the bar significantly.
and that, of course, has nothing to do with the fact that xp hasn't been developed any further in 5 years, while the linux kernel has been inconstant development (and still is!)
yes aslr is better which is why vista comes with it.
"security depends on the user, not some number.
this is more  than a fair comparison for the shocking results to follow.
something that has one severe advisory that includes one vulnerability is much more secure than one advisory that includes18 vulnerabilities!
how much the lack of aslr puts you at risk is debateable.
linux clearly needs to be patched more than windows.
which is why the market share remains at a pathetic 0.37% even with it being "free".
"and why should anyone trust that woeful excuse for a firewall that comes with windows?" why is it "woeful?
looks like the linux fanboys have arrived!
following up, noting the comment from paletteguy, linux "can" be cheaper, but not if you are interested and set on paying one of the well known companies for support for one of the pricey versions of a linux powered operating system.
"the resources for game developers are there.
if you consult secunia on a product like os/2 you will see that not a single vulnerability is noted.
to simplify things i  took the latestlinux kernel v2.6.x and compared it to windows xp.
and you can certainly use gui's (well defined ones i might add) for desktop or server use.
"your definition of a firewall is quite different than mine.
for whatever reason this is  never talked about and linux gets this magic aura of invulnerability.
maybe linux should stop being the ultimate hack job and being so badly programmed that so many vulnerabilities exist.
that is idiotic and impossible on windows xp running as an admin.
there are many ways to defeat outbound filtering and with full system access it is impossible to stop on xp.
looking at that, really puts it in perspective.
what evidence do you have for this accusation?
anything can be blocked if you are running the firewall on separate secure server or from a good hardware firewall.
granted that i have not taken the time to count individual vulnerabilities so all these numbers should be taken with a grain of salt.
" it is definitely not guaranteed when you know known vulnerabilities will never be patched.
where did you get that number?
i will admit, the windows firewall does a good job of stealthing inbound ports.
as was said already, you should see the severity of these vulnerabilities.
if you only want to consider linux on the desktop, you are right, mac os x and windows both eclipse it.
third party vendors still have to catch up and make compatible products.
how much something costs is irrelevant to how secure it is.
http://blogs.technet.com/jesper_johansson/archive/2006/05/01/426921.aspx "where did you get that number?
most of the unpatched vulnerabilities in windows are blocked with dep protection enabled anyway, the rest via a firewall and none do anything in a limited user environment which is what it runs their user base in.
what is widely acknowleged is their is alot of online hype that does not relate to the actual security environment in the real world.
"a good commercial firewall would most likely fill in the gaps left by the windows firewall.
xp is a vast improvement over previous windows versions but it is still less stable and reliable than linux.
security depends on the user, not some number.
maybe some linux zealot told you how linux is the best operating system out there for anyone.
outbound filtering would be useful if you had a nat configuration, and wanted to block certain activities from egressing."
if it catches it then there is nothing to do.
"i said equivalent, not crippled.
you are a clueless, clueless man.
skype had proven to be a notoriously hard thing to block.
i don't consider it nonsense and am merely addressing a little known fact of the number of vulnerabilities present in linux.
not including aslr from the beginning was a mistake.
yes, if a user is running as an administrator, anything they run could theoretically disable the firewall, antivirus or other software.
only true hardware nx can guarantee dep or pax. pax is just as questionable but it is better than no pax just like dep is better than no dep and dep with nx is better than regular dep.
if you pick a good distribution like rhel, or its free relative fedora core, the software is compiled with these protections built in.
is sdl the directx of linux?
i don't think that windows is inherently insecure.
something like "linux doesn't let me play my games and i will therefore find other evidence that it is bad" would have been more fitting.
as far as stability or support for modern software, windows 2000 or xp are definitely better choices.
" outbound filtering causes some of the most problems for home users.
very few linux users actually get their software directly from the site of origin.
they do whatever is easier.
but you either refuse to accept or don't want to accept that the winxp vulnerabilities are both more seriousand remotely accessible.
now if you start looking into and adding up linux "distribution" vulnerabilities that can take you into thehundreds upon hundreds of security holes that are never talked about.
haz let's get some things straight.
a good commercial firewall would most likely fill in the gaps left by the windows firewall.
finally take a look at the most severe unpatched secunia advisory rating.
not advisories or advisories from 2006.
for a small scale smtp or dns server it's nice to know that if djbdns or qmail get out of control technology like pax, execshield, or apparmor will give you an additional layer of protection.
please, remind me never to employ you.
anything can bypass any firewall once it has compromised your system logged in as an administrator!
dep (or pax) only shine when you are running a server or a multiuser machine.
stop regurgitating nonsense you read on open source sites.
"impartial analysis of popular trends and technology" copyright © 2004-2011 popular technology anyone who tracks security vulnerability reports knows of the ridiculous amount that reference holes in linux.
i still credit the pax authors for their deep understanding of the features of a multitude of different processors: alpha, i386, ia64, mips, mips64, parisc, ppc, ppc64, sparc, sparc64 and x86_64.
with sophisticated stateful firewalls like iptables or pf, you can analyze relationships that normally would be ignored to its usage of inconspicuous ports and other obfuscation techniques.
security isn't a matter of what did affect us in the past, it's what is affecting us now.
this is about security not the fact of the insane amount of games i can run on windows xp or the pathetic0.37% market share linux has.
have you ever heard of the "designed for windows xp" logo?
in none of these areas is gaming even a concern.
if you are serious about security then you understand the nature of the advisories and work around them.
i evaluate the facts!
i am typing this on my laptop happily running ubuntu linux, and how much time do i use searching for viruses and remowing adware, updating my virusprogram and so on ?
2006 linux kernel v2.6.x - 45 advisories = 80 vulnerabilities.
windows 95 has not received security patches since 2001.
if you have a genuine problem with linux (or its security) other then that it cannot play *windows* games, then tell everyone.
how much you do not know has been proven with your unintelligent comments.
i have had it set off alarms due to small updates to ie that change its executable hash somewhat.
i can give you facts, but you won't like them so there is no point.
winxp is an os, and linux is a kernel.
"it is impossible to know how many linux desktop users there are, but it has been estimated that the number is around 29 million and growing fast."
the more i talk to linux users the more i realize they are simply fed propaganda and have no real world windows experience.
i did a simple web-search for "linux" and "windows xp".
but how many websites have a word in it, hardly represents the usage.
" i have and it sucks.
"actually, pax includes aslr as well.
from a security standpoint it does nothing to prevent you from getting infected since you already have to be infected for it to try and connect out.
amazing how tech trends go back and forth ;), and moreover when dealing with "high availability", clustering proved to be an effective approach at this.
but i manage windows workstations and do not have any security problems.
i find it incredible to read that your employed in it and you find the patch turnaround time to be irrelevant.
is that another joke?0.37% market share is growing fast?
well in reading the comments posted, there are people here that are much more qualified than i. however, the article, while pointing out the security issues with an os versus just the kernel is not accurate.
all i'm going to say andrew is that your failing to understand the meaning of analysis.
even microsoft's web site states that in software mode, dep only provides some protection from certain error handling conditions.
the evidence is balanced and the facts are weighed up.
" it still provides protection.
"but the rest of the gnu-linux os (no matter what disttro you use), has little to offer in terms of serious vulnerabilities, since most things run in user-space.
in linux the root password (on setting it that way) has to be provided, preventing random programs to generate things.
security is never a guarantee.
what your doing is presenting a one sided argument."
i have seen statistics anywhere from your .37% to 2.5%.
i am not qualified to comment on this quarrel about the security of windows versus linux, but this market share discussion is puzzling.
i am just impressed that linux has withstood all these attacks.
there is a separate section for all time (which covers 2003-2006) and separate sections for each year.
you seem obsessed with being able to play games.
secondly, you get what you pay for typically in other products (with exceptions) and well for the price we pay for windows, it should be much better, work smoothly, however, it often has more errors than one knows what to do with, and we can not forget those times that files are randomly changed to read only, or moved even by windows.
security companies make their money by selling these scary stories.
man what is with you guys and non compiled software?
anyone who claims xp is unstable has no business using computers ever again.
the secunia total advisory rating is useless since the grouping makes any analysis from the advisories irrelevant.
microsoft's isa would probably come closest.
i have had it set off alarms due to small updates to ie that change its executable hash somewhat."
why not back up this misinformed accusation with some facts?
first, for a simple home computer, windows cost an arm, but now will cost an arm and a leg, where as linux, can be downloaded for free, or a much smaller fee (compared to windows) can be paid.
linux still loses: cyber security bulletin 2005
no one is talking about 2006 vulnerabilities you have the wrong discussion.
linux advocates still do not get why people do not use it or why windows which costs far more is so widely used.
if i were to put this windows 95 user behind a hardware firewall, gave them a modern web browser, and educated them on secure practices i can see no security issues.
try "windows" which returns 665 million hits.
no it is not scientific, but at least acknowledge that linux is big, and here to stay.
instead of giving them accurate security advice.
nope you keep using it since its security is excellent.
actually my concern is security, which linux has proven to be no better than it's misleading claims.
"they are out of control in terms of appearing.
outbound filtering causes some of the most problems for home users.
part of the confusion lies with the complexity of the open source linux model that separates linux "distributions" from linux "kernel" vulnerabilities.
this can be said of any os that is run in these devices including windows ce.
see http://www.grc.com/lt/leaktest.htm for an example of an application that can completely bypass the windows firewall."
mac os9 and os/2 have no user base anymore.
can you even find a firewall that still supports 95?
what your doing is presenting a one sided argument.
as far as linux, i think there is an equal amount of scrutiny.
see http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/security/features for a full list of what they do by default.
nokia has a new internet tablet.
"i'm sure you remember the blaster worm fiasco?
finally, if you wanted to be truely fair about these comparisons, you have to weigh the severity of each noted type of exploit in some fashion and assign it a score based on severity, ease, maybe even risk, and then sum up the scores of these to make a serious risk.
these are not exploites but vulnerabilities.
get over your insecurities and move on with your life.
talk about propaganda.
yet another marketing play.
you also ignored the fact linux had this protection before windows xp even came out.
"there are 45 secunia advisories released for winxp for 2006 and there are 44 for linux 2.6.x for the same year.
unix got this right from the beginning."
" once something has system access as admin it impossible to guarantee this.
comparing "debian hardened operating system version potato" to "windows xp, windows 2000, windows nt, etc" and summing all of windows known exploits at a time.
i am just happy it is in vista.
the previous reply was to another moderated post from joseph.
see scan.coverity.com to see an open source code audit sponsored by the department of homeland security in progress.
" this can be said of any os that is run in these devices including windows ce.
just because linux is talked about to death does not mean it is widely used!
outboung filtering on a firewall is trying to stop something that has already infected you.
" the average user does not care.
show me documented reproduceable proof that proves the windows xp sp2 firewall does not provide adequate security.
and dep's protection with nx is still questionable.
it is impossible to know how many linux desktop users there are, but it has been estimated that the number is around 29 million and growing fast.
yeah they got it right, don't have any games for anyone to run.
"yes, if a user is running as an administrator, anything they run could theoretically disable the firewall, antivirus or other software."
i found your statement "windows xp more secure than linux" to be deceptive.
how is that arrangement working out for you?
andrew "linux is not more stable and reliable than xp.
you are supposed to weigh up the facts with evidence in a balanced manner and then form a conclusion based on your findings.
what i dislike is someone acting in a deceptive manner.
i wouldn't use or put anyone on windows 95 ever.
"windows xp" is an operating system.
"why should need a new processor when pax has offered equivalent protection for linux without the need for nx support since 2000?
i'm not sure what the comment about the 70's and 80's refers to, but it seems this person is confusing "mainframe" terminology with today's trends (oh but wait....
the great thing about linux is that it can complement or replace your existing unix installations without the upheaval that switching to windows would entail.
i don't care if people choose windows.
they still don't care.
"the other excuse, that a process could masquerade as another has been thoroughly dealt with by the likes of executable hashing that even rudimentary free firewalls like zonealarm offer.
like wasting time at work on im or online games.
only a fanboy could not understand why it is important to show how insecure linux really is!
it still provides protection.