an expert explains whether mainstream use of linux means more trouble for enterprises already... more... windows clients wary of linux, one it pro finds products and are "afraid" of linux, an it pro says.
hyper-v™ by dell and microsoft environment.
three it managers weigh in...
more... it pros offer windows-linux configuration tips it pro jeffrey small couldn't make linux and windows play well together.
more... linux vs. windows 2000 lab report on  linux vs.windows 2000 finds that linux is as rock-solid as they say but that  installation and management is no cake-walk...
more... windows to linux basics:
found out howrunning windows on linux can improve desktop management and lower hardware upgrade costs significantly...
despite the advantages of linux, they won't switch...
what could he have done differently?
more... linux on the  desktop?
more... some reversing migration from linux to  windows are flowing from windows to linux.
the austin, texas-based company's win4lin (get it?) products let linux-based pcs runwindows andwindows-based...
our readers weigh in...  more... migrating linux and apache server to windows 2000 and iis
more... microsoft's taylor-made linux strategist thatwindows tco is lower than linux.
if you're moving aweb site from linux and apache http server to microsoft windows 2000 and iis, this white paper provides an overview of the migration... more... microsoft windows versus linux tco: users speak out, part 8 part eight of your letters on thewindows vs. linux tco debate reflects the deep distrust inmicrosoft among it pros...
heck no, says tivoli cto run better on linux than on windows?
alinux management expert explains the  challenges of managing the warring...
more... win4lin -- a bridge between windows and linux thinks he can get linux and windows to play nice.
by ericom software this paper examines how microsoft windows server 2008 r2 remote desktop services (rds) is a good, entry-level platform for simple deployments, low-complexity...
more... windows clients wary of  linux, one it pro finds products and are "afraid" of linux, an  it pro says.
so you think ws08 r2 remote  desktop services (rds) will meet all of your organization’s needs?
more... desktop linux a vehicle for pirating windows linux is being  used in a growingsoftware piracy scam.
he also brought a flak jacket to ward off the linux-philes who doubted his every word...
alinux management expert explains the challenges of managing the warring...
more... linux, windows to win war over data  center report that the shift toward linux and windows dominance in the  data center has begun...
then get his tips for managing  mixedwindows and linux environments...
hyper-v™ by dell and  microsoft  environment.
in a... view the abstract
author peter harrison believes the answer is largely a matter of perspective...
delivering windows application support on linux -- a product overview to win4lin, a product for deliveringwindows application support on the linux operating system ...
so, what happens to tco when linux and windows are used together?
more... managing the  windows-linux enterprise many windows managers are adding linux  administrator to their job descriptions.
systems by dell and microsoft v is integrated into the microsoft windows server ® 2008 x64operating system.
dos &  don'ts: linux migration tips for windows admins handy tips for windows  admins facing a migration to linux...  more... pogo linux marries windows  to linux on desktop get when you cross a windows with a linux?
more... win4lin: delivering  windows application support on linux -- a product overview to win4lin, a  product for deliveringwindows application support on the linux operating system ...
view the abstract virtualizing microsoft® exchange server 2007 on dell™  systems running microsoft windows server® 2008
linux windows solution search: search dos & don'ts: linux migration tips for windows admins handy tips for windows admins facing a migration to linux...
author peter harrison believes the answer is largely a  matter of perspective...
more... some reversing migration from linux to windows are flowing from windows to linux.
three it managers weigh in...  more... related whitepapers windows storage server 2008 r2 architecture and  deployment guide by hp and intel network storage systems powered by microsoft  windows stohat arage server 2008 r2 enterprise edition are nas solutions, with  two-node integrated into a converged 3u chassis...
more... win4lin -- a bridge between windows and  linux thinks he can get linux and windows to play nice.
with the release of microsoft® windows server 2008 hyper-v there is a  growing interest in deployingexchange server 2007 in virtualized environments.
in part 7 of reader feedback on the linux-windows tco debate, microsoft  supporters voice their opinions...
comparing security on windows and linux is linux really more secure thanwindows?
bristol pushes linux  migration has made available kits for porting windows apps to the linux  operating system...
pogo linux says vmware, inc. will bundle and preconfigure vmware's desktop software with a pogo linux desktop...  more... microsoft says no windows  virtualization on top of linux microsoft will not allow windows vista or  windows xp to be virtualized on top of linux...
more... mainsoft to bring nt apps to linux with red hat inc., a promoter of the  linuxoperating system, to help applications designed for windows nt run on red  hat linux...
view the abstract microsoft® hyper-v™ server 2008 for dell™ poweredge™  systems by dell and microsoft  v is integrated into the microsoft windows server ® 2008 x64operating system.
this facilitates better performance and  increases integration of the... view the abstract
this facilitates better performance and increases integration of the... view the abstract browse directory
pogo linux says vmware, inc. will bundle and preconfigure vmware's desktop software with a pogo linux desktop...
more... microsoft windows  versus linux tco, part 9 nowadays.
there are also a growing  number of organizations that have tried linux and are now switching back to microsoft's...  more... microsoft's taylor-made linux strategist thatwindows tco is lower than linux.
he also brought a flak jacket to ward off  the linux-philes who doubted his every word...
more... managing the windows-linux enterprise many windows managers are adding linux administrator to their job descriptions.
more... bristol pushes linux migration has made available kits for porting windows apps to the linux operating system...
more... linux, windows to win war over data center report that the shift toward linux and windows dominance in the data center has begun...
more... linux vs. windows 2000 lab report on linux vs.windows 2000 finds that linux is as rock-solid as they say but that installation and management is no cake-walk...
more... desktop linux a vehicle for pirating windows linux is being used in a growingsoftware piracy scam.
more... windows-friendly desktop linux launches latest version of xandros desktop linux has arrived, continuing theoperating system's mission to welcomewindows users--a mission that's led some in the linux...
more... related whitepapers windows storage server 2008 r2 architecture and deployment guide by hp and intel network storage systems powered by microsoft windows stohat arage server 2008 r2 enterprise edition are nas solutions, with two-node integrated into a converged 3u chassis...
by  ericom software  this paper examines how microsoft windows server 2008 r2  remote desktop services (rds) is a good, entry-level platform for simple  deployments, low-complexity...
in part 7 of reader feedback on the  linux-windows tco debate, microsoft supporters voice their opinions on the tco  differences betweenwindows and linux...  more... windows to linux basics:  analysts say transition from windows to linux isn't easy hardship and  early learning thatwindows administrators will need to absorb in order to  initiate a move to linux...
more... microsoft windows versus linux tco: users speak out, part 8 part eight of your letters on thewindows vs. linux tco debate reflects the  deep distrust inmicrosoft among it pros...
get the scoop from tivoli's cto, bob yellin.
found out howrunning windows on linux can improve desktop management and lower  hardware upgrade costs significantly...
in part 7 of reader feedback on the linux-windows tco debate, microsoft supporters voice their opinions on the tco differences betweenwindows and linux...
with the release of microsoft® windows server 2008 hyper-v there is a growing interest in deployingexchange server 2007 in virtualized environments.
an expert explains whether mainstream use of linux means  more trouble for enterprises already...
more... make linux and nt play nice on the same network a basic tutorial on how  to help up linux andwindows nt coexist...  more...
more... running windows applications on linux could lower tco find out how running windows on linux can improvedesktop management and lower hardware upgrade costs big time...
more... it pros offer windows-linux  configuration tips it pro jeffrey small couldn't make linux and windows  play well together.
more... mainstream means  more malicious code for linux and worms slither just as well on linux as  they do onwindows.
more... curtains for windows or  linux this linux supporter will let not linux succumb to microsoft and  provides here some compelling research and deep thoughts about...
so, what happens to tco when linux and  windows are used together?
more... mainstream means more malicious code for linux and worms slither just as well on linux as they do onwindows.
view the abstract microsoft® hyper-v™ server 2008 for dell™ poweredge™
the austin,  texas-based company's win4lin (get it?) products let linux-based pcs runwindows  andwindows-based...
according to gartner, 40% of pcs running linux will rip that os out in favor...
more... microsoft says no windows virtualization on top of linux microsoft will not allow windows vista or windows xp to be virtualized on top of linux...
more... windows to linux  basics:
more... linux on the desktop?
view the abstract virtualizing microsoft® exchange server 2007 on dell™ systems running microsoft windows server® 2008
tco: users speak out, part 7
more... microsoft windows versus linux tco, part 9 nowadays.
there are also a growing number of organizations that have tried linux and are now switching back to microsoft's...
comparing security on windows and linux is linux really  more secure thanwindows?
more... running windows  applications on linux could lower tco find out how running windows on  linux can improvedesktop management and lower hardware upgrade costs big time...
according to gartner, 40% of pcs running  linux will rip that os out in favor...
our readers weigh in... more... migrating linux and apache server to windows 2000 and iis
more... curtains for windows or linux this linux supporter will let not linux succumb to microsoft and provides here some compelling research and deep thoughts about...
so you think ws08 r2 remote desktop services (rds) will meet all of your organization’s needs?
if you're moving aweb site from linux and apache http server to microsoft  windows 2000 and iis, this white paper provides an overview of the migration...
more... windows on linux: lower tco?
more... windows-friendly desktop linux launches latest  version of xandros desktop linux has arrived, continuing theoperating system's  mission to welcomewindows users--a mission that's led some in the linux...
experts say a little linux learning is enough for windows shops threewindows experts lay out a simple linux curriculum for windows administrators and it shops...
more... microsoft windows versus linux tco: users speak out, part 7
then get his tips for managing mixedwindows and linux environments...
more... pogo linux marries windows to linux on desktop get when you cross a windows with a linux?
more... make linux and nt play nice on the same network a basic tutorial on how to help up linux andwindows nt coexist...
more... windows to linux basics: analysts say transition from windows to linux isn't easy hardship and early learning thatwindows administrators will need to absorb in order to initiate a move to linux...
experts say a little linux learning is enough for windows shops threewindows experts lay out a simple linux curriculum for windows  administrators and it shops...  more... microsoft windows versus linux
in part 7 of reader feedback on the linux-windows tco debate, microsoft supporters voice their opinions...
more... mainsoft to bring nt apps to linux with red hat inc., a promoter of the linuxoperating system, to help applications designed for windows nt run on red hat linux...