and there are few games and no children's or educational software of any  description available for linux, for example (although some dos and ms windows  software can be run under the linux dos and windows emulators).
if this ploy were to fail, microsoft could  kill off most competing operating systems simply by buying them up.
together with supporting utilities and tools from the gnu free  software foundation, the end result was a fully fledged unix-like operating  system which he dubbed linux (linus's unix).
and there are few games and no children's or educational software of any description available for linux, for example (although some dos and ms windows software can be run under the linux dos and windows emulators).
this will never happen to linux - it is owned by a community, not a  company or software house, and there is no way anyone (no, not even microsoft)
some versions are intended for typical office use while others are more suited to programmers but the important thing is that you can always add software and utilities to make your system do what you want it to do.
s.e. 6.0 on an old gateway 486 that used to run windows 3.1  in one of king's college's open access pc rooms at the strand).
having the source code allows you to compile your own  kernel just the way you want it, or to suit the needs of your hardware or  application.
i want to get things done with my computers and i want to trust and  rely on them - and that simply means a 100% reliable operating system: linux is  that operating system.
it has all the facilities, features  and tools you would expect of a commercial unix and some significant plus  points - it will run on ordinary low-cost pcs, software for linux is mostly  free and commercial software is inexpensive, support is excellent and ongoing
linux is a child of the internet, the work of many hundreds of programmers  and enthusiasts across the planet, and fittingly, you can download it from ftp  sites all over the world.
support from microsoft is hard to get - if at all - and costs money too.
now that most pcs have cd-rom drives, increasingly popular are the linux  cd-rom distribtions and these are a great way to get linux.
back to the main page andy thomas, april 3rd, 1998 updated october 23rd, 1998
microsoft might possibly seek to discredit it, or  to launch a directly competing product, but why should it?
given the chance, microsoft will kill  off all other operating systems - including linux.
s.e. 6.0 on an old gateway 486 that used to run windows 3.1 in one of king's college's open access pc rooms at the strand).
the pc world superstore chain has been selling caldera openlinux alongside the typical windows stuff for nearly a year now and simply computers have stocked red hat linux since september.
check out the main linux home site on the web or for a faster response, the uk linux web site.
it is very powerful - with so many utilities available for it  together with the almost limitless configurability of unix, there is  practically nothing you cannot do with linux.
it has all the facilities, features and tools you would expect of a commercial unix and some significant plus points - it will run on ordinary low-cost pcs, software for linux is mostly free and commercial software is inexpensive, support is excellent and ongoing development is certainly dynamic!
on its own, the linux kernel can't be used for very much - it's a bit like having ms-dos but without the command.com shell and all the utilities such as attrib, scandisk, format and so on, that make it do something useful.
why microsoft windows?
commercial vendors may make a small charge for distributing it (eg, on  cd-rom media for example) but they must comply with the terms of the gpl.
other distributions are aimed at novice users or those who want a slick gui installation program like those offered by apple and microsoft for their operating systems -red
there are a  number of other offerings from caldera (who are probably the best bet for  corporates who want to pay for hand-holding/support), debian, and so on.
cd-rom installation is the best way to go - it's fast and very professional install programs are now included on the disk.
the new operating system went public in 1994 with release v1.0 and the result is what we have now - a serious rival to traditional unix which has many advantages ...
microsoft is here to stay and so is linux and rather than one camp slagging off the other, maybe we should just accept the two operating systems can co-exist quite happily - windows nt4 and linux in many ways integrate well.
linus has given many interviews but the longest one i'm aware of has to be  this one in which he gives us a frank insight into many aspects of linux, even  microsoft windows ...
hat has a very polished and painless install procedure from its cd-rom (i use red hat linux version 5.1 on my dell laptop) and so does s.u.
microsoft is not to be  trusted.
forabout £2  plus postage you get a cd-rom packed with 500-600 mbytes of linux executables,  kernels, software and documentation; the charge just covers the cost of the cd  media.
back to the main pageandy thomas, april 3rd, 1998 updated october 23rd, 1998
trythe linux home site for starters or you may get a faster response from the uk linux web site.
there must be something wrong with these operating systems if things like these can be done with far less bother under plain old windows 3.1.
pcs using the intel 386 cpu and upwards, digital alphas, macintoshes, sun  sparcs, ataris, amigas and even the 3com palm pilot, although it is probably  true to say most linux systems are based on intel pcs, as this is the cheapest  and most popular computer system around.
but it is important the computer user has a choice - how dull and boring  it would be if all we had were microsoft operating systems; no mac os, no vms,  no as400, no flavours of unix, no atari tos, no amigados.
can stifle it by buying it.
given the chance, microsoft will kill off all other operating systems - including linux.
well, given the choice would you pay good money for an operating system that gpf's several times a week (windows 95)?
very  similar to unix, it can run on a number of different platforms - ibm-compatible
source code is always available - you'll never get this with  commercial unix implementations costing thousands of pounds, never mind  anything from microsoft!.
thinking about linux - need more convincing?
incidentally, buying a cd-rom can work out cheaper than your dial-up phone bills if your internet connection is via modem.
i have never known linux itself crash, although x-servers occasionally hang if they are abused.
i want to get things done with my computers and i want to trust and rely on them - and that simply means a 100% reliable operating system: linux is that operating system.
it is free - under the  gpl (gnu public licence), it is free  software and freely shareable as long as the source code is also distributed  with it.
stop press: click here for the latest news!
there are a number of other offerings from caldera (who are probably the best bet for corporates who want to pay for hand-holding/support), debian, and so on.
for  the full range of distributions, check out the distributions list.
microsoft's ill-concealed attempts in 1997 to take over and  shape the future of the internet by bundling internet explorer with its current  operating systems landed it in court.
linux is a free and readily available operating system for computers.
if you've got a network connection at work, university or whatever, this is the cheapest way of getting linux - it costs you absolutely nothing except for some space on your hard disk or maybe a box of floppies!
linux distributions are simply collections of utilities, editors, tools, programming languages, network software, etc that have been put together along with the basic linux kernel by various people and offered as a more or less complete package.
very similar to unix, it can run on a number of different platforms - ibm-compatible pcs using the intel 386 cpu and upwards, digital alphas, macintoshes, sun sparcs, ataris, amigas and even the 3com palm pilot, although it is probably true to say most linux systems are based on intel pcs, as this is the cheapest and most popular computer system around.
but let no-one be deluded - microsoft's ultimate goal is total world domination in both operating systems and applications software, both on the desktop and in the corporate server market, making serious inroads into territory previously the sole preserve of mainframes and unix.
together with a typical range of application packages (which require  huge amounts of disk space), windows also costs a lot of money.
linux users know they are using something far better than windows and they  just get on with enjoying it!
together with a typical range of application packages (which require huge amounts of disk space), windows also costs a lot of money.
cd-rom  installation is the best way to go - it's fast and very professional install  programs are now included on the disk.
with hundreds of enthusiastic users  and programmers linked via the internet worldwide, bug reports are circulated  rapidly and bugs fixed quickly - sometimes within hours of their being reported.
a finnish student, linus torvalds, daunted by the high cost of commercial unix implementations, decided to create his own version for his personal use and while at helsinki university, began work on the kernel of what was to become linux.
in its latest  deposition with the us supreme court hearing the current anti-trust case  against it, microsoft has at last admitted it perceives linux as a threat, but  for the moment it simply ignores it.
if you want a printed manual, multiple cd-rom sets in jewel cases, then  you can pay anything from £20 to £50 but it still represents  incredibly good value compared with what you get from 'you-know-who'.
for a good overview of linux, readthis .
development is driven by the needs of  its own users, not some marketing department seeking fresh sources of revenue.
linus has given many interviews but the longest one i'm aware of has to be this one in which he gives us a frank insight into many aspects of linux, even microsoft windows ...
forabout £2 plus postage you get a cd-rom packed with 500-600 mbytes of linux executables, kernels, software and documentation; the charge just covers the cost of the cd media.
linus made his operating system freely available on the internet in 1992  to all who were interested in using it or, better still, helping with its  continuing development, adding new features to it and expanding its  capabilities.
ok, the range and variety of applications software available for the linux operating system is nowhere near as broad as that for microsoft windows but as more and more serious computer users are turning to linux, the number of packages is increasing.
or eats up so much memory and cpu time that printing an image to a colour printer pushes cpu utilisation to 100% even on a pentium 150 (windows nt4)?
the current generation of operating systems from microsoft demand ever  faster pentium cpus, lots of ram and increasing amounts of hard disk space;  linux will run well on an old 386 box even with x-windows - imagine what it can  do when it runs on a 500mhz pentium iii pc, or even better, a 700mhz dec alpha  axp system ...!
the current generation of operating systems from microsoft demand ever faster pentium cpus, lots of ram and increasing amounts of hard disk space; linux will run well on an old 386 box even with x-windows - imagine what it can do when it runs on a 500mhz pentium iii pc, or even better, a 700mhz dec alpha axp system ...!
incidentally, buying a cd-rom can work out  cheaper than your dial-up phone bills if your internet connection is via modem.
but it is important the computer user has a choice - how dull and boring it would be if all we had were microsoft operating systems; no mac os, no vms, no as400, no flavours of unix, no atari tos, no amigados.
microsoft windows is relatively slow, unstable, is much less well-documented at a technical level and is such a mess internally that ms daren't fix the bugs for fear of either introducing more bugs or preventing existing applications that have been written around the bugs from working properly.
microsoft is not to be trusted.
distributions vary in what they offer, in the range of software provided  and in the ease of installation but all will give you a fully-functional linux  system when installed.
it is right up to date - as new hardware, devices and peripherals  evolve, the linux community rapidly responds by writing new drivers and
i have  never known linux itself crash, although x-servers occasionally hang if they  are abused.
sunsite northern europe(formerly known as the imperial college archive)
also, if you have a computer that has neither a cd-rom drive nor an internet connection, a floppy installation is the only way to get linux onto the system.
some users find the mac os suits them better, others love vms while some find linux is best for them.
it is the thin edge of the wedge - next, browsers are becoming part of ms windows and, left unchecked, microsoft will then begin creating its own standards and foisting them onto the internet community, creating a different kind of network that will slowly but inexorably squeeze out other operating systems.
so you  need to add extra software and tools to the basic kernel before you can use  linux and this is wheredistributions come in.
in the same way there will always be people who are quite happy with a ford mondeo or vauxhall cavalier, rather than something a bit classier.
if you want a printed manual, multiple cd-rom sets in jewel cases, then you can pay anything from £20 to £50 but it still represents incredibly good value compared with what you get from 'you-know-who'.
support from  microsoft is hard to get - if at all - and costs money too.
where did linux come from?
and now dell,  hewlett-packard and even ibm have seen the light and are actively supporting  linux by investing in linux distribution vendors, offering it as a  factory-installed alternative to microsoft winodws and providing support for  linux in the corporate workplace.
the day when you can go out  and buy shrink-wrapped software for linux off the shelf at the local branch of  w h smith, take it home and install it like a windows program is still some way  off.
sunsite northern europe(formerly  known as the imperial college archive) has them all too.
the pc world superstore chain has been selling caldera  openlinux alongside the typical windows stuff for nearly a year now and simply  computers have stocked red hat linux since september.
well, it's all there for the asking on the 'net -  usenet newsgroups, informative web pages, ftp sites galore, completelinux cd's  for £2.00 ....
some users find the  mac os suits them better, others love vms while some find linux is best for  them.
development is certainly dynamic!
if you've got a network connection at work, university or whatever, this  is the cheapest way of getting linux - it costs you absolutely nothing except  for some space on your hard disk or maybe a box of floppies!
distributions vary in what they offer, in the range of software provided and in the ease of installation but all will give you a fully-functional linux system when installed.
on the other hand,  the linux/x-window combination is faster than any ms windowing system, is very  well-documented both on the 'net and in printed book form, most applications  are free while commercial applications cost much less than the ms windows  equivalents and support ...
ok, the range and variety of applications software available for the linux  operating system is nowhere near as broad as that for microsoft windows but as  more and more serious computer users are turning to linux, the number of  packages is increasing.
and there has to be a choice too for those who want a really powerful and  high performance operating system for their computers.
there will always be microsoft windows in one incarnation or another, there will always be a huge mass market for windows and software designed to run under windows - there are lots and lots of people for whom windows is quite adequate and simply does all they require of it.
there must be something wrong with these operating systems if things like  these can be done with far less bother under plain old windows 3.1.
why follow the herd when you can have for free something that is so  much better?
so you need to add extra software and tools to the basic kernel before you can use linux and this is wheredistributions come in.
it is fast & efficient - equalling and in many cases exceeding  the performance of other unixes such as solaris.
here microsoft must tread carefully - seeking to dominate the world software arena will lead to an ever dwindling variety as this giant sucks up all before it.
now that most pcs have cd-rom drives, increasingly popular are the linux cd-rom distribtions and these are a great way to get linux.
for the full range of distributions, check out the distributions list.
this will never happen to linux - it is owned by a community, not a company or software house, and there is no way anyone (no, not even microsoft) can stifle it by buying it.
or viewing a quicktime movie on a  children's 'edutainment' cd-rom demands cpu resources beyond 100% so that  eventually the program crashes (nt again)?
it is probably correct to say the amount of software available for linux is fast catching up with that for the macintosh.
linux distributions  are simply collections of utilities, editors, tools, programming languages,  network software, etc that have been put together along with the basic linux  kernel by various people and offered as a more or less complete package.
(you  can of course put together a linux system from the bare bones, marrying your  kernel - with suitable in-built drivers to match your hardware - to your own  hand-selected choice of shell, getty and login utilities if you really want to  but why bother going to extreme lengths when the standard choices will be ok  for nearly all users?).
together with supporting utilities and tools from the gnu free software foundation, the end result was a fully fledged unix-like operating system which he dubbed linux (linus's unix).
and there has to be a choice too for those who want a really powerful and high performance operating system for their computers.
but let no-one be deluded - microsoft's ultimate goal is total world domination  in both operating systems and applications software, both on the desktop and in  the corporate server market, making serious inroads into territory previously  the sole preserve of mainframes and unix.
not much reason to get hot under the collar or  all wound up over all the millions of users who are still using ms windows, is  there really?
(you can of course put together a linux system from the bare bones, marrying your kernel - with suitable in-built drivers to match your hardware - to your own hand-selected choice of shell, getty and login utilities if you really want to but why bother going to extreme lengths when the standard choices will be ok for nearly all users?).
read all about it .... and then take the plunge and install it for free!
if this ploy were to fail, microsoft could kill off most competing operating systems simply by buying them up.
trythe linux home site for starters or you may get a  faster response from the uk linux web site.
my favourite distribution is patrick volkerding'sslackware - mainly because i started my linux experience with it back in the days when you could (and still can) download it over the 'net via ftp onto a series of floppies; also, it is a very down to earth 'nut's n' bolts' distribution ideal for computer techies like me :-)
i'm not out to bash microsoft
the day when you can go out and buy shrink-wrapped software for linux off the shelf at the local branch of w h smith, take it home and install it like a windows program is still some way off.
also, well known ms windows software houses like corel and wordperfect have released x-windows versions of their popular products and digital, apple computer and silicon graphics have actively encouraged the use of linux on dec alpha axps, macintosh powerpcs and sgi systems.
in the same way there will  always be people who are quite happy with a ford mondeo or vauxhall cavalier,  rather than something a bit classier.
microsoft is here to stay and so is linux and rather than one camp  slagging off the other, maybe we should just accept the two operating systems  can co-exist quite happily - windows nt4 and linux in many ways integrate well.
also, well known ms windows software houses like corel  and wordperfect have released x-windows versions of their popular products and  digital, apple computer and silicon graphics have actively encouraged the use  of linux on dec alpha axps, macintosh powerpcs and sgi systems.
it is the thin edge of the wedge - next,  browsers are becoming part of ms windows and, left unchecked, microsoft will  then begin creating its own standards and foisting them onto the internet  community, creating a different kind of network that will slowly but inexorably  squeeze out other operating systems.
also, you've got a huge amount of material all on a single disk.
but it will come eventually.
microsoft's ill-concealed attempts in 1997 to take over and shape the future of the internet by bundling internet explorer with its current operating systems landed it in court.
providing kernel support where necessary.
being realistic, there's a long way to go yet.
not much reason to get hot under the collar or all wound up over all the millions of users who are still using ms windows, is there really?
in its latest deposition with the us supreme court hearing the current anti-trust case against it, microsoft has at last admitted it perceives linux as a threat, but for the moment it simply ignores it.
the new operating system went public in 1994 with release v1.0  and the result is what we have now - a serious rival to traditional unix which  has many advantages ...
it is relatively bug-free - it is in the linux community's own  interests to hunt down and rectify bugs.
on the other hand, the linux/x-window combination is faster than any ms windowing system, is very well-documented both on the 'net and in printed book form, most applications are free while commercial applications cost much less than the ms windows equivalents and support ...
linux is a child of the internet, the work of many hundreds of programmers and enthusiasts across the planet, and fittingly, you can download it from ftp sites all over the world.
but it will  come eventually.
why i avoid microsoft windows well, given the choice would you pay good money for an operating  system that gpf's several times a week (windows 95)?
a finnish student, linus torvalds, daunted by the high cost of commercial  unix implementations, decided to create his own version for his personal use  and while at helsinki university, began work on the kernel of what was to  become linux.
it is probably correct to say the amount of  software available for linux is fast catching up with that for the macintosh.
on its own, the linux kernel can't be used for very much - it's a bit like  having ms-dos but without the command.com shell and all the utilities such as  attrib, scandisk, format and so on, that make it do something useful.
linux users know they are using something far better than windows and they just get on with enjoying it!
some versions are intended for typical office use while  others are more suited to programmers but the important thing is that you can  always add software and utilities to make your system do what you want it to  do.
or eats up so much memory  and cpu time that printing an image to a colour printer pushes cpu utilisation  to 100% even on a pentium 150 (windows nt4)?
well, it's all there for the asking on the 'net - usenet newsgroups, informative web pages, ftp sites galore, completelinux cd's for £2.00 ....
there will always be microsoft windows in one incarnation or another,  there will always be a huge mass market for windows and software designed to  run under windows - there are lots and lots of people for whom windows is quite  adequate and simply does all they require of it.
microsoft might possibly seek to discredit it, or to launch a directly competing product, but why should it?
linus made his operating system freely available on the internet in 1992 to all who were interested in using it or, better still, helping with its continuing development, adding new features to it and expanding its capabilities.
microsoft windows is relatively slow, unstable, is much less  well-documented at a technical level and is such a mess internally that ms  daren't fix the bugs for fear of either introducing more bugs or preventing  existing applications that have been written around the bugs from working  properly.
also, you've got a huge amount of  material all on a single disk.
why follow the herd when you can have for free something that is so much better?
and now dell, hewlett-packard and even ibm have seen the light and are actively supporting linux by investing in linux distribution vendors, offering it as a factory-installed alternative to microsoft winodws and providing support for linux in the corporate workplace.
linux distributions - what are they?
or viewing a quicktime movie on a children's 'edutainment' cd-rom demands cpu resources beyond 100% so that eventually the program crashes (nt again)?
my favourite distribution is patrick volkerding'sslackware - mainly because  i started my linux experience with it back in the days when you could (and  still can) download it over the 'net via ftp onto a series of floppies; also,  it is a very down to earth 'nut's n' bolts' distribution ideal for computer  techies like me :-)
hat has a very polished and painless install procedure  from its cd-rom (i use red hat linux version 5.1 on my dell laptop) and so does  s.u.
read all about it .... and then take the plunge and install  it for free!
other distributions are aimed at novice users or those who want a slick  gui installation program like those offered by apple and microsoft for their  operating systems -red
also, if you have  a computer that has neither a cd-rom drive nor an internet connection, a floppy  installation is the only way to get linux onto the system.
you are also free to add extra features to it to be included in  the next general public release of the kernel, as long as you also make  available the source code with your enhancements.
here microsoft must tread carefully - seeking to dominate the world  software arena will lead to an ever dwindling variety as this giant sucks up  all before it.