http://members.apex-internet.com/sa/windowslinux linux!
how many applications do you have for  your new platform?
a lot of universities here and abroad are still using windows, it's a fact.
if big companies are  looking for these professionals, universities will have no choice but to offer  curriculums that are ms technology related, this will again ensure the future  of the windows platform.
no wonder, have you visited some big companies in  your area, like banks, for instance, is your rural bank using linux?
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:13 am i would add that linux is what the user wants and microsoft is what the big  businesses want.
and yes no system is entirely secure but windows does not even come  close to being secure ;).
i run linux for like an month, and yet no security breach occured.
anonymous said,  july 10, 2009 9:57 am the biggest problem with this observation is that it's based on an  individuals experience on a particular os popularity or os usability.
you don't  even need best gear to run most of needed tools nd games built for linux.
i like the simple fact that there is nothing new in these posts from posts 8 years ago.
i'm glad there are fixes for corficker.
these two items account for about 60% of their annual revenue.
nafees said,  july 9, 2009 4:30
i have been using linux for 4 years now.
linux gets developed by a community of people who are willing solve problems and share not just their solutions, but how their solutions work.
jacques merde said,  july 9, 2009 5:21 am games games and more games!
just the fact that there is no licensing tracking involved in open source alone is huge.
30 years after the nimble microsoft outmanouvered the lumbering big blue, the tables have turned, and microsoft are now the elephant in the living room.
i use linux for a variety of reasons such  as it's security, cost, and stability.
as microsoft has 80% of the desktop market, i think you tell where i  am going with this one.
that is scary for  m$.
trying to change behavior of  the user community like it's a child you want to stay in bed by a boogy man  microsoft under the bed is a failure.
if your choice is new machine and  win7 or switch to a mac (and replace all your apps with a mac version), well  the new machine/win7 upgrade is _both_ cheaper and more familiar.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 5:47 am "...pretty much every os in the planet have (sic) security  issues..."
yes, any 3rd party commercial vendor needs to go through the same pain in porting their proprietary app on either platform, its just that until vendors move their wares, windows on arm or any other hardware platform (without drivers or apps) is patently useless.
ryan said,  july 9, 2009 5:02
man, some of these comment's...
i know i used  to work there.
to run win7 pretty much requires a new(ish) computer and they mean to end-of-life xp to force you to move (so they can get paid).
what we use is software these two platforms provide.
but i bet you will see a lot of windows machine.
in fact...i listen to music while i play....so there's another performance benefit.
http://forums.techarena.in/vista-security/1150576.htm 4.
its no wonder that because of games on windhoze machine no serious development is being done.
your original point seemed to be that malware is not  a problem on more recent versions of windows.
" because your so stupid to know that you are being hacked.
like  they release chrome for windows first before your linux.
i can now run 3 vm's simultaneously...while listening to  music on the free rhythmbox...with still plenty of memory & disk space left  over.
next up, "ms isn't afraid of linux teh own the software world, apple has more market share than linux".
m$'s  own numbers show gnu/linux at abut twice the rate of macos.
solutions are sold, not  shared.
windowsce is not proof of windows portability to arm.
the year of the  linux desktop is unknown, but the future is bright.
i cited cornficker to demonstrate  that even the most recent version of windows has security problems which linux  users do not have to deal with.
sorry in advance for the length of this post.
open source isn't  available for everything, but what is out there is great stuff.
the only thing that i think that isn't all to on the ball with the linux thing is firefox.
if i want a game console, i'll buy a  ps3.
their monopoly starts bleeding from every socket, just like ie is  doing to firefox.
cloud computing,  which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is  worried about."
our operating systems on our three computers which are a 9 year old emachines, a 3 year old dell laptop and an aspire one: antix and fedora.
linux can very quickly move the whole stack, kernel, drivers and oss apps; and be useful relatively quickly.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 3:02 pm # dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null that does copy, not move.
on my linux run computer, i can dig into any file of any program and learn how that program works.
vista was a huge blow for ms, a lot hangs on win7 and linux will play its part but its xp that win7 has to eat.
unless if they stop making firefox for windows you will see it as an advantage.
portability - your argument is confusing, are you comparing to apple or  ms here?
if your grandparents (you can training them now) have started using linux then you are right, that ms needs to be very afraid of linux, if that's not happening yet then shut your mouth and get a life.
in terms of quality, they can  rival any proprietary software made for windows.
it's a completely different operating system that happens to be made by the same company and gets called by a similar name.
unless if they stop making  firefox for windows you will see it as an advantage.
software can be installed on the user's computer without the user's knowledge.
see above, the advantage is no windows.
you need to wait  for all the hardware vendors to port and release their apps too.
windows is sort of portable.
i have no  idea why you bring up rural banks.
once they settle into foss products, switching the o/s behind these products is the next step.
i won't repeat my previous post.
sure some folks might know of all three choices, windows, mac and linux and still choose windows for some reason (maybe games or cad work or business accounting) but the majority of the windows computers/users don't fall in those categories.
plus, i myself like opera - which works even on windows 98se, and is a bit faster (my cpu is slow enough to make the difference noticeable).
i open up my package manager, search for what i want in the search box, click on it, click on apply, and wait for the program to install itself.
the truth is  that linux is slowly becoming more known, which is putting a dent in  microsoft's profits.
nowadays, it’s like if  you can do it on windows, you can do it on linux too.
and you forgot to log in as root!
why should that be a hindrance?
you want to work  use linux.
the graph showing os  market share percentages has the same size wedge for linux as there is for osx,  same size wedge = same size market share.
i'm sure some trolls will say: "i *use* my o/s" to counter argue me.
regarding penetration of desktop market, only one of the 3 computers we own were purchased with linux on it.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 7:55 pm err, i meant to say that, "linux is closer to being the same operating  system as os x (not the old macos) than windowsce is to being the same  operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
i can even make any changes i want.
my point remains the same: the *average* user, that notorious "joe sixpack" gets frustrated when his pc slows to a crawl.
also i'd rather get actual work done on my pc without getting bsod or my system slowing down.
linux is more secure than even the most recent versions of windows.
aquaadverse said,  july 9, 2009 10:38
"$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null" oh noes!
just the fact  that there is no licensing tracking involved in open source alone is huge.
opera, lynx, w3c, dillo, the list goes on.
(i agree with you on the no os is completely secure)
linux undermines the very  foundations of its business model.
and there's nothing quite so influential as a pc technician who's linux savvy: far more effective that a penguinista or a windows troll.
i look forward to seeing more like it to come.
the same cannot be said running vista business x64, or even windows 7 x64 (even removed the extras) for that matter.
however, rather than tossing them into the linux swimming pool, i let them wade in by replacing their corrent proprietary software with foss variants.
ms knows they cant beat linux/foss on price or quality, they can't buy out the  underlying software that oss companies are based on.
oh  and notice the url it's arm, let me guess you will windowsce is not windows  because of ce.
while penguinistas are wasting time and effort with paranoid conspiracy theories and ignoring the simple fact consumers stick with what they know.
a) applications: not much use  if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
linux is open, so its capabilities are known and new features can be added, old  ones removed.
applications: not much use if your  computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
if this will not change then i think ms have no reason  to be scared at all.
b) sure, many games aren't aviable for linux.
altough, firefox is not the best example.
if a windows guy is stating facts it's fud if it's coming from  linux a**holes it's not.
but have you ever wondered why people at microsoft and evenbill  gates himself are bothered by linux more than anything else?
yes, for any os, the drivers and apps need to be recompiled along with the os kernel and others subsystems.
can you plug in all your desktop peripherals and use them?
are linux bigots so stupid to understand this?
window  manager like openbox makes you work lighting fast as soon as you get used to  configuration you choose.
i would add that linux is what the user wants and microsoft is what the big businesses want.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 4:55 pm
retailers would be fine selling machines with linux pre-installed but if  customers even know what it is, they think it it's for geeks or have been  seeing a couple of years of rabid linux advocates leaving strange comments in  forums and threads that are virulent anti-redmond and have almost nothing to do  with with the subject.
that someone like me, with no training in it other than one class 27 years ago can install and run linux, that non professionals like my wife can use linux, that kids from my neighborhood, which is far from a wealthy neighborhood can use linux more than proves that linux is quite useable.
the old security canard "no  os is completely safe, so therefore windows security doesn't suck" that's like saying since no building can stop every thief your shitty apartment  with a $15 deadbolt is as secure as fort knox.
the guy  who sees 50 machines in his section, is checking out dvds, giving info at the  dentist and basically seeing almost every transaction done on a windows pc  isn't buying it.
retailers would be fine selling machines with linux pre-installed but if customers even know what it is, they think it it's for geeks or have been seeing a couple of years of rabid linux advocates leaving strange comments in forums and threads that are virulent anti-redmond and have almost nothing to do with with the subject.
what this means is that as a computer user, i can put into practice what i try to teach my students to do in the classroom.
cchnda said,  july 14, 2009 2:30
my response to the windows/linux flamewar is always the same: no one really *uses* windows or linux.
you see what ms is afraid  of is they need people to buy win7 and office whatever-the-latest version-is.
even one of the safest os  (openbsd) in the planet have vulnerabilities.
timdor said,  july 8, 2009 10:46 pm
applications: not much use if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
windows portability", i did not say it means  portability, i just corrected mr. timdor when he erroneously bragged that  windows don't support arm.
linux already has support for most hardware  architectures.
that is scary for m$.
yes, the standard windows fud from the anonymous troll.
this is ms number one main concern, not the one listed by the author of this site and being defended by morons here.
while there is the uac built into vista, unfortunately,  i've still seen virii come through, and have even tested the conficker worm  myself.
that you  would mention windows ce as proof of windows portability proves that you know  even less about computers than i do.
i've heard tell of c & c++ apps running in linux with some recompiling (not sure how true that is).
i should also mention, that many windows games can be played through wine, if that really is your thing.
security: cornficker infects vista too.
yeah, i think somebody actually managed to break into fort knox once, just once.
windowsce is not the same operating system as the windows  nt series.
it might  be that linux is popular on some areas while in some other parts of the world
linux can very quickly  move the whole stack, kernel, drivers and oss apps; and be useful relatively  quickly.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:56 am all good and fine, but when will the day arise, where we won't waste our  time wondering what's happening in the minds of the markting divisions of  closed-source outfits ?!
it's time for the linux community to growup.
yes,  for any os, the drivers and apps need to be recompiled along with the os kernel  and others subsystems.
it's puzzling all the buzz from the linux community centered on fighting for scrapes with apple while microsoft was filling in holes with products like sharepoint and dynamics.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to port and release their drivers.
how many applications do you have for your new platform?
i would thing that it would put the company in a better position, as it doesn't require a specific os, and therefore is not dependent on the specific os, which in turn offers additional security flaws and vulnerabilities.
most games will run on wine with some tweaking, even crysis(only on high graphics or above).
anything comes free finds taker stole breads, vegetables anything linux is that i think this is delicious, the picture in this article is from a slide being presented by ballmer at a shareholder meeting.
ok...games are fine i'm sure.....
warner said,  july 9, 2009 5:52 pm
my apologies in advance for feeding the trolls, however: 1.
also most users can't maintain their systems anyway
# dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null that does copy, not move.
and i used every windows since 3.11 (except server editions).
microsoft's practices are the antithesis of this philosophy of freedom.
that means linux  can run on anything from a dedicated appliance to a supercomputer.
dont have to use firefox can use anything.
it would smooth the way for consumer acceptance.
if the owner says they use coreldraw, photoshop: software they paid good money for, then i suggest an alternative: boot to win to work these, but keep win off the net, boot to lin to surf, etc.
the truth is ms *is* afraid  of linux/foss, according to their own quotes.
remember -  fud works both ways, and this time you were the one to start fudwar.
information is locked into closed proprietary formats.
congratulations on displaying less maturity than these 11 year  olds.
i've seen so many closed source applications that  are garbage, and cost way more than what they should.
microsoft's business model is founded upon the notion that those using its  products are to be nothing more than passive consumers of its products.
i'm even happier that as a linux user, i don't have to worry about finding solutions to such problems.
that's the best time to compare his glorious windows box with my set up: faster boot time, similar software choices, better menu organization, etc.
portability - your argument is confusing, are you comparing to apple or ms here?
as a teacher, i help my students to become more free as individuals.
i bet noone can do that with windows nor macos.
but, usage of wine or cedega shortens this list.
registry cleaner, what is a registry?
it's a completely different operating system that happens to be made  by the same company and gets called by a similar name.
only computer class i ever had was back in 1982.
linux undermines the very foundations of its business model.
cost/useability - i am an elementary school teacher, wife a social worker.
even though firefox does run on linux it also runs on windows.
given the number of windows computers used in big compaines, have you heard anyone going out of business because of your cornficker worm?
the code is not the  same; the apis are not the same.
ms got to be where they are by being the cheapest, their whole company was built on it.
personally, i play wow through wine, with no performance loss.
steve nihan said,  july 9, 2009 5:54 am my apologies in advance for feeding the trolls, however: 1.
they have nowhere to  go but down.
sure some folks might know of all three  choices, windows, mac and linux and still choose windows for some reason (maybe  games or cad work or business accounting) but the majority of the windows  computers/users don't fall in those categories.
vista was a huge blow for ms, a lot hangs on win7 and linux will  play its part but its xp that win7 has to eat.
during this time peroid, my dad's xp got some spyware/trojan (that i  yet didn't managed to clean) rendering it totally useless.
related jobs is certainly a good indicator of this trend.
gnu/linux passed macos in popularity  around 2003/4.
30 years after the nimble  microsoft outmanouvered the lumbering big blue, the tables have turned, and  microsoft are now the elephant in the living room.
the truth is ms *is* afraid of linux/foss, according to their own quotes.
arm  - windows running on that yet?
ms knows they cant beat linux/foss on price or quality, they can't buy out the underlying software that oss companies are based on.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:40 pm "ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use" bwahahahahaha.
u can also game on linux.
on my linux run computer, i can dig into any file of any  program and learn how that program works.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 1:11 pm just to be clear about one thing.
" because your so stupid  to know that you are being hacked.
personally, i think that if the only reason you're buying ms windows is for the games, you really ought to just get yourself a gaming console.
i know i used to work there.
security - timdor is  completely correct.
i have an examle of this at home.
ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use and  they are desperately trying to halt the growing awareness of linux/foss.
they learn to live with things like: no more pimping of their instant messenger clients, etc.
software is not shared, not even sold, but licensed.
personally, i'm a firm believer of creating software that will run on any platform, independent of the os.
their software was rarely the best but always cheaper than the competition.
work cannot be  done at all on a windhoze machine.
" i am currently writing this after dismissing my 5th grade students from  summer school.
personally, i think that if the only reason you're buying ms windows is for the  games, you really ought to just get yourself a gaming console.
firefox - the last time i check, firefox also runs on windows, so what's the advantage of linux here?
just to be clear about one thing.
problem is, in this brave new world of alternate devices, as soon as a new hardware platform emerges, linux will be far better able to fill the niche quickly than the lumbering beast of redmond.
to run win7  pretty much requires a new(ish) computer and they mean to end-of-life xp to  force you to move (so they can get paid).
in fact...i  listen to music while i play....
linux helps me to become more free as a computer user.
remember - fud works both ways, and this time you were the one to start fudwar.
what this means is that as a computer user, i can put into practice what i try  to teach my students to do in the classroom.
http://members.apex-internet.com/sa/windowslinux angel said,  september 24, 2009 9:31 am linux!
people learn things differently.
are they as configureable as linux ones?
it does run on both os's.
its no wonder that because of games on  windhoze machine no serious development is being done.
during the vista fiasco microsoft had record revenue because their server product line was exhibiting double digit growth, while the client services, windows desktop, showed a -8% shrink.
what happens when ms pushes for the next round of upgrade cash and the average consumer has become aware of an alternative that is as easy to use as osx and the cheapest of all, free.
lack of games  is the fault of the publisher not linux.
windows portability", i did not say it means portability, i just corrected mr. timdor when he erroneously bragged that windows don't support arm.
as has already been stated by others windows ce is completely different  from windows xp or windows 7.
i have no idea why you bring up rural banks.
why should i waste time compiling programs when the programs i want to use are available for free from secure repositories?
the graph showing os market share percentages has the same size wedge for linux as there is for osx, same size wedge = same size market share.
if a windows guy is stating facts it's fud if it's coming from linux a**holes it's not.
linux helps me to become more free as a  computer user.
as an elementary school teacher, my job is help my students become as autonomous as possible and to cooperate with each other, to be problem solvers and active learners, and to move beyound passive dependency.
no damn os in the planet is hacker proof
" i am currently writing this after dismissing my 5th grade students from summer school.
in short we have our own biases.
part of the reason why ms will still  survive even with the growing popularity of linux is that a lot of big  companies uses windows for internal and external operations, the rise of .net
that you would mention windows ce as proof of windows portability proves that you know even less about computers than i do.
what happens  when ms pushes for the next round of upgrade cash and the average consumer has  become aware of an alternative that is as easy to use as osx and the cheapest  of all, free.
as  an elementary school teacher, my job is help my students become as autonomous  as possible and to cooperate with each other, to be problem solvers and active  learners, and to move beyound passive dependency.
i think this is delicious, the picture in this article is from a slide  being presented by ballmer at a shareholder meeting.
other than that the rest of your statements are spot on.
you can check apple's unit production in their sec filings.
no wonder, have you visited some big companies in your area, like banks, for instance, is your rural bank using linux?
i cited cornficker to demonstrate that even the most recent version of windows has security problems which linux users do not have to deal with.
here is the little motto i like to follow.
i can still get in  your shitty apartment with a hammer, good luck trying that with fort knox.
http://blogs.eweek.com/applewatch/content/macbook/microsoft_ceo_scoffs_at_mac_share_gains.html great article!
but with linux in the equation switching to linux on your current hardware is the cheapest of all, it only takes time.
software can be installed on the  user's computer without the user's knowledge.
linux's share of the total server market is growing faster  than windows, both at the expense of unix.
however in response to your statement about compiling programs -- i am an elementary school teacher.
the guy who sees 50 machines in his section, is checking out dvds, giving info at the dentist and basically seeing almost every transaction done on a windows pc isn't buying it.
sorry vista, but the short fact remains...most viruses built are built  to target the ms windows os, whether that be xp, vista, or 7.
like they release chrome for windows first before your linux.
none of them currently run  windows, yet based on how statistics regarding os use seem to be gathered, 2  out of 3 computers in my household are windows computers.
the only machine that is safe from hacking and trojan are those machine that are turned off.
anything can be hacked.
i've seen so many closed source applications that are garbage, and cost way more than what they should.
in their own figures unlicensed copies of their own software are still a  large concern.
i have been running ubuntu and debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered total zero!!!!
err, i meant to say that, "linux is closer to being the same operating system as os x (not the old macos) than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
try visiting a universities like here in cebu, i don't know how many have  installed linux.
linux server shipments have been growing at a faster rate than windows for  several years now.
cost - i'm a windows user....sure...but only through virtualbox now.
linux is portable and scalable.
this fiscal environment should have ceos and cios and cfos slapping in linux servers like crazy.
if apple can triple it's marketshare during vista with a $1,000+ entry fee while linux barely moved the needle, it's pretty easy to draw the conclusion the current strategy won't work.
people won't use what they never see.
sorry in advance  for the length of this post.
stop all the stupid microsoft slamming.
how many hardware  drivers do you have for your new platform?
the code is not the same; the apis are not the same.
if  apple can triple it's marketshare during vista with a $1,000+ entry fee while  linux barely moved the needle, it's pretty easy to draw the conclusion the  current strategy won't work.
most games will run on wine with some tweaking,  even crysis(only on high graphics or above).
if  your grandparents (you can training them now) have started using linux then you  are right, that ms needs to be very afraid of linux, if that's not happening  yet then shut your mouth and get a life.
mu buddy got linux running on some low-standard mp4 (not an ipod, not a creative).
that means i as a computer user have  the opportunity to not just use these software solutions, but to learn how  these solutions work.
the results are various.
some people will like linux and some people  will always prefer using windows or mac (believe it or not i did see a company  that are still using windows 98).
even if it's popular a lot of people have different preferences on what they conceive easy and difficult to use.
windows 7 is going to slam shut whatever slim chance this current strategy window had for success.
with them, knowledge is to be horded not shared.
without issues, nope!(but getting better) hard to learn, nope!
windows biggest  comeptitor is windows, thats what keeps them awake at night in redmond.
while there is the uac built into vista, unfortunately, i've still seen virii come through, and have even tested the conficker worm myself.
security - timdor is completely correct.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 12:41 am windows fud?
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:06 am "huh?
those with knowledge have to sign nondisclosure agreements.
ubuntu were able to turn around and port the complete stack of  their offering inside a few months (weeks?).
are linux bigots so stupid to  understand this?
if big companies are looking for these professionals, universities will have no choice but to offer curriculums that are ms technology related, this will again ensure the future of the windows platform.
as long as the current  state of the desktop linux remains the same there's nothing ms needs to be  afraid of.
i  would thing that it would put the company in a better position, as it doesn't  require a specific os, and therefore is not dependent on the specific os, which  in turn offers additional security flaws and vulnerabilities.
that loyal customers prefer their 8 year old product over current production is the biggest concern imho.
linux has undoubtably moved on and so has windows.
then i see the perfect candidate to begin explaining why linux would be a superior platform.
nope,  because there's a damn fix for that one.
they know how devastating an advantage price is.
it's puzzling all the buzz from the linux  community centered on fighting for scrapes with apple while microsoft was  filling in holes with products like sharepoint and dynamics.
c) show me some custom window managers for windows, as i know none.
the only firewall they have  against linux is awareness/familiarity.
i had been reading about ms thinking linus's share was on par with osx, nice to finally find an example.
windowsce is not proof of windows  portability to arm.
the only reason i can see for you giving such an immature response is  because you realize that any windows machine can easily become a virus and worm  infected spambot unless up to date antivirus and antimalware programs are  constantly running in the background.
i'd rather mention iceweasel, konqueror and other linux-natixe browsers that are unusable at windows.
am microsoft isn't afraid of either apple or linux because apple can't support  the enterprise and remain apple, and linux went ubuntu blind and you don't ever  hear anything pertaining to linux except the desktop.
m$'s own numbers show gnu/linux at abut twice the rate of macos.
meanwhile, apple's mac os x is tightly  locked on its own hardware so i don't see its growth as long-term.
i had been reading about ms  thinking linus's share was on par with osx, nice to finally find an example.
the same cannot be said running vista business x64, or even windows 7 x64  (even removed the extras) for that matter.
$mv all_idiots_in_here  /dev/null anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:13 am btw, to the guy who wrote this "*sigh* nothing but a rehash of tired  arguments.
linux's primary distribution  method is not through retail channels, it's count is under reported.
i know it's hard to promote a product that costs nothing.
i should also mention, that many  windows games can be played through wine, if that really is your thing.
because ordinary users  don't give a damn if your linux is cool because you can compile your programs  yourselves.
more importantly, i use it because the philosophy underlying linux is very similar to my philosophy as an educator.
c) show me some  custom window managers for windows, as i know none.
i like the simple fact that there is nothing new in these posts from posts  8 years ago.
security - this argument is valid only for windows xp sp2 era.
even one of the safest os (openbsd) in the planet have vulnerabilities.
gnu/linux passed macos in popularity around 2003/4.
ms got to be where they are by  being the cheapest, their whole company was built on it.
furthermore, games that run on both windows and  native linux tend to work faster at linux than on windows.
some more observations on why microsoft should be scared.
tell me did linux already penetrated the desktop market?
sorry vista, but the short fact remains...most viruses built are built to target the ms windows os, whether that be xp, vista, or 7.
i can still get in your shitty apartment with a hammer, good luck trying that with fort knox.
linux gets developed by a  community of people who are willing solve problems and share not just their  solutions, but how their solutions work.
while i am a ms sw engineer, i prefer to use fedora 11 x86_64  (gnome) as my desktop.
what's the point of  having many office apps if due to some viruss you can't even use them?
but with  linux in the equation switching to linux on your current hardware is the  cheapest of all, it only takes time.
why should i waste time compiling programs when the programs i  want to use are available for free from secure repositories?
their software was rarely the best but  always cheaper than the competition.
as long as the current state of the desktop linux remains the same there's nothing ms needs to be afraid of.
the majority of users had  windows chosen for them by virtue of ms's (now failing) strangle hold on oems  and their conscious choice to *not* by a mac, generally based on price.
so a user friendly linux alternative is actually a viable sollution in the future.
applications - let  me give you a nice rebuttal for choosing windows.
so there's another performance benefit.
windows biggest comeptitor is windows, thats what keeps them awake at night in redmond.
how many hardware drivers do you have for your new platform?
microsoft  isn't going to like losing the oem license money from mac sales but virtually  every computer sold without osx has a microsoft license.
linux is open, so its capabilities are known and new features can be added, old ones removed.
am the only thing that i think that isn't all to on the ball with the linux  thing is firefox.
if i want a game console, i'll buy a ps3.
try visiting a universities like here in cebu, i don't know how many have installed linux.
i've heard tell of c & c++ apps running in linux  with some recompiling (not sure how true that is).
microsoft isn't going to like losing the oem license money from mac sales but virtually every computer sold without osx has a microsoft license.
if the openbsd team fixed  those two existing security holes, then openbsd would kick ***.
timdor said,  july 10, 2009 1:56 am some more observations on why microsoft should be scared.
if the answer is: "word, excel, browsing, e-mail, photos, torrenting, movies, instant messaging, etc."
cost/useability - i am an elementary  school teacher, wife a social worker.
you don't even need best gear to run most of needed tools nd games built for linux.
given the number of windows computers used in big compaines, have you  heard anyone going out of business because of your cornficker worm?
microsoft has become accustomed to having little to no  competition the past decade, now they are getting a little.
i so saw that troll post coming.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to port and release their apps too.
in a university, as well as at an  elementary school, knowledge is something to be shared, not horded.
written on a laptop running debian used as a primary os for over four years.
even google given there sheer number of brilliant engineers recognize it as a dominant platform.
during this time peroid, my dad's xp got some spyware/trojan (that i yet didn't managed to clean) rendering it totally useless.
windows  is sort of portable.
linux on the desktop is not  what scares microsoft.
try running a windows and a linux system for a year with out any maintenence software.
if you're a teenager hell bent on fragging people in high def fps realism.
microsoft was terrified of linux to point of a fud website, threatening to sue businesses for ip infringement and bribing...er investing in linux companies.
arm - http://www.arm.com/products/os/windowsce.html - go on read it, i'll wait.
(i  agree with you on the no os is completely secure)
i've been using ubuntu linux since 2005 with breezy badger.
firefox - the last time i check, firefox also runs on  windows, so what's the advantage of linux here?
personally, i'm a  firm believer of creating software that will run on any platform, independent  of the os.
portability.....what are you looking to port?
that means i as a computer user have the opportunity to not just use these software solutions, but to learn how these solutions work.
i think here are  the main reasons why: 1.
oh, and by the way, i doubt that guy is being hacked.
your original point seemed to be that malware is not a problem on more recent versions of windows.
they have nowhere to go but down.
crossing your arms, turning up your nose and demanding that the o/s *you* use is the best is often a sure sign of hidden insecurity.
yanpl said,  july 9, 2009 2:13 am //ah
while i do enjoy the performance gains of ie8, i don't appreciate the forcible nature that microsoft integrates some of the ie8 features and addons.
cuz, in the end... it's not whether windows or linux wins or who fears who, but it's about which system provides the best possible service to the user.
nothing but a rehash of tired arguments.
linux server shipments have been growing at a faster rate than windows for several years now.
then create a fat32 partition to share files between both systems.
try moving the whole windows  ecosystem like that.
open source isn't available for everything, but what is out there is great stuff.
openness knowledge is power, and a only microsoft knows what's inside windows, meaning only microsoft knows
windows is still plagued by dangerous viruses for example ransomware.
only computer class i ever had was back  in 1982.
you see what ms is afraid of is they need people to buy win7 and office whatever-the-latest version-is.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 11:25 am just a suggestion to the owner of this site instead of posting ms related  stuffs that only attracts trolls like me, why not start with something  constructive like, a better payroll software for linux or a quickbooks  alternative for linux, something that will attract small businesses and big  companies too, instead of ms fud and misinformation.
linux's share of the total server market is growing faster than windows, both at the expense of unix.
openness knowledge is power, and a only microsoft knows what's  inside windows, meaning only microsoft knows
part of the reason why ms will still survive even with the growing popularity of linux is that a lot of big companies uses windows for internal and external operations, the rise of .net related jobs is certainly a good indicator of this trend.
linux was started in a university setting.
linux's primary distribution method is not through retail channels, it's count is under reported.
security - this argument is valid only for windows xp  sp2 era.
i run linux for like an month, and yet no security breach  occured.
yeah, i think somebody  actually managed to break into fort knox once, just once.
somebody said,  july 9, 2009 10:07 am "$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null" oh noes!
games games and more games!
i use linux for a variety of reasons such as it's security, cost, and stability.
i have been running ubuntu and  debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a  firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered  total zero!!!!
dont have to use firefox can use  anything.
even though i am wasting my time i will respond once again to anonymous.
people should be using linux as a corporate desktop which has little in the way of issues a consumer desktop poses.
however in  response to your statement about compiling programs -- i am an elementary  school teacher.
and yes no system is entirely secure but windows does not even come close to being secure ;).
i'd rather mention iceweasel, konqueror and  other linux-natixe browsers that are unusable at windows.
withlinux getting better like becoming user-friendlier and more secure  than ever, people have a savior.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about.
jim said,  july 9, 2009 5:47 am *sigh*
if it's c or c++ based...how difficult is it really?
m$ is a dinosaur whose brain  has not gotten the message that they are in the tar pit.
the only machine that is safe from hacking  and trojan are those machine that are turned off.
"ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use" bwahahahahaha.
more importantly, i use it because the  philosophy underlying linux is very similar to my philosophy as an educator.
linux is closer to being the same operating  system as macos than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows  7 (or any other member of the nt series).
arm - windows running on that yet?
anything comes free finds taker stole breads, vegetables anything linux is that warner said,  july 14, 2009 6:35 pm
microsoft has every reason to be scared of linux.
ms does have a strnglinbg grip on the desktop pc market.
that someone like me, with no training in it  other than one class 27 years ago can install and run linux, that non  professionals like my wife can use linux, that kids from my neighborhood, which  is far from a wealthy neighborhood can use linux more than proves that linux is  quite useable.
it took microsoft about 10 minutes to blow past linux as the majority os on netbooks.
the old security canard "no os is completely safe, so therefore windows security doesn't suck" that's like saying since no building can stop every thief your shitty apartment with a $15 deadbolt is as secure as fort knox.
regarding penetration of desktop market, only one of the 3  computers we own were purchased with linux on it.
even google given there  sheer number of brilliant engineers recognize it as a dominant platform.
linux is free from  charge and there are many progs ready for use with most of distros.
funny thing about security is pretty much every os in the planet have security issues, in short everything is insecure even your dearest linux my friend.
the last  five people i switched to ubuntu are counted as windows users because that is  what came on their machines at purchase.
it would smooth the  way for consumer acceptance.
are they supported by operating system?
applications, applications, applications the number of great foss  applications that support linux are increasing.
never have i had to worry about malware while running this os.
but in  these difficult times people have learned to value their money more than ever  by spending it wisely.
let me end this with this statement.
if an interested party asks whether s/he should switch, i always ask: "why are you interested?
microsoft has become accustomed to having little to no competition the past decade, now they are getting a little.
funny thing about security is pretty much every os in the planet have  security issues, in short everything is insecure even your dearest linux my  friend.
even though firefox does run on linux it also runs on  windows.
the last five people i switched to ubuntu are counted as windows users because that is what came on their machines at purchase.
plus, i myself like  opera - which works even on windows 98se, and is a bit faster (my cpu is slow  enough to make the difference noticeable).
see above,  the advantage is no windows.
linux on the desktop is not what scares microsoft.
windows 7 is going to slam shut whatever  slim chance this current strategy window had for success.
if this will not change then i think ms have no reason to be scared at all.
shane kerns said,  july 9, 2009 6:31 am @anonymous of first post: is "games games games" the best  you can come up with?
windows is still plagued by dangerous viruses for example  ransomware.
can you run all your old desktop apps?
during  the vista fiasco microsoft had record revenue because their server product line  was exhibiting double digit growth, while the client services, windows desktop,  showed a -8% shrink.
i have an examle of this  at home.
i  just hope more people realize the many benefits of open source software,  compared to closed source.
cost - 0 cost is fair enough for pretty unusable product.
i can now run 3 vm's simultaneously...while listening to music on the free rhythmbox...with still plenty of memory & disk space left over.
the majority of users had windows chosen for them by virtue of ms's (now failing) strangle hold on oems and their conscious choice to *not* by a mac, generally based on price.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about."
on  the other hand: students at college or university can get microsoft operating  systems and some office programs for free and are legitimate to use it as long  as they study.
that means linux can run on anything from a dedicated appliance to a supercomputer.
software is  not shared, not even sold, but licensed.
which planet did you come from.
cost - i'm a windows user....sure...but only through  virtualbox now.
quotes by gates, quotes by other members of the ms executive team, quotes stretching back almost a decade.
do you have a lot of windows software?"
this is ms number one main concern, not  the one listed by the author of this site and being defended by morons here.
what about "work work work"?
what windows can and can't do.
ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use and they are desperately trying to halt the growing awareness of linux/foss.
their monopoly starts bleeding from every socket, just like ie is doing to firefox.
try running a  windows and a linux system for a year with out any maintenence software.
while penguinistas are wasting time and effort with paranoid conspiracy  theories and ignoring the simple fact consumers stick with what they know.
try moving the whole windows ecosystem like that.
solutions are sold, not shared.
the  windows pc will be shit slow.
if your choice is new machine and win7 or switch to a mac (and replace all your apps with a mac version), well the new machine/win7 upgrade is _both_ cheaper and more familiar.
you want to work use linux.
congratulations on displaying less maturity than these 11 year olds.
they are facing a slow  bleed to a awareness tipping point then their monopoly is lost.
http://blogs.eweek.com/applewatch/content/macbook/microsoft_ceo_scoffs_at_mac_share_gains.html anonymous said,  august 6, 2009 3:50 am great article!
while i do enjoy  the performance gains of ie8, i don't appreciate the forcible nature that  microsoft integrates some of the ie8 features and addons.
the truth is that linux is slowly becoming more known, which is putting a dent in microsoft's profits.
you don't have that option with a proprietary os, only the  manufacturer does...
so a user friendly linux alternative is actually a viable sollution in  the future.
am u can also game on linux.
did you  know sql runs on rh, not that it will ever see the light of day.
based on my own  experience and what i have read elsewhere, linux use on the desktop is  underreported.
5 reasons why microsoft is afraid of linux posted by jun auza  on  7/08/2009 apple (mac os x) has a relatively larger number of desktop  computer users compared to linux, and windows virtually dominated the overall  market share.
robert pogson said,  july 9, 2009 9:54
in their own figures unlicensed copies of their own software are still a large concern.
the only reason i can see for you giving such an immature response is because you realize that any windows machine can easily become a virus and worm infected spambot unless up to date antivirus and antimalware programs are constantly running in the background.
timdor said,  july 10, 2009 1:42 am even though i am wasting my time i will respond once again to anonymous.
in response to "now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
what's the point of having many office apps if due to some viruss you can't even use them?
you don't have that option with a proprietary os, only the manufacturer does... there are a few misconceptions in tfa.
i just hope more people realize the many benefits of open source software, compared to closed source.
i have been running ubuntu  and debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a  firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered  total zero!!!!
did you know sql runs on rh, not that it will ever see the light of day.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software  in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about.
there's no doubt that  linux is a highly flexible operating system that can be easily modified to run  on just about anyelectronic device.
can you plug in all your desktop  peripherals and use them?
also most users can't maintain their systems  anyway
microsoft's business model is founded upon the notion that those using its products are to be nothing more than passive consumers of its products.
the future, maybe!(hopefully) peace out!
linux already has support for most hardware architectures.
i never got up to this speed with *any* of windows  os.
ubuntu were able to turn around and port the complete stack of their offering inside a few months (weeks?).
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 4:51 am lol i so saw that troll post coming.
it took microsoft  about 10 minutes to blow past linux as the majority os on netbooks.
the only firewall they have against linux is awareness/familiarity.
some people will like linux and some people will always prefer using windows or mac (believe it or not i did see a company that are still using windows 98).
#dd  if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null sorry, i'm a grammar/command line  correctness nazi.
on the other hand: students at college or university can get microsoft operating systems and some office programs for free and are legitimate to use it as long as they study.
microsoft isn't afraid of either apple or linux because apple can't support the enterprise and remain apple, and linux went ubuntu blind and you don't ever hear anything pertaining to linux except the desktop.
operating system use at my church's computer lab for neighborhood kids, ubuntu.
people should be using linux as a corporate desktop which  has little in the way of issues a consumer desktop poses.
get your arm, get windows ce.
i believe  there will come a time that a linux-powered computer or gadget becomes  immensely popular, and microsoft's dominance will be endangered.
leaving ie is sometimes the first step people do to leave windows os.
the windows pc will be shit slow.
our operating systems on our three computers which are a 9 year old  emachines, a 3 year old dell laptop and an aspire one: antix and fedora.
the biggest problem with this observation is that it's based on an individuals experience on a particular os popularity or os usability.
while i am a ms sw engineer, i prefer to use fedora 11 x86_64 (gnome) as my desktop.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to  port and release their drivers.
to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
a) applications: not much use if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
@anonymous of first post: is "games games games" the best you can come up with?
written on a laptop running  debian used as a primary os for over four years.
are they as configureable  as linux ones?
"...pretty much every os in the planet have (sic) security issues..."
m$ is a dinosaur whose brain has not gotten the message that they are in the tar pit.
none of them currently run windows, yet based on how statistics regarding os use seem to be gathered, 2 out of 3 computers in my household are windows computers.
the list can go on and on.
i open up my  package manager, search for what i want in the search box, click on it, click  on apply, and wait for the program to install itself.
arm -  http://www.arm.com/products/os/windowsce.html - go on read it, i'll wait.
and to the retard that says "to the twats arguing that  windowsce on arm =
windowsce is not the same operating system as the windows nt series.
oh and notice the url it's arm, let me guess you will windowsce is not windows because of ce.
also i'd rather get actual work  done on my pc without getting bsod or my system slowing down.
in response  to "now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 7:31 am to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
next up, "ms isn't afraid of linux teh own the software world, apple  has more market share than linux".
spyware remover nope!
if it's c or c++ based...how  difficult is it really?
now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
that why you are doing thing personal website rather than business see  this linux cant beat 10 year old abandoned os  http://darklydreamingdavid.wordpress.com/2007/09/04/further-proof-that-linux-is-all-hype-and-has-no-future/ all the linux fans are poors who save money to buy clothes and food.
microsofties are aware of this and are doing  everything they can tostop the growth of firefox and in effect linux.
lack of games is the fault of the publisher not linux.
just a suggestion to the owner of this site instead of posting ms related stuffs that only attracts trolls like me, why not start with something constructive like, a better payroll software for linux or a quickbooks alternative for linux, something that will attract small businesses and big companies too, instead of ms fud and misinformation.
as microsoft has 80% of the desktop market, i think you tell where i am going with this one.
#dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null sorry, i'm a grammar/command line correctness nazi.
microsoft's practices are the antithesis of this  philosophy of freedom.
the person helping them is likely the same.
applications - let me give you a nice rebuttal for choosing windows.
it might be that linux is popular on some areas while in some other parts of the world it's not.
unsecured, nope!(compared to windows)
don't sneer at gui  server management and belittle those mcses who use it because they have never  used anything else.
you only become a marginalized and your message ignored.
but, usage of wine  or cedega shortens this list.
trying to change behavior of the user community like it's a child you want to stay in bed by a boogy man microsoft under the bed is a failure.
linux is closer to being the same operating system as macos than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
and to the retard that says "to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
you can not analyse anything you cant afford your little brain to do that.
2.linux is free and works great :p. you havent tried linux or are just bashing it because you dont like it.
even if it's popular a lot of people have different preferences on  what they conceive easy and difficult to use.
linux is more secure than even the most recent  versions of windows.
that why you are doing thing personal website rather than business see this linux cant beat 10 year old abandoned os http://darklydreamingdavid.wordpress.com/2007/09/04/further-proof-that-linux-is-all-hype-and-has-no-future/ all the linux fans are poors who save money to buy clothes and food.
2.linux is free and works great :p. you havent  tried linux or are just bashing it because you dont like it.
they are facing a slow bleed to a awareness tipping point then their monopoly is lost.
window manager like openbox makes you work lighting fast as soon as you get used to configuration you choose.
i'm  even happier that as a linux user, i don't have to worry about finding  solutions to such problems.
security windows is still the most insecure os and it is  possible that anotherdevastating virus will strike and harm computers running  with it.
based on my own experience and what i have read elsewhere, linux use on the desktop is underreported.
$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null btw, to the guy who wrote this "*sigh* nothing but a rehash of tired arguments.
don't sneer at gui server management and belittle those mcses who use it because they have never used anything else.
altough,  firefox is not the best example.
as has already been stated by others windows ce is completely different from windows xp or windows 7.
pm there are a few misconceptions in tfa.
mu  buddy got linux running on some low-standard mp4 (not an ipod, not a creative).
as a teacher, i help my students  to become more free as individuals.
anything can be  hacked.
yes, any 3rd party commercial vendor needs to go  through the same pain in porting their proprietary app on either platform, its  just that until vendors move their wares, windows on arm or any other hardware  platform (without drivers or apps) is patently useless.
i am quite comfortable with whatever choice my customers make.
problem is, in this brave new world of alternate devices, as soon as a new  hardware platform emerges, linux will be far better able to fill the niche  quickly than the lumbering beast of redmond.
firefox since firefox  has beenrapidly eating internet explorer's web browser market share, the free  and open source software community is more positive than ever that linux can be  as successful on the desktop.
all good and fine, but when will the day arise, where we won't waste our time wondering what's happening in the minds of the markting divisions of closed-source outfits ?!
linux sure is free but its capability is valuable.
that loyal customers prefer their 8 year old product over  current production is the biggest concern imho.
pm you can not analyse anything you cant afford your little brain to do  that.
because ordinary users don't give a damn if your linux is cool because you can compile your programs yourselves.
linux is free from charge and there are many progs ready for use with most of distros.
as a linux user should i now discourage the use of windows?
if the openbsd team fixed those two existing security holes, then openbsd would kick ***.
this fiscal environment should have ceos and cios and cfos slapping in linux  servers like crazy.
work cannot be done at all on a windhoze machine.
furthermore, games that run on both windows and native linux tend to work faster at linux than on windows.
ah yes, the standard windows fud from the anonymous troll.
nope, because there's a damn fix for that one.
i never got up to this speed with *any* of windows os.
microsoft was  terrified of linux to point of a fud website, threatening to sue businesses for  ip infringement and bribing...er investing in linux companies.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:05 pm 6.
" sorry for the mistake.
indeed the good people at  microsoft have reasons to be afraid, or shall i say be very afraid of linux :-) related posts: 36 response to "5 reasons why microsoft is afraid of linux" anonymous said,  july 8, 2009 7:38 pm 1.
you want to play use windows.
if you're a teenager hell bent  on fragging people in high def fps realism.
quotes by gates, quotes by other  members of the ms executive team, quotes stretching back almost a decade.
in a university, as well as at an elementary school, knowledge is something to be shared, not horded.
they know how  devastating an advantage price is.