yeah, i think somebody  actually managed to break into fort knox once, just once.
and you forgot to log in as root!
nope,  because there's a damn fix for that one.
2.linux is free and works great :p. you havent  tried linux or are just bashing it because you dont like it.
windowsce is not the same operating system as the windows  nt series.
as a teacher, i help my students  to become more free as individuals.
if an interested party asks whether s/he should switch, i always ask: "why are you interested?
retailers would be fine selling machines with linux pre-installed but if customers even know what it is, they think it it's for geeks or have been seeing a couple of years of rabid linux advocates leaving strange comments in forums and threads that are virulent anti-redmond and have almost nothing to do with with the subject.
" because your so stupid to know that you are being hacked.
that's the best time to compare his glorious windows box with my set up: faster boot time, similar software choices, better menu organization, etc.
only computer class i ever had was back  in 1982.
ryan said,  july 9, 2009 5:02
security - this argument is valid only for windows xp  sp2 era.
oh, and by the way, i doubt that guy is being hacked.
"ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use" bwahahahahaha.
that loyal customers prefer their 8 year old product over current production is the biggest concern imho.
that why you are doing thing personal website rather than business see  this linux cant beat 10 year old abandoned os  http://darklydreamingdavid.wordpress.com/2007/09/04/further-proof-that-linux-is-all-hype-and-has-no-future/ all the linux fans are poors who save money to buy clothes and food.
tell me did linux already penetrated the desktop market?
linux's primary distribution  method is not through retail channels, it's count is under reported.
even though firefox does run on linux it also runs on windows.
linux is more secure than even the most recent versions of windows.
if a windows guy is stating facts it's fud if it's coming from linux a**holes it's not.
our operating systems on our three computers which are a 9 year old  emachines, a 3 year old dell laptop and an aspire one: antix and fedora.
funny thing about security is pretty much every os in the planet have  security issues, in short everything is insecure even your dearest linux my  friend.
solutions are sold, not  shared.
i won't repeat my previous post.
because ordinary users  don't give a damn if your linux is cool because you can compile your programs  yourselves.
trying to change behavior of the user community like it's a child you want to stay in bed by a boogy man microsoft under the bed is a failure.
microsofties are aware of this and are doing  everything they can tostop the growth of firefox and in effect linux.
i've seen so many closed source applications that are garbage, and cost way more than what they should.
" i am currently writing this after dismissing my 5th grade students from  summer school.
arm -  http://www.arm.com/products/os/windowsce.html - go on read it, i'll wait.
without issues, nope!(but getting better) hard to learn, nope!
if you're a teenager hell bent  on fragging people in high def fps realism.
try running a  windows and a linux system for a year with out any maintenence software.
sorry in advance for the length of this post.
@anonymous of first post: is "games games games" the best you can come up with?
just the fact  that there is no licensing tracking involved in open source alone is huge.
solutions are sold, not shared.
yanpl said,  july 9, 2009 2:13 am //ah
in their own figures unlicensed copies of their own software are still a  large concern.
$mv all_idiots_in_here  /dev/null anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:13 am btw, to the guy who wrote this "*sigh* nothing but a rehash of tired  arguments.
ms got to be where they are by  being the cheapest, their whole company was built on it.
that is scary for m$.
i'm even happier that as a linux user, i don't have to worry about finding solutions to such problems.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to  port and release their drivers.
windows is sort of portable.
5 reasons why microsoft is afraid of linux posted by jun auza  on  7/08/2009 apple (mac os x) has a relatively larger number of desktop  computer users compared to linux, and windows virtually dominated the overall  market share.
it would smooth the way for consumer acceptance.
the list can go on and on.
that loyal customers prefer their 8 year old product over  current production is the biggest concern imho.
the only thing that i think that isn't all to on the ball with the linux thing is firefox.
anything comes free finds taker stole breads, vegetables anything linux is that i think this is delicious, the picture in this article is from a slide being presented by ballmer at a shareholder meeting.
i would add that linux is what the user wants and microsoft is what the big businesses want.
quotes by gates, quotes by other members of the ms executive team, quotes stretching back almost a decade.
now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
the code is not the same; the apis are not the same.
are linux bigots so stupid to  understand this?
can you run all your old desktop apps?
funny thing about security is pretty much every os in the planet have security issues, in short everything is insecure even your dearest linux my friend.
people should be using linux as a corporate desktop which has little in the way of issues a consumer desktop poses.
cuz, in the end... it's not whether windows or linux wins or who fears who, but it's about which system provides the best possible service to the user.
plus, i myself like opera - which works even on windows 98se, and is a bit faster (my cpu is slow enough to make the difference noticeable).
their monopoly starts bleeding from every socket, just like ie is  doing to firefox.
linux gets developed by a community of people who are willing solve problems and share not just their solutions, but how their solutions work.
see above,  the advantage is no windows.
linux was started in a university setting.
i am quite comfortable with whatever choice my customers make.
windows biggest  comeptitor is windows, thats what keeps them awake at night in redmond.
they have nowhere to  go but down.
applications: not much use if your  computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
the only firewall they have against linux is awareness/familiarity.
# dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null that does copy, not move.
anything comes free finds taker stole breads, vegetables anything linux is that warner said,  july 14, 2009 6:35 pm
nothing but a rehash of tired arguments.
2.linux is free and works great :p. you havent tried linux or are just bashing it because you dont like it.
the last five people i switched to ubuntu are counted as windows users because that is what came on their machines at purchase.
they are facing a slow  bleed to a awareness tipping point then their monopoly is lost.
if it's c or c++ based...how  difficult is it really?
microsoft's business model is founded upon the notion that those using its products are to be nothing more than passive consumers of its products.
if the openbsd team fixed  those two existing security holes, then openbsd would kick ***.
given the number of windows computers used in big compaines, have you heard anyone going out of business because of your cornficker worm?
you want to work  use linux.
with them, knowledge is to be horded not shared.
the future, maybe!(hopefully) peace out!
you want to play use windows.
linux is closer to being the same operating  system as macos than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows  7 (or any other member of the nt series).
" i am currently writing this after dismissing my 5th grade students from summer school.
yes, for any os, the drivers and apps need to be recompiled along with the os kernel and others subsystems.
no wonder, have you visited some big companies in  your area, like banks, for instance, is your rural bank using linux?
altough, firefox is not the best example.
why should that be a hindrance?
"$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null" oh noes!
people learn things differently.
i've been using ubuntu linux since 2005 with breezy badger.
the truth is ms *is* afraid of linux/foss, according to their own quotes.
and yes no system is entirely secure but windows does not even come  close to being secure ;).
if  apple can triple it's marketshare during vista with a $1,000+ entry fee while  linux barely moved the needle, it's pretty easy to draw the conclusion the  current strategy won't work.
the only reason i can see for you giving such an immature response is because you realize that any windows machine can easily become a virus and worm infected spambot unless up to date antivirus and antimalware programs are constantly running in the background.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 12:41 am windows fud?
c) show me some  custom window managers for windows, as i know none.
my response to the windows/linux flamewar is always the same: no one really *uses* windows or linux.
that you  would mention windows ce as proof of windows portability proves that you know  even less about computers than i do.
am the only thing that i think that isn't all to on the ball with the linux  thing is firefox.
because ordinary users don't give a damn if your linux is cool because you can compile your programs yourselves.
linux server shipments have been growing at a faster rate than windows for  several years now.
in response  to "now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
windows is still plagued by dangerous viruses for example  ransomware.
i open up my package manager, search for what i want in the search box, click on it, click on apply, and wait for the program to install itself.
vista was a huge blow for ms, a lot hangs on win7 and linux will play its part but its xp that win7 has to eat.
remember -  fud works both ways, and this time you were the one to start fudwar.
based on my own  experience and what i have read elsewhere, linux use on the desktop is  underreported.
firefox since firefox  has beenrapidly eating internet explorer's web browser market share, the free  and open source software community is more positive than ever that linux can be  as successful on the desktop.
in their own figures unlicensed copies of their own software are still a large concern.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:40 pm "ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use" bwahahahahaha.
i know i used to work there.
you don't even need best gear to run most of needed tools nd games built for linux.
are they supported by operating system?
linux's share of the total server market is growing faster than windows, both at the expense of unix.
so a user friendly linux alternative is actually a viable sollution in  the future.
some people will like linux and some people  will always prefer using windows or mac (believe it or not i did see a company  that are still using windows 98).
i  would thing that it would put the company in a better position, as it doesn't  require a specific os, and therefore is not dependent on the specific os, which  in turn offers additional security flaws and vulnerabilities.
see above, the advantage is no windows.
i can still get in  your shitty apartment with a hammer, good luck trying that with fort knox.
what's the point of  having many office apps if due to some viruss you can't even use them?
$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null btw, to the guy who wrote this "*sigh* nothing but a rehash of tired arguments.
cost/useability - i am an elementary school teacher, wife a social worker.
while i am a ms sw engineer, i prefer to use fedora 11 x86_64 (gnome) as my desktop.
as long as the current state of the desktop linux remains the same there's nothing ms needs to be afraid of.
yes, any 3rd party commercial vendor needs to go through the same pain in porting their proprietary app on either platform, its just that until vendors move their wares, windows on arm or any other hardware platform (without drivers or apps) is patently useless.
and i used every windows since 3.11 (except server editions).
their software was rarely the best but always cheaper than the competition.
as a linux user should i now discourage the use of windows?
personally, i play wow through wine, with no performance loss.
how many hardware  drivers do you have for your new platform?
just to be clear about one thing.
your original point seemed to be that malware is not  a problem on more recent versions of windows.
meanwhile, apple's mac os x is tightly  locked on its own hardware so i don't see its growth as long-term.
i'd rather mention iceweasel, konqueror and  other linux-natixe browsers that are unusable at windows.
the truth is that linux is slowly becoming more known, which is putting a dent in microsoft's profits.
that why you are doing thing personal website rather than business see this linux cant beat 10 year old abandoned os http://darklydreamingdavid.wordpress.com/2007/09/04/further-proof-that-linux-is-all-hype-and-has-no-future/ all the linux fans are poors who save money to buy clothes and food.
some people will like linux and some people will always prefer using windows or mac (believe it or not i did see a company that are still using windows 98).
also i'd rather get actual work done on my pc without getting bsod or my system slowing down.
next up, "ms isn't afraid of linux teh own the software world, apple  has more market share than linux".
personally, i think that if the only reason you're buying ms windows is for the games, you really ought to just get yourself a gaming console.
software is  not shared, not even sold, but licensed.
don't sneer at gui server management and belittle those mcses who use it because they have never used anything else.
while there is the uac built into vista, unfortunately, i've still seen virii come through, and have even tested the conficker worm myself.
yes, the standard windows fud from the anonymous troll.
if your choice is new machine and win7 or switch to a mac (and replace all your apps with a mac version), well the new machine/win7 upgrade is _both_ cheaper and more familiar.
that someone like me, with no training in it other than one class 27 years ago can install and run linux, that non professionals like my wife can use linux, that kids from my neighborhood, which is far from a wealthy neighborhood can use linux more than proves that linux is quite useable.
problem is, in this brave new world of alternate devices, as soon as a new hardware platform emerges, linux will be far better able to fill the niche quickly than the lumbering beast of redmond.
i believe  there will come a time that a linux-powered computer or gadget becomes  immensely popular, and microsoft's dominance will be endangered.
i'm  even happier that as a linux user, i don't have to worry about finding  solutions to such problems.
b) sure, many games aren't aviable for linux.
linux is open, so its capabilities are known and new features can be added, old  ones removed.
so there's another performance benefit.
yes, any 3rd party commercial vendor needs to go  through the same pain in porting their proprietary app on either platform, its  just that until vendors move their wares, windows on arm or any other hardware  platform (without drivers or apps) is patently useless.
shane kerns said,  july 9, 2009 6:31 am @anonymous of first post: is "games games games" the best  you can come up with?
software can be installed on the  user's computer without the user's knowledge.
pm there are a few misconceptions in tfa.
remember - fud works both ways, and this time you were the one to start fudwar.
stop all the stupid microsoft slamming.
in a university, as well as at an  elementary school, knowledge is something to be shared, not horded.
(i  agree with you on the no os is completely secure)
they know how  devastating an advantage price is.
this fiscal environment should have ceos and cios and cfos slapping in linux servers like crazy.
applications, applications, applications the number of great foss  applications that support linux are increasing.
people should be using linux as a corporate desktop which  has little in the way of issues a consumer desktop poses.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 4:55 pm
30 years after the nimble  microsoft outmanouvered the lumbering big blue, the tables have turned, and  microsoft are now the elephant in the living room.
sorry in advance  for the length of this post.
just the fact that there is no licensing tracking involved in open source alone is huge.
windows 7 is going to slam shut whatever slim chance this current strategy window had for success.
did you  know sql runs on rh, not that it will ever see the light of day.
can you plug in all your desktop peripherals and use them?
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 5:47 am "...pretty much every os in the planet have (sic) security  issues..."
do you have a lot of windows software?"
on the other hand: students at college or university can get microsoft operating systems and some office programs for free and are legitimate to use it as long as they study.
regarding penetration of desktop market, only one of the 3 computers we own were purchased with linux on it.
software is not shared, not even sold, but licensed.
" because your so stupid  to know that you are being hacked.
nowadays, it’s like if  you can do it on windows, you can do it on linux too.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 4:51 am lol i so saw that troll post coming.
try moving the whole windows ecosystem like that.
then create a fat32 partition to share files between both systems.
once they settle into foss products, switching the o/s behind these products is the next step.
as long as the current  state of the desktop linux remains the same there's nothing ms needs to be  afraid of.
ms does have a strnglinbg grip on the desktop pc market.
man, some of these comment's...
here is the little motto i like to follow.
security - this argument is valid only for windows xp sp2 era.
microsoft has become accustomed to having little to no competition the past decade, now they are getting a little.
during this time peroid, my dad's xp got some spyware/trojan (that i yet didn't managed to clean) rendering it totally useless.
ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use and they are desperately trying to halt the growing awareness of linux/foss.
linux sure is free but its capability is valuable.
more importantly, i use it because the philosophy underlying linux is very similar to my philosophy as an educator.
firefox - the last time i check, firefox also runs on windows, so what's the advantage of linux here?
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:56 am all good and fine, but when will the day arise, where we won't waste our  time wondering what's happening in the minds of the markting divisions of  closed-source outfits ?!
this fiscal environment should have ceos and cios and cfos slapping in linux  servers like crazy.
games games and more games!
a lot of universities here and abroad are still using windows, it's a fact.
i've heard tell of c & c++ apps running in linux with some recompiling (not sure how true that is).
windows portability", i did not say it means portability, i just corrected mr. timdor when he erroneously bragged that windows don't support arm.
i never got up to this speed with *any* of windows  os.
my apologies in advance for feeding the trolls, however: 1.
microsoft has become accustomed to having little to no  competition the past decade, now they are getting a little.
also i'd rather get actual work  done on my pc without getting bsod or my system slowing down.
part of the reason why ms will still survive even with the growing popularity of linux is that a lot of big companies uses windows for internal and external operations, the rise of .net related jobs is certainly a good indicator of this trend.
windows biggest comeptitor is windows, thats what keeps them awake at night in redmond.
that means i as a computer user have the opportunity to not just use these software solutions, but to learn how these solutions work.
just a suggestion to the owner of this site instead of posting ms related stuffs that only attracts trolls like me, why not start with something constructive like, a better payroll software for linux or a quickbooks alternative for linux, something that will attract small businesses and big companies too, instead of ms fud and misinformation.
http://blogs.eweek.com/applewatch/content/macbook/microsoft_ceo_scoffs_at_mac_share_gains.html great article!
as microsoft has 80% of the desktop market, i think you tell where i  am going with this one.
if the answer is: "word, excel, browsing, e-mail, photos, torrenting, movies, instant messaging, etc."
linux's primary distribution method is not through retail channels, it's count is under reported.
as has already been stated by others windows ce is completely different from windows xp or windows 7.
you only become a marginalized and your message ignored.
during  the vista fiasco microsoft had record revenue because their server product line  was exhibiting double digit growth, while the client services, windows desktop,  showed a -8% shrink.
let me end this with this statement.
the truth is  that linux is slowly becoming more known, which is putting a dent in  microsoft's profits.
so a user friendly linux alternative is actually a viable sollution in the future.
then i see the perfect candidate to begin explaining why linux would be a superior platform.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 7:31 am to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
even one of the safest os (openbsd) in the planet have vulnerabilities.
you don't  even need best gear to run most of needed tools nd games built for linux.
ah yes, the standard windows fud from the anonymous troll.
the  windows pc will be shit slow.
you can not analyse anything you cant afford your little brain to do that.
unless if they stop making  firefox for windows you will see it as an advantage.
the majority of users had windows chosen for them by virtue of ms's (now failing) strangle hold on oems and their conscious choice to *not* by a mac, generally based on price.
information is locked into closed proprietary formats.
ms knows they cant beat linux/foss on price or quality, they can't buy out the underlying software that oss companies are based on.
are linux bigots so stupid to understand this?
why should i waste time compiling programs when the programs i want to use are available for free from secure repositories?
even google given there  sheer number of brilliant engineers recognize it as a dominant platform.
and there's nothing quite so influential as a pc technician who's linux savvy: far more effective that a penguinista or a windows troll.
in fact...i  listen to music while i play....
microsoft  isn't going to like losing the oem license money from mac sales but virtually  every computer sold without osx has a microsoft license.
openness knowledge is power, and a only microsoft knows what's  inside windows, meaning only microsoft knows
software can be installed on the user's computer without the user's knowledge.
microsoft was  terrified of linux to point of a fud website, threatening to sue businesses for  ip infringement and bribing...er investing in linux companies.
windows portability", i did not say it means  portability, i just corrected mr. timdor when he erroneously bragged that  windows don't support arm.
on my linux run computer, i can dig into any file of any program and learn how that program works.
don't sneer at gui  server management and belittle those mcses who use it because they have never  used anything else.
i cited cornficker to demonstrate that even the most recent version of windows has security problems which linux users do not have to deal with.
timdor said,  july 10, 2009 1:42 am even though i am wasting my time i will respond once again to anonymous.
cloud computing,  which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is  worried about."
that means linux  can run on anything from a dedicated appliance to a supercomputer.
they know how devastating an advantage price is.
they have nowhere to go but down.
sure some folks might know of all three choices, windows, mac and linux and still choose windows for some reason (maybe games or cad work or business accounting) but the majority of the windows computers/users don't fall in those categories.
m$'s own numbers show gnu/linux at abut twice the rate of macos.
as has already been stated by others windows ce is completely different  from windows xp or windows 7.
windows  is sort of portable.
personally, i'm a firm believer of creating software that will run on any platform, independent of the os.
i've seen so many closed source applications that  are garbage, and cost way more than what they should.
what's the point of having many office apps if due to some viruss you can't even use them?
next up, "ms isn't afraid of linux teh own the software world, apple has more market share than linux".
get your arm, get windows ce.
while penguinistas are wasting time and effort with paranoid conspiracy  theories and ignoring the simple fact consumers stick with what they know.
their monopoly starts bleeding from every socket, just like ie is doing to firefox.
i had been reading about ms thinking linus's share was on par with osx, nice to finally find an example.
the only machine that is safe from hacking and trojan are those machine that are turned off.
cchnda said,  july 14, 2009 2:30
oh  and notice the url it's arm, let me guess you will windowsce is not windows  because of ce.
#dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null sorry, i'm a grammar/command line correctness nazi.
furthermore, games that run on both windows and  native linux tend to work faster at linux than on windows.
altough,  firefox is not the best example.
lack of games  is the fault of the publisher not linux.
and to the retard that says "to the twats arguing that  windowsce on arm =
#dd  if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null sorry, i'm a grammar/command line  correctness nazi.
the only machine that is safe from hacking  and trojan are those machine that are turned off.
m$'s  own numbers show gnu/linux at abut twice the rate of macos.
linux on the desktop is not  what scares microsoft.
you see what ms is afraid  of is they need people to buy win7 and office whatever-the-latest version-is.
the last  five people i switched to ubuntu are counted as windows users because that is  what came on their machines at purchase.
but have you ever wondered why people at microsoft and evenbill  gates himself are bothered by linux more than anything else?
microsoft's practices are the antithesis of this  philosophy of freedom.
i  just hope more people realize the many benefits of open source software,  compared to closed source.
they are facing a slow bleed to a awareness tipping point then their monopoly is lost.
however in response to your statement about compiling programs -- i am an elementary school teacher.
even though firefox does run on linux it also runs on  windows.
to run win7 pretty much requires a new(ish) computer and they mean to end-of-life xp to force you to move (so they can get paid).
in a university, as well as at an elementary school, knowledge is something to be shared, not horded.
in short we have our own biases.
congratulations on displaying less maturity than these 11 year  olds.
what this means is that as a computer user, i can put into practice what i try  to teach my students to do in the classroom.
i have an examle of this  at home.
and yes no system is entirely secure but windows does not even come close to being secure ;).
i think here are  the main reasons why: 1.
but, usage of wine  or cedega shortens this list.
to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
that you would mention windows ce as proof of windows portability proves that you know even less about computers than i do.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 11:25 am just a suggestion to the owner of this site instead of posting ms related  stuffs that only attracts trolls like me, why not start with something  constructive like, a better payroll software for linux or a quickbooks  alternative for linux, something that will attract small businesses and big  companies too, instead of ms fud and misinformation.
the results are various.
arm - http://www.arm.com/products/os/windowsce.html - go on read it, i'll wait.
more importantly, i use it because the  philosophy underlying linux is very similar to my philosophy as an educator.
leaving ie is sometimes the first step people do to leave windows os.
window manager like openbox makes you work lighting fast as soon as you get used to configuration you choose.
but with  linux in the equation switching to linux on your current hardware is the  cheapest of all, it only takes time.
cost - 0 cost is fair enough for pretty unusable product.
i can now run 3 vm's simultaneously...while listening to  music on the free rhythmbox...with still plenty of memory & disk space left  over.
it's puzzling all the buzz from the linux  community centered on fighting for scrapes with apple while microsoft was  filling in holes with products like sharepoint and dynamics.
while i am a ms sw engineer, i prefer to use fedora 11 x86_64  (gnome) as my desktop.
lack of games is the fault of the publisher not linux.
if your grandparents (you can training them now) have started using linux then you are right, that ms needs to be very afraid of linux, if that's not happening yet then shut your mouth and get a life.
most games will run on wine with some tweaking,  even crysis(only on high graphics or above).
i run linux for like an month, and yet no security breach occured.
even google given there sheer number of brilliant engineers recognize it as a dominant platform.
microsoft isn't going to like losing the oem license money from mac sales but virtually every computer sold without osx has a microsoft license.
i like the simple fact that there is nothing new in these posts from posts 8 years ago.
like they release chrome for windows first before your linux.
the guy  who sees 50 machines in his section, is checking out dvds, giving info at the  dentist and basically seeing almost every transaction done on a windows pc  isn't buying it.
withlinux getting better like becoming user-friendlier and more secure  than ever, people have a savior.
steve nihan said,  july 9, 2009 5:54 am my apologies in advance for feeding the trolls, however: 1.
while i do enjoy  the performance gains of ie8, i don't appreciate the forcible nature that  microsoft integrates some of the ie8 features and addons.
however, rather than tossing them into the linux swimming pool, i let them wade in by replacing their corrent proprietary software with foss variants.
if it's c or c++ based...how difficult is it really?
are they as configureable  as linux ones?
those with knowledge have to sign nondisclosure agreements.
pm you can not analyse anything you cant afford your little brain to do  that.
linux already has support for most hardware  architectures.
what we use is software these two platforms provide.
the old security canard "no  os is completely safe, so therefore windows security doesn't suck" that's like saying since no building can stop every thief your shitty apartment  with a $15 deadbolt is as secure as fort knox.
security windows is still the most insecure os and it is  possible that anotherdevastating virus will strike and harm computers running  with it.
i know i used  to work there.
given the number of windows computers used in big compaines, have you  heard anyone going out of business because of your cornficker worm?
during this time peroid, my dad's xp got some spyware/trojan (that i  yet didn't managed to clean) rendering it totally useless.
(i agree with you on the no os is completely secure)
applications - let me give you a nice rebuttal for choosing windows.
arm - windows running on that yet?
i run linux for like an month, and yet no security breach  occured.
cost - i'm a windows user....sure...but only through virtualbox now.
this is ms number one main concern, not  the one listed by the author of this site and being defended by morons here.
aquaadverse said,  july 9, 2009 10:38
i would thing that it would put the company in a better position, as it doesn't require a specific os, and therefore is not dependent on the specific os, which in turn offers additional security flaws and vulnerabilities.
as  an elementary school teacher, my job is help my students become as autonomous  as possible and to cooperate with each other, to be problem solvers and active  learners, and to move beyound passive dependency.
i have an examle of this at home.
the old security canard "no os is completely safe, so therefore windows security doesn't suck" that's like saying since no building can stop every thief your shitty apartment with a $15 deadbolt is as secure as fort knox.
vista was a huge blow for ms, a lot hangs on win7 and linux will  play its part but its xp that win7 has to eat.
err, i meant to say that, "linux is closer to being the same operating system as os x (not the old macos) than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
what this means is that as a computer user, i can put into practice what i try to teach my students to do in the classroom.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:05 pm 6.
registry cleaner, what is a registry?
their software was rarely the best but  always cheaper than the competition.
c) show me some custom window managers for windows, as i know none.
you don't have that option with a proprietary os, only the  manufacturer does...
the windows pc will be shit slow.
linux helps me to become more free as a  computer user.
i never got up to this speed with *any* of windows os.
http://members.apex-internet.com/sa/windowslinux angel said,  september 24, 2009 9:31 am linux!
i should also mention, that many windows games can be played through wine, if that really is your thing.
portability - your argument is confusing, are you comparing to apple or  ms here?
if your choice is new machine and  win7 or switch to a mac (and replace all your apps with a mac version), well  the new machine/win7 upgrade is _both_ cheaper and more familiar.
if a windows guy is stating facts it's fud if it's coming from  linux a**holes it's not.
the truth is ms *is* afraid  of linux/foss, according to their own quotes.
timdor said,  july 8, 2009 10:46 pm
unsecured, nope!(compared to windows)
plus, i myself like  opera - which works even on windows 98se, and is a bit faster (my cpu is slow  enough to make the difference noticeable).
are they as configureable as linux ones?
i know it's hard to promote a product that costs nothing.
somebody said,  july 9, 2009 10:07 am "$mv all_idiots_in_here /dev/null" oh noes!
unless if they stop making firefox for windows you will see it as an advantage.
quotes by gates, quotes by other  members of the ms executive team, quotes stretching back almost a decade.
it would smooth the  way for consumer acceptance.
a) applications: not much use  if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
it might be that linux is popular on some areas while in some other parts of the world it's not.
no wonder, have you visited some big companies in your area, like banks, for instance, is your rural bank using linux?
what about "work work work"?
some more observations on why microsoft should be scared.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 1:11 pm just to be clear about one thing.
i can still get in your shitty apartment with a hammer, good luck trying that with fort knox.
sure some folks might know of all three  choices, windows, mac and linux and still choose windows for some reason (maybe  games or cad work or business accounting) but the majority of the windows  computers/users don't fall in those categories.
it does run on both os's.
linux has undoubtably moved on and so has windows.
no damn os in the planet is hacker proof
what windows can and can't do.
if big companies are looking for these professionals, universities will have no choice but to offer curriculums that are ms technology related, this will again ensure the future of the windows platform.
the biggest problem with this observation is that it's based on an individuals experience on a particular os popularity or os usability.
i have been running ubuntu and  debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a  firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered  total zero!!!!
what happens when ms pushes for the next round of upgrade cash and the average consumer has become aware of an alternative that is as easy to use as osx and the cheapest of all, free.
linux helps me to become more free as a computer user.
linux is free from charge and there are many progs ready for use with most of distros.
"...pretty much every os in the planet have (sic) security issues..."
in response to "now this is fud, you can suck my windows ass.
microsoft's business model is founded upon the notion that those using its  products are to be nothing more than passive consumers of its products.
linux is more secure than even the most recent  versions of windows.
to run win7  pretty much requires a new(ish) computer and they mean to end-of-life xp to  force you to move (so they can get paid).
mu buddy got linux running on some low-standard mp4 (not an ipod, not a creative).
i use linux for a variety of reasons such as it's security, cost, and stability.
ok...games are fine i'm sure.....
linux undermines the very  foundations of its business model.
i've heard tell of c & c++ apps running in linux  with some recompiling (not sure how true that is).
but, usage of wine or cedega shortens this list.
the graph showing os  market share percentages has the same size wedge for linux as there is for osx,  same size wedge = same size market share.
i can even make any changes i want.
they learn to live with things like: no more pimping of their instant messenger clients, etc.
but with linux in the equation switching to linux on your current hardware is the cheapest of all, it only takes time.
also most users can't maintain their systems anyway
i have been running ubuntu and debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered total zero!!!!
the person helping them is likely the same.
in fact...i listen to music while i play....so there's another performance benefit.
ms got to be where they are by being the cheapest, their whole company was built on it.
what happens  when ms pushes for the next round of upgrade cash and the average consumer has  become aware of an alternative that is as easy to use as osx and the cheapest  of all, free.
if i want a game console, i'll buy a  ps3.
arm  - windows running on that yet?
microsoft isn't afraid of either apple or linux because apple can't support the enterprise and remain apple, and linux went ubuntu blind and you don't ever hear anything pertaining to linux except the desktop.
linux can very quickly move the whole stack, kernel, drivers and oss apps; and be useful relatively quickly.
linux is free from  charge and there are many progs ready for use with most of distros.
timdor said,  july 10, 2009 1:56 am some more observations on why microsoft should be scared.
while penguinistas are wasting time and effort with paranoid conspiracy theories and ignoring the simple fact consumers stick with what they know.
dont have to use firefox can use anything.
spyware remover nope!
and to the retard that says "to the twats arguing that windowsce on arm =
sorry vista, but the short fact remains...most viruses built are built  to target the ms windows os, whether that be xp, vista, or 7.
i use linux for a variety of reasons such  as it's security, cost, and stability.
while i do enjoy the performance gains of ie8, i don't appreciate the forcible nature that microsoft integrates some of the ie8 features and addons.
oh and notice the url it's arm, let me guess you will windowsce is not windows because of ce.
yeah, i think somebody actually managed to break into fort knox once, just once.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 9:06 am "huh?
http://forums.techarena.in/vista-security/1150576.htm 4.
on my linux run computer, i can dig into any file of any  program and learn how that program works.
window  manager like openbox makes you work lighting fast as soon as you get used to  configuration you choose.
other than that the rest of your statements are spot on.
work cannot be done at all on a windhoze machine.
never have i had to worry about malware while running this os.
anything can be  hacked.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to port and release their drivers.
how many applications do you have for  your new platform?
how many hardware drivers do you have for your new platform?
i cited cornficker to demonstrate  that even the most recent version of windows has security problems which linux  users do not have to deal with.
operating system use at my church's computer lab for neighborhood kids, ubuntu.
if you're a teenager hell bent on fragging people in high def fps realism.
i'd rather mention iceweasel, konqueror and other linux-natixe browsers that are unusable at windows.
you see what ms is afraid of is they need people to buy win7 and office whatever-the-latest version-is.
people won't use what they never see.
security - timdor is  completely correct.
the same cannot be said running vista business x64, or even windows 7 x64 (even removed the extras) for that matter.
the year of the  linux desktop is unknown, but the future is bright.
m$ is a dinosaur whose brain has not gotten the message that they are in the tar pit.
portability.....what are you looking to port?
congratulations on displaying less maturity than these 11 year olds.
linux undermines the very foundations of its business model.
i look forward to seeing more like it to come.
i have no idea why you bring up rural banks.
i have been using linux for 4 years now.
ms knows they cant beat linux/foss on price or quality, they can't buy out the  underlying software that oss companies are based on.
linux already has support for most hardware architectures.
firefox - the last time i check, firefox also runs on  windows, so what's the advantage of linux here?
if the openbsd team fixed those two existing security holes, then openbsd would kick ***.
linux server shipments have been growing at a faster rate than windows for several years now.
i can now run 3 vm's simultaneously...while listening to music on the free rhythmbox...with still plenty of memory & disk space left over.
jim said,  july 9, 2009 5:47 am *sigh*
why should i waste time compiling programs when the programs i  want to use are available for free from secure repositories?
while there is the uac built into vista, unfortunately,  i've still seen virii come through, and have even tested the conficker worm  myself.
problem is, in this brave new world of alternate devices, as soon as a new  hardware platform emerges, linux will be far better able to fill the niche  quickly than the lumbering beast of redmond.
the only firewall they have  against linux is awareness/familiarity.
i'm sure some trolls will say: "i *use* my o/s" to counter argue me.
these two items account for about 60% of their annual revenue.
30 years after the nimble microsoft outmanouvered the lumbering big blue, the tables have turned, and microsoft are now the elephant in the living room.
that means i as a computer user have  the opportunity to not just use these software solutions, but to learn how  these solutions work.
if the owner says they use coreldraw, photoshop: software they paid good money for, then i suggest an alternative: boot to win to work these, but keep win off the net, boot to lin to surf, etc.
linux is portable and scalable.
related jobs is certainly a good indicator of this trend.
applications: not much use if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
personally, i think that if the only reason you're buying ms windows is for the  games, you really ought to just get yourself a gaming console.
dont have to use firefox can use  anything.
try visiting a universities like here in cebu, i don't know how many have installed linux.
linux is closer to being the same operating system as macos than windowsce is to being the same operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
opera, lynx, w3c, dillo, the list goes on.
retailers would be fine selling machines with linux pre-installed but if  customers even know what it is, they think it it's for geeks or have been  seeing a couple of years of rabid linux advocates leaving strange comments in  forums and threads that are virulent anti-redmond and have almost nothing to do  with with the subject.
try running a windows and a linux system for a year with out any maintenence software.
windows 7 is going to slam shut whatever  slim chance this current strategy window had for success.
linux on the desktop is not what scares microsoft.
linux's share of the total server market is growing faster  than windows, both at the expense of unix.
furthermore, games that run on both windows and native linux tend to work faster at linux than on windows.
but in  these difficult times people have learned to value their money more than ever  by spending it wisely.
linux gets developed by a  community of people who are willing solve problems and share not just their  solutions, but how their solutions work.
http://blogs.eweek.com/applewatch/content/macbook/microsoft_ceo_scoffs_at_mac_share_gains.html anonymous said,  august 6, 2009 3:50 am great article!
try visiting a universities like here in cebu, i don't know how many have  installed linux.
you don't have that option with a proprietary os, only the manufacturer does... there are a few misconceptions in tfa.
all good and fine, but when will the day arise, where we won't waste our time wondering what's happening in the minds of the markting divisions of closed-source outfits ?!
i open up my  package manager, search for what i want in the search box, click on it, click  on apply, and wait for the program to install itself.
am microsoft isn't afraid of either apple or linux because apple can't support  the enterprise and remain apple, and linux went ubuntu blind and you don't ever  hear anything pertaining to linux except the desktop.
as an elementary school teacher, my job is help my students become as autonomous as possible and to cooperate with each other, to be problem solvers and active learners, and to move beyound passive dependency.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 3:02 pm # dd if=/home/idiots of=/dev/null that does copy, not move.
open source isn't available for everything, but what is out there is great stuff.
i like the simple fact that there is nothing new in these posts from posts  8 years ago.
the guy who sees 50 machines in his section, is checking out dvds, giving info at the dentist and basically seeing almost every transaction done on a windows pc isn't buying it.
if big companies are  looking for these professionals, universities will have no choice but to offer  curriculums that are ms technology related, this will again ensure the future  of the windows platform.
i had been reading about ms  thinking linus's share was on par with osx, nice to finally find an example.
you can check apple's unit production in their sec filings.
warner said,  july 9, 2009 5:52 pm
i have been running ubuntu  and debian distributions for over 4 years now without antiviral software nor a  firewall, and the number of virus, spyware, etc., attacks that i have suffered  total zero!!!!
your original point seemed to be that malware is not a problem on more recent versions of windows.
as a teacher, i help my students to become more free as individuals.
ubuntu is rapidly approaching osx's ease of use and  they are desperately trying to halt the growing awareness of linux/foss.
the same cannot be said running vista business x64, or even windows 7 x64  (even removed the extras) for that matter.
if apple can triple it's marketshare during vista with a $1,000+ entry fee while linux barely moved the needle, it's pretty easy to draw the conclusion the current strategy won't work.
i think this is delicious, the picture in this article is from a slide  being presented by ballmer at a shareholder meeting.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about."
crossing your arms, turning up your nose and demanding that the o/s *you* use is the best is often a sure sign of hidden insecurity.
the code is not the  same; the apis are not the same.
none of them currently run  windows, yet based on how statistics regarding os use seem to be gathered, 2  out of 3 computers in my household are windows computers.
how many applications do you have for your new platform?
windows is still plagued by dangerous viruses for example ransomware.
if this will not change then i think ms have no reason  to be scared at all.
anything can be hacked.
it took microsoft  about 10 minutes to blow past linux as the majority os on netbooks.
portability - your argument is confusing, are you comparing to apple or ms here?
i bet noone can do that with windows nor macos.
written on a laptop running debian used as a primary os for over four years.
it might  be that linux is popular on some areas while in some other parts of the world
mu  buddy got linux running on some low-standard mp4 (not an ipod, not a creative).
i just hope more people realize the many benefits of open source software, compared to closed source.
part of the reason why ms will still  survive even with the growing popularity of linux is that a lot of big  companies uses windows for internal and external operations, the rise of .net
based on my own experience and what i have read elsewhere, linux use on the desktop is underreported.
yes,  for any os, the drivers and apps need to be recompiled along with the os kernel  and others subsystems.
windowsce is not the same operating system as the windows nt series.
applications - let  me give you a nice rebuttal for choosing windows.
security - timdor is completely correct.
even if it's popular a lot of people have different preferences on  what they conceive easy and difficult to use.
am u can also game on linux.
our operating systems on our three computers which are a 9 year old emachines, a 3 year old dell laptop and an aspire one: antix and fedora.
only computer class i ever had was back in 1982.
most games will run on wine with some tweaking, even crysis(only on high graphics or above).
try moving the whole windows  ecosystem like that.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software  in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about.
even though i am wasting my time i will respond once again to anonymous.
i should also mention, that many  windows games can be played through wine, if that really is your thing.
security: cornficker infects vista too.
in terms of quality, they can  rival any proprietary software made for windows.
windowsce is not proof of windows portability to arm.
you want to work use linux.
open source isn't  available for everything, but what is out there is great stuff.
can you plug in all your desktop  peripherals and use them?
cost - i'm a windows user....sure...but only through  virtualbox now.
gnu/linux passed macos in popularity  around 2003/4.
even one of the safest os  (openbsd) in the planet have vulnerabilities.
i have no  idea why you bring up rural banks.
none of them currently run windows, yet based on how statistics regarding os use seem to be gathered, 2 out of 3 computers in my household are windows computers.
m$ is a dinosaur whose brain  has not gotten the message that they are in the tar pit.
regarding penetration of desktop market, only one of the 3  computers we own were purchased with linux on it.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 6:13 am i would add that linux is what the user wants and microsoft is what the big  businesses want.
cost/useability - i am an elementary  school teacher, wife a social worker.
linux can very quickly  move the whole stack, kernel, drivers and oss apps; and be useful relatively  quickly.
however in  response to your statement about compiling programs -- i am an elementary  school teacher.
microsoft's practices are the antithesis of this philosophy of freedom.
cloud computing, which makes os's (and a lot of software in general) irrelevant, is what ms is worried about.
which planet did you come from.
a) applications: not much use if your computer is a virus and worm infected spambot.
u can also game on linux.
you need to wait for all the hardware vendors to port and release their apps too.
linux is open, so its capabilities are known and new features can be added, old ones removed.
it's a completely different operating system that happens to be made  by the same company and gets called by a similar name.
nope, because there's a damn fix for that one.
this is ms number one main concern, not the one listed by the author of this site and being defended by morons here.
like  they release chrome for windows first before your linux.
personally, i'm a  firm believer of creating software that will run on any platform, independent  of the os.
ubuntu were able to turn around and port the complete stack of their offering inside a few months (weeks?).
if i want a game console, i'll buy a ps3.
its no wonder that because of games on  windhoze machine no serious development is being done.
on  the other hand: students at college or university can get microsoft operating  systems and some office programs for free and are legitimate to use it as long  as they study.
if  your grandparents (you can training them now) have started using linux then you  are right, that ms needs to be very afraid of linux, if that's not happening  yet then shut your mouth and get a life.
if this will not change then i think ms have no reason to be scared at all.
also most users can't maintain their systems  anyway
written on a laptop running  debian used as a primary os for over four years.
it's a completely different operating system that happens to be made by the same company and gets called by a similar name.
the graph showing os market share percentages has the same size wedge for linux as there is for osx, same size wedge = same size market share.
the only reason i can see for you giving such an immature response is  because you realize that any windows machine can easily become a virus and worm  infected spambot unless up to date antivirus and antimalware programs are  constantly running in the background.
that someone like me, with no training in it  other than one class 27 years ago can install and run linux, that non  professionals like my wife can use linux, that kids from my neighborhood, which  is far from a wealthy neighborhood can use linux more than proves that linux is  quite useable.
sorry vista, but the short fact remains...most viruses built are built to target the ms windows os, whether that be xp, vista, or 7.
i'm glad there are fixes for corficker.
it's time for the linux community to growup.
it's puzzling all the buzz from the linux community centered on fighting for scrapes with apple while microsoft was filling in holes with products like sharepoint and dynamics.
trying to change behavior of  the user community like it's a child you want to stay in bed by a boogy man  microsoft under the bed is a failure.
did you know sql runs on rh, not that it will ever see the light of day.
its no wonder that because of games on windhoze machine no serious development is being done.
microsoft has every reason to be scared of linux.
as microsoft has 80% of the desktop market, i think you tell where i am going with this one.
even if it's popular a lot of people have different preferences on what they conceive easy and difficult to use.
gnu/linux passed macos in popularity around 2003/4.
work cannot be  done at all on a windhoze machine.
during the vista fiasco microsoft had record revenue because their server product line was exhibiting double digit growth, while the client services, windows desktop, showed a -8% shrink.
that means linux can run on anything from a dedicated appliance to a supercomputer.
anonymous said,  july 9, 2009 7:55 pm err, i meant to say that, "linux is closer to being the same operating  system as os x (not the old macos) than windowsce is to being the same  operating system as windows 7 (or any other member of the nt series).
ubuntu were able to turn around and port the complete stack of  their offering inside a few months (weeks?).
there's no doubt that  linux is a highly flexible operating system that can be easily modified to run  on just about anyelectronic device.
my point remains the same: the *average* user, that notorious "joe sixpack" gets frustrated when his pc slows to a crawl.
jacques merde said,  july 9, 2009 5:21 am games games and more games!
microsoft was terrified of linux to point of a fud website, threatening to sue businesses for ip infringement and bribing...er investing in linux companies.
the majority of users had  windows chosen for them by virtue of ms's (now failing) strangle hold on oems  and their conscious choice to *not* by a mac, generally based on price.
anonymous said,  july 10, 2009 9:57 am the biggest problem with this observation is that it's based on an  individuals experience on a particular os popularity or os usability.
openness knowledge is power, and a only microsoft knows what's inside windows, meaning only microsoft knows
indeed the good people at  microsoft have reasons to be afraid, or shall i say be very afraid of linux :-) related posts: 36 response to "5 reasons why microsoft is afraid of linux" anonymous said,  july 8, 2009 7:38 pm 1.
you need to wait  for all the hardware vendors to port and release their apps too.
" sorry for the mistake.
it took microsoft about 10 minutes to blow past linux as the majority os on netbooks.
windowsce is not proof of windows  portability to arm.
but i bet you will see a lot of windows machine.
that is scary for  m$.
robert pogson said,  july 9, 2009 9:54
i so saw that troll post coming.
http://members.apex-internet.com/sa/windowslinux linux!
nafees said,  july 9, 2009 4:30