not only for the reduced direct costs, but also the elimination of the (many) hassles of dealing with proprietary software licenses.
locking in the kernel is increasingly fine grained, though there are limits to what can be safely accomplished via that path.
the one with more than 30 million  lines of new code?
the linux community will talk about the free or low-cost nature  of linux.
one could also argue that window - even nt - was not designed for  multi-user environments and the the need to protect users - and programs - from  each other.
the number of applications does not matter - it's whether the particular applications needed by the user are available that makes a difference.
given the pace of development in the linux world, microsoft's document  will be obsolete very soon.
linux as a desktop operating system makes no sense.
access  control lists (acls) are also in development and in a testing mode.
given the pace of development in the linux world, microsoft's document will be obsolete very soon.
a look at microsoft's 'linux myths' this week microsoft took the gloves off and put up this page about  "the five linux myths."
shortly linux will have three such file systems, however.
this is the nt that isyears late?
this seems a  little strange, given the large number of high profile, linux-based web sites  out there.
delivering a scalable system is a complex task and it's not clear that the linux community can solve these issues easily or quickly.2.2 delivered quite a few improvements; 2.4 will deliver quite a few more.
a user would  end up with a system that has fewer applications, is more complex to use and  manage, and is less intuitive.
many users find a linux desktop to  be most sensible, and many more will with each new release of the system.
nonetheless, it is important.
microsoft also claims that linux high-availability and clustering are "immature," which has a certain basis in truth.
linux lacks a commercial quality journaling file system.
it points at places where work needs to be done.
administrators cannot delegate administrative privileges: a user who needs any administrative capability must be made a full administrator, which compromises best security practices.
linux security is all-or-nothing.
we also humbly suggest the lwn security page as a central place to look to  keep up on security issues.
therefore, commercial support services for linux will be fee-based and will likely be priced at a premium....as opposed to the wonderful free support services for windows nt...
asynchronous i/o is being worked on, and can also be done now via threads - there is disagreement over whether other approaches such as completion ports truly provide better performance.
for some  users, linux will make a better desktop, for others it "makes no  sense."
it's important to understand that licensing cost is only a small part of the overall decision-making process for customers.
there is some truth here.
the largest file size linux supports is 2 gb versus 16 terabytes (tb) for windows nt 4.0.
they also fail to note that a number of the performance  problems found then have since been fixed.
they must sign up for their distribution's security announcement list, and apply the updated packages when they are released.
this is made complex due to the fact that there isn't a central location for security issues to be reported and fixed.
the linux community continues to promise major smp and  performance improvements.
microsoft, of course, completely avoids the issue of freedom, since they  have no answer to that one.
the  number of applications does not matter - it's whether the particular  applications needed by the user are available that makes a difference.
the linux kernel has increasing support  for capabilities, which provide the sort of fine-grained privileges needed, but  support for capabilities at the user level will be a while in coming.
for some users, linux will make a better desktop, for others it "makes no sense."
they cite the june pc week benchmarks which did indeed show nt  performing better.
the document makes a number of points, some of which are better than  others.
this is certainly not the last that we will hear from them.
in addition, linux does not support many of the  modern operating system features that windows nt 4.0 has pioneered such as  asynchronous i/o, completion ports, and fine-grained kernel locks.
it would appear that the long-awaited microsoft counteroffensive has begun.
the file size limit  is real (on 32-bit systems), and is a bit of a thorny problem - the 2.4 kernel  will not fix it.
microsoft also claims that linux high-availability and clustering are  "immature," which has a certain basis in truth.
the time gets significant when there are large numbers  of systems to update, but that is true of nt "service packs" as well.
...as opposed to the  wonderful free support services for windows nt... linux is a higher risk option than windows nt.
let's look at a few of them.
many users find a linux desktop to be most sensible, and many more will with each new release of the system.
on performance: the linux community claims to have improved performance and  scalability in the latest versions of the linux kernel (2.2), however it's  clear that linux remains inferior to the windows nt速 4.0 operating system.
the linux swap file is limited to 128 mb ram.
there is little here that is not well on the way toward being  solved.
the linux community likes to talk about linux as a stable and reliable operating system, yet there is no real world data or metrics and very limited customer evidence to back up these claims.
delivering a scalable system is a complex task and  it's not clear that the linux community can solve these issues easily or  quickly.
it points at places where work  needs to be done.
the one with more than 30 million lines of new code?
the "superuser" model has a  number of problems, and utilities like "sudo" are a sort of fragile  kludge made necessary by this model.
the document makes a number of points, some of which are better than others.
all systems are vulnerable to security issues, however it's important to note that linux uses the same security model as the original unix implementations- a model that was not designed from the ground up to be secure.
microsoft's claims of lower cost of ownership  for nt fly in the face of the experience of large numbers of system and network  administrators.
the linux community will talk about the free or low-cost nature of linux.
for now it is true that mainstream linux contains some  performance problems.
linux clustering is  also highly successful in many situations.
thanks to lenz grimmer, andi kleen, and raymond ingles for suggestions  that have improved this page.
the linux swap  file is limited to 128 mb ram.
microsoft makes no mention of the difference in turnaround times - linux bugs are fixed much more quickly.
the swap file limit claim is simply false as of 2.2.0 (and even with previous versions one could use multiple swap files).
they have been promising these since the development  of the 2.0 kernel in 1996.
locking in the kernel is increasingly fine grained,  though there are limits to what can be safely accomplished via that path.
linux clustering is also highly successful in many situations.
one could also argue that window - even nt - was not designed for multi-user environments and the the need to protect users - and programs - from each other.
linux system administrators must spend huge amounts of time  understanding the latest linux bugs and determining what to do about them.
this is certainly not the last that we  will hear from them.
linux weekly newslinux weekly news contact us this week microsoft took the gloves off and put up this page about "the five linux myths."
it's important to understand that licensing cost is only a small part  of the overall decision-making process for customers.
they have been promising these since the development of the 2.0 kernel in 1996.
the linux community continues to promise major smp and performance improvements.
linux can support 4gb with a commercially-supported patch.
the linux kernel has increasing support for capabilities, which provide the sort of fine-grained privileges needed, but support for capabilities at the user level will be a while in coming.
nt looks pretty risky to many of us.
asynchronous  i/o is being worked on, and can also be done now via threads - there is  disagreement over whether other approaches such as completion ports truly  provide better performance.
some of those fixes have been put into the latest 2.2 kernels, and are thus widely available; others remain in the 2.3 tree.
this seems a little strange, given the large number of high profile, linux-based web sites out there.
microsoft's claims of lower cost of ownership for nt fly in the face of the experience of large numbers of system and network administrators.
the free (beer) side of linux is compelling, but is far from the most important feature of the operating system.
thanks to lenz grimmer, andi kleen, and raymond ingles for suggestions that have improved this page.
2.2 delivered quite a few improvements; 2.4 will deliver  quite a few more.
they also fail to note that a number of the performance problems found then have since been fixed.
the largest file size linux  supports is 2 gb versus 16 terabytes (tb) for windows nt 4.0.
not only for the reduced  direct costs, but also the elimination of the (many) hassles of dealing with  proprietary software licenses.
shortly linux will have three such file systems,  however.
microsoft does not address performance on lower-end hardware.
linux is a higher risk option than windows nt.this is the nt that isyears late?
linux system administrators must spend huge amounts of time understanding the latest linux bugs and determining what to do about them.
therefore, commercial support services for linux will be fee-based  and will likely be priced at a premium.
on performance: the linux community claims to have improved performance and scalability in the latest versions of the linux kernel (2.2), however it's clear that linux remains inferior to the windows nt速 4.0 operating system.
the time gets significant when there are large numbers of systems to update, but that is true of nt "service packs" as well.
for now it is true that mainstream linux contains some performance problems.
there is little here that is not well on the way toward being solved.
the "superuser" model has a number of problems, and utilities like "sudo" are a sort of fragile kludge made necessary by this model.
this  is made complex due to the fact that there isn't a central location for  security issues to be reported and fixed.
they cite the june pc week benchmarks which did indeed show nt performing better.
they must sign up for  their distribution's security announcement list, and apply the updated packages  when they are released.
access control lists (acls) are also in development and in a testing mode.
it is also worth noting that other benchmarks have produced very different  results.
the linux community likes to talk about linux as a stable and  reliable operating system, yet there is no real world data or metrics and very  limited customer evidence to back up these claims.
the free  (beer) side of linux is compelling, but is far from the most important feature  of the operating system.
all systems are vulnerable to security issues, however it's  important to note that linux uses the same security model as the original unix  implementations- a model that was not designed from the ground up to be secure.
copyright 1999 eklektix, inc. all rights reserved.
linux 速 is a  registered trademark of linus torvalds
the swap file limit claim is simply false as of 2.2.0 (and  even with previous versions one could use multiple swap files).
a user would end up with a system that has fewer applications, is more complex to use and manage, and is less intuitive.
administrators cannot delegate  administrative privileges: a user who needs any administrative capability must  be made a full administrator, which compromises best security practices.
the very definition of linux as an open software effort means  that commercial companies like red hat will make money by charging for  services.
it is not, in general, blatantly dishonest.
microsoft makes no mention of the difference in turnaround times - linux bugs  are fixed much more quickly.
linux only supports 2 gigabytes (gb) of ram on the x86 architecture, compared to 4 gb for windows nt 4.0.
as can be seen, microsoft's document is partially truthful, partially not.
linux only supports 2 gigabytes (gb) of ram on the x86  architecture, compared to 4 gb for windows nt 4.0.
microsoft, of course, completely avoids the issue of freedom, since they have no answer to that one.
the very definition of linux as an open software effort means that commercial companies like red hat will make money by charging for services.
linux 速 is a registered trademark of linus torvalds
it is also worth noting that other benchmarks have produced very different results.
it would appear that the long-awaited  microsoft counteroffensive has begun.
some of those fixes have been put  into the latest 2.2 kernels, and are thus widely available; others remain in  the 2.3 tree.
the file size limit is real (on 32-bit systems), and is a bit of a thorny problem - the 2.4 kernel will not fix it.
in addition, linux does not support many of the modern operating system features that windows nt 4.0 has pioneered such as asynchronous i/o, completion ports, and fine-grained kernel locks.
we also humbly suggest the lwn security page as a central place to look to keep up on security issues.