each one has their strengths and weaknesses, and merits and demerits.
here is a factual example of windows 98 system.
as i got interrupted by the conversation with one of my friend the computer was idle for some time.
on the other  hand, windows too don’t have many fans but still operated but still  contributes to larger section of hosting community.
webhostinggoodies.com has carefully selected the best web  hosting company on the internet to help you make the right hosting decision.
stability of desktop vs. server people, who are  naïve to the “web hosting world”, should add to their  knowledge that they can use either linux or windows to host their web pages  though those pages were developed on a desktop.
so they appear more convincing.
they are used to send the information to the server which the server stores for further processing.
two of such well known programming  languages are asp (developed by microsoft) and php (open source product).
the static html pages are interpreted as web pages that we see.
stability of the windows servers such as windows 2000 & windows 2003 is much better compared to a different league of versions like 95, 98 & me.
though the average linux user seem more technically sound than any other average computer user.
webhostinggoodies.com has carefully selected the best web hosting company on the internet to help you make the right hosting decision.
windows, similar to linux, is a joint effort put by several programmers.
the blue screen appeared mentioning a problem and the computer was restarted.
so, my suggestion is you should go by your own specific requirements and choose the right platform that is suitable and efficient to accommodate your needs.
when i got back to the computer, it flashed a  blue screen.
most of the times, you restart the computer.
when the computer got booted,  the startup applications like antivirus, a dictionary and similar other things,  were loaded.
despite the monopoly of microsoft, due  to some reasons it is treated as a bad boy.
linux vs. windows security shared or dedicated price 24 hour  support linux vs windows choosing windows or linux hosting web hosting articles > which one, windows or linux,  is a better choice?
microsoft like any other business  seeks to make profit from its products.
linux vs. windows security shared or dedicated price 24 hour support linux vs windows choosing windows or linux hosting web hosting articles > which one, windows or linux, is a better choice?
windows 95 and 98 had a never lasting problem of blue screen.
sitemap about us contact us choosing a web host for your website is the most important decision for a website owner.
dynamic web pages like forum, shopping cart, etc are different from the static ones.
the blue screen appeared mentioning a problem and the computer was  restarted.
windows  comes paid while linux is free linux is an open source as  it is a joint effort of different volunteer programmers.
each  one has their strengths and weaknesses, and merits and demerits.
such irrelevant problems has spoiled windows name.
so, my suggestion is  you should go by your own specific requirements and choose the right platform  that is suitable and efficient to accommodate your needs.
these pages need a powerful programming language.
when the computer got booted, the startup applications like antivirus, a dictionary and similar other things, were loaded.
though the average linux user seem more technically sound than  any other average computer user.
there is no definite answer for the question.
it does not matter at all.
as mentioned no one used the computer in the mean  time and no startup application had any problem.
sitemap about us contact us choosing a web host for your website is the most important decision for a  website owner.
linux is treated as more secure and stable, but it is not much supported  by its users.
the static html pages  are interpreted as web pages that we see.
they contain text, tables, or images,  etc.
they are  used to send the information to the server which the server stores for further  processing.
on the other hand, windows too don’t have many fans but still operated but still contributes to larger section of hosting community.
the web pages may  also include animated objects such as gifs.
dynamic web pages  like forum, shopping cart, etc are different from the static ones.
but that is untrue, and there are different types of windows, that are not same.
while  php has functionality over both platforms, microsoft programmers care little to  use it on other os than windows itself.
the web pages may also include animated objects such as gifs.
such irrelevant problems has  spoiled windows name.
stability of desktop vs. server people, who are naïve to the “web hosting world”, should add to their knowledge that they can use either linux or windows to host their web pages though those pages were developed on a desktop.
two of such well known programming languages are asp (developed by microsoft) and php (open source product).
these programmers are hired and paid for their job by microsoft.
though, blue screen isn’t the end of the system, unless you know how to  get rid of it.
home |  about us | compare web hosting |
they contain text, tables, or images, etc.
windows, similar  to linux, is a joint effort put by several programmers.
but how do you know which web host is good and which is not?
such original html pages can interpreted on any web server without  considering the type of operating system.
as mentioned no one used the computer in the mean time and no startup application had any problem.
linux is treated as more secure and stable, but it is not much supported by its users.
windows xp is quiet stable and apparent, mainly because it is designed according to windows 2000 which is a server.
windows comes paid while linux is free linux is an open source as it is a joint effort of different volunteer programmers.
while php has functionality over both platforms, microsoft programmers care little to use it on other os than windows itself.
stability of the windows servers such as windows 2000 & windows 2003 is  much better compared to a different league of versions like 95, 98 & me.
editor's pick | hosting coupons | uk hosting |sitemap terms of use | privacy policy | contact us copyright © 2012 webhostinggoodies.com.
windows xp is quiet stable and apparent,  mainly because it is designed according to windows 2000 which is a server.
which choice then you should make?
despite the monopoly of microsoft, due to some reasons it is treated as a bad boy.
editor's pick | hosting coupons | uk hosting  |sitemap terms of use | privacy policy | contact us copyright  © 2012 webhostinggoodies.com.
in comparison of windows & linux, linux attempts to handle more number of processes whereas in the same time windows becomes unstable faster as more number of processes is run.
microsoft like any other business seeks to make profit from its products.
as i got interrupted by the conversation with one of my friend the  computer was idle for some time.
home | about us | compare web hosting |
such original html pages can interpreted on any web server without considering the type of operating system.
in comparison of windows & linux, linux attempts to handle more number  of processes whereas in the same time windows becomes unstable faster as more  number of processes is run.
these programmers are  hired and paid for their job by microsoft.
many have impression of windows being buggy, insecure and unstable.
though, blue screen isn’t the end of the system, unless you know how to get rid of it.
when i got back to the computer, it flashed a blue screen.