windows desktop software development has stagnated to a standstill.
metrowerks codewarrior: i haven't used it, but i hear it's pretty good.
tcl/tk: open-source, mature language for creating gui applications that  will run on a variety of platforms.
why would it be different for wine?
there are all kinds of issues that need to be solved to overcome this problem.
wine provides a windows compatability layer than windows applications run against.
developers have no reason to learn how to program for linux.
i consider it verging on treason for linux users to be  running wine.
and if there's little to no development going on for linux, then eventually people will realize that they might as well be running windows for all their windows software.
november 4, 2002 2:17 pm there are many linux users who would love to be completely free of any microsoft related software, but their circumstances require that they run some kind of windows application.
had ibm put more effort into os/2 itself as opposed to making it a funky  kind of windows shell, would os/2 be better off today?
then, without  warning, introduce a new layer of apis that can't so easily be replicated.
the article previously posted was supplemental category tags.
in a bid to  encourage windows users to switch to the arguably better os/2 operating system,  ibm released os/2 warp 3.0.
microsoft loses if you don't need windows to  run windows apps, right?
personally, i think it would.
now with all due respect to the wine team-- i hold those guys in  the highest regard.
you have a good point, but i think you may be missing a few things.
sounds a lot like what ms is in the process of doing with  .net.
if i were heading up the  windows division of microsoft, this would be my game plan: allow the api to  stablize long enough for projects like wine to support it.
developers need to get the opportunity to chose from a wide variety of cross-platform languages and tools, for them ever to produce cross-platform software.
for windows users-- wine's helpful effects: with wine in place, fewer companies will be wasting their time and dollars with distracting linux development, which means more r&d and polish goes into windows products.
personally, i think if microsoft wants their applications to run on linux, they should port them.
here are a few choice development  solutions for creating cross platform applications (alphabetically ordered): delphi / kylix: c++ and objectpascal cross-platform development with one  of the most polished ide's you'll ever see (the 'personal' kylix edition is  even free).
developers should stake a claim and make the best desktop linux software they can.
windows95 and windows nt 4.0 were soon released-- '95 was a dream for the consumer and naturally you couldn't run '95 applications on os/2, so many of the new converts switched back.
you'd almost think it was the ultimate goal of linux-- to be able to run  elf and windows binaries on the same o/s."lindows" does it.
it's a roaring success--  achieving 100% compatibility, it becomes part of all the mainstream linux  distributions.
i consider it verging on treason for linux users to be running wine.
but wouldn't  their talents be better spent developing the native linux platform rather than  enabling a windows platform on top of linux?
hoards of people will run their windows software on linux, to the detriment of native linux projects.
for linux users-- wine's harmful effects: instead of companies writing linux versions of their software, they expect linux users to run their windows applications on wine.
it's a roaring success-- achieving 100% compatibility, it becomes part of all the mainstream linux distributions.
i'm starting to see more and more applications require that .net be installed to operate.
i don't think you can compare wine to virtual pc that easily.
november 4, 2002 1:15 pm
commercial linux companies now have to deal with competing with windows products even though they weren't trying to in the first place.
new applications would require this new layer to function and thus be incompatible outside of windows.
it was a technical triumph.
instead of ms office, i would runopenoffice.
and wine is becoming a part of some linux distributions where virtual pc is a separate commercial product.
there--that's when microsoft wins.
movable type linux for windows?
openoffice and other open-source linix software will be free.
new  applications would require this new layer to function and thus be incompatible  outside of windows.
and mac users don't need to buy ms office for windows and run it on virtual pc, they would buy the macos-native version of ms office.
i totally agree with you brad, i have deep reservations about wine myself even though i can understand why they're doing it.
many of them have to resort to a dual-boot situation, or they do like myself, and give up on linux.
now with all due respect to the wine team-- i hold those guys in the highest regard.
linux desperately needs native applications if it is going to survive.
that would translate into a very negative user experience for end-users and would give linux a big black eye in the process.
theirkung foo is certainly better than mine.
what are we trying to do?
we've learned this lesson already--  even if wine were to be 100% compatible with windows today, tomorrow it would  not be.
don't give up on it please.
xul and xpcom: xul (pronounced zool, rhymes with cool) for interface  definition,xpcom for writing the native code components for different  platforms.
[read more] tracked on december 27, 2004 5:36
many more can be found on the home page or by looking through the archives.
cross-platform application development is a much saner approach to take than using a "cross-platform o/s".
assuming wine works, won't the windows software be running in emulation and run slower than native software?
wine is more seamless than virtual pc.
not to mention that these new versions of windows ran windows apps better than ever!
hoards of people will run their  windows software on linux, to the detriment of native linux projects.
then, without warning, introduce a new layer of apis that can't so easily be replicated.
issues like hardware abstraction, cpu independance, library availability, etc.
but here's a question  i have:why???
some initiatives seem like a good step in the right direction (like java and - i must say - .net).
efforts by the wine project and codeweavers are making this dream a reality.
and if there's little  to no development going on for linux, then eventually people will realize that  they might as well be running windows for all their windows software.
i think the reason behind that issue is a result of the lack of (goood) cross-platform support in development suits.
wxwindows: open-source gui framework for cross-platform development.
and windows nt 4.0 brought the stability that many os/2 users chose os/2 to begin with.
but-- in the end, os/2 was not served very well by it's windows support.
for running windows applications, there is a perfectly  good o/s for doing that: windows.
we only get about 20% of our downloads for linux, well over 70% of our users are on windows.
wine is one of those recursive acronyms, standing for "wine is not an emulator".
wine could allow these people to use linux as their primary os.
it was a bold, new os/2 with the best windows compatibility yet.
let's not take linux down that road.
darkness at the end of the tunnel let's imagine for a moment that the wine project is complete and that linux  can natively run all manner of windows applications.
for windows software developers-- wine's helpful effects: without the need to target linux specifically, the windows developer can concentrate on windows and let the linux 'fringe' run his windows apps if they want to.
wine: second glass from jean-philippe leboeuf notebook an  interesting point of view from brad choate about wine, comparing one possible  future of linux + wine to the misfortune of  ibm os/2 warp +  microsoft windows compatibility....
options abound cross-platform application development is a much saner approach to take  than using a "cross-platform o/s".
you don't hear about mac users going out in droves and buying office for windows or much else to run under windows.
november 22, 2002 4:49 am this article was published on november 2, 2002 11:04 am.
developers  should stake a claim and make the best desktop linux software they can.
it's about the side-effects that the wine project is going to have on linux as a platform, linux developers and linux users.
os/2 developers heard that loud and clear and packed their bags for the windows camp.
this is not an issue of os, it's an issue of (a lack of) platform-indendance of software.
the next article is more linux for windows.
many windows users tried os/2 for the first time (ironically enough, i was one of them, but mainly used it for running dos and windows applications, which it did with style).
because of that, i abhor "stop energy", but i think this is an important topic that needs to be thought about.
they don't deserve a free ride.
hindsight is 20/20 let's consider history for a moment.
they even went a step further and released a version of os/2 called "os/2  for windows" just to further confuse everyone.
it adds capability to linux, but to the detriment of linux itself.
wine and co. will  continue, regardless of what i have to say.
personally, i think if microsoft wants their applications to run on linux, they  should port them.
propogate the microsoft 'office monopoly' on to the  linux platform?
many windows users tried os/2 for the first  time (ironically enough, i was one of them, but mainly used it for running dos  and windows applications, which it did with style).
i'm starting to see more and more applications require that .net be  installed to operate.
it runs ok, but doesn't take full advantage of the linux platform.
i think about the only reason people use it is when they have to.
in this light, this discussion boils down to the fact that the free os suffers from heavy competition of the commercial os - all because most of the so-called 'popular applications' just don't run (well enough) on the free os.
wine: second glass from jean-philippe leboeuf notebook an interesting point of view from brad choate about wine, comparing one possible future of linux + wine to the misfortune of ibm os/2 warp + microsoft windows compatibility....
os/2 developers heard that loud and clear and packed their bags for  the windows camp.
wine: second glass from jean-philippe leboeuf notebook an  interesting point of view from brad choate about wine, comparing one possible  future of linux + wine to the misfortune of ibm os/2 warp + microsoft windows  compatibility....
wine: second glass from jean-philippe leboeuf notebook an  interesting point of view from brad choate about wine, comparing one possible  future of linux + wine to the misfortune of ibm os/2 warp + microsoft  windows compatibility....
for windows as a platform-- wine's helpful effects: wine supports the windows platform by allowing windows applications to run on linux.
for linux as a platform-- wine's harmful effects: wine hurts the linux platform by allowing windows applications to run on linux.
wine doesn't cost anything (virtual pc retails today for $219 - $249 us).
and  windows nt 4.0 brought the stability that many os/2 users chose os/2 to begin  with.
because if linux can run windows apps, they might as well make windows apps, since windows certainly can't run linux software.
i just don't get it.
personally, i think it  would.
worst case, the linux application development community shrugs and starts learning visual studio and mfc.
it supported 16-bit and "win32s" windows applications by running them in a separate virtual machine, but the process was transparent enough to make it look seamless.
microsoft loses if you don't need windows to run windows apps, right?
not to mention that these new versions of windows ran windows apps better than  ever!
you'd almost think it was the ultimate goal of linux-- to be able to run elf and windows binaries on the same o/s."lindows" does it.
no-- linux loses becausethere will be less  incentive to develop native linux software.
worst case, the linux  application development community shrugs and starts learning visual studio and  mfc.
with os/2 for windows, ibm declared "if you can't beat 'em, join  'em."
for running windows applications, there is a perfectly good o/s for doing that: windows.
related links posted on november 2, 2002 11:04 am | permalink posted in linux trackback url for this entry: http://bradchoate.com/mt/feedback/tb/434 listed below are links to weblogs that reference linux for windows?:
it supported 16-bit and "win32s" windows  applications by running them in a separate virtual machine, but the process was  transparent enough to make it look seamless.
those proceeds go towards more windows development instead of linux.
ms office will still cost money.
it's how mozilla is built, so that's good enough for me.
instead of winamp, i'd run xmms.
wine and co. will continue, regardless of what i have to say.
let's consider history for a moment.
let's imagine for a moment that the wine project is complete and that linux can natively run all manner of windows applications.
[read more] tracked on december 27, 2004 5:39 pm »
november 4, 2002 5:12 pm reading this, i just can't refrain myself from replying: just for the sake of argument, replace linux with myfavoritefreeos and replace windows with someothercommercialos.
that would translate into a very negative user experience for end-users  and would give linux a big black eye in the process.
and it's not an emulator.
companies may look to try out linux with this support for windows, but they find that their commercial software isn't supported by the manufacturer if it's running under linux (and in some cases, doing so is in violation of the eula).
and now, without even trying, they're making money from linux users too.
this isn't about commercial versus free.
it may be somewhat slower, but not as slow as an emulator.
pm i'm sure you know it already but openoffice.org already runs perfectly fine on windows, solaris, linux (x86, ppc and even s/390).
consider: for linux software developers-- wine's harmful effects: linux users can run windows applications on wine, which means there isn't much frontier left on the linux landscape.
[read more] tracked on december 27, 2004 5:40 pm
and another new linux distro, xandros does it.
you could start up windows apps right on the os/2 desktop.
but developers should consider this  an opportunity!
no-- linux loses becausethere will be less incentive to develop native linux software.
they even went a step further and released a version of os/2 called "os/2 for windows" just to further confuse everyone.
in a bid to encourage windows users to switch to the arguably better os/2 operating system, ibm released os/2 warp 3.0.
propogate the microsoft 'office monopoly' on to the linux platform?
but here's a question i have:why???
you can write cross platform solution based on the newly released ooo sdk as well.
but developers should consider this an opportunity!
sounds a lot like what ms is in the process of doing with .net.
now, as a software developer, i'm all about solving problems.
linux developers have even fewer employment opportunities for linux software development.
we've learned this lesson already-- even if wine were to be 100% compatible with windows today, tomorrow it would not be.
i don't have any call to action about any of this.
but wouldn't their talents be better spent developing the native linux platform rather than enabling a windows platform on top of linux?
but-- in the end, os/2 was  not served very well by it's windows support.
there is an existing case study: virtual pc, which runs on a mac, allowing the user to run the windows or linux os.
if this goal every gets reached, free software can finally start competing with commercial software on equal terms.
here are a few choice development solutions for creating cross platform applications (alphabetically ordered): posted on november 2, 2002 11:04 am | permalink posted in linux trackback url for this entry: http://bradchoate.com/mt/feedback/tb/434 listed below are links to weblogs that reference linux for windows?:
but for linux, there are lots of gaps left to fill.
i'd rather run linux software on linux.
i realize that there are windows apps out there that don't  really have a decent equivalent for linux.
windows95 and windows nt 4.0 were  soon released-- '95 was a dream for the consumer and naturally you couldn't run  '95 applications on os/2, so many of the new converts switched back.
for the most part it  delivered pretty well.
had ibm put more effort into os/2 itself as opposed to making it a funky kind of windows shell, would os/2 be better off today?
if i were heading up the windows division of microsoft, this would be my game plan: allow the api to stablize long enough for projects like wine to support it.
i realize that there are windows apps out there that don't really have a decent equivalent for linux.
it was a bold, new os/2 with the best windows  compatibility yet.
with os/2 for windows, ibm declared "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em."
windows desktop software development has stagnated to a  standstill.
java: sun's "write-once-run-anywhere" (debatable, but mostly  true) language/platform.
call to action i don't have any call to action about any of this.
and naturally, you couldn't run windows nt 4 applications on os/2 either.
efforts by the wine  project and codeweavers are making this dream a reality.
[read more] tracked on december 27, 2004 5:40
mac users are not using virtual pc a whole lot.
because if linux can run windows apps, they might as well make windows  apps, since windows certainly can't run linux software.
for the most part it delivered pretty well.