tip to the folks at ubuntu: create an installer that works with widescreen laptops.
i don't want  to use the terminal with linux any more than i want to use it on os x or  use dos on a windows computer.
i don't understand the reasoning behind that, although perhaps windows is considered so problematic that it's best to have a backup partition.
next already learned how to put their  interface on both mach and solaris kernels.
apple + intel + linux it was once unthinkable that apple would switch to intel cpus, but apple's  engineers with next roots have been developing os x (then called openstep)
a different  os that hasn't always played well with windows.
next already learned how to put their interface on both mach and solaris kernels.
i picked the wrong one -
logmein makes it easy.
or not being able to easily install something as important as java?
nothing intuitive about how to change that either - but that's not a reflection on linux.
ubuntu wanted to repartition my linux partition into a  system partition and a scratch partition, somehow ignoring the fact that my  previous installation had already created a scratch partition.
this is arguably  the most extensive and successful open source project to date.
the transition to intel would be the perfect time to make the switch.
now it's do or die time for rim.
it's a bit different from what a mac  user is used to, but not too divergent from the windows experience.
it also means downloading four disk images and burning four  install cds.
i have a 250 gb drive inside this computer, but i didn't want to risk the installer messing up my configuration.
by 1992 next has begun porting nextstep to intel cpus, and there was  another project to port it to powerpc.
mac and ios browsers: options galore, freeware forum, 2012.02.10.
dreams of the best kernel and the best gui working  together.
on intel hardware longer than they have on powerpc.
somehow it hadn't detected the 1280  x 800 native resolution of my display, so it was scaling 1024 x 768 to full  screen.
in the end i concluded that i'd have to run the installer again and do a  complete installation.
advice is presented in good faith, but what works for one may not work for all.
the underlying kernel is a bit  of a hack, ported from next's x86-based os to the powerpc, and moving the mac  to intel cpus will improve things.
linux does a lot of things  right, but there are still those geeky things that require you to use the  terminal.
people use windows because everyone uses it,  because it's seen as the "business" os (thanks to ibm's adoption of  microsoft dos way back in 1981), and because microsoft, intel, and dozens of  hardware companies are pushing it.
saying good-bye to inkjet printers, 2012.01.18.
i installed other browsers.
but what's up with installers that let you put the os on a drive you can't boot from?
we live in a three os, two hardware platform world, but that's going to start changing in 2006.
then i booted from the cd and tried to install linux.
-- special introductory price of $59.95!!
or not being able to add a resolution for your display if you botched your installation?
and that's where this story begins.
apple, the apple logo, macintosh, ipad iphone, imac, ipod, macbook, magsafe, mac pro, apple tv, and airport areregistered trademarks of apple inc.
if ubuntu linux won't boot from an external drive, why does it allow you to  install to an external drive?
it seems sensible to move os x to a more efficient kernel than mach (apple  has been making mach more efficient since 10.0 shipped), but there's one big  obstacle:
links for the day mac of the day: powerbook 165c, introduced 1993.02.10.
lem writers share their favorites.
also macbook air  better than any ultrabook, docks for macbook pro models, intel offers improved  ssds, and more.
i did find a few pages  explaining how to go into the terminal and type in cryptic commands that had to  be entered just so and varied for each and every graphics processor out there.
apple will begin migrating macs to intel cpus, and the  new "macintel" computers will be able to run windows, linux x86, and  mac os x. windows does a lot of things right, but the underlying operating system is  so full of holes it makes swiss cheese look solid.
ubuntu linux for ppc step one is picking a linux distribution, and i'd heard good things about  ubuntu.
or not being able to easily install something as  important as java?
the 40 gb drive came partitioned with a small first partition and two 17 gb partitions.
recent articles by dan knight kill caps lock, but leave the rest of my keyboard alone (mostly),  2012.02.03.
egos and personalities seem to mean a lot at apple these days, so unless tevanian were to become convinced that microkernel architecture is hampering os x and then convince jobs of that truth, change is unlikely.
the current wikipedia article puts it thus: microkernels generally underperform in comparison to traditional designs, sometimes dramatically.
i'll grant that once it's installed, it's probably as easy to use as windows (which i, as a mac user, find pretty cryptic), and i can definitely make my way around in it.
leaman crews suggested i try installing ubuntu on my acer aspire laptop.
more in the mac musings index.
the problem with mach is that microkernels are inefficient because of all  the communication taking place between different parts of the operating system.
tip to the folks at ubuntu: create an installer that works with widescreen  laptops.
i configure the  messaging client.
in the end i concluded that i'd have to run the installer again and do a complete installation.
once again i downloaded an iso file and burned a bootable installer cd.
it's a bit different from what a mac user is used to, but not too divergent from the windows experience.
also using your ipad at  work, two photo editors, a new ipad text editor, macally's magnetic ipad 2  stand, and more.
for more details, see ourterms of use.
linux is already broken into  many camps - kde aficionados vs. gnome users, debian vs. slackware vs. gentoo  plus dozens of other distributions.
how friendly is linux?
and that's where this story  begins.
however, that project was halted when  nextstep 3.1 (a.k.a.
ubuntu wanted to repartition my linux partition into a system partition and a scratch partition, somehow ignoring the fact that my previous installation had already created a scratch partition.
something only creative types  use, according to the stereotype.
(this would be the exact opposite of mklinux, apple's project to build a  powerpc version of linux on the mach microkernel that apple abandoned after  they acquired next.)
theoretically i'd be  able to boot both my emac and my power mac from the same disk.
no more  beach balls of death.
follow us on twitter.
i'd say ubuntu is definitely less pretty than os x or windows, but every bit as usable.
the question is how the future will play out.
yellow dog linux is supposed to work with a firewire drive, and i may try  that someday.
topxnotes classic - ppc emulator adds classic to macintel support low end mac recent content on low end
but the core of linux is solid, powerful, efficient, and doesn't get as bogged down with multithreading as the mac os.
step one is picking a linux distribution, and i'd heard good things about ubuntu.
next i decided to see how well linux handled yahoo games.
also the power of tex-edit  plus, google and twitter are already censoring the web, snow leopard security  update, and more.
linux has grown into the most  popular non-microsoft operating system on x86 hardware, but it's held back by  dozens of distributions and two different guis.
what if apple were to build the equivalent of openstep for linux?
to buy from the mac app storeclick here now!!
room for improvement
home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support |news feed | #lowendmac dan knight - 2005.12.14 - tip jar popularity: the personal computing world is divided into three major camps: windows, linux, and macintosh.
the first color  powerbook had an attractive screen, slow graphics.
we can dream, can't we?
dreams of the best kernel and the best gui working together.
that meant there were several lines of text that i couldn't see.
so i downloaded a disk image (iso) file and used dragonburn to create a  bootable installation cd.
first problem: how do i know which of the two  drives to partition for linux?
additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are hereby acknowledged.
then i diddled around trying to figure out how to boot the acer from a cd.
low end mac is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by apple inc.
don't kill caps lock, learning to love the ios keyboard, and an adaptive  ipad keyboard, charles w. moore, miscellaneous ramblings, 2012.02.06.
i did a lot of online research,  and that's a pretty consistent message.
i finally discovered that you have to press f2 during startup and configure  the laptop to look at the combo drive before trying to boot from the hard  drive.
somehow it hadn't detected the 1280 x 800 native resolution of my display, so it was scaling 1024 x 768 to full screen.
every program written for os x (as opposed to ported from linux or unix) installs easily.
dan knight has been using macs since 1986, sold macs for several years, supported them for many more years, and has been publishing low end mac since april 1997.
being unable to see what i was selecting meant that i spent a lot of time going in circles, but i eventually got ubuntu installed and running on the acer.
plain old email - 03:  xserve, 1.33 ghz - 1993:
linux does a lot of things right, but there are still those geeky things that require you to use the terminal.
letters may be edited for length, context, and to matchhouse style.
mach: os x's achilles' heel
the caps  lock key has a useful function, the ipad's keyboard really is useful, and  checking out an adaptive keyboard for the ipad.
real competition for microsoft windows present and future.
ubuntu installs all sorts of useful applications - firefox, chat and email software, an office suite, several games.
&lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/715/viewjscript?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=13&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;  &lt;noscript&gt;&lt;a  href="http://adserver1.backbeatmedia.com/servlet/ajrotator/270/715/clickcgi?pos=13&amp;zone=5000"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/715/viewcgi?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=13&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"  border="0"&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/noscript&gt; home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support  |news feed | #lowendmac mac musings os x is holding back the mac dan knight - 2005.12.14 - tip jar popularity: the personal computing world is divided into three major camps: windows,  linux, and macintosh.
it was originally believed that careful  tuning could reduce this overhead dramatically, but by the mid-90s most  researchers had given up.
is this rim's macintosh moment?, 2012.01.25.
the installer did its thing, partitioning  the drive and then installing linux on my external drive.
mac users don't know how easy we have it being able to just hold the c key and boot from a cd or dvd.
use a smaller font so we can see 24 or 25 lines like people with  regular displays.
one was on my 10 gb ipod, and while it was interesting for a few days, it was troublesome in the long run.
first problem: how do i know which of the two drives to partition for linux?
yellow dog linux is supposed to work with a firewire drive, and i may try that someday.
in the 14 years since the first linux release, linux has grown into a full-fledged operating system that has been tweaked and optimized by a host of programmers - and their work reviewed by other programmers.
no more beach balls of death.
i don't understand the reasoning behind that, although perhaps  windows is considered so problematic that it's best to have a backup partition.
that's when i discovered that whileusing linux may be as simple as windows, installing software isn't.
linux is already broken into many camps - kde aficionados vs. gnome users, debian vs. slackware vs. gentoo plus dozens of other distributions.
the underlying kernel is a bit of a hack, ported from next's x86-based os to the powerpc, and moving the mac to intel cpus will improve things.
why don't linux and the mac os account for a greater share of the market?
next was committed to the mach kernel five years before linus torvalds began his os, and it took a while before linux began to approach the maturity of other unix-like operating systems, so there would have been no reason for next to consider switching from mach.
this number is for advertising only.
nothing intuitive about how to change that either - but that's not a  reflection on linux.
ubuntu installs all sorts of useful applications - firefox, chat and email  software, an office suite, several games.
the first version of linux was released in sept. 1991, and since then programmers around the world have contributed to extending and improving linux.
entire low end mac website copyright ©1997-2012 bycobweb publishing, inc. unless otherwise noted.
i have a 250 gb drive inside this computer, but i didn't want to risk the  installer messing up my configuration.
it's so secure that not a single  virus has survived in the wild.
that is,  take the whole of os x and build it around a linux kernel instead of mach.
it was really cool watching the acer boot into linux, and then i discovered  the first problem: the installer assumes a 24- or 25-line by 80 character  display, yet the widescreen display on the acer was maybe 18 or 20 lines by 80  characters.
the installer did its thing, partitioning the drive and then installing linux on my external drive.
i'd say  ubuntu is definitely less pretty than os x or windows, but every bit as  usable.
(this would be the exact opposite of mklinux, apple's project to build a powerpc version of linux on the mach microkernel that apple abandoned after they acquired next.)
next's next project was separating the rest of the operating system from  the kernel, which helped create openstep.
i configure the messaging client.
the problem with mach is that microkernels are inefficient because of all the communication taking place between different parts of the operating system.
they know that  os x should have been built on a linux foundation - and they think linux  is accessible to the masses.
i did find a few pages explaining how to go into the terminal and type in cryptic commands that had to be entered just so and varied for each and every graphics processor out there.
the various browsers were kind enough to make it easy to install flash when a website needed it, but yahoo games require java - and sun doesn't have a simple installer for linux, and the java that comes with ubuntu linux wasn't recognized by yahoo.
likewise, linux is in some ways what os x could be.
it seems sensible to move os x to a more efficient kernel than mach (apple has been making mach more efficient since 10.0 shipped), but there's one big obstacle:
the more i use opera, the more i like it, but i couldn't get it installed.
mac  users don't know how easy we have it being able to just hold the c key and boot  from a cd or dvd.
a different os that hasn't always played well with windows.
so i downloaded a disk image (iso) file and used dragonburn to create a bootable installation cd.
we don't collect personal information unless you explicitly provide it.
macs and linux divide the remaining 10% or so between them.
in many ways, os x is what linux would be with a great gui.
that's when i discovered that whileusing linux may be as  simple as windows, installing software isn't.
but what's up with installers that let you put the os on a drive you can't  boot from?
it was really cool watching the acer boot into linux, and then i discovered the first problem: the installer assumes a 24- or 25-line by 80 character display, yet the widescreen display on the acer was maybe 18 or 20 lines by 80 characters.
however, that project was halted when nextstep 3.1 (a.k.a.
egos and personalities seem to mean a  lot at apple these days, so unless tevanian were to become convinced that  microkernel architecture is hampering os x and then convince jobs of that  truth, change is unlikely.
it was originally believed that careful tuning could reduce this overhead dramatically, but by the mid-90s most researchers had given up.
when steve jobs started next, he soon realized that no existing os matched  his vision and determined that the mach kernel (a variant of unix) would be the  best foundation for his new object-oriented operating system.
join us on facebook.
that is, take the whole of os x and build it around a linux kernel instead of mach.
mac fix home button delay, tablet the ultimate mobile pc, ipad notebook a  possibility, and more, ios news review, 2012.02.10.
if you find dan's articles helpful,please consider making a  donation to his tip jar.
the macintel future we live in a three os, two hardware platform world, but that's going to  start changing in 2006.
more links in our archive.
not a big deal, since i had three other browsers, but not a good sign.
safari  is adequate on mac and great on ios, but the range of good alternatives is  stunning.
why  can't linux software have the same kind of simple installers mac and windows  users are accustomed to?
it's so secure that not a single virus has survived in the wild.
people use windows because everyone uses it, because it's seen as the "business" os (thanks to ibm's adoption of microsoft dos way back in 1981), and because microsoft, intel, and dozens of hardware companies are pushing it.
this is due in large part to the overhead of moving in and out of the kernel, a context switch, in order to move data between the various applications and servers.
what was all this nonsense about linux being user-friendly and accessible  to the masses?
an os and installers that are truly ready for the masses.
the current wikipedia article puts it thus: microkernels generally underperform in comparison to traditional designs,  sometimes dramatically.
next's next project was separating the rest of the operating system from the kernel, which helped create openstep.
in fact, linux is  so robust that ibm has embraced it.
i don't want to use the terminal with linux any more than i want to use it on os x or use dos on a windows computer.
i've done four linux installations in my life.
it also means downloading four disk images and burning four install cds.
apple has discontinued its  $100 printer rebates, but even a free inkjet printer is false economy.
for price quotes and advertising information, please contact at backbeat media (646-546-5194).
linux has grown into the most popular non-microsoft operating system on x86 hardware, but it's held back by dozens of distributions and two different guis.
i looked over the step-by-step instructions and tried to follow them in the terminal, but for whatever reason i couldn't get java installed.
that took some time, because i was making blind choices with text that didn't appear on my widescreen display.
they debate distributions, guis (gnome vs. kde), and hardware.
theoretically i'd be able to boot both my emac and my power mac from the same disk.
in 1991, linus torvalds began writing the linux kernel, a unix-like  operating system designed for the popular, powerful intel 80386 cpu.
that took some  time, because i was making blind choices with text that didn't appear on my  widescreen display.
something only creative types use, according to the stereotype.
i eventually worked around that problem by simply removing both of those partitions and having the installer create them from scratch.
ubuntu redux i searched online for a way to rerun just the part of the installer that  handled video drivers, but i couldn't find anything.
linux is supposed to be user-friendly these days.
what was all this nonsense about linux being user-friendly and accessible to the masses?
dan knight has been using macs since 1986, sold macs for several years,  supported them for many more years, and has been publishing low end mac since  april 1997.
email may be published at our discretion unless marked "not for publication"; email addresses will not be published without permission, and we will encrypt them in hopes of avoiding spammers.
i searched online for a way to rerun just the part of the installer that handled video drivers, but i couldn't find anything.
windows accounts for about 90% of the installed base.
i picked just the 1280 x 800 native resolution, and in the end i had a sharp display.
i had files on one, nothing on the other, but  the installer didn't identify the drives by name.
that was 1986, and the next computers ran their unix-derived os on motorola 68030 cpus - the same used in macs.
logmein: remote screen sharing for the rest of us, alan zisman, zis mac,  2012.02.09.
i picked just the 1280 x 800 native resolution, and in the end i  had a sharp display.
i finally discovered that you have to press f2 during startup and configure the laptop to look at the combo drive before trying to boot from the hard drive.
ultimate spam email -  06:
white macbook goes end-of-life, logitech touch mouse supports gestures,  firmware updates, and more, the 'book review, 2012.02.10.
now let's put the pieces together.
why can't linux software have the same kind of simple installers mac and windows users are accustomed to?
in the 14 years since the first linux release, linux has grown into a  full-fledged operating system that has been tweaked and optimized by a host of  programmers - and their work reviewed by other programmers.
the g3 processor was optimized for real world mac software and made  a big leap forward in efficiency.
or buy direct from strider software.
this time when it came to configuring video, i understood that you use the tab and arrow keys to move the cursor and the space bar to toggle resolutions on and off.
theoretically, because after installing ubuntu linux, i discovered  that you can't boot it from a firewire drive.
february 10 in lem history: 93: lc iii - color classic - powerbook 165c -  centris 610 and 650 - quadra 800 - 99:
it was neat to see - but also fuzzy.
by 1992 next has begun porting nextstep to intel cpus, and there was another project to port it to powerpc.
the first  version of linux was released in sept. 1991, and since then programmers around  the world have contributed to extending and improving linux.
15 years ago motorola unveiled the powerpc g3, low end mac round table,  2012.02.06.
every program written for os x (as opposed  to ported from linux or unix) installs easily.
linux users form another counterculture, one more technically inclined.
don't install parallels to play poker online!
the various  browsers were kind enough to make it easy to install flash when a website  needed it, but yahoo games require java - and sun doesn't have a simple  installer for linux, and the java that comes with ubuntu linux wasn't  recognized by yahoo.
that was 1986,  and the next computers ran their unix-derived os on motorola 68030 cpus - the  same used in macs.
a monolithic kernel is more efficient because processes don't have to move in  and out of the kernel.
the 40 gb drive came partitioned with a small first partition and two 17 gb  partitions.
please report errors to .
this time when it came to configuring video, i understood that you use the  tab and arrow keys to move the cursor and the space bar to toggle resolutions  on and off.
i'll grant that once it's installed, it's probably as easy to  use as windows (which i, as a mac user, find pretty cryptic), and i can  definitely make my way around in it.
another was on mypower mac g4/1 ghz dual.
macsurfer cult of mac shrine of apple macintouch myapplemenu infomac the mac observer accelerate your mac retromaccast pb central macwindows the vintage mac museum dealmac deal brothers mac2sell mac driver museum jag's house system 6 heaven system 7 today the pickle's low-end mac faq amazon.com the apple store the itunes store pc connection express gainsaver parallels desktop for mac ebay all of our advertising is handled by backbeat media.
and then i tried to install things that hadn't come with the  distribution.
i looked over the step-by-step instructions and tried to follow them in the  terminal, but for whatever reason i couldn't get java installed.
when steve jobs started next, he soon realized that no existing os matched his vision and determined that the mach kernel (a variant of unix) would be the best foundation for his new object-oriented operating system.
share follow low end mac on twitter join low end mac on facebook typestyler 11 is now in the mac app store!!
i had files on one, nothing on the other, but the installer didn't identify the drives by name.
use a smaller font so we can see 24 or 25 lines like people with regular displays.
they know that os x should have been built on a linux foundation - and they think linux is accessible to the masses.
this is due in large part to the overhead of moving in  and out of the kernel, a context switch, in order to move data between the  various applications and servers.
apple rolls out 6 new models at once - cheerleading,  misinformation, and moving ahead - wacom graphire2 - 05:
poker mac will show you how to download and install a native mac poker andmac casino applications in minutes.
one was on my 10 gb ipod,  and while it was interesting for a few days, it was troublesome in the long  run.
and then i tried to install things that hadn't come with the distribution.
a monolithic kernel is more efficient because processes don't have to move in and out of the kernel.
next was committed to the mach kernel five years before linus torvalds  began his os, and it took a while before linux began to approach the maturity  of other unix-like operating systems, so there would have been no reason for  next to consider switching from mach.
likewise, linux  is in some ways what os x could be.
theoretically, because after installing ubuntu linux, i discovered that you can't boot it from a firewire drive.
apple's support lead shipping, smartphones outsell pcs, os x ported to arm  by intern, and more, mac news review, 2012.02.10.
this is arguably the most extensive and successful open source project to date.
we allow and encourage links to any public page as long as the linked page does not appear within a frame that prevents bookmarking it.
for all its strengths, os x does allow tasks to so dominate the os that everything else stops while the beach ball spins.
if ubuntu linux won't boot from an external drive, why does it allow you to install to an external drive?
it was once unthinkable that apple would switch to intel cpus, but apple's engineers with next roots have been developing os x (then called openstep) on intel hardware longer than they have on powerpc.
in 1991, linus torvalds began writing the linux kernel, a unix-like operating system designed for the popular, powerful intel 80386 cpu.
in fact, linux is so robust that ibm has embraced it.
mac os x does almost everything right.
nextstep 486) was released in 1993.
apple will begin migrating macs to intel cpus, and the new "macintel" computers will be able to run windows, linux x86, and mac os x. windows does a lot of things right, but the underlying operating system is so full of holes it makes swiss cheese look solid.
ubuntu linux for x86 leaman crews suggested i try installing ubuntu on my acer aspire laptop.
avie tevanian, one of the developers of the mach kernel, worked at  next and came to apple with steve jobs.
i eventually worked around that problem by simply removing both of those  partitions and having the installer create them from scratch.
configuring the mac's built-in screen sharing to work over the  internet can be difficult or impossible.
or not being able to add a resolution for your display if you  botched your installation?
it's too easy to hit caps lock by accident, but why change a  keyboard layout that billions of users are comfortable with?
macs are seen as nonconformist computers.
if you find dan's articles helpful,please consider making a donation to his tip jar.
i had a pair of 80 gb drives in an  external firewire enclosure.
avie tevanian, one of the developers of the mach kernel, worked at next and came to apple with steve jobs.
being unable to see what i was selecting meant that i spent a lot of time  going in circles, but i eventually got ubuntu installed and running on the  acer.
for all its strengths, os x does  allow tasks to so dominate the os that everything else stops while the beach  ball spins.
i had a pair of 80 gb drives in an external firewire enclosure.
in 1996, apple was in dire  straits, but steve jobs redefined the company.
but the core of linux is solid, powerful,  efficient, and doesn't get as bogged down with multithreading as the mac os.
i did a lot of online research, and that's a pretty consistent message.