most users use the  termvirus to refer to any program or script that invades your  computer, and either reproduces and distrubutes itself, or harms your computer.
you used to have the ability to install windows an unlimited number of  times.
it's easy to get a high security rating on a computer with no network  connection.
i compiled an application this morning; it took me twenty seconds.
why would i want to use linux?
if you own your car (or even lease it), you tend to pay more attention to its maintenance.
with linux on your home computer, you will be changing  your own oil, brake shoes, and even replacing the whole engine, and it will be  easy.
most users use the termvirus to refer to any program or script that invades your computer, and either reproduces and distrubutes itself, or harms your computer.
if your hardware has changed too much,  you will have to contact microsoft for permission to use your computer.
the short answer: no.
in  order for anything to invade your linux computer, it has to gainroot  access.
don't be too impressed when a linux user tells you he compiles his own applications; for the most part that means he types three commands, and the computer does the rest.
i've heard a lot of hype about the xp user agreement.
if windows crashes (if?), you must contact microsoft for permission to  re-install it.
this is a hot topic of debate on alt.os.linux.mandrake.
for most users, a standard linux installation provides better security than the most advanced windows firewall.
i'm not  making this up.
don't be too impressed when a linux user tells you he compiles his own  applications; for the most part that means he types three commands, and the  computer does the rest.
not everything will be easy.
if you're using linux at home, you will need to know more about how your  computer works than you did with windows.
yes, seventeen years after releasing windows, microsoft has acknowledged  that "our products are not engineered for security" (ms executive),  and launched trustworthy computing.
once you've installed it 50 times, you must buy a new copy of  windows.
you don't need to know how to change your brake shoes, or even change your oil by yourself, but you keep track of things like when you had the oil changed and how old your tires are (i hope).
windows nt got a c2 rating from the us military!
if you're  on a business trip, and you rent a car, you tend not to worry about how long  it's been since the oil was changed, or whether the tires have less than 10,000  km left on them.
but it's more involved than clicking 'next' six times.
you know those automatic security updates?
if you're using linux at home, you will need to know more about how your computer works than you did with windows.
besides, the us military has thrown its windows nt servers out the window  because they're sick of being hacked!
the simple answer: xp.
by accepting the license agreement for windows xp, you are not only acknowledging the fact that microsoft owns the operating system, you are giving themde facto ownership of your computer.
it's easy to get a high security rating on a computer with no network connection.
what can i do with linux?
(or maybe they will be automatic: automatically billed, that is.)
everyone is familiar with the my computer icon on the windows desktop, but few users have ever questioned the perspective of that caption.
i've only re-installed  windows 98 ten or twenty times.
if you have a video card with an nvidia  chipset, you will probably mess up the installation the first time, not because  it's difficult, but because you have to follow about ten steps, in order,  without interrupting the process to do something else.
if you upgrade your hardware, xp will check to make sure you haven't  changed too much (whatever that means).
this definition includes viruses, worms, trojans, and other scripts, but to simplify matters we will use the termvirus for all of them.
the disadvantage: 'the server is down' will no longer be an excuse to goof off!
if you are using linux at work, it will be just as easy to use as windows was, with the added bonus that you don't have to call it support several times a week, or wait half a day to send e-mail every time your exchange server goes down.
they've just launched  'trustworthy computing'.
yes, seventeen years after releasing windows, microsoft has acknowledged that "our products are not engineered for security" (ms executive), and launched trustworthy computing.
but microsoft is concerned about security.
fromunlimited to fifty is a much bigger jump than from fifty to one.
what can i do for linux?
what's the big deal about that?
here are some of the highlights, in plain english: you used to have the ability to install windows an unlimited number of times.
if you're on a business trip, and you rent a car, you tend not to worry about how long it's been since the oil was changed, or whether the tires have less than 10,000 km left on them.
i compiled an application this morning; it took me  twenty seconds.
here are some of the highlights, in plain english: the eula gives microsoft the right to install 'security updates' at their  convenience.
everyone is familiar with the my computer icon on the  windows desktop, but few users have ever questioned the perspective of that  caption.
xp makes it apparent that microsoft is telling the user: it's not your computer; it's my computer.
if i don't want microsoft to shut down my computer, can i just use it  without an internet connection?
your only recourse will be to buy a new copy of windows.
that means  it's secure.
but you have to be a computer geek to figure out linux, right?
(in windows nt terms, that's like logging in as administrator,  but harder to do.)
they won't be automatic anymore.
this definition includes viruses, worms, trojans, and other scripts, but to  simplify matters we will use the termvirus for all of them.
the disadvantage: 'the server is down' will no longer be an excuse to  goof off!
besides, the us military has thrown its windows nt servers out the window because they're sick of being hacked!
can i get viruses on linux?
why would i  want to use linux?
it's not rocket science, but it's more involved than clicking 'next' six times.
i'm perfectly happy with windows.
if you are using linux at work, it will be just as easy to use as windows  was, with the added bonus that you don't have to call it support several times  a week, or wait half a day to send e-mail every time your exchange server goes  down.
it's not rocket science,
in order for anything to invade your linux computer, it has to gainroot access.
for most users, a standard linux installation provides  better security than the most advanced windows firewall.
it's not your car, so it's not your problem.
why would i want to switch to a new  operating system?
think of it like your car.
you'll have to pay for each one.
(or maybe they will be automatic:  automatically billed, that is.)
if you have a dialup connection, this process will probably steal  your bandwidth for several minutes each time you connect to the internet.
e-mail me  (remove the obvious)
(in windows nt terms, that's like logging in as administrator, but harder to do.)
there are about a dozen known linux viruses (actually worms).
if you own your car (or even lease it), you tend to pay more attention to  its maintenance.
why are more people trying linux?
by accepting the license agreement  for windows xp, you are not only acknowledging the fact that microsoft owns the  operating system, you are giving themde facto ownership of your  computer.
with linux on your home computer, you will be changing your own oil, brake shoes, and even replacing the whole engine, and it will be easy.
where can i find more information about linux?
what's in there  that's really so bad?
if at any time microsoft decides that your hardware has changed, you have  installed 'untrustworthy' software, or the moon is the wrong shade of blue,  they can shut down your installation of windows through your modem or network.
you don't need to know how to change your brake shoes, or even  change your oil by yourself, but you keep track of things like when you had the  oil changed and how old your tires are (i hope).
if you have a video card with an nvidia chipset, you will probably mess up the installation the first time, not because it's difficult, but because you have to follow about ten steps, in order, without interrupting the process to do something else.
you've achieved a c2 security rating.