apple was significantly better (nothing fuzzy about it) from day  one (*nix based...)
so far, the only windows program i haven't found a decent replacement for is itunes.
anyway, when microsoft released their trial  copies of windows 7 for beta testing, i was right there to give it a shot, and  loved it.
but "better" is irrelivant, the true essences of linux and windows (the kernels) are damn near equal.
i still can't get ubuntu to work with my old wacom graphics tablet  without having to tweak parameters in the conf file when i do a system update -  and even then the functionality is much less than i get from a default install  of windows.
business tactics is the only reason windows won.
and as for ease of use - such as using a gui for configuration changes -  forget it.
i wish it were otherwise, but until linux developers submit to rules for centralising and standardising the operating system configuration - to take just one example - and recognise that users' desire for gui-based user-friendliness is not an excuse to treat them as contemptible intellectual inferiors, it will remain geekware.‹
but here comes ubuntu making some small, tiny in fact, waves.
i wish i could switch to linux, but years of trying with various distros (i'm a 30-year it veteran
i did get a but tired of ubuntu's updates, and have now settled into a nice arch distro, sure it took me a few hours (the bulk of which was spent on my wireless adapter) to get it working just right for my system, but it was worth it.
'ubuntu for human doing' › why linux sucks - what needs improving config thu, 06/10/2010 - 18:49 — javaguy10 (not  verified)
better alternatives popped up throughout history, and windows did not  crush them with superiority or easy of use.
but here we are 30 years later and  apple is far from dead(better?).
windows stands out in terms of funding and the number of funded 3rd party developers (aka market share).
windows stands  out in terms of funding and the number of funded 3rd party developers (aka  market share).
anyway, when microsoft released their trial copies of windows 7 for beta testing, i was right there to give it a shot, and loved it.
if you can use it on your system, and you don't mind playing around with obscure config commands buried in odd places within the file system, fine, but for most users linux just does not work.
i wish i could remember where i heard  this, somewhere online no doubt.
and as for ease of use - such as using a gui for configuration changes - forget it.
so i know a few things about computers and operating  systems) has convinced me that linux is not ready for mainstream desktop use.
reply wed, 06/09/2010 - 05:30 — add1kt (not verified) windows is not in use windows is not in use because the competion hasn't been better, because  first of all with computers that is a very vague and fuzzy issue.
i want to spend my time doing productive work, not playing at system  administration all day, so why should i bother?
warning: missing argument 4 for fivestar_vote() in  /home/dgtlmoon/drupal-5/sites/all/modules/fivestar/fivestar.module on line 645.
home › forums › why linux sucks - what  needs improving i still have to use windows to get work done warning: missing argument 4 for fivestar_vote() in  /home/dgtlmoon/drupal-5/sites/all/modules/fivestar/fivestar.module on line 645.
i am a java developer, so i do quite a but of programming, and like you, am  30 years old with a it background.
better alternatives popped up throughout history, and windows did not crush them with superiority or easy of use.
i learned more about my computer and how the os works in that time than i had in years of working with windows.
so i know a few things about computers and operating systems) has convinced me that linux is not ready for mainstream desktop use.
windows is not in use because the competion hasn't been better, because first of all with computers that is a very vague and fuzzy issue.
but  here comes ubuntu making some small, tiny in fact, waves.
i have virtualbox set up with a copy of windows xp, for application testing and if i need it for anything i can do in linux.
1000x better than vista, which i had been using on my new laptop,  however when the day came that i had to either buy it or go back to vista, i  decided to go ahead and install ubuntu in the interim until i could get a  retail copy of 7.
i learned more about my computer and how the os works in that time than i  had in years of working with windows.
"better" could mean any number of things, my ti-86 is better than windows...why?
business tactics is the only reason  windows won.
i wish i could remember where i heard this, somewhere online no doubt.
i did get a but tired of ubuntu's updates, and have now settled into a nice  arch distro, sure it took me a few hours (the bulk of which was spent on my  wireless adapter) to get it working just right for my system, but it was worth  it.
i was happily  plugging along in windows, doing my daily work and whatever else i wanted to  do.
'ubuntu for human doing' ›
but "better" is irrelivant, the true  essences of linux and windows (the kernels) are damn near equal.
yes microsoft sucks, but people still use windows because the competition hasn't come up with a better alternative for the majority of users.
yes microsoft sucks, but people still use windows because the competition  hasn't come up with a better alternative for the majority of users.
time will tell as for now i use linux
i have virtualbox set up with a copy of  windows xp, for application testing and if i need it for anything i can do in  linux.
to each his own i guess..
gaming is another story, i don't really play games, so it's not as much of a  concern for me as it might be for some.
i know such programs exist for linux, but it was faster to do it  through the virtual xp.
it 3/5give it 4/5give
it never crashes it does exactly what i need and there is a long list of things that it can do that windows cannot not do, or at least do easily.
i am a java developer, so i do quite a but of programming, and like you, am 30 years old with a it background.
this is what sets linux apart from other mainstream os's.
1000x better than vista, which i had been using on my new laptop, however when the day came that i had to either buy it or go back to vista, i decided to go ahead and install ubuntu in the interim until i could get a retail copy of 7.
gaming is another story, i don't really play games, so it's not as much of a concern for me as it might be for some.
and *nix has found a big foothold in servers and smartphones......
i wish it  were otherwise, but until linux developers submit to rules for centralising and  standardising the operating system configuration - to take just one example -  and recognise that users' desire for gui-based user-friendliness is not an  excuse to treat them as contemptible intellectual inferiors, it will remain  geekware.
apple was significantly better (nothing fuzzy about it) from day one (*nix based...)
average: 3 (2 votes) i wish i could switch to linux, but years of trying with various distros  (i'm a 30-year it veteran
i want to spend my time doing productive work, not playing at system administration all day, so why should i bother?
sat, 06/05/2010 - 00:06 — geno your rating: select ratinggive  it 1/5give it 2/5give
funny thing is, i've been using linux exclusively ever since.
if you can use it on your system, and you don't mind playing around with  obscure config commands buried in odd places within the file system, fine, but  for most users linux just does not work.
but here we are 30 years later and apple is far from dead(better?).
"better" could mean any number of things, my ti-86 is better than  windows...why?
time will tell as for  now i use linux reply we are not against linux but we are over the bullshit  that surrounds a lot of the desktop/ui related functions, we want to expose the  serious issues so others can see what needs fixing, this is a forum provided  for this to occur in.
climbing up from the bottom today would be very difficult.
it never crashes it does exactly what i need and there is a long  list of things that it can do that windows cannot not do, or at least do  easily.
i was of the exact same mindset as you 4-5 years ago.
and *nix has found a  big foothold in servers and smartphones......
i still can't get ubuntu to work with my old wacom graphics tablet without having to tweak parameters in the conf file when i do a system update - and even then the functionality is much less than i get from a default install of windows.
so far, the only windows program i haven't found a decent replacement  for is itunes.
if i didn't have an ipod, i wouldn't even need that.
i was happily plugging along in windows, doing my daily work and whatever else i wanted to do.
i know such programs exist for linux, but it was faster to do it through the virtual xp.