which is what made all those black plastic-wrapped comics smeared with bloody ses instant fishwrap—beyond the fact that it was a wretched, wretched comic: no one with half a brain could believe that this, this was the death of superman.
but most comics don't conclude at all.
he lives to see the return of good king richard and is finally killed by a woman, firing a last arrow to mark the place where he shall be buried.
even frank miller had to drag the dark knight back again.
what's fun to watch (from a distance) is how the comic books know it, in their bones.
that one hadn't been done so much, back then...
the later events of the various continua won't make much difference to them.
oh man have i wasted a lot of time reading this alan moore thing.
i skipped most of the last 1000 or so pages of _cerebus_ (though i did read the last 3 or 4 issues, to see how it all came out), so i missed out on the scene he's describing.
gaiman killed off morpheus.
but, as far as i can tell, there has never been any resolution to a single thread of the greek pantheon.
and now i can't feel my ass.
i had to come up with a super-nice character to be jaka's husband.
they know they have to make a gesture at an ending of some sort, which usually takes the form of clearing the decks, rebooting, getting back to basics, the core of the character(s).
but next month: new creative team!
posted by: anton sherwood | june 04, 2004 at 05:42 am got to say: modern lois-shaggin' supes with the long hair and the anchorman wardrobe does nothing for me.
by contrast, peter david's very long, very high-quality run on the hulk was succeeded by... same old, same old.
i appreciate the humor of having a satanic figure  called the infinity worm who turns out, after all, to be a little bitty worm,  ergo a mr. mind/satan in the garden mash-up homage, who exits by popping  through a mousehole: just a funny visual: "feets don't fail me now!"
he lives to see the return of good king richard and is finally killed  by a woman, firing a last arrow to mark the place where he shall be buried.
the riddle within an enigma of the fake fake regency elf and the little round glowing white strange thing.
it is truly a line worthy of the rude mechanicals, and it is very interesting that something written this badly could have so much resonance - for relative aristos like michael chabon, dave sim, harlan ellison.
the whole business with the christian symbolism of the branch...
an essential quality  of a legend is that the events in it are clearly defined in time; robin hood is  driven to become an outlaw by the injustices of king john and his minions.
(this tied in nicely with what i saw as oscar wilde's secular humanist messianic pretensions: when he would entertain his enraptured host and hostess and their guests at upper crust dinners, he sincerely thought that he was imparting the equivalent of jesus' parables, that jesus was a poet and a storyteller just like himself— a forerunner of john lennon's blasphemous notion that "the beatles were more popular than jesus".
indeed, they find it difficult to embrace any of the changes in life that the passage of time brings about for these very same reasons, making them finally less than fully human as well as falling far short of true myth.
and i was thinking about working in something about how i have always sort of believed the opposite.
abu aardvark links to an interesting interview with dave sim.
if we could invent him today, he would sound more like a high tech unabomber than the dark knight, just like zeus sounds more like an abusive parent nowadays than the eternal father of the universe.
oh, and here's an old link to an interesting alan moore pitch for a dc series, "twilight of the superheroes", that would have been a sight better than, say,kingdom come.
the more i thought of someone who cerebus wouldn't just kill on sight and someone who jaka would stay with longer than a few weeks, i realized that i was talking about someone on the jesus level of the niceness scale—in the bland, secular-humanist, feminized sense that the historical jesus is understood (or, rather, misunderstood): that he was this really, really nice feminized guy—so that was what i went with.
he still had products to hawk!
that moore thesis from the intro to dkr has always seemed partly-right and partly-overstated to me.
it's the literary version of the circle of life.
scott martens | june 03, 2004 at 07:32 pm
(you can use html tags like   and  to style your text.)
(and all this is before what most folks think of as the definitive garth ennis/steve dillon run.
wait for me gene krupa:
if batman got to go out like a champ (fighting two-face, please), who would replace him on the bottom line?
that is his career, including love interest, major villains and the formation of a superhero group that he is part of.
funny that you mentioned it.
but moore is completely wrong.
posted by: kip manley | june 05, 2004 at 02:59 am posted by: | this is only a preview.
and then as i was tightening it up, i thought, hang on.
i had a hell of a time once explaining to my students that most of the classical greeks didn't believe in the gods - or at least didn't believe in a big family of omnipotent horny anthropomorphs atop mount olympus - any more than we believe in superman.
but maybe you could have taken a few thousand fewer words to describe it?"
and how many times must jean grey-summers die for the sins of, well, take your pick...
at the time he wrote that, there had really only been secret wars and crisis.
well, i filed this away in my mental rolodex and, when deni and got back from the us tour—we had met harlan at the last stop in colorado—there were three or four comics buyer's guides waiting and while catching up on the news, i also scanned the advertisements to see if anyone was selling a captain marvel adventures no. 27.
john & belle have a blog « department of faint praise | main | waddle on!
the eternal superman is already pretty much set in stone.
—except leave out all the dull onshore bits that would be too expensive to shoot anyway.
but, contrary to the image he cultivated later on, here moore seems to have a very good head for the business side of mainstream comics and a good sense of how to work together with lots of other writers who have ongoing books and plotlines of their own.
the eternal battle of the shining good guy and the diabolical bad guy has been replaced by moral doubt, personal conflict, social comment, postmodern self-reflection and every year more more ambiguous anti-heros.
if you do not agree to these terms, for pete's sake do not leave a comment.
that is his resolution.
the future will edit the rest into something digestable and integrate it into high school curricula.
the timelines will never be rectified.
(don't know whether that's right or not.)
wherefrom i've borrowed this frame  - strictly for educational purposes, you understand.
wherefrom i've borrowed this frame - strictly for educational purposes, you understand.
the more i thought of someone who cerebus wouldn't  just kill on sight and someone who jaka would stay with longer than a few  weeks, i realized that i was talking about someone on the jesus level of the  niceness scale—in the bland, secular-humanist, feminized sense that the  historical jesus is understood (or, rather, misunderstood): that he was this  really, really nice feminized guy—so that was what i went with.
there've been lots of usually-mediocre comics set in gaiman's universe (plus some wonderful tim hunter comics), but at least no one has dredged morpheus up again.
» may 30, 2004 what or where is the queer, evil castle of science?
this license allows copying, derivative works, and commercial use.
"that sounds interesting and even kinda cool, in a whack sort of way.
oh, and here's an old link to an interesting alan moore pitch for a dc  series, "twilight of the superheroes", that would have been a sight  better than, say,kingdom come.
and sure enough, there one was for fifteen or twenty dollars or something.
batman will never manage to unload that dorky boy wonder.
why can’t we just have a movie, y’know, about these characters, going about their usual-for-them, unusual-for-us, quotidian routine?
haven't quite finished part ii of my mock-pastoral series,
of course superheros can't die, even after they've been killed over and over again.
we'll never get a proper look at wonder woman's breasts.
i appreciate the humor of having a satanic figure called the infinity worm who turns out, after all, to be a little bitty worm, ergo a mr. mind/satan in the garden mash-up homage, who exits by popping through a mousehole: just a funny visual: "feets don't fail me now!"
(there was ongoing controversy, back when kc came out, about whether waid or ross had ever read the then-widely-available-online-despite-copyright twilight proposal, and if so whether it mattered, whether there was any important similarity between the two.)
it was the only way  jaka's story would work.
so educate yourselves, so it's all fair use.
much less queer evil castles of fake fake (fake?) science.
(which death would have been better than the actual dark knight sequel.)
you've got to get it in your bloodstream as a kid.
and sure, everybody remembers the kid with the snow-globe, or bob newhart waking up next to suzanne pleshette, but that wasn’t the point, no mythic zing!
i have in mind this passage in particular for future discussion.
very few, if any, of the creators of subsequent mega-crossovers seemed to have the same understanding of how to make them work.
your information (name and email address are required.
by odd coincidence, just last night i finished the amazing adventures  of kavalier and clay, which was very enjoyable, and contains the following  passage: for the whole of the fall and winter following his return to the  mainland, which joe spent shivering in a rented cabin on the beach at  chincotgeague, virginia, with the wind whistling in through the chinks in the  clapboard, half-poisoned by the burned-hair smell of an old electric heater, it  was only ten thousand old gold cigarettes and a pile ofcaptain marvel  adventures (comprising the incredible twenty-four month epic struggle  between the captain and a telepathic, world-conquering earthworm, mr. mind)
that had enabled joe to fight off, once and for all, the craving for morphine  with which he had returned from the ice.
"do you  believe in fake fairies?"
posted by john holbo | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451601c69e200e55022b5978833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference what or where is the  queer, evil castle of science?:
the idiot leonard cohen: i'm your man throw me the statue: creaturesque throw me the statue:
the rest will be lost, little by little, like the minor plays of euripedes.
an essential quality of a legend is that the events in it are clearly defined in time; robin hood is driven to become an outlaw by the injustices of king john and his minions.
had the shit kicked out of him by some inarticulate thug-beast.
one of the interesting things about the twilight proposal is how good moore's sense of how to structure and pace a mega-crossover were.
and that was twenty years ago.
(short digression: the first time i met harlan ellison—as part of our  far-ranging discussion—he mentioned that he had been a devoted reader of  captain marvel as a kid and that he had actually followed the entire mr. mind  serial when it first came out and that the only issue he hadn't read—and  still hadn't read—was issue 27 where mr. mind's identity was revealed.
and then i thought, this really resonates with some  comic-book history and with my own history: because the little cartoon snake  was so small, he looked like a worm, instead of a snake, and i flashed on the  first extended comic-book serial—cerebus' first ancestor in a very real  sense—the mr. mind serial in captain marvel adventures (issues 22 to 46)
he wins the tournament in disguise, he falls in love with maid  marian and thwarts the sheriff of nottingham.
hardly arrow-into-the-air sublimity.
posting a comment constitutes consent to the following choice of law and choice of venue governing any disputes arising under this licensing arrangement: such disputes shall be adjudicated according to canadian law and in the courts of singapore.
by publishing any comment to this blog, you thereby grant to the proprietors of this blog the right to release any of your comments (made to any blog, at any time, past, present or future) under the terms of the above cc license.
and 40 issues later jamie delano gives him a rousing send-off with art by dave mckean!
by odd coincidence, i myself discovered peiratikos only just last night while randomly googling something vaguely related to my post.
(heck, isn't elektra back these days?
posted by: chun the unavoidable | may 31, 2004 at 04:47 am chun, always glad to be an anti-productivity tool.
posted by: jholbo | may 31, 2004 at 10:35 am yeah, twilight would have been better-- but you seem to imply that there was something actively wrong with kingdom come, which i think was a pretty impressive work.
of course, there were no intellectual property laws in those days.
might as well speak of the twilight of the gods.
and i read through it and thought, well, there it is.
and  then as i was tightening it up, i thought, hang on.
this prevents automated programs from posting comments.
the only issue of the mr. mind serial harlan ellison has never seen and i wrapped it back up and fedexed it to him. ).
(and not too terribly badly.)
that's how it ends for gods and how it will end for superheros.
he meets little john, friar tuck and all the rest and forms the merry men.
marvel's attempt to build a whole new set of characters to play with was a commercial and artistic disaster; i believe they actuallydid bring the new universe to a crashing and noble end, cue bad gaelic singing and gauzy landscapes, but nobody cared.
(if the key is or will be building another world, must you always have its end in mind?)
for what little a dusty memory of a rumor is worth: circa 1982-4 i heard (probably on mike hodel'shour 25, kpfk) that marvel, after the successful death of the eponymous kree guy, was about to kill off a handful of big names including captain america - when stan lee got wind of it and said no damn way.
after all, dkr doesn't actually end with wayne dead.
like the death of phoenix (#137) they got stamped indelibly on my teenage hindbrain, waaaaay back aroud the beginning of the first reagan administration.
posted by: steve | june 03, 2004 at 06:20 am steve, i was half (well, maybe more like 20%) aware of all that.
you cannot apply it to most comic book characters because, in order to meet the commercial demands of a continuing series, they can never have a resolution.
and anyway, it was a wretched comic book.
the trope got used up and mined out rather quickly, and very few of these scenarios have aged well.
much better than the superfriends' lex, with the magenta and green armored union suit.
it's like gene wolfe turned all sour and cranky, y'know?
here's a helpful info page on mr. mind.
so i'll  substitute this.
doug m. posted by: doug muir | june 02, 2004 at 08:05 pm
even alan moore mentions in his treatment how he would dearly like to bring mr. mind back.
you can apply the same paradigm to king arthur, davy crockett or sherlock holmes with equal success.
and i  read through it and thought, well, there it is.
i think the problem is essentially that whatever artistic merits accrue to having your storeend are inevitably trumped by the fact that there are only so many major characters to kill off dc and marvel combined haven't developed a truly popular major character since...
next month: new creative team!
posted by: kip manley | may 31, 2004 at 02:08 am man
that way comic books can then come full circle, from something you read surreptitiously when you ought to be reading something educational, hoping the teacher wouldn't see it, to something you are forced to read for school when you would rather be doing something else.
how many times has daredevil been beaten to the edge of insanity?
the idea behind rick's story—which i evaded discussing in  the introduction to that volume—is the idea behind rick himself.
i had to  come up with a super-nice character to be jaka's husband.
much of de  profundis and wilde's fairy tales are composed of exactly that kind of  pretentious blasphemous twaddle.
but you can beat me to it.
stan lee & co. ran an exciting (if not quality) shop for years, madly shuffling walnut shells across the table and never once showing the pea.
and sure enough, there one was for fifteen or twenty  dollars or something.
your comment has not yet been posted.
well, i filed this away in my mental rolodex and, when deni and got back from  the us tour—we had met harlan at the last stop in colorado—there  were three or four comics buyer's guides waiting and while catching up on the  news, i also scanned the advertisements to see if anyone was selling a captain  marvel adventures no. 27.
» haven't quite finished part ii of my mock-pastoral series, so i'll substitute this.
what, the claremont and miller wolverine?
it's just that i expect in 2104 that lit and crit theory students will be talking about the eternally unsatisfied sexual desires of clark kent and how symbolic it is both of the specifics of social alienation and sexual repression in 20th century america, and about its more eternal message about the curses and benefits of uniqueness and the fragile humanity that underlies even the most heroic of men... or some such schlock.
really, it is the only fitting destiny for them after all they've been put through.
indeed, they find it  difficult to embrace any of the changes in life that the passage of time brings  about for these very same reasons, making them finally less than fully human as  well as falling far short of true myth.
i have to say, i'm sort of glad that moore didn't do this.
and then he gets his own second british invasion book!
and is friends a better body of work now that it’s come to an end?
great minds link alike, anyway.
"do you believe in fake fairies?"
where otto binder (interesting name, eh?) and c.c. beck had built up this  suspense about this thoroughly evil character who wasn't seen on-panel for  several months (an unheard of length of time in the age of the self-contained  comic book story) and who turned out to be this super-intelligent…worm.
email address will not be displayed with the comment.)
—maybe you shouldn’t answer that, and maybe it’s a cheat, jumping genres like that.
i don’t know if it’s the death-myth that’s important, though.
we get to see an ending, a stopping place; but in principle wayne could both put the batsuit back on and die some stupid, stepping-off-a-curb death.
that is his career, including  love interest, major villains and the formation of a superhero group that he is  part of.
it was the only way jaka's story would work.
name is required to post a comment please enter a valid email address invalid url john holbo, belle waring: reason & persuasion: three dialogues by plato gilbert seldes: the 7 lively arts robert wright: the evolution of god jonathan haidt: the happiness hypothesis jim fusilli:
the riddle within an enigma of the fake  fake regency elf and the little round glowing white strange thing.
no amount of rectifying and editing, no pan-dimensional crises, no open-ended deus-ex-machinas, will ever put it to a proper end.
superman couldn't die, of course: he had an ad campaign with energizer or something at the time (this was before jerry got him the amex gig).
as so often the case with sim, my reaction is mixed.
the only issue of the mr. mind  serial harlan ellison has never seen and i wrapped it back up and fedexed it to  him. ).
not entirely sure yet how to fold this in with pastorals, mock or otherwise.
the overcomplicated horrors of the the classic superheros' universes will all just fade away as artists die, then readers, then publishers...
the moore at one sitting.
but perhaps the archetypes of commedia del arte are better models for comparison than those carefully polished olympians?
by odd coincidence, just last night i finished the amazing adventures of kavalier and clay, which was very enjoyable, and contains the following passage: for the whole of the fall and winter following his return to the mainland, which joe spent shivering in a rented cabin on the beach at chincotgeague, virginia, with the wind whistling in through the chinks in the clapboard, half-poisoned by the burned-hair smell of an old electric heater, it was only ten thousand old gold cigarettes and a pile ofcaptain marvel adventures (comprising the incredible twenty-four month epic struggle between the captain and a telepathic, world-conquering earthworm, mr. mind) that had enabled joe to fight off, once and for all, the craving for morphine with which he had returned from the ice.
where do you think you're going?
in a few generations, there will be a definitive superman, batman, wonder woman, and then spiderman, the hulk, the x-men and all the other greats, which can sit on a shelf somewhere to the right of ovid's metamorphoses and homer's iliad, holding up the section marked "anglo-american classics of the mid to late capitalist period.
the gods were born and lived and died and died again, and died again, and slept around and killed scads of heros, and yet no one ever stopped talking about them, reinventing them, or simply repurposing them to their own ends.
you can apply the same paradigm to king arthur, davy  crockett or sherlock holmes with equal success.
he's always going to be the secret immigrant powerhouse hiding behind chris reeve's aw-shucks grin and brylcreemed helmet.
oh, wait a minute, you say you're going there on tuesday?
having trouble reading this image?
that's been done and done and done to death in the comics since then, but it was pretty wild and fresh back then.
anyhow, dofp showed us a nightmare future in which killer robots ruled a post-nuclear world (this was c. 1981, remember), and the only hope of making things right was for one of the few surviving x-men to travel back in time.
how many times has batman changed the locks on the cave and shut out all the orphaned puppies and heartsick shao lin assassins he's accreted over the years, only to ruefully take them (or their siblings, or kids, or echoes) back?
beceuase we didn't get twilight with its nice account of a few-decades-long window of time flux we got...
[shudder] posted by: jacob t. levy | june 01, 2004 at 07:03 am
instead of resolution, there was simply social change.
(this tied in nicely with what i saw as oscar wilde's secular humanist  messianic pretensions: when he would entertain his enraptured host and hostess  and their guests at upper crust dinners, he sincerely thought that he was  imparting the equivalent of jesus' parables, that jesus was a poet and a  storyteller just like himself— a forerunner of john lennon's blasphemous  notion that "the beatles were more popular than jesus".
and no, i haven't checked those numbers, but i'm pretty sure they're correct.
moonbeams osamu tezuka:
so educate yourselves, so  it's all fair use.
as a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below.
i thought oscar wilde attempting to seduce  "jesus" would be a good metaphor for how i saw that part of the  historical wilde's story).
as i mentioned in my introduction to frank's dark knight, one of  the things that prevents superhero stories from ever attaining the status of  true modern myths or legends is that they are open ended.
he wins the tournament in disguise, he falls in love with maid marian and thwarts the sheriff of nottingham.
kip, part ii will have to do with some of these difficulties whereof you speak.
and i was struck by the top post there about reading comics for the first time as an adult.
gorgeous art, stupid story.
he meets little john, friar tuck and all the rest and forms the  merry men.
i am thinking about calling it 'if it's the first tuesday of the month, it must be ragnarok'.
stuff about feminism is bad blah, blah.
in a decade or two or ten, the great superheros of the depression era will fall into the public domain, and one by one the most iconic comics books will follow them.
(blowing the dust off the status quo?
it sometimes seems like, from the perspective of a creator in a shared universe, killing one's lead character is the only way to be sure that he or she won't get stuck on the swamp thing treadmill kip describes.
superman will never get lois lane.
best of big bands: drum boogie iggy pop:
severable from the above, and to the extent permitted by law, you are also granting to this blog's proprietors the right to so release any and all comments you may make to any other blog at any time.
the green cloak has been picked up by someone else in a crappy comic, but at least jim corrigan's story has been allowed to remain finished (so far, anyways).
not necessarily in that order.
peter parker is always going to have a hard time finding a date.
they may even cite how critically unaccepted the later supermans - who did get some - were in comparison to the cultural importance of the "classic" superman.
we still don't get to see the great mythic death.
posted by: jacob t. levy | june 01, 2004 at 06:51 am in a sense kingdom come isn't quite the right comparison, since it was (like dark knight) not meant to be in continuity.
the beach boys' pet sounds (33 1/3) carl wilson: celine dion's let's talk about love: a journey to the end of taste (33 1/3) thomas e. sniegoski: lobster johnson: the satan factory captain sir richard f. burton: king vikram and the vampire: classic hindu tales of adventure, magic, and romance charles dickens: great expectations (dover thrift editions)
the idea behind rick's story—which i evaded discussing in the introduction to that volume—is the idea behind rick himself.
i thought oscar wilde attempting to seduce "jesus" would be a good metaphor for how i saw that part of the historical wilde's story).
again, much as i adore gene hackman in the proper context, he will never be lex luthor; much as i can't stand what little i've seen of the current tv show, that bald, magnetic kid has a lock on my mental picture.
which doesn't even approach the reach of the forthcoming keanu reeves movie version.)
is added, more a comic thump!
dkr is a successful work; it concludes.
i think the ostrander spectre series is one of the most satisfying and complete long runs on a mainstream comic; and ostrander gave corrigan a good, satisfying death at the end.
i don't see any reason why it has to be different for dc or marvel.
ims the first time was, oooh, probably _days of future past_, claremont & byrne's uncanny x-men #s 142 and 143.
(short digression: the first time i met harlan ellison—as part of our far-ranging discussion—he mentioned that he had been a devoted reader of captain marvel as a kid and that he had actually followed the entire mr. mind serial when it first came out and that the only issue he hadn't read—and still hadn't read—was issue 27 where mr. mind's identity was revealed.
and i’m reminded of—i think it was rose, over at peiratikos, talking about the hellboy movie, wondering why all superhero comics-to-movies have to be about oh-my-god end-of-the-world stuff.
the letters and numbers you entered did not match the image.
no one will ever read superman vs. al qaeda.
i had already figured out the "he/she/it" construct of yhwh and i figured this would be kind of appropriate that the imaginary snake from the garden of eden that had grown to leviathan size turned out to be actually nothing more than a worm, just like mr. mind.
scott martens | june 01, 2004 at 11:30 pm damn, i read both the sim /and/
the moore piece is really about two distinct things: the mega-crossover (which was already old hat by 1987) and the dystopic future, which may or may not come to pass, but whose depiction sheds interesting light on the present.
as i mentioned in my introduction to frank's dark knight, one of the things that prevents superhero stories from ever attaining the status of true modern myths or legends is that they are open ended.
alan moore pulled it off, when he killed swamp thing and left him dead for a couple of issues before dragging him back across space and time, allowing him his spasm of revenge, and then letting him toddle off into the sunset with abby.
those are actually particularly amusing examples, given that lois and clark are married in current continuity (unless something changed while i wasn't looking) and jason todd getting whacked by a bunch of irritated teenage readers is one of the great comic book moments of the '80s.
" in the mean time, we are already moving on.
(but mostly i just thought it was too damn funny not to make that my title.)
much of de profundis and wilde's fairy tales are composed of exactly that kind of pretentious blasphemous twaddle.
and those that do often get restarted later.
and can you imagine pitting spiderman against a modern anti-hero like tony soprano?
as to the silly 'what or where' title, i was just struck by the odd poetry of its incompetence.
(okay: xena died, and look where she is now.)
the empire fell, the masses converted to christianity, or islam, or mithras, or mancheanism, or several of those religions, and the old gods became literary figures, painstakingly preserved in dusty old libraries until the renaissance.
batman would qualify as a terrorist himself nowadays.
dc's bloated their continuity again with another round of silver age revanchism and corporate acquisitions—is yet another crisis in the works?
(then, master and commander: far side of the world was an utter disaster in that department: how much fan service can we cram in?
i mean, it's all fiction, right?
but then rick veitch brings him back!
and yeah, _kingdom come_ was pretty lame.
you cannot apply it to most  comic book characters because, in order to meet the commercial demands of a  continuing series, they can never have a resolution.
some interesting musings on rick.
the amazing remarkable monsieur leotard jonathan lethem: omega: the unknown mike mignola: abe sapien: the drowning walt stanchfield: drawn to life: 20 golden years of disney master classes: volume 1: the walt stanchfield lectures the sweetly diabolic art of jim flora scott morse: ancient book of sex and science rumer godden: miss happiness and miss flower laura ingalls wilder: little house in the big woods 75th anniversary edition daniel pinkwater: the yggyssey: how iggy wondered what happened to all the ghosts, found out where they went, and went there daniel pinkwater: the neddiad: how neddie took the train, went to hollywood, and saved civilization severable from the above, and to the extent permitted by law, you hereby agree to the following as well: by leaving a comment you grant to the proprietors the right to release all your comments to this blog under this creative commons license (attribution 2.5).
moreso, when moore pulled john constantine out of a cult-movie sting performance, and let him disappear with a bad joke.
so i ordered it and it came in about a week later.
and then i thought, this really resonates with some comic-book history and with my own history: because the little cartoon snake was so small, he looked like a worm, instead of a snake, and i flashed on the first extended comic-book serial—cerebus' first ancestor in a very real sense—the mr. mind serial in captain marvel adventures (issues 22 to 46) where otto binder (interesting name, eh?) and c.c. beck had built up this suspense about this thoroughly evil character who wasn't seen on-panel for several months (an unheard of length of time in the age of the self-contained comic book story) and who turned out to be this super-intelligent…worm.
buddha, volume 4: the forest of uruvela (buddha) eddie campbell:
where do you think you're  going?
it doesn't need to conclude with a death.
« department of faint praise | main | waddle on!
oh, and i like this bit.
i had already figured out the "he/she/it" construct of yhwh and i  figured this would be kind of appropriate that the imaginary snake from the  garden of eden that had grown to leviathan size turned out to be actually  nothing more than a worm, just like mr. mind.
posted by john holbo | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451601c69e200e55022b5978833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference what or where is the queer, evil castle of science?: