did i misread something?
a shape began to form in the light, massive and dark, its outline humanoid, but surely too large for an eldar warrior.
distances are indeed  too vague, but this still speaks of very high velocities and maneuverability,  as well as piloting skill and reaction time, to do that without plotting a  pre-calculated course.
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/high-templar .
i think it clearly says “suggested by sgcombine” @tau haven’t gotten around to mentioning that fact, either.
the structure of this matrix also suggests some sort of energy-storage system.
sgcombine december 26, 2011 at 12:21 pm - #24 @cell as awesome as that cinematic was, i’m afriad it’s  fan made.
over the course of the campaign the crystal in the lab gradually repairs itself and “evolves”- .
most of the world’s atmosphere was burning now, torn away from the orb in a veil that trailed it in orbit, and what was left spiraled in hurricanes and tornadoes, until destroyed by more beams.
aelfinn december 26, 2011 at 11:58 am - #21 ““there is a protoss fleet in orbit and they are charging up  their main weapons.’”
the protoss are loath to sacrifice their loyal warriors, but those who make this final commitment are forever honored in the memories of their people.”
i have to keep swann away from that sample; he will definitely shoot it out the airlock.
in place of the khala’s  bright energies, the dark templar learned to manipulate the darker powers of  the void, which gave the dark templar the ability to become invisible at will.
so we’ll go with that.
the remainder of the land  heaved in a deadly rainbow.
- and ship to ship teleporting doesn’t need webway gates or beacons.
or even manufacture structures capable of hot landings from orbital origins with acceptable stresses.
at their current state of power the eldar are a shattered empire.
also don’t forget about titans.
- -i’ll get labyrinth.
however, as we get to the bigger weapons, there’s a marked increase in power output and destructive potential.
the quotes i saw for protoss say there weapons go through the crust and cause all the magma to come up and burn the planet, or something like that.
- well, that’s handy.
do the protoss have something that counters that.
- anyway, someone at spacebattles did a pretty good analysis of several screenshots: forums.spacebattles.com/showthread.php?t=204240 heres that quote about the planet “glassing”
it’s one empire at  it’s height against another at it’s lowest possible point.
everything from wh40k is overpowered.
because as most of you know, protoss ship firepower is easily in the teraton or higher range judging from screenshots of how they ‘purify’ planets.
i haven’t truly learned anything from this crystal.
how does it move energy so fast?
terran warp drives clock at 1000-20000 ly a day, and they’ve got nothing on the protoss.
‘what do you suppose they’re doing?’ asked tarvitz.
it’d be a good idea to find out how long it takes the protoss to charge up.
- the problem is, i’m unsure of this video’s canonicity
you charge up a weapon like that before going in to a hot situation.
and touching one would be like touching a glowing red hot frying pan.
they were  targeting the cities and making sure that nothing could survive there.
“although their abilities are already impressive, high  templar and dark templar can wield even greater might by laying down their  lives to merge their souls and form archons.
starcraft.wikia.com/wiki/stetmann%27s_research_log .
in  battle, carriers appear to be virtual hornet’s nests of activity as their  small allies dart swiftly in and out, alternating between attacking enemies and  repairing damage.
meantime don’t we have a faction vs faction fight to check out?
why isn’t my post being posted >=( @dem i would include ground battles, but they will be almost irrelevant, however, exarchs are not to be trifled with.”
if you see me there run lol!
many of these massive vessels  are armed with powerful beam weapons, and a fleet of protoss carriers can  employ said beam weapons to eradicate all life on the face of an earthlike  planet in seconds- cracking open
we must seem amoeboid to them.”
armed with wraithcannons these giants are fearsome opponents.-gw www.games-workshop.com/media_customproductcatalog/m1241344_99060104005_maughanramain_445x319.jpg -re:link list of the phoenix kings, and correcting myself they are the first of their aspects and generally the best.
- it does if it means they haven’t glassed the planet yet but intend to as soon as they can.
manufacturing colossi has been  outlawed for centuries, but the increasingly desperate war against the zerg has  forced the protoss to revive the line.”
maneuvering around several planetoids inside an asteroid field in the span  of seconds.
protoss tech is crazy advanced.
- the eldars have psychic powers, right?
but i’ve seen in used  in other debates.
sauroposeidon december 26, 2011 at 10:22 am - #4 the eldar do have cooler mechs… reaper273 december 26, 2011 at 10:30 am - #5 “for this battle, the protoss are at the height of their power,  elders are current incarnation.”
unlike most other protoss robots, the  colossus was created purely for destruction.
as the harlequins perform their dance of death, the shadowseer will release programmed hallucination grenades from their backpack to distract and bewilder the enemy.
not all carriers rely solely on their interceptor fleets however.
now red volcanic glows covered  the northern hemisphere of mar sara like welts.
air itself was torn away from  the planet by the force of the blows.
protoss armour and shields can likely laugh off eldar shuriken rounds.
- anyway, someone at spacebattles did a pretty good  analysis of several screenshots: forums.spacebattles.com/showthread.php?t=204240 sgcombine december 26, 2011 at 12:26 pm - #27 heres that quote about the planet “glassing”
the previous page, 6, the sun is decribed as nearly being depleted and only able to emit a thin red light.
this makes sense actually-
anyway, by the eldar (battle scenario fails, calling them eldars and elders) does that include dark eldar, harlequins, exodites, etc?
galorian december 26, 2011 at 10:59 am - #8 protoss dragoons shoot anti-matter, which is a bit extreme even by wh40k  standards… reaper273 december 26, 2011 at 11:05 am - #9 jwlynas makes a good point.
zero energy and x level of seconds having passed til they fire =
their  psychicness is much more offensively devastating, at least from what i’ve  seen thus far.
in the centuries since, these primary command ships had departed the field of battle and become holy shrines, venerated by mystics and historians.
zealots are peerless warriors who have yet to  ascend to the uppermost ranks of the khala.
i don’t  know much about either, but i assume that since the elders are from wh40k  they’ll most likely win.
the maneuvering took place while the guy was holding off a bunch of  zerg inside the ship.
the  robot’s beam attack cuts a broad swath across its targets, making the  colossus an ideal anti-infantry weapon.
air itself was torn away from the planet by the force of the blows.
@galorian noted ,however it is still a incredibly good article that should help you in any debates abound starcraft where so many people go “it can’t be a guass rifle as it has shell casing or something something…”the author has a resonable explanation for those.
if the sun was nearly  depleted it would either be massive and red (still emiting large amounts of red  light), gone supernova or shrunken into a brown dwarf or a neutron star.
the protoss seemed to be doing pretty well against guys like the tau, so far(among other 40k factions barring the likes of the iom, forces of chaos or the nids, since those 3 factions are too big on their own to fight off!)
it’s true that their numbers are small, but that’s in comparison to the orks and imperium whos numbers are in the trillions.
also can you return to the c.h.b group fight against the guardians of tourain?
over all they are fairly strong, however khaine’s useless outside of his avatars, and the lg is just a trickster.
but i’ve seen in used in other debates.
their formidable physiques are further enhanced by cybernetic  implants and power suits.
the sonic arrows of apollo cabin?
planetoids are hundreds of kilometres wide.
these events are spoken of during the game, but we never saw how it all happened.
the imperial navy attacked a craftworld and lost their entire sector fleet.
ever eager for advancement, they train for decades in hand-to-hand combat, tactics, pain tolerance, and martial discipline.
reaper273 december 26, 2011 at 11:07 am - #10 bugger, always forgetting things.
and of course, the dark templars- “the dark templar are powerful psionic warriors whose ancestors resettled on the planet shakuras after they were exiled from the protoss homeworld of aiur for refusing to join the emerging khala, the communal mind link shared by the entire race.
keep in mind that starcraft psionics completely ignore tensile strength, affecting neosteel just as well as it affects glass.
zealots are peerless warriors who have yet to ascend to the uppermost ranks of the khala.
the protoss population is fairly small, stated to be in the billions spread over an interstellar empire, but not elaborated on beyond that.
their fleets  themselves are made up mostly of carriers- “the massive carriers  serve as operation centers for leaders of the protoss fleet.
idk, that place just seems to throw me into rage mode every time i go there.
it was hilarious though.
keep in mind  that starcraft psionics completely ignore tensile strength, affecting neosteel  just as well as it affects glass.
it’s mantle like an egg and allowing  oceans of magma to drown it’s surface and evicting it’s atmosphere  with the force of the blasts.
unless the shurikans (and these monofilimant things the dark reapers shoot)  have a large enough mass that sharpness will be useless against protoss shields  to a very large degree.
any place of human settlement.
“”protoss “crystal” sample recovered by raynor’s raiders, 10.7.2504.
“how about these elder gods, how useful would they be?”
“which are said to pack petaton per volley” - maybe exterminatus level attacks, but is there proof of this otherwise?
““powering weapons” is a standard sci-fi description for meaning business, it doesn’t really imply anything.”
- the problem is,  i’m unsure of this video’s canonicity
the protoss are loath to sacrifice their loyal warriors, but  those who make this final commitment are forever honored in the memories of  their people.”
nearly all eldar basic ‘projectile’ weapons are based on very, very sharp things moving very fast.
in battle, carriers appear to be virtual hornet’s nests of activity as their small allies dart swiftly in and out, alternating between attacking enemies and repairing damage.
@murder “why isn’t my post being posted >=(” -maybe admin doesn’t like it.
ok … what about the warp spiders … with their warp gen jump packs … whats stopping them from warping into the ships placing charges and warping out … not to mention their use in ground fighting to do similar guerilla warfare tactics @sgcombine the dark eldar aren’t with chaos, they are separate, but do have occasional demonic things happen, but alright, assuming they are out it is craftworld eldar, exodites, harlequins.
the psychic strength of these dead spirits, focused and amplified by the titan’s wraithbone structure is phenomenal, far outstripping the powers of the living.-gw - -phantom titans-built around a wraithbone core, phantom titans are very different from other races titan’s, because not only do they benefit from the experience of their crew who are raised with the titan from birth, but also from the collective consciousness of spirit stones contained within the titan.-gw - revenant titans-the smallest of the eldar titans, the revenant’s compact size allows it to move with a swiftness and smoothness quite simply impossible for the war machines of other races.
i realized i said webway as i posted it.”
i’ve never read about them jumping hundred of killometers.
its density has increased 533% in the last twelve hours.
*salutes* get to the match asap, alright?
the eldar do have cooler mechs… “for this battle, the protoss are at the height of their power, elders are current incarnation.”
@tau its not, as for all i care even the 1st c.h.b group fight(against
the protoss have  such powerful psionic abilities that their presence inadvertently disrupts  other life-forms.
i’ll find a quote if i  can, but if someone else could mention it, that’d be great.
with a swift corkscrew spin, zoraya drove the  vessel toward the center of the rock and stopped just above the surface.
the maneuvering took place while the guy was holding off a bunch of zerg inside the ship.
nico’s sword can fight and kill: ghosts, monsters, and humans.
the storm of silence jain zar is the phoenix lord of the howling banshee aspect warriors.
they also use holofields, which makes it nigh impossible to hit them unless you put out enough firepower to blanket the entire area of space they might occupy.
- i can’t say much about either side’s tech, as i know nothing about it either, but
share this post is this protoss race the ones that fought the elite zealots?
the lg is the reason khaine is in pieces.
“powering weapons” is a standard sci-fi description for meaning business, it doesn’t really imply anything.
so what kind of firepower does the eldar posses in space?
furthermore, prepping a weapon for fire is done differently in a combat situation that it’s done under safer conditions-
he was the winged phoenix and founder of the swooping hawk aspect.
mj at the low end, and above 388 mj at the high end (a full clip of terran marine c-14 rounds doesn’t take it down, the calcs are for the smaller 250 round clip and mach 5 rounds for the low end, and the larger 500 round clip and mach 10 rounds for the high end).
where does it get energy or raw materials for that?
most everyone else can after all.
shadowseer-”shadowseers are specialist psykers whose abilities are centred around confusion and fear.
i’ve seen it before.
clearly i’ve been working too many hours.
they can force visions of terror upon the foe or even remove the harlequin’s presence from their minds altogether.
jwlynas december 26, 2011 at 10:55 am - #7 protoss armour and shields can likely laugh off eldar shuriken rounds.
“@tau, it’s an awesome post maybe the best one here.”
for this battle, the protoss are at the height of their power, elders are current incarnation.
the rounds are stated to be neosteel tipped however, which could confuse some people.
liberty’s crusade chapter 8 aelfinn december 26, 2011 at 12:39 pm - #28 “even if that were so, fluff plainly states that motherships can  instantly destroy planets.
nearly all eldar basic ‘projectile’  weapons are based on very, very sharp things moving very fast.
“all of the containment and reinforced structural integrity theorems i’ve developed from studying this crystal are starting to… well… crystallize.
it’s obviously an energy emitter, but it has such strong containment that the crystal can slowly draw power from it via some method i don’t understand.
the  basic grunt protoss infantry unit is a power armor wearing telepathic precog  with psi-blades and psichically powered personal plasma shields rated at above  58
besides the eldar created one of the four primary chaos god during their downfall meaning that not only will the eldar have the deal with the protoss
so it must be emitting that energy somehow, some… where.”
can you show some examples of them using it? sgcombine, i was confused.
“ -http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/carrier .
also are we ready to address the protoss to see whether or not they can hold their own against the eldar, in the meantime?”
@aelfinn i suggest you take a look at this cinematc for some more information.
but the loss of aiur has convinced the protoss to resurrect their oldest and most powerful weapons.
now red volcanic glows covered the northern hemisphere of mar sara like welts.
whatthecell december 26, 2011 at 11:55 am - #19 eh, i recall a quote from a certain mission in starcraft 2 where the  protoss are preparing to glass a planet.
and they have a weapon for every threat: i6.photobucket.com/albums/y246/brandoom21/721px-eldar_weapons.jpg
and no conflict can be decided solely in space warfare.
kind of like the stargate in that you need a gate to access it, and it almost instant transport to where your going.
the previous page, 6, the sun is decribed as nearly  being depleted and only able to emit a thin red light.
as for stl- “”it is  dead,” telbrus said, twisting backward to catch a glimpse of aldrion in  the narrow tunnel, but there was only darkness.
interceptors are  automatically manufactured and serviced inside of the carriers’ bays, and  a number of prepped interceptors can be launched in rapid succession.
interceptors are automatically manufactured and serviced inside of the carriers’ bays, and a number of prepped interceptors can be launched in rapid succession.
and the laughing god is the loki of the eldar gods, and is represented by the harlequin troupes (shadow seers, death jesters, etc.).
i’m surprised deus hasn’t commented yet.
even if that were so, fluff plainly states that motherships can instantly destroy planets.
“the crystal is growing, and it appears to have something–some sort of… anti-matter?
the best swords man among the primarchs.
twinky elders are still fighting the imperuim, even though the elder are divided, the imperuim has yet to wipe them out as far as i know.
and where the beams struck the surface, they erupted, boiling the ground where they struck, uprooting both the creep-infested lands and those that had not yet been infected.
i realized i said webway as i posted it.
they unleashed storm after storm of sliver-thin blades, and the bodies of the alien killer-beasts piled high.
“unless we are assuming they only use their ‘main weapon’ for purification.
the eldar cannot use the warp for more than a few small puddle jumps since they do not have the equivalent of an astropath like the imperium.
they were targeting the cities and making sure that nothing could survive there.
-medusa v report as we all know, dire avengers, rangers and guardians are the ‘regular’ infantry units.
marius wondered if they would have to face another of the wraithlords.
- that is true, but i’m pretty sure the attacks they have to glass a  planet are different than ship-to-ship weapons.
marius scrambled to the edge of the ruins with julius beside him and looked down at the strange alien gateway.
it strides across the battlefield on four tall, slender legs that allow it to cross steep elevations with ease.
i’m learning so much from this crystal, but i can’t help feeling as if it’s learning from me, if that makes sense.
most powerful craftworlds: ulthwe iyanden alaitoc saim-hann biel-tan lesser craftworlds: lugganath iybraesil yme-loc altansar il-kaithe kaelor obscure craftworlds: dorhai (they think all other eldar are corrupted by slaanesh, codex imperialis) dolthe (gaunt’s ghosts) ctho (“lost world”, codex imperialis) meros (“doomed world”, ibidem) bel-shammon (destroyed by the imperium, shadow point kher-ys (destroyed by a keeper of secrets, codex: daemons) telennar (has many rangers, allied to alaitoc, index xenos: rangers)
they could webway teleport in behind a protoss ship, empty a broadside and be gone when the ship turns comes around to fire back, then reteleport in behind the ship again, and teleport boarding parties into the ship and be gone before they could come about again.
deadly rainbow  radiation, more brilliant than mike had ever seen, spiraled out from the impact  points, churning earth and water mercilessly, distorting the matter of the  planet itself.
disaster i’ve only discovered the forums like a week ago or so, but for some reason i can’t help but flame everyone there .
perhaps they simply don’t want to?
a few score dire avenger aspect warriors took up position in the narrowest part of the chasm leading towards the webway gate.
the chitinous bodies of alien organisms became a mountain that the dire avengers scaled step-by-step, raining down a curtain of fire upon those that tried to clamber up the bodies of their kin.
apologies, so sgcombine, what eldar are included?
“the protoss crystal continues to grow.
the protoss are so far beyond us.
as they were powerful psykers in life, so too are they in death.
the skyholder’s quote from the titan’s curse will be of use, make no mistake about that.
and it was pre-daemon fulgrim, so a few protoss archons should be able to handle these avatars right?
craftworlds cannot use the warp at all, but they can use the wg.
but i do have labyrinth, thief, and sea of monsters.
i would doubt, however, that after the first volley the main weapons would be close to the planet-glassing level, seeing as they had a charge-up time for such strength.
the cry of the wind baharroth is believed to be the finest pupil of asurmen.
and i’m not going to tell him.
don’t be so quick to count the protoss out in ground combat.
protoss dragoons shoot anti-matter, which is a bit extreme even by wh40k standards… jwlynas makes a good point.
@galorian - “terran warp drives clock at 1000-20000 ly a day, and they’ve got nothing on the protoss.”
-i think he means harlequins&rangers yes.
where the energy beams struck, they burned.
i just have to be careful, and if there’s any sign that it will harm the hyperion, i’ll destroy the crystal myself.”
non-standard phenomenon?–hovering over it.
mrtbsc december 26, 2011 at 9:21 am - #2 considering eldar can summon avatars of war and the like they should win in  groundbattle … otherwise it should somewhat even … protoss have  nearly every unit with shileding and strong psykers … eldar have very  specialised units and psykers on ther own iamtaco december 26, 2011 at 10:06 am - #3 whoo hoo first post on factpile.
one of the pulsing beams punched through the crust  itself, and the ground erupted in a volcanic upwelling.
www.tralfazsolutions.com/megabattle/datasheeteldarwarlocktitan.pdf www.tralfazsolutions.com/megabattle/datasheeteldarphantomtitan.pdf there we go, i used bb tags so that must have kept me from posting.
will the protoss get their new units in heart of the swarm in the battle eg, the tempest,the replicant and the oracle?and if the protoss get those units will they get to keep the mothership and the carrier?
many of these massive vessels are armed with powerful beam weapons, and a fleet of protoss carriers can employ said beam weapons to eradicate all life on the face of an earthlike planet in seconds- cracking open
these towering machines can carve through even protoss armies with frighting ease- in fluff each sweep of their thermal lances vaporizes anything in it’s path without slowing down, be it dark templars, zealots or even entire structures- “the towering colossus is a protoss robot design dating back to the bloody conflicts of the kalath intercession.
their elite units, striking scorpions, dark reapers, warp spiders, howling banshees, swooping hawks, etc, would be able to counter just about anything the protos can through at them.
it’s mantle like an egg and allowing oceans of magma to drown it’s surface and evicting it’s atmosphere with the force of the blasts.
- i read the previous few pages and the next few to get some context for that and it is clear that whoever wrote that has no understanding of science whatsoever.
as for stl- “”it is dead,” telbrus said, twisting backward to catch a glimpse of aldrion in the narrow tunnel, but there was only darkness.
aelfinn december 26, 2011 at 11:53 am - #17 “which are said to pack petaton per volley” - maybe  exterminatus level attacks, but is there proof of this otherwise?
- same here , thats why i suggested this match, i wanted to learn a bit more about both sides.
last entry on this sample.
these unified protoss spirits radiate incalculable power, unleashing psionic barrages against cowering enemy forces both in the air and on the ground.
and example from fulgrim.
i’m just trying my best to contribute.”
methinks gut hunch says you have a bold plan or two in store, if/when the facts are mentioned, right?
and as he did in “titan’s curse” open a whole to the underworld.
most  of the world’s atmosphere was burning now, torn away from the orb in a  veil that trailed it in orbit, and what was left spiraled in hurricanes and  tornadoes, until destroyed by more beams.
magma pushed to the  surface, consuming everything that had been uprooted by the energy beams.
also you don’t necessarily have to take any sides to the match as of yet, just request both sides to let me provide the skyholding quotes and the quotes where the children of hades are shown to be able to banish ghosts(since phantoon’s a ghost, then regardless of whether or not the thing’s even alive, elemental compatibility rules will affect that thing!) from the battle of the labyrinth, because if they don’t work, i’m gunna have to go for broke and get to the last olympian quotes involving nico in them, alright?
@reaper273 “1000-20000?
-i was thinking on something else when i posted.
@tau so far we’re just discussing the weapons along with other matters of technology that may be of use.
at their current state of power the eldar  are a shattered empire.
or is it the  most recent incarnation where they arguably have far better tech?
that gives me an idea: using our own containment technology, i could modify our scv manufacturing process to double capacity with no increased risk.
on the ice-fields of articus a million-strong swarm of tyranids poured down the ice-plains towards the chasms that held the last of the open webway portals.
when wielding this force, these vessels can instantly destroy squadrons of enemy ships or even entire planets.”
the protoss population is fairly  small, stated to be in the billions spread over an interstellar empire, but not  elaborated on beyond that.
“also no time frame or distances are given, so trying to  draw solid conclusions from that error ridden segment is hopeless.”
anyway, i will start assuming that we are talking about just the craftworld eldar. .
don’t know how though.
in an odd coincidence, the warping slowed just enough for my sensors to pick it up.
all motherships hold a huge khaydarin crystal infused with enough psionic energy to distort the very fabric of time and space.
it’s not something like a technobabble exterminatus weapon.
if so, it seems your posts are getting edited by mods very frequently.
“although their abilities are already impressive, high templar and dark templar can wield even greater might by laying down their lives to merge their souls and form archons.
“they’re cosmic exterminators.”
“and it was pre-daemon fulgrim,” -he was still a primarch.
- -eldar phoenix lord fuegan the burning lance- fuegan is the founder of the fire dragon shrine, teaching the art of death trough flame and fire.
“@tau43 are you the match poster?”
it’s only a semantic difference but it all points towards ignorance.
a mighty spear tip emerged first, blazing runic symbols writhing on its wide blade, followed by a brazen arm that bled molten light into the air.
hmmm, i stated current incarnation, which is just the craftworld eldar right, since the dark eldar are with chaos if i’m not mistaken.
they are not even akin to vast cities, as some of the largest star forts of the imperium might be considered, but rather are immense spacefaring worlds accompanied by vast armadas, the likes of which might otherwise be set aside to defend an entire system or even sub-sector.
i have a terrible suspicion that it’s… connecting to the ship somehow.
“also no time frame or distances are given, so trying to draw solid conclusions from that error ridden segment is hopeless.”
bugger, always forgetting things.
the cities, mike realized.
fire dragons shoot fusion weapons, warp spiders shoot mono-filament wire webs, brightlances can cut through adamantium, warlocks&farseers can kill with their minds.
and what exactly are the guardians of tourian, and how much of chb’s been discussed so i don’t walk in blind?
d-cannons particularly don’t rely on armour penetration, so much as tearing a hole in space and letting the gravitational pull of a warp rift tear their foes into pieces, or else suck them into a different realm.
better feats later my source site is being unresponsive.
and was wielding a sword with a warp stone embedded in the hilt, and slaaneshi daemon in side of it.
the thing about this is that what counts as protoss at the height of their power?
ava-nile (dawn of war) menaan (dow:ss) reia-hal- tyriande- the largest craftworld had mountain ranges and oceans within it.
- i would like the protoss to win this one.
i no longer think it is drawing power from the ship.
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/zealot .
nothing could survive the assault, human or otherwise.
which will be plenty for taking out the protoss.”
how can a bunch of refugees fight a race that’s still….united?
with the reunification of the protoss  race, any pair of high templar or dark templar, or even one of each, can be  fused together.
these zealots are also capable of momentarily turn their body into pure energy, allowing them brief bursts of literal “lightning speed” they use to close the distance to their opponents- “for more than a thousand years, the protoss of the templar caste have defended their people, dedicating their long lives to the pursuit of martial perfection.
^^ “how does this webway work exactly?”
aldrion’s thoughts streamed urgently to the  entire crew.
but i digress, that match was part of the terrible trio of factpile fights, so i may or may not be biased.
as long as a wg is near by the eldar can transport themselves and ships to that area.
i could be wrong, but my point  is that ship-to-ship is never shown in the range of the planet-busters.
however, the size of the protoss industrial capacity  and military are far beyond what could be expected from their population thanks  the the complete automation of their industry, their ability to teleport whole  structures across interstellar distances, their reliance on robotic labor and  war machines and the low crew requirements of their ships.
but they will have to deal with slaanesh at the same time.
equipped with jump jets, pulse lasers and missile launchers, the revenant titans’s hunt in packs making lightning quick raids before dissapearing with the same terrifying speed.-gw - wraithlords-towering over its foes, the wraith lord is controlled by the essence of one of the craftworld’s mightiest warriors.
i read that there aren’t many protoss , and that the eldars are mainly refugees.
- is it just prior to starcraft 1, before they had suffered major losses to the zerg?
their crystals are both their computers and their power source, and are amazing in both respects.
-”uss george h.w. bush vs the spanish armada”
- i read the previous few pages and the next few to get some context for  that and it is clear that whoever wrote that has no understanding of science  whatsoever.
their weapons were upraised, and they were chantingin a language that sounded more like song than communication.
i think we might be able to contain energies that once required huge machines.
well for some reason he was saying “-if they are still eldar and not dark i’m counting them.”
the remainder of the land heaved in a deadly rainbow.
the quotes i saw for protoss say there weapons go through the  crust and cause all the magma to come up and burn the planet, or something like  that.
honestly, my first instinct is to say the protoss take this.
whole battlefleets cluster around key points and stations all across the thousands of miles of the craftworld’s exterior as smaller, nimbler craft rush and surge across its surface in a constant shimmering patrol. ”
the protoss also possess powerful robotic war machines- the colossi.
@kytheros so who has the overall upper hand in this fight, so far?
forums.spacebattles.com/showthread.php?t=157307 @tau43 i don’t know much about the elder, but i think when they were made they were meant to defeat chaos, so i figured that elder at the height of their power would just rofl stomp the protoss, current seemed more fair.
aelfinn december 26, 2011 at 11:52 am - #16 “protoss ship firepower is easily in the teraton or higher range  judging from screenshots of how they ‘purify’ planets.”
followers of the cunning deity known as the laughing god, they are the strangest and most inscrutable of all the eldar.
but khaine’s real benefit to the eldar is the psychic effect.
-i have it if you want me to quote it.
it’s getting pure energy from that sphere above it, which presents a new worry.
if all of these claims are true, i am fine with that.
i am just trying to make sure they are true.
these events are spoken  of during the game, but we never saw how it all happened.
@c.c. “its not, as for all i care even the 1st c.h.b group fight(against the guardians of tourain) is loads better, and the lack of back-up for c.h.b in numbers is ticking me off.”
if so i’ll worry about as much of the rest as i can, in that case, alright?
if swann suspects, he’ll drop it out the airlock, and that would be a tragedy.
that’s a big range…” .
how does this webway work exactly?
- unless we are assuming they only use their ‘main weapon’ for  purification.
i don’t understand how the protoss can possess technology of this magnitude and not rule the known universe.
so even if a target was invincible, the eldar do not need to destroy it they can just make it go away.
d-cannons particularly don’t rely on armour penetration, so much as  tearing a hole in space and letting the gravitational pull of a warp rift tear  their foes into pieces, or else suck them into a different realm.
so far i think the protoss seem to have the upper hand.
the basic grunt protoss infantry unit is a power armor wearing telepathic precog with psi-blades and psichically powered personal plasma shields rated at above 58
galorian december 26, 2011 at 10:33 am - #6 don’t be so quick to count the protoss out in ground combat.
during wings of liberty your science guy has you collect fragments of such crystals throughout the game and studies them over time.
you just flamed randomly at times…i didn’t even understand why.
i can’t find it, but i still remember most of the feats.
- that is true, but i’m pretty sure the attacks they have to glass a planet are different than ship-to-ship weapons.
a few things are wrong in his analysis- . 1) first off, the dominion officially switched over to depleted uranium spikes, as opposed to the less conformed confederacy era c-14 ammo.
“okay, i may be exceeding the boundaries of good science, but i am now sure this crystal has some sort of… if not sentience, at least… direction.
the only real advantage i can see for the eldar is their speed.
it is non-organic but has a molecular structure as diverse and complex as any organism’s.
i think most eldar ships only manage to fight imperial ships because they’re so fast and difficult to target because of their holofields, not to mention their maneuverability can keep them out of most imperial ship firing arcs during a fight.
in place of the khala’s bright energies, the dark templar learned to manipulate the darker powers of the void, which gave the dark templar the ability to become invisible at will.
-2nd research note .
it looks so professionally done, i would actually mistake it for an  in-game cutscene.
@tau43 are you the match poster? @c.c. -houston we have a problem!
i’ll go over the tau vs protoss thread and find the quote.
- “‘something’s happening below!’
eh, i recall a quote from a certain mission in starcraft 2 where the protoss are preparing to glass a planet.
they had cut their timing very close indeed, he thought, and his stomach  gave an uneasy lurch.
this also shows the strength of the protoss shields which reguarly tanks those hypersonic rounds.
what i am trying to avoid, though, is a load of wank.
these zealots are also capable of  momentarily turn their body into pure energy, allowing them brief bursts of  literal “lightning speed” they use to close the distance to their  opponents- “for more than a thousand years, the protoss of the  templar caste have defended their people, dedicating their long lives to the  pursuit of martial perfection.
they even say in the description
commander cross december 26, 2011 at 11:23 am - #11 the protoss seemed to be doing pretty well against guys like the tau, so  far(among other 40k factions barring the likes of the iom, forces of chaos or  the nids, since those 3 factions are too big on their own to fight off!)
manufacturing colossi has been outlawed for centuries, but the increasingly desperate war against the zerg has forced the protoss to revive the line.”
as dangerous as that is, against shields it doesn’t matter how sharp the object is.
- also no time frame or distances are  given, so trying to draw solid conclusions from that error ridden segment is  hopeless.
most  everyone else can after all.
it may be the fabled protoss warp technology.
you still got the other c.h.b novels from 1st series, though?
@tau i meant in this fight thread going on between the eldar and the protoss.
you unload the moment you can on the planet, then you leave as quickly as possible.
whatthecell december 26, 2011 at 11:45 am - #14 so what kind of firepower does the eldar posses in space?
no one knows where karandras originally came from, but it is known that he was not the first exarch of the striking scorpions.
click here to cancel reply.
distances are indeed too vague, but this still speaks of very high velocities and maneuverability, as well as piloting skill and reaction time, to do that without plotting a pre-calculated course.
-i don’t have “titan’s curse” at the moment sadly.
you got the quotes for nico at the ready?
with the reunification of the protoss race, any pair of high templar or dark templar, or even one of each, can be fused together.
it looks so professionally done, i would actually mistake it for an in-game cutscene.
aelfinn december 26, 2011 at 11:37 am - #13 i’m not sure that the warp drives are “light-years away”  as opposed to “instant travel.”
tau43 december 26, 2011 at 12:46 pm - #29 the protoss may win this.
now that aiur has fallen and  its refugees have fled to shakuras, the dark templar have joined their  considerable strength to the protoss’ numbers.”
now that aiur has fallen and its refugees have fled to shakuras, the dark templar have joined their considerable strength to the protoss’ numbers.”
the energy in this crystal is not kept in a vortex pattern.
the colossus’ heavily armored hull  carries two powerful thermal lances, with one on each side of its body.
while their ships and mechs a freaky fast and strong and their specialty troops are good, there is not really a lot of them left, and most of their gods are shattered(like khaine) or destroyed (like asuryan) or relatively weak(like the laughing god).
view resultsloading ...
the sky itself curdled as the  beams pierced through the atmospheric envelope.
it had to be a matter of seconds.
i would doubt, however, that after the first volley the main weapons would be close to the planet-glassing level, seeing as they had a charge-up time for such strength.”
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/mothership .
- www.youtube.com/watch?v=djtgxjringi - it  doesn’t actually show a large charge-up time, and they appear to be using  similar weapons to attack the terran ships.
on a side note, is the sgcombine on halo waypoint you?
as dangerous as  that is, against shields it doesn’t matter how sharp the object is.
- is it before the dark templars split off?
i would  doubt, however, that after the first volley the main weapons would be close to  the planet-glassing level, seeing as they had a charge-up time for such  strength.
that’s big on the power  scale.
while their ships and mechs a freaky fast and strong  and their specialty troops are good, there is not really a lot of them left,  and most of their gods are shattered(like khaine) or destroyed (like asuryan)  or relatively weak(like the laughing god).
i don’t know much about either, but i assume that since the elders are from wh40k they’ll most likely win.
the proximity beacon began to flash enthusiastically on the viewscreen as the ship’s destination, a hollowed tooth of an asteroid, spun closer into view.
i’m starting to lean towards the eldar now.
zoraya  accelerated into the asteroid field, swerving expertly to avoid numerous  meteors and planetoids.
iirc, entering or exiting the webway requires a webway gate – webway gates are usually found in the form of fixed structures and of varying sizes.
there might be something to this.
you do not swerve to avoid them, you plot a course that avoids them well in advance, it’s not like they sneak up on you.
for instance, if there is a wg on a moon, the eldar can warp onto the planet or if the wg is in good condition and strong enough (many of the gates have become weak over the eons) then they can transport their fleets around the moon.
i’d say that a population that seems mainly “united” is better than a bunch of refugees.
@sgcombine “so far i think the protoss seem to have the upper hand.”
the proximity beacon began to flash enthusiastically on  the viewscreen as the ship’s destination, a hollowed tooth of an  asteroid, spun closer into view.
- the reason i asked about what “at the height of their power” meant was because i wanted to make sure that vehicles/techs/units developed at a later date where not used at all.
craftworlds are between 10-100 km depending on their population (they grow and shrink based on the eb of psychic energy/souls).
i dont know how fast the protoss are, but in ‘path of the warrior” a striking scorpion watches a sm bolter round moving like it’s in slow motion.
the only alien taint to reach the farseers was the river of stinking, black blood that flowed down into the chasm.”
they had cut their timing very close indeed, he thought, and his stomach gave an uneasy lurch.
it’s giving of itself, and has been since it got here.
the eldar mostly live on craftworlds and there could be hundreds of those.
‘i don’t know, but it can’t be good for us.’
with careful guidance, high templar can learn to augment this effect, creating storms of raw psionic energy that can tear apart the minds of lesser species.”
it’s not something like a technobabble exterminatus weapon.”
- -eldar phoenix lord maugan ra, the harvester of souls phoenix lord maugan-ra, first of the dark reapers and harvester of souls.
though i would ask you galorian if you know how big the protoss empire actually is?
that’s big on the power scale.”
-4th research note .
if the sun was nearly depleted it would either be massive and red (still emiting large amounts of red light), gone supernova or shrunken into a brown dwarf or a neutron star.
hm, i wonder if i could apply these dynamics to our own structures?
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/colossus .
the safety checks alone can take hours.
- doesn’t necessarily mean so.
““there is a protoss fleet in orbit and they are charging up their main weapons.’”
i’m now convinced that the crystal is drawing power from the ship, but in ways so subtle as to be undetectable.
maugan-ra reaps a high toll of blood from those who oppose the eldar.
gravitational anomaly?
if so, i can go and get the feats for nico from the novel, someone might have to provide cover-fire in the quotes for feats and fighting capabilities from the other 4 novels.
the limb groaned like hot iron as it flexed and the body it belonged to emerged from the gateway.”
even if that were so, fluff plainly states  that motherships can instantly destroy planets.
i figured out where it is putting all that excess energy.
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/lore/short-stories/colossus/7 .
also, to clear up some things: warp gates- wgs are more like relay beacons than gates.
ever eager for advancement, they  train for decades in hand-to-hand combat, tactics, pain tolerance, and martial  discipline.
- the reason i asked about what  “at the height of their power” meant was because i wanted to make  sure that vehicles/techs/units developed at a later date where not used at all.
it’s one empire at it’s height against another at it’s lowest possible point.
galorian december 26, 2011 at 11:32 am - #12 terran warp drives clock at 1000-20000 ly a day, and they’ve got  nothing on the protoss.
they crossed 60,000 lightyears in a span of time that wasn’t sufficiently well defined to narrow it down further.
mj at the low end, and above 388 mj at the high end (a full clip of terran  marine c-14 rounds doesn’t take it down, the calcs are for the smaller  250 round clip and mach 5 rounds for the low end, and the larger 500 round clip  and mach 10 rounds for the high end).
that’s big on the power scale.
although they excel in physical combat, high templar prefer to use psionic attacks that they have developed through intensive training.
one of the pulsing beams punched through the crust itself, and the ground erupted in a volcanic upwelling.
the c-14 is designed to over-penetrate and everything is made of future-metals, so trying to gauge it’s power from it’s performance is pointless.
my battalion can prep and fire an artillery round very quickly during an emergency or when simulating combat using dud ammo, but when not pressed and dealing with live ammunition (such as when preforming live fire during an exercise)
dark eldar no. @skalkorik, warp spiders make small jumps, maybe a few killometers or shorter at a time.
the thing about this is that  what counts as protoss at the height of their power?
with me strapped to it.
in the case of the protoss ship mounted directed energy weapons they’d probably give them greater safety margins on the charge up sequence, double check everything, wait for the entire fleet to be ready and finally stand by for the executor’s express fire command before pushing the big red button.
sometimes accompanied by a troupe master, shadowseer and a death jester, the harlequins are a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield.-gw - then phoenix lords who are the best at whatever their aspect is.
“we need to land the ship.
like all phoenix lords fuegan has been re-born many times giving him thousands of years of experience.
phoenix lord baharroth-
interceptors are maneuverable,  computer-guided crafts that can tear through flight formations and relentlessly  strafe slower ground targets with their plasma charges.
the spirits of mighty eldar seers and warlocks.
it’s feeding the hyperion.
you must be logged in to post a comment.
after all, that was a coordinated fleet action and the planet wasn’t going anywhere… @iamtaco .
same principle applies to any other weapon to varying degrees.
hole not whole my bad @tau your assistance is greatly appreciated, then.
-ugh, example there.
i’m in need of back-up, there!
however, their strongest assets are the craftworlds (assuming just craftworld eldar).
unlike most other protoss robots, the colossus was created purely for destruction.
judging by the size of the mags each spike is around 150mm long (which is consistent with the length/width ratio of modern day sabot rounds and with the fact that the spikes are said to nail zerg to walls).
i’m going to go lose some more credits on lost viking.”
when the eldar fight with the avatar their can shrug off damage they normally wouldn’t, they are much faster, stronger and are almost as blood seeking as a berserker.
the colossus’ heavily armored hull carries two powerful thermal lances, with one on each side of its body.
luckily, i found some cast-off chips floating in the tank.
will the protoss get their new units in  heart of the swarm in the battle eg, the tempest,the replicant and the  oracle?and if the protoss get those units will they get to keep the mothership  and the carrier?
that’s a big range… - “maneuvering around several planetoids inside an asteroid field in the span of seconds.
their firepower is in fact higher than the imperium’s firepower, but their ships are much more fragile, but still able to tank the petaton blasts from the imperium.
this picture is a bit clearer, from the starcraft ii website: - eu.media.blizzard.com/sc2/media/artwork/cin-protoss-carrier-large.jpg @galorian
i would doubt, however,  that after the first volley the main weapons would be close to the  planet-glassing level, seeing as they had a charge-up time for such  strength.”
liberty’s crusade chapter 8 “even if that were so, fluff plainly states that motherships can instantly destroy planets.
these unified protoss spirits  radiate incalculable power, unleashing psionic barrages against cowering enemy  forces both in the air and on the ground.
whatthecell december 26, 2011 at 12:46 pm - #30 this picture is a bit clearer, from the starcraft ii website: - iamtaco december 26, 2011 at 1:00 pm - #31 @galorian
or just craftworld eldar? makes a big difference.
their fleets themselves are made up mostly of carriers- “the massive carriers serve as operation centers for leaders of the protoss fleet.
the rangers of alaitoc alerted the forces stationed below of there approach, but the perimiter forces left to protect the farseers had become so thin that there was no real hope.
the guardians of tourain) is loads better, and the lack of back-up for c.h.b in numbers is ticking me off.
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/archon .
@dem “anyway, i will start assuming that we are talking about just the craftworld eldar.”
it was warping the energy around so fast that i couldn’t detect it.
i’ve just observed the smallest details from it and somehow wrangled a few tidbits when the crystal… helped me.
i would include ground battles, but they will be almost irrelevant, however, exarchs are not to be trifled with.
-1st research note .
underestimate the firstborn at your own peril.
and there ground forces are no joke either: “there is a story of a mere handful of eldar warriors so inspiring and poignant that it has already entered the realm of legend.
let’s see how they’d do against the eldar, here, shall we?
sgcombine december 26, 2011 at 11:54 am - #18 @aelfinn
then other ships began firing thinner beams with surgical accuracy, adding to the barrage in places.
and how they travel through space?
she was readying the landing gear when a sudden observation made her pause.”
- can we see a quote?
doing otherwise is just an accident waiting to happen.
it’s keeping the energy in a vortex.
as for the got vs the camp half-blood campers fight, we’re gonna have to be quick if we want to avert an outright stomp!-fest.
the hand of asur- the eldar believe that asurmen was the first of the phoenix lords.
able to be equipped with a wide variety of heavy weapons, assault weapons and even a close combat weapon the wraithlord is an extremely versatile component in the eldar battleplan.-gw - and wraithguard- constructed from wraithbone, wraithguard are not living warriors, they are constructs which house a spirit stone containing the soul of an eldar warrior.
@tau, it’s an awesome post maybe the best one here.
-http://eu.battle.net/sc2/en/game/unit/dark-templar .
ive got to side with the protoss here.
author: admin view all posts by admin 1 2 3 …  6 next » 506 comments on "eldars vs protoss" dr.twinky december 26, 2011 at 7:57 am - #1 is this protoss race the ones that fought the elite zealots?
@cell since elder ships have to fight off imperium ships, which are said to pack petaton per volley and shields of similar strength, i would think its somewhere in that range for the elders.
-foot sloggers shouldn’t be discounted because they can still do boarding actions.
example-http://www.games-workshop.com/media_customproductcatalog/m1241344_99060104005_maughanramain_445x319.jpg -eldar phoenix lord maugan ra, the harvester of souls phoenix lord maugan-ra, first of the dark reapers and harvester of souls.
the avatar of khaine- you cant just mass produce these guys.
maneuvering around several planetoids inside an asteroid field in the span of seconds.
including, he knew, the jacobs installation itself.
you do not swerve to  avoid them, you plot a course that avoids them well in advance, it’s not  like they sneak up on you.
-3rd research note .
equipped with the shuriken shrieker cannon, the only noise that can be heard over the shriek of the gun is the mocking laughter of the death jester as he eviscerates his foe”.-gw - then normal harlequins-for the warrior dancers of the harlequins, there is no distinction between art and war.
unless the shurikans (and these monofilimant things the dark reapers shoot) have a large enough mass that sharpness will be useless against protoss shields to a very large degree.
if a fleet in orbit must charge the weapons, we either assume for some reason it’s not part of the protoss standard operations to charge before arriving at a battle zone, or it takes them a long time to charge their weapons.
reaper273 december 26, 2011 at 12:08 pm - #22 @galorian - “terran warp drives clock at 1000-20000 ly a  day, and they’ve got nothing on the protoss.”
if all of these claims  are true, i am fine with that.
any  place of human settlement.
with careful guidance, high templar can learn to augment this  effect, creating storms of raw psionic energy that can tear apart the minds of  lesser species.”
taking time of arrival to how long until they fire seems to be the best route, with zero seconds =
- also no time frame or distances are given, so trying to draw solid conclusions from that error ridden segment is hopeless.
in the dark templar saga, the ships made “jumps” or something like that.
jain zar has travelled widely across the webway, and so it is that the howling banshees can be found on all but the remotest craftworld.
yes, i read that, but i couldn’t tell exactly what their psionic abilities were.
but the loss of  aiur has convinced the protoss to resurrect their oldest and most powerful  weapons.
this sample could lead to huge breakthroughs for the raiders.
height of power for  the protoss would be back when they were sending out their great fleets  everywhere, led by their motherships- “during the golden age of  protoss expansion, motherships led vast armadas throughout deep space.
itcheyness december 26, 2011 at 11:58 am - #20 i think most eldar ships only manage to fight imperial ships because  they’re so fast and difficult to target because of their holofields, not  to mention their maneuverability can keep them out of most imperial ship firing  arcs during a fight.
or is it the most recent incarnation where they arguably have far better tech?
aldrion’s thoughts streamed urgently to the entire crew.
if so, get there, see if you can help with the quotes for the earlier novels, list out the feats from t.l.o and i’ll see if i can do the rest, alright?
except from ‘doom of the eldar’ bfg supplement pdf: “craftworlds, though spacecraft, are vast beyond comprehension.
high  templars would also prove problematic on the battlefield- their regular combat  capabilities are greater than those of zealots (as the high templars rise from  the zealot’s ranks), and their psichic powers are sufficient so that in  fluff just one of their number was able to bring down a squadron of terran  battlecruisers with a psichic storm- “the high templar are the  most seasoned warriors of the protoss armies, an elite cadre who have advanced  far beyond the zealots to attain an even higher plane of martial focus.
the  protoss also tend to suffer very few casualties in battle, as their suits  automatically teleport them to the nearest medical facility upon critical  injury or system failure.
the robot’s beam attack cuts a broad swath across its targets, making the colossus an ideal anti-infantry weapon.
twinky i thought the protoss have that ability too.
interceptors are maneuverable, computer-guided crafts that can tear through flight formations and relentlessly strafe slower ground targets with their plasma charges.
if they can, however, then it’s gonna be one messed up battle.
the eldar are not as outnumbered as most would think.
he was the founder of the shrine of asur, which has grown into the most widespread of all aspects – the dire avengers.
- “so a few protoss archons should be able to handle these avatars right?”
that sh*t’s f’d up man… what a lovely match up….
even before that du was stated to be the most popular variant.
they are much faster than imperial ships, usually flying literal circles around them, and the imperial ships fly around .75c at combat speed.
“protoss ship firepower is easily in the teraton or higher range judging from screenshots of how they ‘purify’ planets.”
because as most  of you know, protoss ship firepower is easily in the teraton or higher range  judging from screenshots of how they ‘purify’ planets.
-6th research note .
the foe was still without number, and here an there an alien talon would bypass the defences of the exarch and take another eldar life.
shouted saul tarvitz.
armed with their potent warp blades, the dark templar are deadly and relentless  foes capable of devastating conventional forces.
whatthecell december 26, 2011 at 12:15 pm - #23 @aelfinn i suggest you take a look at this cinematc for some more  information.
either way it also sounds like they probably engage in battle with out charging their weapons up to this point regularly.
and they have a weapon for every threat: [url]http://i6.photobucket.com/albums/y246/brandoom21/721px-eldar_weapons.jpg[/url]
hell, we once had to cancel a live fire exercise because by the time the safety checks were done it was dark and the higher-ups preferred not to risk it… .
their formidable physiques are further enhanced by cybernetic implants and power suits.
the eldar fielding a avatar of khaine.
i’m not sure that the warp drives are “light-years away” as opposed to “instant travel.”
i tried scraping smaller samples, but all my tools broke.
idharae (destroyed by invaders space marines, codex: space marines) zandros (site of karandras vs ahra duel, rulebook 5e vassiera (mentioned in a medusa v report, “canonized” army of some fan)
you can simply divide to find a direct percentage to figure out how long it would take them to charge up to the level needed to hurt an eldar ship.
i’m hoping someone with “path of the warrior ” will turn  up and drop some calculatable feats for us, because the eldar are woefully  under-represented.
the eldar would be in this battle with 9-10 craftworlds.
@tau43 i remember that book, that avatar got his ass kicked by fulgrim didn’t it?
also are we ready to address the protoss to see whether or not they can hold their own against the eldar, in the meantime?
have you mentioned that clairese koed a lydian drakon?
a gathering of warriors surrounded the light, which flickered and danced like a candle flame.
but it all points towards ignorance.
as awesome as that cinematic was, i’m afriad it’s fan made.
“the aliens laid down a withering barrage against the planet beneath.
how about these elder gods, how useful would they be? @sgcombine most of the eldar’s gods are dead or missing at this point.
then you should also know that the webway is useful for strategic movement – not tactical maneuvers in combat as you previously suggested.
which will be plenty for taking out the protoss.
however, as we get to the bigger weapons,  there’s a marked increase in power output and destructive potential.
harder, better, faster, stronger.
as the ice turned dark with the sheer number of vile, scuttling beasts coming for them, the dire avengers began to kill.
the protoss may win this.
“i’ve been staring at that anomalous sphere above the crystal.
deadly rainbow radiation, more brilliant than mike had ever seen, spiraled out from the impact points, churning earth and water mercilessly, distorting the matter of the planet itself.
is it going to release it explosively?
underestimate the firstborn at your own  peril.
they are not merely huge capital ships ploughing through space with a surrounding escort of smaller vessels.
“please note that i’m not familiar with either side.
armed with their potent warp blades, the dark templar are deadly and relentless foes capable of devastating conventional forces.
if the situation becomes particularly dire, two or more high templars could join to form archons, who’s psichic power’s are orders of magnitude greater, if short lived-
the protoss also tend to suffer very few casualties in battle, as their suits automatically teleport them to the nearest medical facility upon critical injury or system failure.
these towering machines can carve through even protoss armies with frighting  ease- in fluff each sweep of their thermal lances vaporizes anything in  it’s path without slowing down, be it dark templars, zealots or even  entire structures- “the towering colossus is a protoss robot  design dating back to the bloody conflicts of the kalath intercession.
-then there are the harlequins.
though i would ask you galorian if you know  how big the protoss empire actually is?
subtly helping to power the ship, balancing out some of the more ragged systems.
sgcombine december 26, 2011 at 11:50 am - #15 @cell since elder ships have to fight off imperium ships, which are  said to pack petaton per volley and shields of similar strength, i would think  its somewhere in that range for the elders.
magma pushed to the surface, consuming everything that had been uprooted by the energy beams.
- ‘can you show some examples of them using it?’
“@sgcombine the dark eldar aren’t with chaos, they are separate, but do have occasional demonic things happen, but alright, assuming they are out it is craftworld eldar, exodites, harlequins.
and of course,  the dark templars- “the dark templar are powerful psionic warriors  whose ancestors resettled on the planet shakuras after they were exiled from  the protoss homeworld of aiur for refusing to join the emerging khala, the  communal mind link shared by the entire race.
- www.youtube.com/watch?v=djtgxjringi - it doesn’t actually show a large charge-up time, and they appear to be using similar weapons to attack the terran ships.
i’m just trying my best to contribute.
that’s a big  range…” .
so i thought that he was deciding or another name for sgcombine.
in the dark templar saga, the ships  made “jumps” or something like that.
note: elders are claimed to be the second most advanced race in the warhammer 40k verse, surpassed only by the necrons.
can’t they “foresee” their enemies tactics then?
they crossed 60,000 lightyears in a span  of time that wasn’t sufficiently well defined to narrow it down further.
“exterminators,” said mike softly.
wonder how they came off?
-if they are still eldar and not dark i’m counting them.
“there are more of them on my side.”
i could be wrong, but my point is that ship-to-ship is never shown in the range of the planet-busters.
zealots use their substantial psionic abilities to  create blades of pure energy that serve as their primary melee weapons.”
all motherships hold a huge khaydarin crystal infused with enough  psionic energy to distort the very fabric of time and space.
“meantime don’t we have a faction vs faction fight to check out?”
no one goes around with a chambered round in his weapon unless he’s in a combat situation, and the same goes for any other weapon out there (save some kinds of missile tubes).
then other ships began firing thinner beams with surgical  accuracy, adding to the barrage in places.
swann is excited that the ship is running so well, but he has no idea why.
“@tau43 – then you should also know that the webway is useful for strategic movement – not tactical maneuvers in combat as you previously suggested.”
i’m hoping someone with “path of the warrior ” will turn up and drop some calculatable feats for us, because the eldar are woefully under-represented.
-ready when you are.
she is the most swift and ferocious of the phoenix lords.
maugan-ra reaps a high toll of blood from those who oppose the eldar.-gw - then their armor: -storm serpent-the storm serpent carries a wraithgate webway portal, making it a heavily armoured and mobile wraithgate; no one expects troops to spew forth from the belly of a super heavy tank, let alone whole warhosts!-gw - -warlock titan-a warlock titan contains within it’s wraithbone core.
it’s a nice article, but ultimately it underestimated the firepower of the c-14 by about a factor of 10.
they are nigh unassailable, even imperial fleets are crushed against them, they are planet or even star sized in certain cases, and can easily drive by and bombard a planet to cinders with exotic weapons, including dark matter guns.
high templars would also prove problematic on the battlefield- their regular combat capabilities are greater than those of zealots (as the high templars rise from the zealot’s ranks), and their psichic powers are sufficient so that in fluff just one of their number was able to bring down a squadron of terran battlecruisers with a psichic storm- “the high templar are the most seasoned warriors of the protoss armies, an elite cadre who have advanced far beyond the zealots to attain an even higher plane of martial focus.
they probably can use their planet glassing technique on other ships but the time it takes to be able to do this makes it so that their ships would be more like tank destroyers trying to fight tanks due to the lack of grace in this fighting style.
it  strides across the battlefield on four tall, slender legs that allow it to  cross steep elevations with ease.
- is it just prior to starcraft 1,  before they had suffered major losses to the zerg?
on the less upbeat end of things, the level of energy stored in the crystal’s matrix has not increased at all, despite the fact that the crystal continues to grow.
an alloy based on this crystal would have impressive damage mitigation.
it’s developed an intricate matrix that makes it tough and surprisingly flexible.
everytime i reach my wits’ end with this sample, something happens by… chance… and i get a breakthrough.
it requires days of prayer and the sacrifice of a great warrior.
heavily armored  and shielded, carriers can punch their way through enemy blockades by  unleashing flights of robotic interceptors.
however, the size of the protoss industrial capacity and military are far beyond what could be expected from their population thanks the the complete automation of their industry, their ability to teleport whole structures across interstellar distances, their reliance on robotic labor and war machines and the low crew requirements of their ships.
as far as the eldar heavy weapons, the eldar cobra uses distortion cannon which tears reality apart and sucks everything around it into the warp.
that’s a big range… - “maneuvering  around several planetoids inside an asteroid field in the span of seconds.
height of power for the protoss would be back when they were sending out their great fleets everywhere, led by their motherships- “during the golden age of protoss expansion, motherships led vast armadas throughout deep space.
considering eldar can summon avatars of war and the like they should win in groundbattle … otherwise it should somewhat even … protoss have nearly every unit with shileding and strong psykers … eldar have very specialised units and psykers on ther own whoo hoo first post on factpile.
galorian december 26, 2011 at 12:24 pm - #25 @aelfin “well, that’s handy.
zealots use their substantial psionic abilities to create blades of pure energy that serve as their primary melee weapons.”
if i can reverse engineer this fabricator, i could do amazing things with automated repair, or even near-instant manufacturing of advanced ai weaponry.
when wielding this  force, these vessels can instantly destroy squadrons of enemy ships or even  entire planets.”
“i *didn’t* realize”.
i’ll find a quote if i can, but if someone else could mention it, that’d be great.
each phoenix lord is the master of one of the aspect temples.
i placed the crystal in saline solution for storage.
they become pretty viscous.
meteors don’t exist in asteroid fields.
and where the beams struck the  surface, they erupted, boiling the ground where they struck, uprooting both the  creep-infested lands and those that had not yet been infected.
helped take out one of the famous nyc bridges.
@tau i have the titan’s curse and t.l.o’s at where i live, now are we ready to assemble the other unlisted quotes worth of feats to note, back at the group fight thread i mentioned?
their psychicness is much more offensively devastating, at least from what i’ve seen thus far.
heavily armored and shielded, carriers can punch their way through enemy blockades by unleashing flights of robotic interceptors.
in any case, the chips revealed more of the matrix.
“you still got the other c.h.b novels from 1st series, though?”
and it can accomplish things it shouldn’t.
if the situation becomes  particularly dire, two or more high templars could join to form archons,  who’s psichic power’s are orders of magnitude greater, if short  lived-
- “there is a protoss  fleet in orbit and they are charging up their main weapons.’
@tau yeah, but not the exact quote for it, either, from the last olympian.
she  was readying the landing gear when a sudden observation made her pause.”
for all its complexity, the matrix is as solid as the strongest structure.
possibilities are limitless.
marius supposed it must lead to the craftworld above,which explained why they had not detected any ships leaving the craftworld, and how the eldar reached the surface of tarsis first.
- -eldar phoenix lord karandras, the shadow hunter karandras is one of the eldar phoenix lords.
though they fell, one-by-one, the dire avengers slaughtered thousands of the beasts in the space of an hour.
the sky itself curdled as the beams pierced through the atmospheric envelope.
the protoss have such powerful psionic abilities that their presence inadvertently disrupts other life-forms.
- “death jesters-the death jesters are heavy weapon specialists, sinister warriors who stand apart from their fellow harlequins and even from each other.
[url]http://www.tralfazsolutions.com/megabattle/datasheeteldarwarlocktitan.pdf[/url] [url]http://www.tralfazsolutions.com/megabattle/datasheeteldarphantomtitan.pdf[/url] @galorian, thank you very much for the quotes, everyone else too.
what’s it doing with all of that power?
“the last olympian quotes involving nico in them, alright?”
“this makes sense actually” -
not all carriers  rely solely on their interceptor fleets however.
- is it before  the dark templars split off?
but, as the final dire avenger bled their last, the tyranids broke into dissaray, scattering to the four winds.
@aelfin “well, that’s handy.
-every craftworld has an avatar and they can make more when they die.
i put a broken nano-fabricator in the tank last night, and today it’s fixed.
in the  centuries since, these primary command ships had departed the field of battle  and become holy shrines, venerated by mystics and historians.
-if you’re asking for help it’s mine to offer… how may i be of service?
with a swift corkscrew spin, zoraya drove the vessel toward the center of the rock and stopped just above the surface.
julius shook his head.
although they excel in physical combat, high templar prefer to use psionic  attacks that they have developed through intensive training.
- unless we are assuming they only use their ‘main weapon’ for purification.
the protoss or the eldar?
- “there is a protoss fleet in orbit and they are charging up their main weapons.’
@galorian and tau43 – iirc, entering or exiting the webway requires a webway gate – webway gates are usually found in the form of fixed structures and of varying sizes.
if that’s a good match i’m chuck norris.
whatthecell december 26, 2011 at 12:25 pm - #26 damn.
-5th research note .
- please note that i’m not familiar with either side.
“there are more of  them on my side.”
suddenly the light flared and its edges erupted in flames, as though a mighty fire forced its way through it.
published on december 26, 2011, by admin - posted in group combat 506 suggested by sgcombine here’s a great match featuring the eldars from warhammer 40k matched up against theprotoss of starcraft.
it’s only a semantic difference
nothing could survive the assault, human or  otherwise.
(just throwing that out there) sgcombine, the 2nd most advanced, but not nearly the strongest i presume? -
-the two in my immediate memory are khaine who is the god behind the avatars of khaine, because he was shattered when he pissed off the king of the eldar gods(who is now dead, killed by the chaos gods).
twinky me + halo forums =
zoraya accelerated into the asteroid field, swerving expertly to avoid numerous meteors and planetoids.
all from gw - -eldar phoenix lord asurmen
armed with a variety of weapons including the devastating fusion pistol and the vicious harlequins kiss.
the dimensions he used for the rounds are far shorter than the magazine implies.