20 april 2012 12:40pm er, @scrunge, on behalf of the legions of fans of the recent marvel films, let me assure you that many of the most hardcore are female.
so do i. • avengers assemble is released in the uk on 26 april.
photograph: zade rosenthal actors in any capacity, artists of any stripe, are inspired by their  curiosity, by their desire to explore all quarters of life, in light and in  dark, and reflect what they find in their work.
america gave us spiderman, where getting bitten by a spider stops you getting bullied at school.
11:44pm i can remember going to the theatre with my dad and seeing superman, then superman ii.
20 april 2012 1:57pm what a load of utter garbage.
in our increasingly secular society, with so many disparate gods and different faiths, superhero films present a unique canvas upon which our shared hopes, dreams and apocalyptic nightmares can be projected and played out.
and when the heat of  rage cools, all that we are left with is shame and regret.
real unpredictability.
although sometimes i think i might just be a bit contrary.
comments on this page are now closed.
buy for kindlebuy for kindle last 24 hours last 24 hours zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the guardian.
britain gave us v for vendetta, destroying the state at all costs.
20 april 2012 1:05pm i don't think anyone does scorn superhero films any more, do they?
20 april 2012 12:43pm this comment was removed by a moderator because it didn't abide by our community standards.
some are looking for drama ( some action with powers (superman)
when they fly, they soar.
it’s the bad guys that hold any interest.
20 april 2012 1:13pm the seemingly endless conveyor belt of formulaic comic book films is more evidence of how culturally bankrupt hollywood really is.
a version appeared on p4 of theg2 section of the guardian on friday 20 april  2012.
the response was to a (seeming) republican claiming superiority of the us over the uk for having elected a black president.
america gave us superman, supporting the state at all costs.
i look forward to avengers (assemble) in the hopes that joss whedon will do wonders with it.
i love big action movies me.
loki, in fact, is one of the best written and most complex characters i have seen in film in the last year and tom portrayed him so sympathetically that - with absolutely no disrespect to chris - i felt greater empathy toward loki than i did thor.
i believed that there could be someone so good, honest, true, with ethics and a depth of feeling for his fellow man that was impermeable.
if anything, engaging with a mythology whose ideals we don't agree with is a great way of thinking about which values we believe are actually worthwhile.
the spectacle is part  of the fun – part of the art, part of our shared joy.
his performance was dark, anarchic, dizzying, free, and  totally, thrillingly, dangerous.
captain america is a poster boy for martial heroism in military combat: the natural leader, the war hero.
the majority are terribly done.
the guardian  article history about this article close superheroes movies like avengers assemble should not be scorned this  article was published onguardian.co.uk at 20.33 bst on thursday 19 april 2012.
now there's an interesting mind ... 20 april 2012
10:38am great article.
with the odd exception most superhero films have been utterly wooden or gormless or both.
i realize that they are fictional; however, in reality, aren't we doing the exact same thing?
robocop to be the best "judge dredd" movie so far made, but iron man has a more sophisticated wit and irony than verhoven's classic (except for the last dreadful battle with iron monger, which almost ruins the film).
and not just trains; trucks,  bikes, bat-mobiles and men in flying, shining iron suits.
heath ledger flat out is the joker in the dark knight.
there, so please take back my appreciation to your cast and crew, and i am as far from the programmed audience of teenage american boys as you can get: an adult international woman of not unrefined tastes.
first has to be props for christopher reeve and richard donner, who set the template for all superhero movie right out of the gate.
i grew up watching superman.
also see spiderman 3, any film with wolverine in, etc.
11:59am thank you for a piece that knows that at heart every story is about the character.
the possibility that there can be individuals who epitomize such polar extremes of character – virtues such as courage, honor, love even, as well as the incredibly illuminating traits of fear, anger, hopelessness, doubt – to the point of such rarity that they inspire art and literature in multiple forms… it’s ridiculously thrilling!
this wasn't villainy by rote - this character could do the unexpected at almost every term.
stan, jack, joe, etc: they were onto something...marvelous.
superhero movies also represent the pinnacle of cinema as "motion  picture".
they got me into learning, to loving the medium of literature and i guess that's the same for a lot of adults today.
and heath ledger's performance in the dark knight quite simply changed the game.
the search is your  task.
but he's produced some utter bollocks as well.
i'm not really a fan of nolan's take on batman, the need to make it ultra realistic, to me, makes them less fun.
the odyssey was infuriatingly simplistic - 'good' people could do horrific things (telemachus' slaying of penelope's suitors etc etc) but it was irrelevant because they were chosen by the gods.
if you do not you do not.
20 april 2012 5:25amresponse to spartacusmars, 20 april 2012 3:52am in a previous thread i just saw you proclaim the superiority of the uk to the us because you had a female prime minister before the us had a black president.
but it's one we beware of embracing uncritically.
how the hell did they manage to pull off something as cheesy - on paper - as supes breaking the 4th wall and waving to the audience.
i do not claim any national superiority.
i'd like to think that the lumière brothers would thrill  at the cat-and-mouse chase through the netherworld streets of gotham in the  dark knight, with helicopters tripping on high-tensile wires and falling from  the sky, and a huge joker-driven triple-length truck upending 180 degrees like  a russian acrobat.
more often than not you stumble upon the truth in the dark, colliding with it or just glimpsing an image or a shape which seems to correspond with the truth, often without realising that you have done so.
some action with sleuthing (batman) some action with humour (spiderman)
they are flawed, damaged and ultimately more human, even if that is monstrously human, than the good guy, hand on nipple, god bless america types.
photograph: zade rosenthal actors in any capacity, artists of any stripe, are inspired by their curiosity, by their desire to explore all quarters of life, in light and in dark, and reflect what they find in their work.
i've waited 33 years to see something like this.
i don't think the lumerie brothers would marvel at comic book films.
britain, on the other hand... 20 april 2012 7:58amresponse to spartacusmars, 20 april 2012 3:52am nah, your examples of british comics are all excellent of course, but watchmen, the invisibles, and even the second half of v for vendetta where paid for by the american industry you so despise.
bad guys evil plan, no matter how good, how brilliant, how ingenious, will be thwarted, usually by a guy in a costume, punching him or by an act of physical superiority.
i devoured them, i learnt from them, i saw things i would never have seen through them.
you never quite find it but the search for it is compulsive.
the pulling together of a group of people from consistently different backgrounds to work together has always been the dna that holds the avengers together.
ancient societies had anthropomorphic gods: a huge pantheon expanding into centuries of dynastic drama; fathers and sons, martyred heroes, star-crossed lovers, the deaths of kings – stories that taught us of the danger of hubris and the primacy of humility.
britain gave us the invisibles, which handily informs us strong drugs and kinky sex are pretty much peak human experiences.
20 april 2012 8:24am i'd say movies - and especially superhero movies - are more about escapism than truth.
that other superhero bruce – wayne – is the superhero-hamlet: a brooding soul, misunderstood, alone, for ever condemned to avenge the unjust murder of his parents.
spider-man is the eternal adolescent  – peter parker's arachnid counterpart is an embodiment of his best-kept  secret – his independent thought and power.
that other  superhero bruce – wayne – is the superhero-hamlet: a brooding soul,  misunderstood, alone, for ever condemned to avenge the unjust murder of his  parents.
joe has no capacity to see outside of the law, murphy is the exact opposite.
it doesn't matter if the story is about superheroes or a damaged boy named kevin or a retired spy named george, if you can't be brought to care about these people then the film will be just another piece of popcorn fluff.
they make for decent thrillers but to me batman is about gothic detective action and at times horror.
america produced captain america, without hint of irony.
the majority of films these days tend to fall into the brackets of utterly mindless or overly 'poignant' and dreary.
i groaned when he gave his origin story....but later when he gave an alternate origin i grinned like the cheshire cat.
heroes are fascinating.
the movies, however, can be stupendous or they can be rank.
marvel comics allowed me to having a reading age of 12 when i was 7.
i'm aware that is over-simplifying everything a lot, but i think it's an interesting contrast between the treatment of heroes in two pieces (the iliad and the odyssey) that arise in the same period of history.
otherwise a good article, i hope the avengers movie is actually good.
" it's also incredibly moving when the people on the subway come to spidey's aid.
but the real truth is that there never is any such thing as one truth to be found in dramatic art.
these are american made products, which aggressively push an american agenda.
phelimo: best bit in the avengers was when the big green fella said "hulk steal movie!"about 22 hours, 30 minutes ago compare and buy tickets for thousands of events lady gaga tickets saturday, 8 sep, 2012 twickenham stadium - london wireless festival tickets friday, 6 jul, 2012 hyde park - london madonna tickets tuesday, 17 jul, 2012 hyde park - london awards and prizes
last 24 hours latest news, reviews and links from the guardian's film team annebillson: today's guardian film piece on zombie films fails to link to a zombie article i wrote a few years ago, so here it is: http://t.co/8inmotbkabout 12 hours, 25 minutes ago ryan_man2: lawrence of belgravia, paul kelly's wonderful film about lawrence (denim/felt), is screening thru may. dates here: http://t.co/pgnrysz0about 21 hours, 1 minute ago
the veil drops and he seems to grow six inches and suddenly superman is standing in front of louis.
i even liked the characterizations of minor players, like her assistant and the shield person...
20 april 2012 12:32pmresponse to spartacusmars, 20 april 2012 3:52am hardly a fair comparison.
:) 20 april 2012 6:20amresponse to spartacusmars, 20 april 2012 3:52am america gave the world comic book characters people all over the planet have actually loved and enjoyed for decades.
i have thoroughly enjoyed the latest raft, purely because the avengers has always been my favourite comic in marvel's canon.
and let's face it, watchmen was riffing off established charlston comics heros, and invisibles similarly riffed off dcs superscouts (and went on to become best.
tom hiddleston as loki in avengers assemble.
superhoeroes are easy to love and enjoy, but to the european reader, they will always be problematic becuase of their unironic right wing agenda, .
the entire theory of the quest, (as exemplified in the song the impossible dream from the musical version,) is something that ought to be on the first page of the handbook for any hero, fictional or not.
20 april 2012 5:49am well put, sir.
i cannot wait to see the avengers next week.
some times you feel you have the truth of a moment in your hand, then it slips through your fingers and is lost."
20 april 2012 1:12pm you misread that thread entirely.
as for films, superman i & ii stood out as the only good examples of the genre that made it to the screen prior to burton bringing batman to us in 1989.
more often than not you stumble upon the truth in the dark, colliding  with it or just glimpsing an image or a shape which seems to correspond with  the truth, often without realising that you have done so.
it was not intended to assert superiority so much as simply inform of the facts.
the female lead, sorry i am forgetting her name, i find her more than a bit annoying (in general, sorry, it happens) but here, it worked...she managed to not annoy me at all.
and with regard to the superman films i'd have to disagree with an earlier poster that these films have a mantra of "might is right".
you clearly suffer from an inferiority complex to the us and need to make up for it by highlighting minor differences that make you feel better.
the monk – review albert nobbs – review avengers assemble – review
20 april 2012 3:19am i am in such awe of the incredible, imaginative vulnerability of the superhero sub-genre.
these truths challenge each other, recoil from each other, reflect each other, ignore each other, tease each other, are blind to each other.
when considering superheroes, you can't ignore arguably the first real (in my opinion and knowledge, which is minimal), 'favoured by the gods' superhero - odysseus in the odyssey.
"i still believe in heroes," says samuel l jackson's nick fury in  avengers assemble.
one cannot discuss the influence that heroes have on people for very long without bringing up don quixote, so here he is.
if the avengers movie possesses even one of these compelling and fascinating characteristics, then the ongoing quest of all heroes has been more than fulfilled, and will continue to be incredibly inspiring.
makes me feel compelled to chime in with my 2 cents, for what it's worth.
i do see a difference between the characters of 2000ad and the characters from the marvel studios.
no superhero film is automatically good or bad, in the same way no film is automatically good or bad.
posted by  tom hiddleston thursday 19 april 2012 20.33 bst
how brilliant is that?!!
it maybe dressed up in soul searching and angst, but in the end, if we can punch you harder, we win, you lose.
ledger was a great joker
reeve, to my mind, was the first real superhero.
when he called home to report that he'd landed the lead in superman his father assumed he was talking about shaw'sman and superman.
we should line up all the brits on one side and all the yanks on the other
i'd like to think that the lumière brothers would thrill at the cat-and-mouse chase through the netherworld streets of gotham in the dark knight, with helicopters tripping on high-tensile wires and falling from the sky, and a huge joker-driven triple-length truck upending 180 degrees like a russian acrobat.
these films are just simplistic - albeit sometimes entertaining - nonsense.
the possibility of redemption is right around the corner, but we  have to earn it.
£7.19 search the guardian bookshopsearch films a-zfilms a-z search soulmates profiles and find a date today!
i believe that's why so many of us are drawn towards superman, captain america, thor...and even those considered the villains in our divisional mindset of 'good vs evil' - brilliant characters such as loki, doc ock, lex, etc... from the comics and books to the silver screen, i think we are so fortunate to have such incredible characters come to life - who all, really, come from many shades of grey who have chosen their paths shaped by their interactions in life.
heroism in pop culture may have something interesting to contribute to self-examination and self-realisation; however, it has little positive effect on how to live as a participating, responsible individual in society.
the villain often uses their brains to become stronger than the hero, or handicap the hero (eg kryptonite island in the superman reboot).
i was amazed how much like the movies, thor was much better than captain america and finally comes iron man (imo).
12:22pm nothing wrong with the idea of superhero films.
these films are just simplistic, if sometime entertaining, nonsense.
12:17pm avengers assemble?
i think the fight between spidey and doc oc in spiderman 2 that ranges from skyscrapers to the train is to date the single most spectacular superhero action scene ever.
that's the goddamn joker up there on the screen!
does it really reflect truths we all agree on?
20 april 2012 12:37pmresponse to danielburden, 20 april 2012
reeve, to my mind, was the first real superhero.
avengers assemble – review avengers assemble disarms the critics avengers assemble – review your ip address will be logged 105 comments, displaying firstsort comments by oldest newest 19 april 2012 8:42pm
i used to dream  of rescuing a girl i had a crush on (my lois lane) from a playground bully  (general zod).
20 april 2012 12:43pm the problem with the superhero films is they've lost their freshness.
murphy's humanity is something dredd would probably shoot himself over.
no other superman can ever match up to him, and no other actor has ever conveyed the same hope as any other superhero.
good superhero films combine the best elements of action, human identity, perceptions of morality, aspirational fantasty and humour.
i do wish we could edit our posts to correct the silly mistakes above....sorry again for the rushed print.
i'd like to imagine that reeves' peers, who gave him stick for taking the role, realised the error of their judgement once they saw the product.
superheroes like any media genre will cater (and pander) to a diverse group of people.
and then there is the factor of what i like to call the don quixote syndrome.
in spite of 20 years of mercurial work in the likes of chaplin and kiss kiss bang bang, it was his rock-star-charismatic yet somehow humble tony stark in iron man that helped wider audiences finally embrace the enormous talent ofrobert downey jr.
i adore christopher nolan's take on batman - can't wait for his final outing later in the year - and ledger's joker was something else entriely.
the spectacle is part of the fun – part of the art, part of our shared joy.
call it trite, call it sentimental, but it is the truth.
britain gave us the watchmen, where the masked crusaders were a gang of hooligans and hypocrites.
how far i hope we have come since the judgment of christopher reeve's  peers.
i think as much as popular culture has had a tangible influence on how we live our lives s as participating individuals, it has been to our detriment.
the search is your task.
12:12pm reeve set the benchmark undoubtedly, and (in my humble) he set the bar so high it's never been touched.
i used to dream of rescuing a girl i had a crush on (my lois lane) from a playground bully (general zod).
:) (side note: i just realized that when drawing parallels between the avengers and don quixote, your character turns into a windmill or something.
comics like preacher, the authority, transmetropolitan would never have been printed in this country at all.
20 april 2012 1:47pm what an utter crock of shit, 'superhero' movies are little more than metaphorical promotions of american military imperialism.
12:17pm oh dear, now i love tom hiddleston even more.
shame that hiddleston constantly references the dark knight, aside from ledger's powerful performance it's the most overrated film for years.
while i do think that superheroes and supervillains are best portrayed by classically trained actors, reeve was something else beyond this, someone who truly believed in the calling - and indeed in his own life, became a real superhero in the fight for his health and for the health of others with spinal injuries.
these truths challenge each other, recoil from each other,  reflect each other, ignore each other, tease each other, are blind to each  other.
" never have truer words been spoken.
don quixote is agenius .
12:31pm did i miss something?
it was last modified at 15.05 bst on friday 20 april 2012.
the hulk is the perfect metaphor for our fear of anger; its destructive  consequences, its consuming fire.
some action with soap opera and hookups(x-men) some action with a touch of romance (various) and some (not me though) enjoy ogling at tasty superpowered underdressed babes http://www.motleyhealth.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/emma-frost-marvel-comic-cover.jpg they're fantastic tales with protagonists sporting greek-god type powers
the league of extrordinary gentlemen basicaly points outt hat all the superhero characters are stolen from classic and pulp literature, redressed slightly and copyrighted.
http://comicartcommunity.com/gallery/details.php?image_id=40329 is this what the morality of superheroes has taught thee?
superhero movies also represent the pinnacle of cinema as "motion picture".
that acting moment alone always completely sells me on the arguably bobbins deus ex machina of changing the earth's rotational spin to turn back time.
dismissing that as being "for the fanboys" is laughably pretentious.
finally, in superman 2, when louis guesses his secret.
sorry about that... 20 april 2012 1:52pmresponse to killerjoe, 20 april 2012
the heroes always beat them by using their brains or cunning.
artists instinctively want to reflect humanity, their own and each other's, in all its intermittent virtue and vitality, frailty and fallibility.
posted by tom hiddleston your ip address will be logged more from film blog on more features more blogposts is marvel avengers assemble the worst film title ever?
moore has written several of my favourite stories ever, v for vendetta, watchmen, from hell, league of extraordinary gentleman i, ii, iii and iv
often they overcome these human frailties for the  greater good.
everything else appears to be over-hyped american comedies in which the cast are perpetually drunk off their tits, action targeting those with a lower iq than their packet of popcorn, overly-grotesque slasher horror (bonus facepalm points for found footage), or terribly, terribly british, haw-haw comedy-drama or look at the rich people.
the possibility of redemption is right around the corner, but we have to earn it.
there's not a soul on this earth who hasn't  wanted to "hulk smash" something in their lives.
it's all in the execution.
now in this thread you once again feel the need to proclaim the superiority of british comic book characters to the us version.
12:01pm comics are something that has stayed with me my entire life since reading my first spiderman comic when i was 6.
not only american - right wing.
"i still believe in heroes," says samuel l jackson's nick fury in avengers assemble.
but the real truth is  that there never is any such thing as one truth to be found in dramatic art.
as hiddleston refers to, as a child you referred your life to the incidents you had read about or seen on the screen.
12:48pm exploring truths doesn't mean embracing a mythology uncritically - the very opposite in fact.
comparing a character first created in ww2 (captain america) with one created in the late 70’s (judge dredd) is totally inappropriate.
replies may also be deleted.
it sounds cliched, but superheroes can be lonely,  vain, arrogant and proud.
i can only be grateful that intelligent and smart, and more importantly humane alternatives appear in that field of blockbustering.
other than heath ledger and maybe robert downey, jr. and possibly james mcavoy, i don't think anyone has come quite close enough yet to what he achieved in portrayal of superheroes/supervillains.
cannes censorship clip joint festivals la diary the view you review greencine the house next door spoutblog defamer pullquote film babble jim emerson's scanners blog women and hollywood by christopher sandford £16.00 by hannah rothschild £16.00 by stanley booth £9.60 by richard king £11.99 by theodor adorno
yet we frown on them, calling them childish, immature, whilst watching the same generic crap on tv every day of the week.
as a child, when i first learned to dive into  a swimming pool, i wasn't diving, i was flying, like superman.
how far i hope we have come since the judgment of christopher reeve's peers.
but superhero films offer a shared, faithless, modern mythology, through which these truths can be explored.
the dark knight, might do dark things, but the audience knows he’s the good guy, there for its fine for him to use torture or anything necessary to win the day.
all of the british examples you have used where created 30-40 years after the american ones you compared them too.
now excuse me while i go all don quixote-ish on everyone and run off to sword fight a pine tree.
in our increasingly secular society, with so many  disparate gods and different faiths, superhero films present a unique canvas  upon which our shared hopes, dreams and apocalyptic nightmares can be projected  and played out.
he  raised the bar not just for actors in superhero films, but young actors  everywhere; for me.
the iron man and incredible hulk plots are exactly the same, ending with them fighting an evil version of themselves.
in the end all super hero films have the same conclusion.
you also have better tea.
it is rather telling that you do, considering you have written this article...logic being if there was nothing to apologize for, why write something telling everyone that there is nothing to apologize for?
you should be really proud of your participation and your work in the film - i know i would be (and trust me that is saying a lot, considering my haughty disdain, hardly healthy i know, nevertheless, that kept me firmly back on the new york off-off stage as a demented sacramental theatre artiste...)
other than the violence, it has no resemblance to judge dredd whatsoever.
now run along with the rest of the 2nd tier.
this is damaging, because it acts as a kind of displacement or compensation for the real world, and nothing is done about the real world.
10:13am sorry my mind seems to have rushed off ahead of the fingers...
a good superhero film (which the avengers is - i've seen it) is an exciting, immersive, moving experience and they - and the people involved in making them - should be celebrated.
20 april 2012 1:05pm spartacusmars 20 april 2012 3:52am nah.
the hulk is the perfect metaphor for our fear of anger; its destructive consequences, its consuming fire.
1:32pm i came into this article sceptical about what i would find.
12:41pm "reeve set the benchmark undoubtedly, and (in my humble) he set the bar so high it's never been touched.
that's his introduction to the people of metropolis.
but i want to see the truly psychopathic joker from the comics, the one who killed jason todd and crippled barbara gordon just for the hell of it.
"truth in drama  is forever elusive.
the morality behind greek mythology appears positively alien to us in the 21st century, but we can still enagage with its heroes and gods.
this acts as kind of displacement or compensation for the real world, so nothing gets done about the real world.
stephanie ~ldee 20 april 2012 3:52am nah.
or do we discount those because he's british?
after saving louis, saving the pilot and bringing the helicopter safely to the ground amongst a group of astonished and cheering onlookers the first thing out of superman's mouth is "this man needs help".
artists instinctively want to  reflect humanity, their own and each other's, in all its intermittent virtue  and vitality, frailty and fallibility.
the dark knight condemed and hunted so that the idea of a white knight could remain untainted.
" you obviously haven't been watching closely enough - almost all superhero films involve the hero fighting a physically stronger enemy.
this is where superhero stories are brilliant; they use themes and situations that have enthralled humanity for centuries, and then they twist them just so as to touch a certain cord, a nerve that could affect the way someone sees and confronts the world.
while america gives us batman, embodiment of the trickle down theory, europe comes back with master criminal superhero diabolik.
comics made me the reader i am today.
it's about time that comics and the films that are adapted from them stop being dismissed as pointless fluff.
his performance was dark, anarchic, dizzying, free, and totally, thrillingly, dangerous.
i'm sure you do, too.
as a child, when i first learned to dive into a swimming pool, i wasn't diving, i was flying, like superman.
even superman jumped the shark with the 3rd and 4th sequels.
the search is clearly what drives the endeavour.
and when the heat of rage cools, all that we are left with is shame and regret.
in our increasingly secular society... they offer a popular mythology, yes.
maybe playing superheroes isn't such an ignoble undertaking after all.
it’s obviously a dragon.
britain produced judge dredd, with nothing except irony.
we have a whole raft of fantastic writers and artists working in the medium now, many have passed through the 2000ad academy as it were, to prove themselves in america.
and the first time i watched it - especially after the "magic trick" - i realised that the game had changed.
persephone1, 28 david_9281, 30 mark kermode's dvd round-up tom cruise is back on multiplex-pleasing form in mission impossible:
these scenes are the result of a creative engine set in motion when the  lumières shotl'arrivée d'un train en gare de la ciotat in 1895.
superheroes are fun, and they do present a mythology.
the game changed from batman returns, one of the few examples of a sequel being far superior to the film it followed.
it could all have turned out so much for the worse, instead....looks like the avengers (assemble whatever ) will be rather excellent 19 april 2012
however, i disagree on your take on the superhero genre in hollywood.
10:16pm tom hiddleston... with that long haired look you are the long-lost son of richard e grant and i claim my £5 19 april 2012
the invisibles isn't very good at all but here it fits pre-defined prejudices clearly.
i leave it with a huge smile on my face.
once tim burton's batman and, later on, bryan singer's x-men proved that it was possible to make a well-crafted film based around a comic book source, they've been accepted as a valid, not-automatically-trashy, genre.
maybe the score helped, but it certainly sent me out of the theatre with a massive goofy grin on my face.
runtime: 142 mins directors: joss whedon cast: chris evans, chris hemsworth, cobie smulders, gwyneth  paltrow, jeremy renner, mark ruffalo, robert downey jr., samuel l jackson,  scarlett johansson, stellan skarsgard, tom hiddleston more on this film i grew up watching superman.
bruce banner, the hulk's humble alter ego, is as appalled by his anger as we are.
every mythology is rooted in some sort of political outlook, and american superhero stories don't have a monopoly on reactionary politics (tolkien, anyone?).
20 april 2012 12:49pm @waagh "in the end all super hero films have the same conclusion.
turn autoplay off turn autoplay on please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off from superman to batman, superhero films have much to teach us about faith and humanity – as well as being terrrific visual spectacle, writes avengers assemble startom hiddleston earlier this year, beneath the wind-whipped tarpaulin of a catering tent in gloucester, i was working on a film with the actor malcolm sinclair.
over scrambled eggs at an ungodly hour, he told me something i had not previously known: when christopher reeve was young, barely out of juilliard, he was roundly mocked by his peers on broadway for accepting the role of superman.
watchmen is a dc comic, but you then slate american comics whilst then using an american film as a great example.
the american publishers should be thanked for letting our guys unleash their warped minds on their readers.
i have my favourites.
thank you for your insight and passion.
i don't however like dc comics much at all, i have always found them rather trite.
very well-written article and spoken like a true former student of the classics
that's ok, the majority of films are terribly done.
ghost protocol, writesmark kermode being elmo – review
america gave us batman, the billionaire scientist olympian who spends his time hitting muggers.
and you'd have a typical marvel comics special issue cover!
another thing about the cult of the hero (joseph cambell etc) is that it has thrown us back in the arms of gods and destiny (john ralston saul) in our civic lives.
it's the everyday stuff of every man's life, and we love it.
i love michael keaton's bruce wayne.
but give me a robocop, laden with irony and an aggressive subtext ,over an iron man, laden with nothing except the egos involved in the production.
the team ethic, the triumph over insurmountable odds, the gigantic fights, the divorces, the marriages, the losses the team has endured of the decades.
give me burton and keaton any day!
" yeah, like the end of the dark knight where a corrupted harvey dent dies and batman takes responsibility for his crimes post mortem in order to keep the ideal that dent turned his back on alive.
as the btl comments indicate, its one for the fanboys.
and not just trains; trucks, bikes, bat-mobiles and men in flying, shining iron suits.
avengers assemble – review avengers assemble cast: 'they're like one big, dysfunctional family' - video
when they fall, they fall so incredibly far.
but they have to be done well (which by all accounts this latest one is).
i responded that the americas have had black people for hundreds of years longer than britain, but that the longer-term immigrants to britain, the jewish community, has seen both prime ministers and other other party leaders.
10:26am now i feel a bit guilty at not having mentioned the others who did very well as well.
19 april 2012 8:59pm i reckon the lumière brothers would be pretty darn astonished by superhero films.
the characters are polar opposites of each other.
12:14pm on the website front page this film is called 'avengers assembly' - is this a reversioning of x-men first class? 20 april 2012
since then some of the greatest actors have turned superheroes into a serious business: michael keaton andjack nicholson in batman; ian mckellen and patrick stewart, the first venerable knights of the x-men, who have now passed the baton to michael fassbender and james mcavoy.
britain produced judge dredd,.....
in spite of 20 years of  mercurial work in the likes of chaplin and kiss kiss bang bang, it was his  rock-star-charismatic yet somehow humble tony stark in iron man that helped  wider audiences finally embrace the enormous talent ofrobert downey jr.
credit has to be given to the production house thats brings in a branagh to do the film...and his involvement clearly rises the bar all around for that film...the acting was very well done...and you in particular mr. hiddleston, have nothing to apologize for being a part of that film.
i do love watching good performances and well made movies that are not pretentious.
well a whole slew of them...thor being the first, and how clever of the marvel production to leave the films on, in preparation for what i assume is the one you are promoting.
superman as i grew up became my least favourite hero ever, because he was so perfect.
second is the little character moment in the 1st film at the end of the helicopter/skyscraper scene - the first out and out "this is superman!"
but if it's good, that's what counts.
12:12pm chris reeve as superman is, and always shall be, the definitive superhero performance in any comic book film.
(thor was a little different; felt the family drama dimension made it a bit more interesting).
in recent times, the only films i can honestly say that i have found truly enjoyable have been comic adaptions or simon pegg/nick frost projects.
he's the high water mark of "super villains".
and  heath ledger's performance in the dark knight quite simply changed the game.
mr, or is it sir anthony was a fantastic casting, and nothing need be said about his acting here that he is not already laureled for.
@spartacusmars clearly doesn't like anything american, preferring to big up the british end of comics, but as another poster has pointed out, moore's work could only have appeared if it was for american comics money.
3 things from the first 2 superman movies will always stay with me: first is christopher reeves' grief stricken roar at finding louis lane dead.
he raised the bar not just for actors in superhero films, but young actors everywhere; for me.
20 april 2012 1:56pm what a load of utter garbage.
20 april 2012 1:49pm very geeky but...
dark knight is about the most over-rated film ever, by the way... 20 april 2012 9:19am most super hero films have a simple mantra, might is right.
19 april 2012 9:21pm there's huge goodwill among the fans for these characters, devotion even, nay love - it's great that the films have been cast so well, and that everyone involved has understood that at some level 'it matters', and like tom given their all.
find out more inour blog post.
and the actor, helmsworth i think, who played thor did a wonderful job as well...modulating the transition between cockiness (may be a little too well done there) to humility and effortless sacrifice...
as technology has finally caught up with the medium, it has allowed generations of fans to finally see our heroes on the screen as we imagined they would look like, act like, the massive destruction of these heroes and villains in front of our very eyes.
for more detail see our faqs.
christopher reeve flat out is superman in those movies.
film isn't about capturing the reality of the world, it's about capturing the truth of it.
it sounds cliched, but superheroes can be lonely, vain, arrogant and proud.
i suppose you could take a good many literary characters and fit them into those parameters, but the other half of the effect is how those characters, with all their various gifts and flaws, are able to connect with the intended audience.
the trains just move a lot faster these days.
it was considered an ignoble thing for a classical actor to do.
i hope that they would cheer and delight at the  rollercoaster ride through the skies of manhattan at the end ofavengers assemble .
i agree mostly with spartacusmars.
since then some of the greatest actors have turned superheroes into a  serious business: michael keaton andjack nicholson in batman; ian mckellen and  patrick stewart, the first venerable knights of the x-men, who have now passed  the baton to michael fassbender and james mcavoy.
and even though i enjoy the odd superhero film, so many are formulaic it’s untrue.
i truly think it represents the best and worst of each of us...in an amplified state.
the 1978 superman film had real heart to it and there's been a decline ever since.
big talk for someone in a silly superhero film, i hear you say.
it's a wonderful moment of screen magic, a wonderful piece of acting from both parties, and we are privvy to this invulnerable impossibly good man at his most vulnerable.
bruce banner, the  hulk's humble alter ego, is as appalled by his anger as we are.
likewise spiderman is usually weaker than whatever villain he is fighting, but usually wins through science.
moreover, the 'good' guys always win, which is nothing like the real world.
10:10am ok, i admit, in my youtube zomboid phase, i watched all the avengers movies...
it has stuck with me all my life, and into my own career as a social service worker.
these films never have shades of grey.
and before assumptions are made, while tom is a very handsome chap, this is not a matter influenced by my ovaries.
superheroes were always the stories that got the approval of the comics code authority, unlike the horror and true crime tales that came before them.
one can only hope, and reeve's precedent demands it.
though, not in leather and metal, spandex and cloaks...mind you, but...these stories, movies, characters and ideas really allow us to think and embrace ourselves as who we are...super.
there was intelligence and humanity that runs all through this film, that i am glad in more than one ways...not being able to sit through more than a part of the vile transformers thing (also on said youtube zomboid phase)
i bet they're glad that there's enough mainstream simpleton 'geeks' lapping up their ideas deficit.
especially the final shot of the first movie.
characters like the green lantern, the flash, wonder woman have always left me completely cold.
the supervillians are more interesting, becuase they are the monsters from the horror comics redressed.
i hope that they would cheer and delight at the rollercoaster ride through the skies of manhattan at the end ofavengers assemble .
20 april 2012 12:32pmresponse to spartacusmars, 20 april 2012 3:52am well said that man.
but that's another story)
it's the everyday stuff of every  man's life, and we love it.
it's one of the few film performances i've seen where (again in my humble) the actor is invisible from start to finish.
you never quite find it but the search for it is  compulsive.
often they overcome these human frailties for the greater good.
12:13pm love your acting and passion, tom.
tom hiddleston as loki in avengers  assemble.
film for them was about capturing and documenting the world.
in years to come superheroes will be looked on as the enduring mythology of our time.
i have never been more inspired than when i watched harold pinter speak in  a direct address to camera in his nobel lecture in 2005.
superman, spiderman, batman, and all the other caped and masked crusaders, are a bunch of one-dimensional vigilante wankmag material for adolescent american teenage males.
that's the perfect characterisation of superman right there.
robocop is nothing like judge dredd at all.
they've certainly always been something that fascinates me.
20 april 2012 2:00pm @waagh "in the end all super hero films have the same conclusion.
ellis, millar, ennis, moore, grant are giants in the field because of the opportunity marvel & dc gave them and long may it continue.
there's not a soul on this earth who hasn't wanted to "hulk smash" something in their lives.
(and i'll admit to fanwanking this into him travelling faster than the speed of light so that things appear to be travelling backwards in time, but that's just my fannish bent).
the joker is a superhero?
and it took (american financed again)
i thought he was amazing and i believed.
it is what the creative minds bring to the screen both by shaping it on and off the screen.
*sniff* 20 april 2012 1:39pm reeve was actually banned from reading comic books as a boy by his strict parents.
over which time the genre had evolved significantly.
ironmonger, abomination, sabretooth are all bigger and physically stronger than ironman, hulk and wolverine.
20 april 2012 1:36pm @mejustnow "i think the fight between spidey and doc oc in spiderman 2 that ranges from skyscrapers to the train is to date the single most spectacular superhero action scene ever.
avengers assemble is released in the uk on 26 april.
20 april 2012 12:48pm
20 april 2012 10:26amresponse to fluered, 19 april 2012 8:42pm just because a story isn't set in the world that we know doesn't mean it isn't about our world.
superhero comics grew up after the banning of the ec horror comics, remember.
train en gare de la ciotat in 1895.
but here’s the flaw with super hero films, it’s the fact the guys, (and rarely women) are super.
ever, partly because it taught me enough chaos magic to conjour up my beloved sports car...
some times you feel you have the truth of a moment in your hand, then it  slips through your fingers and is lost."
having no love lost nor lovelorn for the genre, i appreciate a populist movie that is well made just as much an auteur's work.
the message of the films, all problems can be solved via violence and being stronger.
are there enough fanboys to make it a success?
there is a lack of dramatic tension, because at the end of the day, they win, and at worst they’ve dirtied up their spandex.
i have never been more inspired than when i watched harold pinter speak in a direct address to camera in his nobel lecture in 2005.
"truth in drama is forever elusive.
these scenes are the result of a creative engine set in motion when the lumières shotl'arrivée d'un
spider-man is the eternal adolescent – peter parker's arachnid counterpart is an embodiment of his best-kept secret – his independent thought and power.
he absorbs all these beautiful stories of daring and bravery and heroic adventure, and then decides that he is not living up to the sort of person he believes he could be, so he goes out and literally becomes the author, the creator of his own life, his own adventures!
david cox: joss whedon's blockbuster has a terrible name – but it faces stiff competition from the likes of b*a*p*s, gleaming the cube, they, eegah, sssssss and phffft!
if you do not see the difference between (say) jack snyder and paul vehooven (the very non-english dutchman whose film i also quoted) then you simply do not.
captain america is a poster boy for martial heroism in military  combat: the natural leader, the war hero.
ancient societies had anthropomorphic gods: a huge pantheon  expanding into centuries of dynastic drama; fathers and sons, martyred heroes,  star-crossed lovers, the deaths of kings – stories that taught us of the  danger of hubris and the primacy of humility.
wonderful article, tom.
however, tom, i believe, has taken on board what we both felt watching reeve and in doing so, has created a supervillain with solidity and depth.
not what genre it is.
but  superhero films offer a shared, faithless, modern mythology, through which  these truths can be explored.
with nothing more than a change in posture reeves transforms before our eyes from clark kent into superman, with no whizz-bang or special effects.
iron man 2 and captain america were truly terrible and avengers looks like more of the same.