why didn't those goofy guardians simply will the universe's problems out of existence, rather than create a corps, etc.?
imho, it's easier to write about human characters like batman or wolverine  than about demigods like superman, gl, thor, or silver surfer.
that hal is no longer green lantern?
as in  the alan scott story about removing evil from earth, scott had no idea how to  remove evil himself.
imo, the details  don't matter, but brain activity is a electrochemical function, and therefore  gl's ring should be able to affect it.
a message written soon after hal jordan  "killed" kilowog and other green lanterns.
and psyches are subject to electrical stimulation, as in electro-shock therapy, which a gl ring could certainly duplicate.
so, since the ring can "do anything," how much more far-fetched is it for the ring to cure disease (by destroying microorganisms), wipe a mind (by rewiring brain cells), or eliminate someone's immortality (by eliminating whatever the immortality factor is in the subject's cells)?
related links the seminal moment in green lantern #76 bruce wayne vs. bill gates: who's the hero?
by magical fiat, that's how.
as i said in another message, i would suggest limiting the power of the  ring further to increase the dramatic possibilities of green lantern.
this would remove gl's ability to change matter directly and to generate  various forms of energy (including telepathic waves).
in spring 2002, i wrote to captain comics (andrew smith) and suggested he run the green lantern contest as part of his column in comic buyer's guide.
besides, hal was clearly spaced out, demented, not in control of his faculties.
the legion's miracle machine?
i think we could live without the 24-hour charge, as it only serves to give gl a chance to recite his oath dramatically.
i just don't think he works as a solo character.
he doesn't have the slightest idea what the full abilities of the mother  box are, or brother eye, or the miracle machine.
do we know for a fact that kilowog's race can't regenerate from a smidgen of protoplasm?
and allan lappin has said  he creates only the shell of a car, for instance, not a true working car.
saying the flash can run at mach 5 (or whatever) is a natural  limitation to me.
as i said in another reply, i would cut down on the ring's main capability,  rather than imposing artificial limitations.
should dc try something radical with gl?
sometimes they need to get weaker and more vulnerable (superman, batman/bruce wayne, flash/wally west, wolverine).
doesn't he deserve to be unique?
(call it a continuity glitch if you wish, but there you have  it.)
anytime the writer wants, he can say,  "whoops, 24 hours are almost up.
similarly, why not end death for some or all of humanity?
the ring supplies the skills in many if not most cases.
or how about this: the green power has a corrupting  element/influence that drives anyone who uses it insane.
for instance, hal jordan is a pragmatist and thinks in terms of things he can see and touch.
maybe this will turn  out well, too.
i just don't think he works as a solo  character.
is a newborn baby evil?
that seems to raise as many questions as it answers.
as for "rewiring brain cells," that was supposed to be a pretty nonscientific explanation.
anytime the writer wants, he can say, "whoops, 24 hours are almost up.
if he needs the energy to knock out solomon grundy, and the story still has a ways to go, he doesn't have it.
hal doesn't have to lament the past, since he can recreate it.
no heat beams, magnetic beams, telepathic beams, etc. kilowog, who i believe was a physicist, would be just the opposite.
i, for one, am not going to burn my entire comic book  collection in front of dc's headquarters.
for instance, if we limited hal jordan to creating physical objects only,  he'd have to think of new and inventive ways to overcome problems all the time.
i don't see why not, since he's created spaceships that must be almost as complex.
***** first, on hal jordan's killing people.
that's my problem with characters like gl or thorthey're basically unlimited in power.
hal destroyed seven  million dollars' worth of planes when one man died (gl #89, original series);  how should he react to the death of a city?
what about those times when gl does something other than create a solid  object, though?
the same with the suggestion about a gl's eliminating someone's  immortality—does he have to understand the mechanics of immortality to do  away with it, or simply the desired result?
first, since the corps and rings are going through so many changes, i don't think you have to violate or ignore past stories.
"he may have  the will to create the miracle machine and so forth, but the skill is another  matter."
if they did agree, their answer would be  wrong, since gl has created things when he didn't know how they worked.
and, of course, he could have contracted "green power ring disease," for all we know.
okay, "green flame" (?) is mediocre, but how about nightwing, valor, the legionnaires, and arsenal (speedy)?
having to pop a pill, spin a dial, or  jump back into the water doesn't strike me as analogous.
yes, according to some christians, but not according to others.
this turns the cell's interior into a different color (red) and then you use your power ring to bust out
which is not to say that i agree  with every change.
well, i'd have to favor the adams years, myself.
if he could create a defibrillator, whose  mechanics he probably doesn't understand, why not any other machine whose  mechanics he doesn't understand as well?
comment (5/24/02): these correspondents need to get their stories straight.
mine are in italics or the regular font.
so you think the brain is too delicate for a ring to "operate"  on?
the same with the suggestion about a gl's eliminating someone's immortalitydoes he have to understand the mechanics of immortality to do away with it, or simply the desired result?
i'm sure alan moore or someone like him could do wonders with the gl concept.)
(call it a continuity glitch if you wish, but there you have it.)
so what if alan scott had said, "no,  stupid ring, leave the people on earth, but remove those parts of their brains  that are causing the negative thoughts"?
i agree with you completely about the value of "limited"  superheroes—the few i've created and the ones i'd like to write would be  all like that.
***** what would *i* do if dc put me in charge?
in other words, our sun looks yellow to us because of the limited range of our vision.
therefore, there is no reason hal couldn't order a single person, if not  the entire world, not to commit an evil act again ("evil" being as  hal defined it).
unless, of course, he has—in the past—asked the ring to analyze  and store the inner workings of such devices, and then asks the ring to  duplicate them in toto.
which is not to say that i agree with every change.
the evidence seems pretty clear on that  point.
why not make them (heck, the world) "forget" how to commit crimes permanently?
copyrighted material is posted under the fair use provision of the copyright act, which allows copying for nonprofit educational uses including criticism and commentary.
moving on to march 1994's messages.
their  short comments are in brackets; their longer comments are indented.
no death is irreversible if a writer doesn't want it to  be.
why not make them (heck, the world) "forget" how to commit  crimes permanently?
change is usually good for a book.
their short comments are in brackets; their longer comments are indented.
does he have to know roughly how it works (machines deassemble a picture, transmit it, and reassemble it)?
no one limited the discussion to physical objects, least of all  me.
(life is a  chemical process, after all, so if gl doesn't have to know the exact mechanics  of it, he ought to be able to will it into existence.)
i agree with this statement in the letters page of gl #50: "in all the years that hal has been in existence, there has been little change, if any, to the character."
sometimes characters need to get stronger and nastier (guy gardner, hawkman, doc magnus, storm, hulk, invisible woman).
if someone dies and gl deems the person worthy enough, he brings the person back to life just as he did green arrow.
but couldnot create  solid objects.
(when o'neil and adams were on the team, i had no doubts about gl's viability.)
original text and pictures © copyright 2007 by robert schmidt.
why has the second gl series failed?
all biological and chemical processes involve matter and energy, and he can clearly manipulate both.
(but he could only tell which one had sent the message by the fact that the real hal's ring glowed while he sent it.
of course a good writer can think of clever variations on the time-limit problem, but i think you'd find, as time went by, that you'd use up your 24-hour-limit stories and start ignoring the device.
"my" idea is based partly on the alan moore story about the  female gl who intervened on a totally dark world.
why doesn't green lantern eliminate evil?why doesn't green lantern eliminate evil?
that's because he imagines a result and the ring fills in the details.
a  chimpanzee clever enough to disobey a human master's rule?
the mimic i would accept because employing his power required continuing  strategy—stay in touch with one hero or switch to another.
bring them back to  life, undone all the wrongs done, and erase the "evil" from your  mind?
***** >> did hal really create kryptonite radiation with his ring.
<< if that were true, then the guardians would simply use that limitless power to accomplish whatever ultimate purpose they had in mind, without use of a "corps.
i'd like to see something that a few gl writers have hinted atnamely, that each ring acts according to the philosophy/world view of the bearer.
superman proposed to lois; robin, the titans, and the legion grew up; supergirl, flash, karate kid, and jericho died.
it doesn't matter whether he knows how to do this or  tells the ring to produce the final result, since the task violates the laws of  physics.
this would remove gl's ability to change matter directly and to generate various forms of energy (including telepathic waves).
i wish the ring were limited in power, as it would make for more dramatic stories.
god kills,  gl reanimates.
***** so you think the brain is too delicate for a ring to "operate" on?
that's certainly possible, but it's also possible that hal jordan invented the strategm, that (if some writer says so) the ring can do it just because hal wills it.
thor's one minute, aquaman's one hour...
i think it's because gl is a tough character to make interesting and  appealing.
(if nothing else, gl could order his ring to scan mister miracle's mother box and create a duplicate of it.)
yet gl can shrink himself even though he can't know the unknowable mechanics of shrinking.
he doesn't "know" any of this; he thinks "car" or "force field" and the ring supplies the knowledge, the energy, and the mechanics.
they demonstrate how limited an idea an omnipotent power ring is, or perhaps how limited some of gl's writers have been, but there's nothing about the limitations of a story idea which indicts the comic book medium. >
*that* was  the beauty of the alan scott story.
that's my problem with characters like gl or thor—they're  basically unlimited in power.
or words to that effect.
the guardians have claimed in the past that they know the future of the universe, that everything is part of their master plan.
dang, i must have read all the bad iron man and thor stories and missed all  the good ones.
superman killed the phantom zone criminals a few years back.
comment (5/24/02): kevin smith's recent green arrow only cements the point.
does  anybody recall the terminator's battles with gl, superman, et al.?
the ring can do anything the wearer (and writer) imagines.
voila, no  more yellow object!
gl knows what a defibrillator does, even if he doesn't understand the process by which it does it: it sends an electric shock to the heart muscle.
at best hal is doing what kyle supposedly does: visualizing the result and letting the ring figure out how to do it.
we can visualize ourselves shrinking, teleporting across the galaxy, or traveling through time.
i think if a character sucks, and lesser remedies have been tried, radical  changes are necessary.
it could cause a fire by rubbing two sticks together, but not by generating heat directly.
a good lawyer could easily get him acquitted on the grounds of temporary insanity.
is killing a man who was trying to strangle your wife to death evil?
or how about this: the green power has a corrupting element/influence that drives anyone who uses it insane.
the  guardians have told him when to jump, and he's asked how high.
more on customized gls.
can anyone give an example of one that has?***** those comic-book gimmicks i don't mind those limitations either, but i have a vague sense that they've never really worked well.
comment (5/24/02): the so-called beauty of the alan scott story is stupid if you think about.
he might be able to duplicate  any function or set of functions he has seen them perform, but not duplicate  the entire range of functions.
i liken the ring to a computer because it performs certain functions automatically or upon orders but doesn't think independently.
if gl doesn't have to create a working car, if he doesn't even have to know how it works, if he merely creates a shell made of energy, then why couldn't he construct an anti-evil machine (i.e., a miracle machinein other words, such a machineis possible in the dc universe) and power it with his will?
in other words, a stronger character would have  rebelled long ago.
i would go with this and limit himonly to creating  solid objects.
superman proposed to lois; robin, the titans, and the legion grew up;  supergirl, flash, karate kid, and jericho died.
he was ranting like a fool at one point.
the mimic i would accept because employing his power required continuing strategystay in touch with one hero or switch to another.
gl  could travel through space by creating a space vehicle, but not by willing  himself to go faster than light.
he wouldn't have to know how it worked, according to you, just what the result was.
or can he simply think "television" and let the ring do the rest?
as i recall, the occasion was the destruction of coast city, hal jordan's subsequent killing spree, and the introduction of kyle rayner.
(if nothing else, gl could order his ring to scan mister miracle's  mother box and create a duplicate of it.)
he simply "wishes" for a result  and the ring does it without hal's having the slightest clue how.
having to pop a pill, spin a dial, or jump back into the water doesn't strike me as analogous.
but hal said he had left enough power for the others whom he had attacked to survive.
hal jordan has done any number of effects that can't be explained by his  "knowledge."
as for kilowog, that does seem inexcusable and unnecessary.
same with supermanwith his super-speed, he could put almost any villain out of commission before the bad guy could blink.
upshot: gl doesn't have to know how a defibrillator, a mother box, or a time machine works.
doctorshave cured someone (perhaps accidentally) of violent tendencies by removing part of the brain.
unless, of course, he hasin the pastasked the ring to analyze and store the inner workings of such devices, and then asks the ring to duplicate them in toto.
it removed every person from earth.
>> did hal really create kryptonite radiation with his ring.
that's primarily what hal jordan has used it for, anyway (others have  used it differently, pointing out hal's lack of imagination).
the  ring defined it by removing the entire person, implying they were evil through  and through.
as i said, the character has always been too inherently powerful his  own good, imho.
yet gl  can shrink himself even though he can't know the unknowable mechanics of  shrinking.
check back in about  five years.
in contrast, the 24-hour limit imposes thesame storytelling problem every time: he's got to run away and recharge.
i suggested this dodged the issue and a clever gl really could eliminate evil.
and why most adults don't read comics.
the lack of definition is a big reason why gl has never succeeded as a character.
we might also leave the ring the ability to "think" independently, so it could supply information or translate speech.
***** another correspondent tries again to explain gl's ring.
well, now, that's a tough, and open-ended, question.
neither hal jordan nor any other human knows how to do these things.
i don't see why not, since  he's created spaceships that must be almost as complex.
in contrast, the 24-hour limit imposes thesame storytelling problem  every time: he's got to run away and recharge.
in this case, the  ring could create a protective bubble, but not a magnetic field.
i don't thinkany of these  artificial limits has ever worked.
tell me how gl communicates telepathically with oa or travels faster than  light
i'm discussing everything the ring can or can't do, which is not merely  limited to creating physical objects.
do we know that hal didn't blast him just for dramatic effect, then restore him off-panel?
gl could travel through space by creating a space vehicle, but not by willing himself to go faster than light.
i don't expect a ring to literally excise every "evil cell" and leave every "good cell" intact.
once this impurity is removed, everyone's healthy again  and no one is blamed for his actions "under the influence.
he could alter everyone's brains and make them happy (or at least not mentally  disturbed), teleport any opponent into a jail cell, etc.
the point is that anything in comic books, including death and more, can be  reversed, so i wouldn't worrytoo much.
it's *yellow* fever! >
i assume the ring could do it.
and i'll tell you how he removes evil.
but i won't blame dc for trying something  radical, only for doing it in an apparently tactless or unfair (to gerald  jones) way.
same reason i  think ultra boy is a "good" superhero—his power requires thought  and planning to be used to best effect.
first, on hal jordan's killing people.
first, since the corps and rings are going through so many changes, i don't  think you have to violate or ignore past stories.
he walked in and saw them and then got a telepathic message from the real hal.
hal jordan is arguably the senior statesman of dc heroes; therefore, doesn't he deserve to be more than just one of a group?
there is no reason he couldn't create food for everyone or  eradicate all disease.
no death is irreversible if a writer doesn't want it to be.
only i would make that a limitation, theonly thing  the ring could do.
under what circumstances did he do it?
if that's not sufficient, the ring excises whichever brain cells and chemicals that create the thoughts and feelings that alan scott deems "evil."
no heat beams, magnetic beams, telepathic beams, etc. kilowog,  who i believe was a physicist, would be just the opposite.
what it all seems to boil down to is that halcould do as i've suggested if he had enough will; there are no physical limitations.
interestingly, supes determined that gl's kryptonite radiation was  "artificial," and thus could be blocked by his yellow "s"  emblem.
you think gl could eradicate malaria?
***** more on customized gls.
hal destroyed seven million dollars' worth of planes when one man died (gl #89, original series); how should he react to the death of a city?
a correspondent suggested gl has to  know exactly what he's doing before he does it.
i used the occasion to start some conversations about whether the green lantern concept worked and how to fix it.
i don't mind a character who grows weaker after using his power, but i  think the minute or hour cutoffs are poor.
those comic-book gimmicks i don't mind those limitations either, but i  have a vague sense that they've never really worked well.
(too bad guy was too stupid to  think of any of them.)
i'm sure he's willed up planes, cars, skyscrapers, bulldozers, blast furnaces, and acetylane torches, none of which he presumably knows how to construct.
we all agree gl can create a modern-day machine: a car, a jet, or a television.
face it, he's been  used...toyed with...manipulated to extremes.
so why not bring some or all of coast city's residents back to life the same way?
(life is a chemical process, after all, so if gl doesn't have to know the exact mechanics of it, he ought to be able to will it into existence.)
the alan  scott story failed to address the issue in any meaningful way.
it could cause  a fire by rubbing two sticks together, but not by generating heat directly.
" when the same guy can beat mongul and lose to deathstroke the terminator,  something's wrong, imho.
just to be contrary, i must say that green lantern has never struck me as the most exciting or meaningful book in the past.
of course not...yet the power-ring elephants behave just like actual elephants.
he's been ordered to ignore personal responsibilities to attend to crises.
an evil magician was blackmailing superman into doing his  bidding, and summoned gl and flash for "sport."
in fact, the human psycheis subject to mechanical means; surgeons sometimes remove part of the brain and alter a person's personality, which a gl ring could do also.
to create a copy of an energy effect, you have to  know how the energy works (within reason—heat and light are somewhat  simple, and are probably understood by the ring).
as in the alan scott story about removing evil from earth, scott had no idea how to remove evil himself.
***** kyle rayner's oath in, uh, day, evening, night, how 'bout green lantern's light?
at best kyle is imagining (not visualizing) a result and letting the ring figure out how to do it.
upshot: gl doesn't have to know how a defibrillator, a mother box, or a  time machine works.
the ring defined it by removing the entire person, implying they were evil through and through.
he's been  ordered to ignore personal responsibilities to attend to crises.
he doesn't  have the skill to do most of the things he does, unless you contend that hal  has advanced degrees in physics, engineering, geology, architecture, munitions,  navigation, etc.
like the time he shrunk himself—does he have to know how  to do it, or does he just give the order and let the ring figure it out?
home | contents | photos | news | reviews | store | forum | ici |
does anybody recall the terminator's battles with gl, superman, et al.?
but perhaps together we can come  up with anything.
"having the skill" is not another matter, imho.
but, again, if gl doesn't have to know the methodology, just the result, it would be up to the ring to manage the intricacies.
someone asks exactly how gl would remove evil.
he just happens to know the physical principles of faster-than-light travel?
i don't know if there's enough time in the day to tackle it.
how lame is the ring's yellow weakness?
i think it's because  these series inevitably favor plot and action over characterization.
so to create a ring-powered machine to destroy evil, you have to know how  to destroy evil.
superman killed the phantom zone criminals a few years  back.
now clark kent or barry allen might have tolerated this, but bruce wayne or oliver queen never would have.
its anatomy and  musculature?
simply say that gl has wasted  or leaked some of the green energy away, and the rings will no longer do what  they could before.
for instance, hal jordan is a pragmatist and thinks in terms of things he  can see and touch.
limited heroes = good idea someone suggests many iron man and thor stories didn't overuse the characters' physical limitations.
and we know it can, because he's made people forget unpleasant things many  times.
the guardians  of the galaxy are an inhibiting and almost unworkable concept: if they exist,  gl should spend 99% of his time patrolling his sector, and the gl corps should  intervene every time mongul, the dominators, the missile men, or whoever  invades the earth.
but i imagine a ring could affect those parts of the brain  that cause sad, negative, or violent thoughts and dampen them enough so a  person would become functional.
it's a do-or-die, no-brainer choice, not a continuing catalyst for strategizing.
***** how lame is the ring's yellow weakness?
" when the same guy can beat mongul and lose to deathstroke the terminator, something's wrong, imho.
i saved some of my correspondents' messages, but not all of them.
***** why has the second gl series failed?
okay, "green flame" (?) is  mediocre, but how about nightwing, valor, the legionnaires, and arsenal  (speedy)?
as i said, the character has always been too inherently powerful his own good, imho.
i don't believe that clark kent, hal jordan, steve rogers, or peter parkeri.e., any true herowould go off the deep end for any reason.
green lantern literally can be  a god if he musters enough willpower.
so, since the ring can "do anything," how much more  far-fetched is it for the ring to cure disease (by destroying microorganisms),  wipe a mind (by rewiring brain cells), or eliminate someone's immortality (by  eliminating whatever the immortality factor is in the subject's cells)?
his book often teeters on the edge of cancelation; doesn't that suggest it's time to do something different?
i don't know what "they" will do in the series.
since light couldn't  penetrate there, the ring was useless, but she made it into a green bell that  emitted sound waves rather than light.
no to both questions.
the changes in the past have  not been enough, and subsequent writers have mostly undone them.
why not serotonin molecules as well?
from gl to the new gods to "star wars," there haven't been many successful sci-fi/space opera comic books, have there?
we all agree gl can create a  modern-day machine: a car, a jet, or a television.
tell it to barry allen, bruce wayne,  and dick grayson.
okay, i'll stick foot in mouth and invite a horde of ring-slingers....
really, in addition to covering any yellow object with dust motes, gl can either darken a room or place a green filter between the light source and the yellow object.
worse, how do you define evil?
more on how the ring works.
just to be contrary, i must say that green lantern has never struck me as  the most exciting or meaningful book in the past.
in brightest day, in blackest night, no gl shall escape my sight.
perhaps this is,  too—especially since it seems established that a gl corps will exist  sometime in the future.
the guardians have acted confused before, only to claim later that it was part of the plan.
i used  the occasion to start some conversations about whether the green lantern  concept worked and how to fix it.
none of these seem  inherently more difficult than transmuting matter or preventing a world from  exploding.
so what if alan scott had said, "no, stupid ring, leave the people on earth, but remove those parts of their brains that are causing the negative thoughts"?
i don't thinkany of these artificial limits has ever worked.
he communicates with  the ring and with other races telepathically, so mind control seems eminently  possible.
but couldnot create solid objects.
as i recall, the occasion was the destruction of coast city, hal  jordan's subsequent killing spree, and the introduction of kyle rayner.
we might also leave the  ring the ability to "think" independently, so it could supply  information or translate speech.
you claim to be well informed, but you are not!
do we know for a fact that kilowog's race can't regenerate from a smidgen of  protoplasm?
physicists are at least talking about wormholes and time travel being theoretically possible, which makes them more possible than shrinking.
same with superman—with his super-speed, he could put  almost any villain out of commission before the bad guy could blink.
all  biological and chemical processes involve matter and energy, and he can clearly  manipulate both.
is killing a man who was trying to strangle  your wife to death evil?
sometimes they need to get  weaker and more vulnerable (superman, batman/bruce wayne, flash/wally west,  wolverine).
it would work best with about 12 gls, each with a  different approach.
saying he couldn't run on yellow brick roads would be  arbitrary.
i just don't think the arbitrary limitations work  as well as what i'd call "organic" or "natural"  limitations.
why couldn't he dream up an anti-crime or an anti-poverty machine and let it do its stuff?
to create the illusion of a working car, fan, or something that just moves,  you make a copy and move it.
is it enough to create a "shell" of a television and let the ring fill in the technological details?
i don't see the difference between that and a car; they're both machines.
he's been  exiled to space for a year.
i wish the ring were limited  in power, as it would make for more dramatic stories.
so it's tough to define "evil"...so?
it happens, people; it's not the end of the world.
hmmm, how about you use your power ring to slash your wrists and splash your blood around your cell.
more on the 24-hour limitation.
it doesn't matter whether he knows how to do this or tells the ring to produce the final result, since the task violates the laws of physics.
if the answer is he's visualizing the planet as a whole, not as a gazillion components...well, that applies to creating objects like motorcycles and blowtorches too.
i'd say gl really needs the humanizing influence of green arrow, john stewart, guy gardner, the rest of the corps, or even itty.
gl wouldn't have to think  about it on a conscious level.
but then, i've never seen my city destroyed, so that's a bit beyond my comprehension, too.
to create the illusion of a working car, fan, or something that just moves, you make a copy and move it.
surgery will take care of boodikka just fine.
i suggest that a character should be compromised by his  own fear and ignorance, not by some plot device.
since light couldn't penetrate there, the ring was useless, but she made it into a green bell that emitted sound waves rather than light.
the guardians have acted confused before, only to claim later that it was  part of the plan.
haven't latter-day writers striven to do away with the time limits on thor and aquaman, as well as iron man's heart attacks, the surfer's being bound to earth, and even superman's kryptonite?
if he needs the energy to keep a planet from blowing up, he's got it.
if the latter, then i think you're onreally shaky ground.
"he may have the will to create the miracle machine and so forth, but the skill is another matter."
in other words, a stronger character would have rebelled long ago.
another correspondent tries again to explain gl's ring.
you give the ring a goal; it figures out how to do it.
you give the ring a goal; it figures out how to do  it.
that hal went crazy?
i don't believe that clark kent, hal jordan, steve rogers,  or peter parker—i.e., any true hero—would go off the deep end for any  reason.
how would gl eliminate evil?
if he doesn't have to know how a planet "works" to keep it from blowing up, he doesn't have to know how a motorcycle works to create one.
i'd argue that dc's flash, gl, hawkman, atom, aquaman,  and quite a few other characters sucked and were in need of surgery.
gl also has done things that are flatly impossible, such as shrinking  himself to subatomic size.
the point is that anything in comic books, including death and more, can be reversed, so i wouldn't worrytoo much.
***** moving on to march 1994's messages.
"my" idea is based partly on the alan moore story about the female gl who intervened on a totally dark world.
so what i'm really asking is, does the ring only not work on what the wearer perceives as yellow?
these actionsmay affect the person's skills and memories or they may not.
voila, no more yellow object!
so is gl creating a working defibrillator, or a shell of a defibrillator (i.e., is he shocking someone with his ring directly, but simply making it look like a defibrillator is acting for some arbitrary reason)?
why couldn't he dream  up an anti-crime or an anti-poverty machine and let it do its stuff?
gl wouldn't have to think about it on a conscious level.
the brain doesn't function like that.
whereas if a character, especially a team character, grows weak, it allows other characters to move to the fore.
or simply put a  better writer on the job.
i don't know what "they"  will do in the series.
and he can also  say, "all gl can do is hammers, tongs, and flyswatters.
they already partnered gl with a mere mortal, gave his ring to someone  else, destroyed and rebuilt the gl corps, etc.
a better solution might've been for the ring to explode or implodebecause the definition of "evil" was so paradoxical the ring couldn't handle it.
to create a copy of an energy effect, you have to know how the energy works (within reasonheat and light are somewhat simple, and are probably understood by the ring).
i might add that quasar, whom i consider marvel's gl, has the same problem.
he just happens to know  the physical principles of faster-than-light travel?
of course a good writer can  think of clever variations on the time-limit problem, but i think you'd find,  as time went by, that you'd use up your 24-hour-limit stories and start  ignoring the device.
it doesn't exactly drive me up a  tree, but i think it weakens the character.
writers have to  "dumb down" his stories and put artificial limitations on his  intelligence and abilities, just as they did with the pre-crisis superman.
if something isn't clear, i've tried to annotate  it to make it clearer.
his ring could create or negate heat, magnetism, gravity, etc.
that's okay by me, but i doubt dc will let itself be bound by the hobgoblin of consistency.
hal jordan, for instance, has no physical or mental idea of  how to accomplish the above tasks.
thats the only time i can recall hal using telepathy.
couldn't gl program his ring to teleport him back to his  power battery, say, after 23 hours?
simply say that gl has wasted or leaked some of the green energy away, and the rings will no longer do what they could before.
then they need to rethink them.
someone again suggests that gl's will isn't enough.
again someone thinks gl needs precise knowledge of what he's doing.
power ring facts here are some things a green lantern can do with his  power ring.
***** someone makes a good point.
(indeed, most  of these actions are beyond human understanding.)
and are you insisting that he is limited to physical objects, when he has  obviously emitted light, heat, and other forms of energy from his ring?
chris claremont did great things with characters whose powers initially  "wore out," giving them training
he doesn't have the skill to do most of the things he does, unless you contend that hal has advanced degrees in physics, engineering, geology, architecture, munitions, navigation, etc.
there was a  real character, with pain, blood, and flaws, dealing with cardboard cutouts.
under this scheme, each gl would be (somewhat) unique and each would have some limitation on his power.
i don't know about "evil," but think of it as a metaphor for  other things.
gl can travel faster than light with it, which is akin to teleportation.
***** is kilowog dead?
dang, i must have read all the bad iron man and thor stories and missed all the good ones.
a good lawyer could easily  get him acquitted on the grounds of temporary insanity.
could he bring someone back to life?
any such explanation will have unintended consequenceseliminating stunts we've seen gl do thousands of times.
saying the flash can run at mach 5 (or whatever) is a natural limitation to me.
bring them back to life, undone all the wrongs done, and erase the "evil" from your mind?
but gl has created spaceships before, hasn't he?
as for "rewiring brain cells," that was supposed to be a pretty  nonscientific explanation.
then  the stories become bland and unbelievable and have to be spiced up by  sensational stunts and gimmicks.
educators |  fans | contests | help | faq |
okay, could gl change the serotonin levels of  certain synaptic receptors in the hypothalamus region...?
it would act much like a sophisticated computer, and have just that much ability.
maybe this will turn out well, too.
writers have to "dumb down" his stories and put artificial limitations on his intelligence and abilities, just as they did with the pre-crisis superman.
kevin smith has made the implicit explicit.
it needs a definition and limitations to even begin to work, story-wise.
gl ring needs rules
i think it's because these series inevitably favor plot and action over characterization.
i think you articulated the problem well.
could he create orion's mother box?
no good answer is possible, but i'd love to hear someone try.
a gl who was a poet, otoh, wouldn't be able to do either of  these things; instead she could create abstract patterns of green light that  could alter one's emotions, perceptions, and thought processes.
therefore, it isn't done.
you never know whether he'll take  charge in any situation or "forget" all the wonderful tricks he can  do and thus get himself hurt or captured.
"ohmithundergod, is thor going to turn into don blake and die?"
hal jordan/parallax's new oath
is the ring limited or unlimited?
as for the human psyche, it is subject to will power, isn't it?
it doesn't exactly drive me up a tree, but i think it weakens the character.
whereas if a  character, especially a team character, grows weak, it allows other characters  to move to the fore.
i'd say gl really needs the humanizing influence of green arrow, john stewart, guy gardner, the  rest of the corps, or even itty.
as metamorpho said in his battle with guy gardner, there's any number of ways to stop a yellow character.
that's primarily what hal jordan has used it for, anyway (others have used it differently, pointing out hal's lack of imagination).
***** i don't mind a character who grows weaker after using his power, but i think the minute or hour cutoffs are poor.
but i won't blame dc for trying something radical, only for doing it in an apparently tactless or unfair (to gerald jones) way.
***** hal jordan has done any number of effects that can't be explained by his "knowledge."
green lantern/parallax either brought green arrow back to life or  created a new green arrow, depending how you look at it.
let's say that the ring should only be able to create solid  objects—i.e., shapes that have physical substance, hardness, density, or  whatever.
of course not...yet the power-ring elephants behave just like  actual elephants.
there isn't an "evil"  cortex ala doc savage; you can't remove a specific ganglia and leave the person  alive with skills and memory intact, but the personality altered so that he'll  never look at the woman next door with lust in his heart again.
please don't send me hate mail.
shades of the old iron "i only have three ergs of energy left"  man!
he shrank himself to atomic size and slipped between the molecules of a gold casing once.
(too bad guy was too stupid to think of any of them.)
i would have tried something less daring myself, if i had been in charge.
doesn't he deserve to  be unique?
knowledge of how to do something obviously isn't necessary, unless hal jordan has taken classes in celestial navigation, warp creation, or faster-than-light travel.
and we know it can, because he's made people forget unpleasant things many times.
people, hal's been a lackey all his life.
a message written soon after hal jordan "killed" kilowog and other green lanterns.
mine are in  italics or the regular font.
but is a comic about god foiling a bank  robbery likely to make sense?
info why doesn't green lantern eliminate evil?
***** shades of the old iron "i only have three ergs of energy left" man!
green lantern needs a drastic change, imho.
if a being with a much wider range of vision looked at it (or for safety's sake a picture of it ) it might see it as *&%*&% (whatever word it uses for ultraviolet).
kyle rayner's oath in, uh, day, evening, night, how 'bout green lantern's light?
i imagine this is how it would actually be in a team  effort.
green lantern literally can be a god if he musters enough willpower.
***** i think you articulated the problem well.
and note that gl can also travel at super-speed, though no one ever employs that aspect of his power.
if one favors capitol punishment, one could argue that sinestro deserved it.
could he will himself to be immortal, just by thinking it?
and he can also say, "all gl can do is hammers, tongs, and flyswatters.
when the reader can outthink the  hero, come up with better solutions, it interrupts the suspension of belief.
so is  gl creating a working defibrillator, or a shell of a defibrillator (i.e., is he  shocking someone with his ring directly, but simply making it look like a  defibrillator is acting for some arbitrary reason)?
consider: and the other tasks are simply beyond human knowledge.
gl also has done things that are flatly impossible, such as shrinking himself to subatomic size.
isn't it time for something  radical?
if something isn't clear, i've tried to annotate it to make it clearer.
***** is the ring limited or unlimited?
tell me how gl communicates telepathically with oa or travels faster than light
could he will himself to be  immortal, just by thinking it?
all this courtesy of gl (original series) #60, #67, and a few other  selected issues.
i think we could live without the 24-hour charge, as it only serves to give  gl a chance to recite his oath dramatically.
the guardians have claimed in the past that they know the future of the  universe, that everything is part of their master plan.
my contention is that without strict definitions, any other contention  about gl's powers is flawed.
that's certainly possible, but it's  also possible that hal jordan invented the strategm, that (if some writer says  so) the ring can do it just because hal wills it.
that he has a new costume?
he's had his power stripped.
its anatomy and musculature?
someone asks exactly how gl would  remove evil.
a more limited explanation for how the ring works would make gl a more plausible character, but i haven't heard a workable explanation.
hal jordan is arguably the senior statesman of dc heroes; therefore,  doesn't he deserve to be more than just one of a group?
(you understand that this is all idle rhetoric, i hope.
does he have to know exactly how television works?
a better  solution might've been for the ring to explode or implode—because the  definition of "evil" was so paradoxical the ring couldn't handle it.
i imagine this is how it would actually be in a team effort.
comment (5/24/02):  these correspondents need to get their stories  straight.
***** i think if a character sucks, and lesser remedies have been tried, radical changes are necessary.
the power ring and lantern is limitless power.
there was a real character, with pain, blood, and flaws, dealing with cardboard cutouts.
i might add that quasar, whom i consider marvel's gl,  has the same problem.
when, if ever, did the gl series work?
if someone dies  and gl deems the person worthy enough, he brings the person back to life just  as he did green arrow.
physicists are at least talking about wormholes and time travel being  theoretically possible, which makes them more possible than shrinking.
so you assume that some gl in the past knew the actual physical means of  shrinking oneself, and has passed it on?
like the time he shrunk himselfdoes he have to know how to do it, or does he just give the order and let the ring figure it out?
***** hal jordan/parallax's new oath in brightest day, in blackest night, no gl shall escape my sight.
violá...gl has undone god's handiwork.
no one limited the discussion to physical objects, least of all me.
as i said, i don't know if this change will work, either.
do we know that hal didn't blast him just for dramatic effect, then  restore him off-panel?
if a ring can create a space warp or telepathic waves, it  can create anything he can imagine.
***** more on how the ring works.
he doesn't have the slightest idea what the full abilities of the mother box are, or brother eye, or the miracle machine.
dc is finally catching up.
he once emitted kryptonite rays, which are nothing but a series of  subatomic particles.
i, for one, am not going to burn my entire comic book collection in front of dc's headquarters.
does he know an elephant's biochemistry?
(2/6/94) i posted the following messages in compuserve's comics forum beginning in  february 1994.
imho, it's easier to write about human characters like batman or wolverine than about demigods like superman, gl, thor, or silver surfer.
***** how would gl eliminate evil?
but, again, if gl doesn't have to know the methodology, just the result, it  would be up to the ring to manage the intricacies.
the contest, 2002 version
i'm sure alan moore or  someone like him could do wonders with the gl concept.)
the changes in the past have not been enough, and subsequent writers have mostly undone them.
***** someone again suggests that gl's will isn't enough.
i liken the  ring to a computer because it performs certain functions automatically or upon  orders but doesn't think independently.
gl can travel faster than  light with it, which is akin to teleportation.
but at least his writer, mark gruenwald, has written a  whole treatise on what quasar's quantum bands can and can't do.
let those who worship lantern's light, beware my power: hal jordan's might.
so you assume that some gl in the past knew the actual physical means of shrinking oneself, and has passed it on?
what about those times when gl does something other than create a solid object, though?
in short, the concept of gl's ring is tragically flawed.
let's say that the ring should only be able to create solid objectsi.e., shapes that have physical substance, hardness, density, or whatever.
part of being a hero is saying no.
they already partnered gl with a mere mortal, gave his ring to someone else, destroyed and rebuilt the gl corps, etc.
just think, we could have a green  lantern, green bell, green pepper, green jeans....
***** when, if ever, did the gl series work?
the guardians of the galaxy are an inhibiting and almost unworkable concept: if they exist, gl should spend 99% of his time patrolling his sector, and the gl corps should intervene every time mongul, the dominators, the missile men, or whoever invades the earth.
all of the hal's got arrested and taken to the police building where barry allen worked.
and, as he's done once in a while (i.e.,  inconsistently), can't gl always coat a yellow object with soot, dust, or dirt  and thus change its color?
it removed  every person from earth.
tell it to barry allen, bruce wayne, and dick grayson.
dc  is finally catching up.
knowledge of how to do something obviously isn't necessary, unless hal  jordan has taken classes in celestial navigation, warp creation, or  faster-than-light travel.
in this case, the ring could create a protective bubble, but not a magnetic field.
but at least his writer, mark gruenwald, has written a whole treatise on what quasar's quantum bands can and can't do.
comment (5/24/02):  kevin smith's recent green arrow only cements the  point.
from gl to the new gods to "star wars," there haven't been many  successful sci-fi/space opera comic books, have there?
and are you insisting that he is limited to physical objects, when he has obviously emitted light, heat, and other forms of energy from his ring?
furthermore, he's shrunk himself, built force fields, etc.
doctors treat depression by directing chemicals to a particular part of the brain.
(if you have any blood left!) > my biggest question is are yellow things really yellow?
the alan scott story failed to address the issue in any meaningful way.
but is a comic about god foiling a bank robbery likely to make sense?
in one flash/green lantern story they had someone make some duplicates of hal, who then attacked him.
it would act much like a sophisticated  computer, and have just that much ability.
" green lantern #50 upheld
"gotta find water, gotta find water"...and next time, it's "gotta find water, gotta find water" again.
furthermore, he's shrunk himself, built force fields,  etc.
is it enough to create a  "shell" of a television and let the ring fill in the technological  details?
i still wouldn't count kilowog out.
besides, hal was clearly spaced out, demented, not in control of his  faculties.
isn't it time for something radical?
but perhaps together we can come up with anything.
the ring interpreted the command and executed the wish, removing all the people from earth.
i'd argue that dc's flash, gl, hawkman, atom, aquaman, and quite a few other characters sucked and were in need of surgery.
he shrank himself to atomic size  and slipped between the molecules of a gold casing once.
would a blind gl have any yellow problems?
looks like the bad guy's got him beat.
(or maybe it's simply time for a top writer.
both those limitations do seem artificial to me when i  think about them.
does he have to know roughly how it works (machines  deassemble a picture, transmit it, and reassemble it)?
comment (5/24/02):  the so-called beauty of the alan scott story is  stupid if you think about.
i posted the following messages in compuserve's comics forum beginning in february 1994.
a gl who was a poet, otoh, wouldn't be able to do either of these things; instead she could create abstract patterns of green light that could alter one's emotions, perceptions, and thought processes.
the evidence seems pretty clear on that point.
i'd like to see something that a few gl writers have  hinted at—namely, that each ring acts according to the philosophy/world  view of the bearer.
don't ask when, but i suspect batman, green arrow, hawkman, wonder woman,  and other dc heroes have killed before, if only by letting people die through  inaction.
so does batman, hawkman, alan  scott/gl, and green arrow.
i'm sure he's willed up planes, cars, skyscrapers,  bulldozers, blast furnaces, and acetylane torches, none of which he presumably  knows how to construct.
and, as he's done once in a while (i.e., inconsistently), can't gl always coat a yellow object with soot, dust, or dirt and thus change its color?
i would go with this and limit himonly to creating solid objects.
gl knows what a defibrillator does, even if he doesn't understand the  process by which it does it: it sends an electric shock to the heart muscle.
he could alter everyone's brains and make them happy (or at least not mentally disturbed), teleport any opponent into a jail cell, etc.
i enjoyed the stories where  englehart et al. destroyed and then rebuilt the gl corps.
i think it's because gl is a tough character to make interesting and appealing.
yes, according to some christians, but not  according to others.
i agree with this statement in the letters page of gl #50: "in all the  years that hal has been in existence, there has been little change, if any, to  the character."
if gl doesn't have to create a working car, if he doesn't even have to know  how it works, if he merely creates a shell made of energy, then why couldn't he  construct an anti-evil machine (i.e., a miracle machine—in other words,  such a machineis possible in the dc universe) and power it with his  will?
he's been pushed too far, and now he's rebelling.
really, in addition to  covering any yellow object with dust motes, gl can either darken a room or  place a green filter between the light source and the yellow object.
a correspondent suggested gl has to know exactly what he's doing before he does it.
so why not bring some  or all of coast city's residents back to life the same way?
he's been exiled to space for a year.
but hal  said he had left enough power for the others whom he had attacked to survive.
a flaw of the "limitless ring," imho.
he's been pushed too far, and now  he's rebelling.
if the  latter, then i think you're onreally shaky ground.
it's  also subject to chemical manipulation (drugs), which is not beyond the power of  gl's ring.
as metamorpho said in his battle with guy gardner, there's  any number of ways to stop a yellow character.
since the green energy can't pass through the yellow walls, i'd doubt his energy-imbued/altered molecules could, either.
haven't latter-day  writers striven to do away with the time limits on thor and aquaman, as well as  iron man's heart attacks, the surfer's being bound to earth, and even  superman's kryptonite?
that raised a firestorm of protest.
*that* was the beauty of the alan scott story.
teleportation would require alteration of his molecules in some way by the green energy of the ring, probably investing them with some of it.
so does batman, hawkman, alan scott/gl, and green arrow.
if dc wants to stick with the visualization claim...well, green che guevara and i can visualize food and medicine appearing before each of the world's six billion people.
but then, i've never seen my city destroyed, so that's a bit beyond my  comprehension, too.
dude, let's do it right, you know, fight, fight, fight!
then the stories become bland and unbelievable and have to be spiced up by sensational stunts and gimmicks.
we're all still here.
what it all seems to boil down to is that halcould do as i've suggested  if he had enough will; there are no physical limitations.
it would work best with about 12 gls, each with a different approach.
because that's what it seems to me, a device.
there isn't an "evil" cortex ala doc savage; you can't remove a specific ganglia and leave the person alive with skills and memory intact, but the personality altered so that he'll never look at the woman next door with lust in his heart again.
some additional thoughts on green lantern and his ring: comment (7/2/02): dc's powers-that-be may have offered explanations for how green lantern's ring works, but all such explanations are suspect.
comments sent to the publisher become the property of blue corn comics and may be used in other postings without permission.
what would *i* do if dc put me in charge?
imo, the details don't matter, but brain activity is a electrochemical function, and therefore gl's ring should be able to affect it.
he once emitted kryptonite rays, which are nothing but a series of subatomic particles.
looks like the bad  guy's got him beat.
look at john stewart in "cosmic odyssey," guy gardner, sinestro, the old timer, or the guardians themselves.
we're back to where we started.
i just don't think the arbitrary limitations work as well as what i'd call "organic" or "natural" limitations.
just think, we could have a green lantern, green bell, green pepper, green jeans....***** again someone thinks gl needs precise knowledge of what he's doing.
basically, if he has or uses enough will power, he can do anything.
if they did agree, their answer would be wrong, since gl has created things when he didn't know how they worked.
the questions i'm responding to asked  what people thought were the canonical abilities of the ring and if/how they  should change.
doctorshave cured someone (perhaps accidentally) of  violent tendencies by removing part of the brain.
i suggest that a character should be compromised by his own fear and ignorance, not by some plot device.
does he have to know exactly  how television works?
check back in about five years.
don't ask when, but i suspect batman, green arrow, hawkman, wonder woman, and other dc heroes have killed before, if only by letting people die through inaction.
if  that's not sufficient, the ring excises whichever brain cells and chemicals  that create the thoughts and feelings that alan scott deems "evil."
okay, could gl change the serotonin levels of certain synaptic receptors in the hypothalamus region...?
so he couldn't just alter people's thought processes.
both those limitations do seem artificial to me when i think about them.
seeing how each gl solved a problem would become a fascinating exercise rather than a predictable bore.
in fact, the human  psycheis subject to mechanical means; surgeons sometimes remove part of  the brain and alter a person's personality, which a gl ring could do also.
it's much like the 24-hour limit.
i don't know if  there's enough time in the day to tackle it.
please don't send  me hate mail.
but i imagine a ring could affect those parts of the brain that cause sad, negative, or violent thoughts and dampen them enough so a person would become functional.
> gl's limited approach to eradicating evil doesn't show how limited *comic books* are.
surgery will take care of boodikka just  fine.
and allan lappin has said he creates only the shell of a car, for instance, not a true working car.
i don't think there's any reason he couldn't bring  someone back to life or will himself to be immortal, either.
couldn't gl program his ring to teleport him back to his power battery, say, after 23 hours?
or simply put a better writer on the job.
he might be able to duplicate any function or set of functions he has seen them perform, but not duplicate the entire range of functions.
what  issue was this.
superman won in the  end.
"gotta find  water, gotta find water"...and next time, it's "gotta find water,  gotta find water" again.
i don't know about "evil," but think of it as a metaphor for other things.
our correspondents don't agree.
i suggested this dodged the issue and a clever gl  really could eliminate evil.
"***** green lantern #50 upheld
i enjoyed the stories where englehart et al. destroyed and then rebuilt the gl corps.
someone thinks i've digressed from my own  subject.
for instance, if we limited hal jordan to creating physical objects only, he'd have to think of new and inventive ways to overcome problems all the time.
good comment about "yellow pigment."
chris claremont did great things with characters whose powers initially "wore out," giving them training so they gradaully and realistically extended the scope of their abilities.
limited heroes = good idea someone suggests many iron man and thor  stories didn't overuse the characters' physical limitations.
my contention is that without strict definitions, any other contention about gl's powers is flawed.
he can: read someone's mind; have his ring search a city for someone he has only a (mental) picture of; make his body nebulous enough for solid objects to pass through; shrink himself; transmit matter into other matter (his clothes, for instance) or create  matter out of thin air; control people's minds and tell them what to do; trace gravity and other energy waves to their source; distinguish a single person's footsteps from all other vibrations; emit kryptonite rays; stop a world's core from blowing up.
his ring could  create or negate heat, magnetism, gravity, etc.
look at john stewart  in "cosmic odyssey," guy gardner, sinestro, the old timer, or the  guardians themselves.
if a ring can create a space warp or telepathic waves, it can create anything he can imagine.
the guardians have told him when to jump, and he's asked how high.
he communicates with the ring and with other races telepathically, so mind control seems eminently possible.
seeing how each gl solved a problem would become a  fascinating exercise rather than a predictable bore.
once this impurity is removed, everyone's healthy again and no one is blamed for his actions "under the influence.
so let's see it happen.
okay, i'll stick foot in mouth and invite a  horde of ring-slingers....
face it, he's been used...toyed with...manipulated to extremes.
i'm discussing everything the ring can or can't do, which is not merely limited to creating physical objects.
and note  that gl can also travel at super-speed, though no one ever employs that aspect
green lantern/parallax either brought green arrow back to life or created a new green arrow, depending how you look at it.
a chimpanzee clever enough to disobey a human master's rule?
someone thinks i've digressed from my own subject.
sometimes characters need to get stronger and nastier (guy gardner,  hawkman, doc magnus, storm, hulk, invisible woman).
***** as i said in another reply, i would cut down on the ring's main capability, rather than imposing artificial limitations.
under this scheme, each gl would be (somewhat) unique and each would have  some limitation on his power.
at some point i discussed an alan scott story in which he willed the ring to "remove evil."
the questions i'm responding to asked what people thought were the canonical abilities of the ring and if/how they should change.
now clark kent or barry allen might have tolerated this, but bruce wayne or  oliver queen never would have.
you never know whether he'll take charge in any situation or "forget" all the wonderful tricks he can do and thus get himself hurt or captured.
that's because he imagines a result and the ring fills in the  details.
perhaps this is, tooespecially since it seems established that a gl corps will exist sometime in the future.
so to create a ring-powered machine to destroy evil, you have to know how to destroy evil.
the ring interpreted the command and executed the wish,  removing all the people from earth.
and  psyches are subject to electrical stimulation, as in electro-shock therapy,  which a gl ring could certainly duplicate.
he  wouldn't have to know how it worked, according to you, just what the result  was.
given this, i submit that gl can do literally anything he wants if he has  enough will power.
his book often teeters on the edge of cancelation; doesn't that  suggest it's time to do something different?
so he couldn't just alter  people's thought processes.
if he could create a defibrillator, whose mechanics he probably doesn't understand, why not any other machine whose mechanics he doesn't understand as well?
giving up peace on earth culture and comics need multicultural perspective 2000 the future of comics all material © copyright its original owners, except where noted.
anyway, a temporary insanity plea will cure this phase.
saying he couldn't run on yellow brick roads would be arbitrary.
or can he simply think "television" and let the ring do the  rest?
he's  created animals such as elephants and lions, as well as energy duplicates of  himself, for example.
it's a do-or-die,  no-brainer choice, not a continuing catalyst for strategizing.
change has worked for years at marvel (look at almost any book).
if one favors capitol punishment, one could argue that sinestro  deserved it.
i would have  tried something less daring myself, if i had been in charge.
i liked the old gl, and i'll watch the new one with curiosity.)
is eating meat on fridays during lent evil?
how about an unborn fetus?
he doesn't "know" any of this; he thinks "car" or  "force field" and the ring supplies the knowledge, the energy, and  the mechanics.
when the reader can outthink the hero, come up with better solutions, it interrupts the suspension of belief.
doctors treat depression by  directing chemicals to a particular part of the brain.
i don't expect a ring  to literally excise every "evil cell" and leave every "good  cell" intact.
only i would make that a limitation, theonly thing the ring could do.
could a yellow  wall (or sheet of paper) block artificial magnetism from gl's ring?
as i said in another message, i would suggest limiting the power of the ring further to increase the dramatic possibilities of green lantern.
(when o'neil and adams were on the team, i had no  doubts about gl's viability.)
can anyone give an example of one that has?
same reason i think ultra boy is a "good" superherohis power requires thought and planning to be used to best effect.
god kills, gl reanimates.
i agree with you completely about the value of "limited" superheroesthe few i've created and the ones i'd like to write would be all like that.
and, of course, he  could have contracted "green power ring disease," for all we know.
"ohmithundergod, is thor going  to turn into don blake and die?"
***** gl ring needs rules
he's created animals such as elephants and lions, as well as energy duplicates of himself, for example.
" comment (5/24/02): gl's power is limitless when it serves the story, limited otherwise.
so they gradaully and realistically  extended the scope of their abilities.
it's also subject to chemical manipulation (drugs), which is not beyond the power of gl's ring.
at some point i discussed an alan  scott story in which he willed the ring to "remove evil."