certain widgets can only be added to certain zones.
- some widgets you can only access when you get a premium membership.
- you can edit widgets to customize them.
me deviant artist member artchaosnbmale/philippines recent activity deviant for 4 years needs premium membership statistics 92 deviations 689 comments 5,978 pageviews 92 deviations 689 comments 5,978 pageviews 1 scrap 60
my cuz! - favourite photographer: peter parker!
i have made a artwork for that as well goku and superman
poster [link] i have also made a deviation of the incredible hulk vs the prince of saiyans: vegeta.
- favourite artist: samuel donato, franklin quano,sarah yu,crystal duran - favourite poet or writer:
- operating system: windows xp - wallpaper of choice: my wallpapers!
i have submitted my
now so i can go to california and see each other....
+watch send a note give profile gallery prints favourites journal about
- skin of choice: my skin - favourite game: kingdom hearts series,god of war 1,2, dot.
my pen tablet just broke a month ago reply ~lyrad24 sep 16, 2009 hobbyist traditional artist
poster in the latest devianart contest if you would like to support it then +fav it.
i am just planning on buying the smallest one, ehe.. thanks in advance!
last visit: 48 weeks ago - member - i am a comic artist - artchaosnb - male/philippines - why i am here - no reason given yet niño bañares art zone personal zone misc.
im so busy with my work so after 2 years i think?
are you still using the cd r king you've bought on the newer da submissions?
hulk vs vegeta [link] you must be familiar with the topic: goku vs superman, who is stronger?
apr 24, 2009 this is a message i am sending out to all the dbz fans i can find on deviantart, i have made a poster containing over 50+ characters and i want to present it to you.
comments digital portrait crystal 2 by ~artchaosnb 0
this way, when anyone visits  a deviant, they know they can always find the art in the top left, and personal  info in the top right.
reply ~ artchaosnb sep 15, 2009 nice!
- you can drag and drop to rearrange.
- the bottom has widgets you can add!
- website: http://www.geocities.com/artchaosnb - email: nbanyures@yahoo.com - yahoo: nbanyures - skype: nbanyures adcast - ads from the community [x] comments add a comment: preview add comment emoticons load all images ~lyrad24 sep 6, 2009 hobbyist traditional artist hello! nice gallery you got here.
because we want profile pages to have freedom of customization, but also to have some consistency.
and i still remember you..
i like the style of your drawing a year ago and now you improve a lot and now your using now a pen tablet thats so kowel!
- don't forget, restraints can bring out the creativity in you!
because we want profile pages to have freedom of  customization, but also to have some consistency.
now go forth and astound us all with your devious profiles!
comments ek issue 6 cover by ~dxsinfinite 59 comments browse favourites watchers ~talk3talk4 ~revolt1983 ~f0xdye ~lyrad24 ~ observernaught ~erikari ~espadaulquiorra ~oneirai =wansworld ~ rondostal91 ~rom12 *juraikken ~paganprincess-aeris ~rsam ~ godofwar65 ~blackbudderfly ~just-delilah !
comments browse gallery random favourites naruto and sakura in the park by ~ mangadrawerika91 70 comments the girl in pumpkin flowers by ~ mangadrawerika91 32 comments bantong by ~markovah 84
- patrick star reply ~artchaosnb sep 15, 2009 oh dat?
keep it up..maybe some day lets make a colab...
introduce me to her...
advertise here [x] digi art myself 0
-- the inner mechanisms of my mind are in enigma.
this way, when anyone visits a deviant, they know they can always find the art in the top left, and personal info in the top right.
some widgets you can only access when you get a premium membership.
~ eggmanrules all watchers new happenings....
comments newest deviations silva by ~artchaosnb 0
but, how? - by moving, adding and personalizing widgets.
its an adventure i guess...
we've split the page into zones!
critiques 0 forum posts 34 favourites more stats this deviant's full pageview graph is unavailable.
the bottom has widgets you can add!
got a different style
hack1-4 and dot hack rebirth - favourite gaming platform: rpg,fighting,war,action adventure - favourite cartoon character: detective conan,dbz characters!,l,light - personal quote: with great powers comes great responsibiity - tools of the trade: pagkain!
- some widgets have options that are only available when you get a premium membership.
if you have read my message then i would like to thank you for your time it means a lot to me -- visit my portfolio[link] soul calibur,sci fi warriors, original characters, fanart, samurai flash movies all that shit!
apr 27, 2009 nice cute naman nang mga artwork u. reply ~artchaosnb may 22, 2009 samamamt ngayon nga lang ulit nag view at nag send ng deviation eh 1 year na ata na di ako nag visit reply ~gourmandhast
-- proud member of #getwatchers: wanna more exposure of your arts?
- now go forth and astound us all with your devious profiles!
comments - jul 2, 2010, 6:29:54 am by ~artchaosnb - journals / personal more journal entries - listening to: my chemical romace - reading: spider-man comics - watching: death note,naruto,naruto shippuden,fma - playing: xbox 360"stupid 360",ps2,psp - eating: what i cook - drinking: coca-cola deviantid devious info - current residence: fairview q.c.
anyway,, i just wanted to ask about the pentablet.
philippines - interests: ps3 - favourite movie: spider-man - favourite band or musician: my chemical romance - favourite genre of music: anything!
- favourite style of art: anime!
patrick star reply ~artchaosnb jul 2, 2010 coz its just cheap haha!!!!
sep 18, 2009 yup!i'd love to!
i hope you like it...
reply ~erikari jul 24, 2009 aww!i learned to use the pen tool in the end!xd ah, do you remember me?:3 -- proud member of #getwatchers: wanna more exposure of your arts?
dbz characters are involved in this!
all rights reserved about us | contact us | developers | careers | site tour | help & faq advertise | premium membership etiquette | privacy policy | terms of service | copyright policy
you can drag and drop to rearrange.
sold my psp...got cheated by my ex gf...and got a new one
- we've split the page into zones!
- certain widgets can only be added to certain zones.
but she's from california, my cousin
zone this is the place where you can personalize your profile!
and i fall in love too fast haha!!!
last visit: 48 weeks ago niño bañares  art zone personal zone misc.
you can edit widgets to customize them.
comments my favorite cousin rica by ~artchaosnb 0
i only use mouse in that da submission.
so see my new deviations...
by moving, adding and personalizing widgets.
can be found at[link] reply go to page: go add a comment: preview add comment emoticons ©2012 deviantart.
well its been a long time not visiting this site, so many things happen in my life lately,i've been busy in my work, am busy in facebook.got a ps3 slim...
deviant login buy art buy deviantwear buy adcast buy premium upgrade shop join deviantart for free take the tour ~artchaosnb niño bañares view badges!
why did it broke? -- the inner mechanisms of my mind are in enigma. -
join now buy deviantwear
by the way im happy that you did learn how to use the pen tablet.
now on painting digital portraits...
javichoxxx ~veggiegirls222
zone - this is the place where you can personalize your profile!
some widgets have options that are only available when you get a premium  membership.
don't forget, restraints can bring out the creativity in you!
and she likes me too...so imma working too hard ryt
deviantart browse art prints shop groups t-shirts & gear deviants sta.sh da muro chat journals today forum find more art daily deviations discover beta critiques critiqueable wallpaper random random deviant random deviation random group search username or email password stay logged in login join deviantart for free take the tour lost password?