all material on fandmolife.net is either copyright of fandomlife.net, the  invididual authors or someone else, so don't copy or use the material without  permission.
the sensitive heart that beats within the orange chest - a heart that is not unlike our own in that it feels deeply the wounds of a society that actively seeks to ostracize the different or the "unattractive" - is what gives the thing his cathartic appeal.
can i get away with  calling comic books "heroic literature?"
for who has not felt like ben at one time or another?
some bricks are stronger and some more eloquent; certainly many are more powerful, more popular.
historical examples include gawain to lancelot, little john to robin hood.
the x-men's colossus is  eloquent, shiny, malleable, and a chrome adonis.
misshapen and "ugly" where his teammates are handsome.
he spends a great deal of his time lamenting  the fact that he must remain unadored while babe-alicious blond storm counts  devotees by the score and the richards' have each other.
that the fact that we were called "four eyes" or  "fatty" did not entitle us to powerful arms and a resilient hide,  hands to crush and x-ray eyes to burn?
the  "ever-lovin', blue-eyed thing."
his work has also appeared in bad azz mofo (www.badazzmofo.com).
what makes the thing such an enduring character is his appeal to  the common people.
some bricks are stronger and some more eloquent; certainly many are more  powerful, more popular.
certainly, the stocky sidekick archetype is ben grimm to a t. as part of the fantastic four, ben's job is to run back up or absorb blows for reed richards, the elastic mr. fantastic (the brain); johnny storm, the human torch (the blaster); and sue storm/richards, invisible girl (a kind of handy but by no means underestimated accessory and den mother).
he's also the  voice of the proletariat in this otherwise white-collar, middle-class club.
only the thing really  suffers, and out of this suffering is born his greatest strengths, like the  boxer that is outclassed from the first bell but fights valiantly and  hopelessly all the way to the twelfth - which the thing has done time and time  again, against hulk, against juggernaut, against himself.
it is his humanity that pushes ben further than the other traditional bricks.
the character dossier series of columns is an ongoing examination of characters we love, from comics, film, literature, television or other, and why we love them.
"put it in plain english to me, stretch!"
reed's princeton lab-speak.
indeed, ben's gutter talk was intended to provide comic relief - his verbal sparring with johnny an ongoing joke all the more poignant on those occasions when johnny's high-flying antics would have to pull ben out of the fire, so to speak.
he spends a great deal of his time lamenting the fact that he must remain unadored while babe-alicious blond storm counts devotees by the score and the richards' have each other.
even before the space encounter that transformed them from ordinary astronauts this was so; of all the roles on the ship, ben was the pilot.
only the thing really suffers, and out of this suffering is born his greatest strengths, like the boxer that is outclassed from the first bell but fights valiantly and hopelessly all the way to the twelfth - which the thing has done time and time again, against hulk, against juggernaut, against himself.
ben grimm has secured his place in the sagas as handily as he has secured his place in our hearts, as brutally as he once toppled galactus!
charlie kondek is a freelance writer from the detroit area.
only a romance with blind  sculptress alicia masters helps him break through this feeling of ugliness and  otherness.
ben grimm has secured his place in the sagas as handily as he has  secured his place in our hearts, as brutally as he once toppled galactus!
it is his humanity that pushes ben further than the other traditional  bricks.
even less are more "like us folks" than this multifaceted man and his complicated web of feelings.
he complains, confronted with dr. doom's latest machine of destruction.
the sensitive heart that beats within the orange chest - a heart  that is not unlike our own in that it feels deeply the wounds of a society that  actively seeks to ostracize the different or the "unattractive" - is  what gives the thing his cathartic appeal.
certainly, the stocky sidekick archetype is ben grimm to a t. as part of the fantastic four, ben's job is to run back up or absorb blows  for reed richards, the elastic mr. fantastic (the brain); johnny storm, the  human torch (the blaster); and sue storm/richards, invisible girl (a kind of  handy but by no means underestimated accessory and den mother).
the thing falls into that category of superhero  known to many as "the brick," the hard, muscle-bound guy (or gal)  that keeps their feet on the ground punching out robot-tanks and such while his  cohorts - "the brain," "the blaster," etc. - swirl, swoop  and fly around him.
historical examples include gawain to lancelot, little john  to robin hood.
admin login is  here.
at one time or another he's gone toe to toe with just about everybody - and usually come out looking the worse for wear.
the hulk is rage personified - he burns out, confused, returns to  earth, and is never quite in control of himself.
forget it, he has no place among the troglodytes of this world.
mountainous in stature and covered in hard, orange rock, ben grimm,  manhattan native, can punch his way through steel just as easily as his  contemporaries: 'the hulk', juggernaut, hercules or superman.
at any rate, throughout the history of comics, no strong man has a stronger heart than the fantastic four's ben grimm a.k.a 'the thing'.
few are more enduring, and more sympathetic, than the thing.
that the fact that we were called "four eyes" or "fatty" did not entitle us to powerful arms and a resilient hide, hands to crush and x-ray eyes to burn?
in fact, he took center-stage shortly after the fantastic four launched in  the early 60s, overtaking johnny as the fan favorite and eventually earning his  own series.
what makes the thing such an enduring character is his appeal to the common people.
only a romance with blind sculptress alicia masters helps him break through this feeling of ugliness and otherness.
he's also the voice of the proletariat in this otherwise white-collar, middle-class club.
the "ever-lovin', blue-eyed thing."
" ben grimm always comes off as much the ff's servant as their friend.
in fact, he took center-stage shortly after the fantastic four launched in the early 60s, overtaking johnny as the fan favorite and eventually earning his own series.
he pens the man  bites movies column for online men's magazine the guy code (www.theguycode.com ).
he feels like a monster that, unlike the hulk, can never change back.
he feels like a  monster that, unlike the hulk, can never change back.
ben is the "yancy streeter" with the "new yawk" accent that counters reed's princeton lab-speak.
follow me on twitter ben grimm aka the thing heroic literature exhibits no shortage of strong men.
that the compensation for our lack of beauty included enormous physical strength and toughness?
with such trademark quips as "you couldn't out punch my aunt petunia" and the immortal "it's clobberin' time!"
can i get away with calling comic books "heroic literature?"
he pens the man bites movies column for online men's magazine the guy code (www.theguycode.com ).
the character dossier series of columns is an ongoing examination of  characters we love, from comics, film, literature, television or other, and why  we love them.
at one time or  another he's gone toe to toe with just about everybody - and usually come out  looking the worse for wear.
you can find our faq and submissions guidlineshere.
you're reading this at an e-zine devoted to fandom, so i don't think i need to persuade you that they are.
don't let his wisecracks fool you - he is not indifferent to  his ugliness, his sense of other.
but ben's usefulness to the ff saga runs much deeper than that.
and who among us has not wished that somehow in our otherness we were empowered, like the thing was empowered?
the x-men's colossus is eloquent, shiny, malleable, and a chrome adonis.
that the  compensation for our lack of beauty included enormous physical strength and  toughness?
few are more enduring, and more sympathetic, than the  thing.
mountainous in stature and covered in hard, orange rock, ben grimm, manhattan native, can punch his way through steel just as easily as his contemporaries: 'the hulk', juggernaut, hercules or superman.
with such trademark quips as "you  couldn't out punch my aunt petunia" and the immortal "it's clobberin'  time!"
even  before the space encounter that transformed them from ordinary astronauts this  was so; of all the roles on the ship, ben was the pilot.
and who among us has not wished that somehow in  our otherness we were empowered, like the thing was empowered?
ben is the  "yancy streeter" with the "new yawk" accent that counters
the thing falls into that category of superhero known to many as "the brick," the hard, muscle-bound guy (or gal) that keeps their feet on the ground punching out robot-tanks and such while his cohorts - "the brain," "the blaster," etc. - swirl, swoop and fly around him.
"whatta we gotta do ta stop this thingummy?!
who has not been taunted, pushed out, ignored?
don't let his wisecracks fool you - he is not indifferent to his ugliness, his sense of other.
forget  it, he has no place among the troglodytes of this world.
the hulk is rage personified - he burns out, confused, returns to earth, and is never quite in control of himself.
indeed,  ben's gutter talk was intended to provide comic relief - his verbal sparring  with johnny an ongoing joke all the more poignant on those occasions when  johnny's high-flying antics would have to pull ben out of the fire, so to  speak.
who has not been  taunted, pushed out, ignored?
at any rate, throughout the history of comics, no strong man has a  stronger heart than the fantastic four's ben grimm a.k.a 'the thing'.
you're reading this at an  e-zine devoted to fandom, so i don't think i need to persuade you that they  are.
even less are more "like us folks" than this multifaceted man  and his complicated web of feelings.