and it all links together as a maxi-arc or whatever they call  them these days, entitled 'the 12 labors of superman'.
the best superman idea i ever had, i gave to mark millar for the conclusion ofred son, so i've been forced to try even harder to do something even better here.
this is like jekyll and hyde.
then there's the abominable snowman, a tragic scientist who's a bit like a refrigerated incredible hulk and turns up for a couple of pages.
the fortress is stuffed with a ton of new toys and gets haunted by the bandaged  ghost of the unknown superman of 4500 ad.
he can do the body language in a  way you've never seen it.
he's only in the story for a few pages but the concept is  strong and feels like one that could be used again.
and i'm sure they can guess what to expect.
we're going with the version where  pa kent has died.
the bumbling clark kent is superman acting.
the all-star  superman is intended to appeal to a wide audience of diverse people for a long  time, like the greek myths.
the bizarros are a lot more predatory inall-star and their touch is infectious.
" no one has ever done clark kent to superman; showing the difference  between these two guys.
and we're recasting the bizarros as a frightening, unstoppable zombie-plague style menace.
this is a complete transformation.
you've got to make  superman about a few things.
we've never seen it before  in 70 years of superman.
and it all links together as a maxi-arc or whatever they call them these days, entitled 'the 12 labors of superman'.
clark kent winds up sharing a prison cell with lex luthor in issue  #5.
telling new stories for a very different audience we've got now because they're  reading manga and adults are looking at superhero movies.
he's never managed to get rid of superman because deep  down he knows that when he does, he'll be forced to prove himself to the  world...and be found wanting.
some astronauts have  tried to land, so he has to go rescue them.
i think those are the best superman stories—the ones about human feelings but on a huge, cosmic, ridiculous, superhero canvas.
all-star: the concept behind all-stars is to get the hottest, fan-friendliest writers and artists to do their interpretations of classic dc characters in their classic scenarios, free of the restraints of current post-crisis continuities.
clark kent winds up sharing a prison cell with lex luthor in issue #5.
we're using the leeway the all-star concept gives us to take the best elements from every era of superman and use them to build a whole new world and direction for the character.
it's got to be about big emotions and big human feelings like death and loss and bereavement and grief and joy.
lois and clark  are kind of seen as katherine hepburn and spencer tracy.
my comics tend to be inspired by whatever's going on in my life and in the world at the time and superman is no exception.
grant morrison writes: all-star is not about continuity—it's about about telling new stories for a very different audience we've got now because they're reading manga and adults are looking at superhero movies.
when she gets the real story in the first issue, she doesn't necessarily believe what he tells her.
he would be completely laid  back, un-tense.
at the same time, these books will look and feel like 2005 publications.
if you haven't read dc books in years, you'll  immediately feel comfortable with all-star books.
there are a few little bits and pieces left over from the aborted superman  2000 pitch which i came up with but this is something new and most of this  material was put together over the last two years.
then there's the  abominable snowman, a tragic scientist who's a bit like a refrigerated  incredible hulk and turns up for a couple of pages.
when  she gets the real story in the first issue, she doesn't necessarily believe  what he tells her.
grant morrison  writes: all-star is not about continuity—it's about about
there's the new clark kent; he's interesting.
it's going to be big, bold sci-fi superman for 12 issues.
he looked totally relaxed...and i suddenly realized this was how superman would sit.
withall-star superman, i think i've come up with a  whole new approach to the lois, clark and superman too relationship, so i'll  leave it at that until you see how it plays out in the books.
the bumbling  clark kent is superman acting.
i like to think of  these stories as 'relevant' to the human condition although not necessarily  relevant to the current headlines, if you see what i mean.
you've got to make superman about a few things.
the clark i like  is middle-america values and he applies those to morality.
overall, the series is more about superman's relationships with his friends and with the world than anything else.
that's the essential core.
superman needs some good tough monsters to fight, so i've tried to think along those lines.
we're changing his costume slightly...the symbol slightly.
this is the subconscious engine that drives  his hatred of his nemesis.
it's a  'zombie apocalypse' approach to the bizarro concept and the idea of an  unstopable plague of backwards-talking idiocy sweeping across the globe seems  ironically amusing right now.
there are really two clark kents.
dan wanted this to be 'original' superman, 'classic' superman basically—more like a movie or the animated version where the set-ups are the familiar ones most people know—i.e. lois doesn't realize clark is superman, jimmy olsen is a cub reporter etc.
the all-star superman is intended to appeal to a wide audience of diverse people for a long time, like the greek myths.
it's the lois we all love—shrewd, witty, romantic, tough...and  obsessively trying to crack the secrets of superman's civilian identity.
we hope to produce a collection of science  fiction folk tales with superman at the heart of them.
with this image of superman relaxing on a cloud looking out for us all in my head, i rushed back to my hotel room and filled dozens of pages of my notebook with notes and drawings.
the best superman idea i ever had, i gave to mark millar  for the conclusion ofred son, so i've been forced to try even harder to do  something even better here.
" no one has ever done clark kent to superman; showing the difference between these two guys.
lois is a complex  and fascinating character, that's all i'll say until the book comes out.
he just shows up  and saves the day and then leaves.
i like to think of these stories as 'relevant' to the human condition although not necessarily relevant to the current headlines, if you see what i mean.
there's the  new clark kent; he's interesting.
at the same time, these  books will look and feel like 2005 publications.
it's all worked out, there are lots of twists and turns.
it's a big science fiction story about superman's death and what he'd do if he thought he was dying.
superman's been lying to her for years.
the whole thing starts with superman: "okay, what do i do now"?
bizarro jor-el and the bizarro jla turn up  in the second part of that story too.
in all-star, superman doesn't talk much.
comic books have changed and my ideas are constantly evolving and changing with the times.
the clark i like is middle-america values and he applies those to morality.
superman needs some  good tough monsters to fight, so i've tried to think along those lines.
i mean, we all want to see it.
superman's pal has to be the coolest guy on earth.
frank and i are keeping modern sensibilities in mind while trying to make  sure that each of our stories addresses some basic human fear or need in a big,  colorful, comic book way.
he just shows up and saves the day and then leaves.
in most cases, the villains only get walk-on roles in this one, however.
superman gets a new power.
the bizarro cube earth invades our world in an epic 2-part adventure (no 'decompression' here!)
this is a lois who's  been through a lot.
the bizarro cube earth invades our world in an epic 2-part adventure  (no 'decompression' here!)
some astronauts have tried to land, so he has to go rescue them.
- grant morrison read an  excerpt from issue #2 all-star superman discussion forum
every time he knocks something over he's doing it to save somebody.
i think  those are the best superman stories—the ones about human feelings but on  a huge, cosmic, ridiculous, superhero canvas.
my only rule  with superman is that hedoes not kill.
issue #3 is 'lois lane--superwoman!'
there's clark on the farm and then clark acting in metropolis.
luthor is the part of us that's the most evil, the most human, and the most brilliant.
ten of  the 12 issues are complete short stories in 22 pages, so lots of stuff  happens.
he always finds a way to solve every single problem without anyone being hurt.
issue #1, page 1issue #1, page 1 all-star superman volume 1 pb on sale volume 2 hc pre-order - the all-star signal-watch - "he was perched with one knee drawn up, chin resting on his arms.
and we're recasting the bizarros as a frightening,  unstoppable zombie-plague style menace.
his solar cells become super  charged by an overdose of solar radiation.
my only rule with superman is that hedoes not kill.
and for a  small part of it, he won't have those red trunks on.
this is a complete  transformation.
we're using the leeway the all-star concept gives us to take the best  elements from every era of superman and use them to build a whole new world and  direction for the character.
even though he's a big farm boy, he knows things; she can talk to him.
he's been around  forever.
he's like paul bunyan or johnny appleseed and here i'm allowed to tell new stories of these amazing folk heroes.
that's the day superboy becomes a man.
we meet earth's  replacement superman and clark kent takes on a new superhero identity...
a man like superman would never have to tense against the cold;  never have to flinch in the face of a blow.
bizarro jor-el and the bizarro jla turn up in the second part of that story too.
he saves the day and doesn't give speeches on what's right  and wrong.
his solar cells become super charged by an overdose of solar radiation.
every time he knocks something over he's  doing it to save somebody.
they're designed to absorb solar radiation, but this time, because of the amount and the proximity, he's overdone it.
the first issue ends with superman revealing his identity to lois and the second one has this take on the lois and clark relationship that no one has ever done before.
we're doing olsen  as the guy every teenage boy wants to be—smart, fearless, funny, a big  hit with the girls, a good loser, a great fighter, an action correspondent on  the sexiest newspaper in town and best friend of superman!
there is a fatal chain reaction in his cell structure and his cells begin to self-destruct.
we've got a very different version of lois.
back in 1999, however, one of the lynchpins of mysuperman 2000 pitch was to make the married superman scenario work as well as the previous lois/clark/superman triangle had.
we deal with the entire origin sequence using four panels on page one of our first issue, in a way i think fans will find amusing.
the rest of superman's rogues gallery is pretty weak, so i've tried to add  some characters i think might enhance the mix.
i'm certainly looking at this as my  definitive statement.
the rest of superman's rogues gallery is pretty weak, so i've tried to add some characters i think might enhance the mix.
issue #2 is the 'lois-lane-in-the-fortress' issue of all-star .
to me, he's a big folk hero.
we all want to know, "would he look really cool without  the trunks?
frank and i are keeping modern sensibilities in mind while trying to make sure that each of our stories addresses some basic human fear or need in a big, colorful, comic book way.
he saves the day and doesn't give speeches on what's right and wrong.
lois and clark are kind of seen as katherine hepburn and spencer tracy.
he can do the body language in a way you've never seen it.
this is the subconscious engine that drives his hatred of his nemesis.
solaris, the tyrant sun from thedc 1 million series gets a makeover and a return visit, and i figured superman could use a 'subhuman' counterpart, so i've created krull, an evolved dinosaur dictator who rules a monstrous civilization at the center of the earth.
" —grant morrison, on his meeting with superman.
the first issue "faster..." starts with superman attempting to rescue the first manned spaced mission to the sun.
we're going with the version where pa kent has died.
even though he's a big farm boy, he knows  things; she can talk to him.
it's got to be about big emotions and big  human feelings like death and loss and bereavement and grief and joy.
back in 1999, however, one  of the lynchpins of mysuperman 2000 pitch was to make the married superman  scenario work as well as the previous lois/clark/superman triangle had.
ma & pa kent—one dead.
you'll actually see his whole posture change and his paunch disappear and his three chins disappear.
you'll actually see his whole posture change and his  paunch disappear and his three chins disappear.
comic books have changed and my ideas are constantly evolving and changing  with the times.
a man like superman would never have to tense against the cold; never have to flinch in the face of a blow.
he's more like the early superman in  that sense.
there are a few little bits and pieces left over from the aborted superman 2000 pitch which i came up with but this is something new and most of this material was put together over the last two years.
that's the essential  core.
the kandorians finally get out of that bottle.
he's more like the early superman in that sense.
mark waid and i argued over this at length, believe me, with waid—that arch iconcoclast—coming down, for a change, on the side of tradition.
it's clearly a different dynamic.
p.r.o.j.e.c.t. specialists race to create a new superman.
overall, the series is more about superman's relationships with his friends and  with the world than anything else.
he finds out he has a year to live.
dan wanted this to be 'original' superman, 'classic' superman  basically—more like a movie or the animated version where the set-ups are  the familiar ones most people know—i.e. lois doesn't realize clark is  superman, jimmy olsen is a cub reporter etc.
the fortress is stuffed with a ton of new toys and gets haunted by the bandaged ghost of the unknown superman of 4500 ad.
the first issue "faster..." starts with superman attempting to  rescue the first manned spaced mission to the sun.
we all want to know, "would he look really cool without the trunks?
if nothing can hurt you, you can afford to be cool.
he wouldn't puff out his chest or posture heroically, he would be totally chilled.
we've never seen it before in 70 years of superman.
the whole thing starts with superman: "okay, what do i do  now"?  it's a big science fiction story about superman's death and  what he'd do if he thought he was dying.
all-star: the concept behind all-stars is to get the hottest,  fan-friendliest writers and artists to do their interpretations of classic dc  characters in their classic scenarios, free of the restraints of current  post-crisis continuities.
after superman, i have no mainstream comics work  lined up.
mark waid and i argued over this at length, believe me, with waid—that  arch iconcoclast—coming down, for a change, on the side of  tradition.
the kandorians finally get  out of that bottle.
solaris, the tyrant sun  from thedc 1 million series gets a makeover and a return visit, and i  figured superman could use a 'subhuman' counterpart, so i've created krull, an  evolved dinosaur dictator who rules a monstrous civilization at the center of  the earth.
lois likes clark because he's smart and witty.
there is a fatal chain reaction in his cell structure and  his cells begin to self-destruct.
we deal with the entire origin sequence using four panels on page one of  our first issue, in a way i think fans will find amusing.
•   fortress    • all-star superman volume 1 pb on sale volume 2 hc pre-order - the all-star signal-watch - "he was perched with one knee drawn up, chin resting on his  arms.
if nothing can hurt you, you can afford to  be cool.
withall-star superman, i think i've come up with a whole new approach to the lois, clark and superman too relationship, so i'll leave it at that until you see how it plays out in the books.
i'm certainly looking at this as my definitive statement.
it's also luthor's biggest  scheme—he's in prison in the first issue, and that's exactly where he  wants to be.
he would be completely laid back, un-tense.
it's a 'zombie apocalypse' approach to the bizarro concept and the idea of an unstopable plague of backwards-talking idiocy sweeping across the globe seems ironically amusing right now.
ten of the 12 issues are complete short stories in 22 pages, so lots of stuff happens.
after superman, i have no mainstream comics work lined up.
the bizarros are a lot more  predatory inall-star and their touch is infectious.
my comics tend to be  inspired by whatever's going on in my life and in the world at the time and  superman is no exception.
he looked totally relaxed...and i suddenly realized this was how  superman would sit.
he's been around forever.
he's only in the story for a few pages but the concept is strong and feels like one that could be used again.
we're doing olsen as the guy every teenage boy wants to be—smart, fearless, funny, a big hit with the girls, a good loser, a great fighter, an action correspondent on the sexiest newspaper in town and best friend of superman!
•   forum     • countdown to miracle monday:
lois likes clark  because he's smart and witty.
then you weave those weird sci-fi stories around those themes.
it's the lois we all love—shrewd, witty, romantic, tough...and obsessively trying to crack the secrets of superman's civilian identity.
there's  clark on the farm and then clark acting in metropolis.
this is a lois who's been through a lot.
no one has ever done clark kent to superman; showing the difference between these two guys.
people know my stuff
he wouldn't puff out his chest or posture heroically,  he would be totally chilled.
he always finds a way to solve every single problem without anyone  being hurt.
we hope to produce a collection of science fiction folk tales with superman at the heart of them.
it's also luthor's biggest scheme—he's in prison in the first issue, and that's exactly where he wants to be.
we meet earth's replacement superman and clark kent takes on a new superhero identity...
if you haven't read dc books in years, you'll immediately feel comfortable with all-star books.
and for a small part of it, he won't have those red trunks on.
he's like paul bunyan or johnny appleseed and here i'm allowed  to tell new stories of these amazing folk heroes.
with this image of superman relaxing on a cloud looking  out for us all in my head, i rushed back to my hotel room and filled dozens of  pages of my notebook with notes and drawings.
lois is a complex and fascinating character, that's all i'll say until the book comes out.
luthor is the part of us that's the most evil, the most human, and the  most brilliant.
i mean, we all want  to see it.
they're designed to absorb  solar radiation, but this time, because of the amount and the proximity, he's  overdone it.
he's never managed to get rid of superman because deep down he knows that when he does, he'll be forced to prove himself to the world...and be found wanting.
the first issue ends with superman revealing his identity to lois and the  second one has this take on the lois and clark relationship that no one has  ever done before.