comments keithdaniel's profile date joined: april 16, 2008
sex: male favorite  sci-fi movie: star wars,the empire strikes back,aliens,the day the  earth stood still,planet of the apes(1968),star trek 2:the wrath of  khan,superman:the movie favorite horror movie: suspiria,the exorcist,the birds,halloween,fright night,salem's lot, favorite genre tv show: buffy the vampire slayer,angel,the  x-files,nowhere man,smallville favorite anime: star  blazers favorite comic book: spiderman favorite manga, book, or graphic novel: kingdom come
i agree with goldeneyez and lancedenier among others,superman would win and it wouldn't be nearly as close as many would think.
superman has defeated powerful opponents like darkseid,mongrel,parasite,doomsday,and general zod;several of whom could likely take hulk!
no one really knows how strong the man of steel is and perhaps neither does he!
speaking of intelligence,how the hell can anyone think that superman isn't smarter than a human,even one as brilliant as dr.bruce banner.
sure wise is completely correct that there are numerous types of media out there now compared to in the past, but that doesn't mean there wasn't more to do.
and wise you know i think you are wise so don't think i'm ripping on your opinion, if it is your opinion or if you took someone else's opinion and made it your own as evilbeagle might have pointed out, but i'm more or less trying to play the devil here and say that i agree that money isn't a way to prove which movie is the most successful, but rather the number of people that saw it, and maybe more importantly the number of people who saw it and loved it.
brainiac(the smartest artificial being ever created)so
i for one think gwtw is a better movie, but that doesn't
many wrongly think that just because hulk is bigger and looks stronger than it means he is stronger.
others believe hulk would win because they're likely marvel fan boys.
he has the knowlege the kryptonian people and that includes their advanced combat techniques.
though obviously there is a loss of income for those who have decided that movie theaters have become more annoying than rewarding due to moronic individuals who only think of themselves and distract you from the movie experience and therefore they wait for the dvd.
yes i think he's smarter than banner.
there would be no way to prove it, but it seems logical.
i suppose there were people back then that simply avoided the movie experience all together for that same reason and just never saw the movie.
there were just different things to do back then.
gwtw was voted paople's choice awards greatest movie of all time, but that was in the eighties, the older it gets the less viewers will be around that have actually scene it, so i guess things change with time regardless.
i'm going to take that one step farther keith, though no one will even read this probably.
there is a limit to how angry someone gets...even the hulk and even at his angriest he wouldn't be as strong as superman.
last login: october 18, 2011 profile  views: 275 about me: i'm a maniac that  hasn't written a profile yet.
location: the depths of  mania.com birthday: 8/16/1972 age: 39
superman does have tremendous skill in combat and wouldn't have defeated extremely skilled opponents like mongrel,doomsday,and general zod if he wasn't.
superman is also way the hell faster and would be able to easily dodge the strikes of hulk.
either way i suppose you can't compare, but to say there wasn't tv or dvd or video games and therefore less things to do isn't entirely acurate.
superman can move planets...need i say more!
superman has more varied powers and because he's smarter can be more resourceful in using them.
even if hulk retained banner's great intellect,he would still lose because superman is still way smarter and stronger.
superman/kal-el is not only the son of jor-el,krypton's most brilliant scientist,but he's outsmarted lex luthor(one of the smartest people on earth)and
mean i would chose to watch it over the other.
if the abomination can knock out hulk then superman certainly could and in less time!
despite this whole thing being in the universe of make believe,given what we know of these two titans there's no way in hell that a gamma-ray mutation but still mortal hulk could even come close to taking a super advanced,near god-like,alien being like superman.
but i agree with you in a sense.