i dont like the fact that he is all powerfull and pretty much invulnerable.
it  doesn’t really matter; the bottom line is that luthor won’t like  dr. banner when he’s angry.
well the level of his power that is.
the adrenaline starts flowing and the hulk “hulks out,” to use a popular phrase.
it might be just enough to give the hulk the upper hand.
he has withstood temperatures equivalent of those found in the sun’s core, been hit with a nuclear bomb and survived planet-splitting impacts.
this really isn't a fair fight, superman is too powerful.
i love both characters, but about the only way hulk could win is with outside help (luthor exposes the hulk to green kryptonite radiation) or superman not being on his a game.
03/30/2011 comments (10) - scarlet has us seeing red 03/23/2011 comments (3) - movies make marvelous comics 03/16/2011 comments (12) - hard boiled 03/09/2011 comments (2) - a fantastic life 03/02/2011 comments (9) - 5 great psa comics 02/28/2011 comments (16)
he’s turned into stone and been smashed to pieces by the hulk more times than we can count.
superman might possess enough power to  actually kill the hulk, but would he do it?
- yearly checklist - archive - - news - features - reviews - properties - archive - - - blogs - images - videos - groups - reviews - forums - maniac forums - anime/manga forums - - screenshot game - iphone apps - facebook connect - twitter - widgets - sitemap home › comics ›superman vs. hulk:
though didn't doomsday kill superman and he wasn't magic or made of kryptonite either.
the walking dead: 18 miles out review tv wasteland: midseason replacements roll
and this was rampaging hulk, no world war, no banner.
the weaknesses as far as weaknesses go, the hulk has really only got one, but it’s a doozy:
it’s sort of like the superhero equivalent of hitting a guy with a loaded glove.
this distraction allows the hulk to get in a few cheap shots, weakening the man of steel.
even a nuclear explosion can’t put him down for the count, so he could definitely go toe-to-toe with the hulk and give ol’ jade jaws a run for his money.
historical matchups perhaps the best way to compare these  two combatants is to take a look at some of the more notable bouts  they’ve had in the past.
despite his impressive intellect, he’s never been able to get the hulk down for the count, proving that sometimes might does make right!
though the minute hulk got in a good hit, well that's when things change.
i really need to get the trade paperback of world war hulk..will look for it at comic con in town this weekend :) matador 9/17/2009 5:41:44 am agree with killer tomato.
the incredible hulk has fought a number of heavy-hitting bruisers as well… abomination–sort of the bizarro-hulk, abomination has gamma-powered muscles and a scientists’ brain.
supes cape gets caught in the turbine ripping off as a stunned hurley remarks, "dude".
add a comment you must be logged in to leave a comment.
the geek life: celebrates superman’s birthday toy fair 2012
superman might possess enough power to actually kill the hulk, but would he do it?
his level of strength, endurance and healing ability is determined by his emotional state.
the way i look at it, sups probably holds back most of the time he fights because he could pinky kill most folks.
the incredible hulk has fought a  number of heavy-hitting bruisers as well… abomination–sort of  the bizarro-hulk, abomination has gamma-powered muscles and a scientists’  brain.
when the hulk goes on a rampage, the best we can hope for is that he eventually gets bored and leaves.
add to that the  distraction of saving the lives of innocents caught in the midst of the battle  and superman is gonna have his hands full.
hulk beats superman to a red-blue blur.
superman vs. hulk: who would win in a fight hulk smash krypton  man!
working as a medic at a homeless shelter, he runs into trouble when lex luthor decides to demolish the shelter to make way for a lexcorp subsidiary or secret laboratory of some sort.
the hulk who screams "bad blue boy" does a super jump snatching supes in mid air sticking him in a rear naked choke mma style.
crashing through 100 floors before landing in a seceret labratory at the basement level.
he’s not only  defeated superman, he killed him!
he could bore a hole into the earth at super speed and bury the hulk in it.
superman has a peak strength, the hulk doesn't...the madder hulk gets, the stronger he gets...so every time superman scored some pavement busting punches hulk would slowly be getting stronger...eventually he'd be a raging green behemoth...and as long as superman doesn't get to use his vast plethora of powers...in a knock-down, drag-out fight...
the son of jor-el has narrowly defeated this villain by trapping him in the phantom zone.
chopsaki 9/17/2009 3:14:18 am scenario #2 superman wants to use his heat vision to lure the hulk away from metropolis but can't due to the amount of civilians caught in the cross fire.
the next call of duty game
comments (11) - third g.i.
the battle rages on but before it’s too late, superman manages to get inside the fortress of solitude and nail the hulk with the phantom zone projector, sending the gamma-spawned behemoth to that netherworld between worlds.
not only that, he’s smart–not smarter than  dr. bruce banner, but definitely smarter than the hulk.
the two lock  horns and create massive amounts of property damage.
ultimately, all superman has to do is throw him into orbit wait for him to black out from lack of oxygen, & go up and save him at superspeed...
supes would stand no chance if it was a straight up one-on-one.
it is the largest community offering profiles, video, science fiction movies, sci fi tv, art, sci fi comics, photos, cheats, blogs, science fiction books, forums and feedback.
the last son of krypton has had his share of notable enemies, among them: bizarro–an imperfect clone of the man of steel.
while the hulk  is just a big, strong monster, superman is faster than a speeding bullet and  more powerful than a locomotive.
popular: superman | dark knight rises | prometheus | avengers | send us
he’s one of the few folks who has actually managed to ko the hulk!
superman has  handed bizarro his ass on many occasions.
and you think a little solar-powered kryptonian is gonna be  able to beat him?
the incredible hulk definitely lives up to his name.
forced to close the distance supes flys too close.
he’s not only defeated superman, he killed him!
trigger finger review anime/manga olsen circles
or to put it more simply, the madder hulk gets, the stronger hulk  gets.
chopsaki 9/17/2009 2:23:37 am superman would use his heat vision at a long range attack luring the hulk away from metropolis.
as we all know hulk can and will adabt to his foes and evironment so he may act like he got rocks up in his head but its a matter of time before he polishes'em.
also, there's many different hulks.
the way we see it, it goes down like this… after doing a number on metropolis and laying waste to the science police and a few minor heroes, the hulk finally comes face-to-face with the toughest battle of his life: superman.
by chad derdowski september 17, 2009 superman vs. hulk: who would win in a fight © bob trate bruce banner, on the run from the law and undercover, eventually makes his way to metropolis.
sitemap advertise on mania | ad choices | about us | contact us | privacy policy | copyright policy | terms of use | sitemap mania is the premiere online destination for fans of science fiction, fantasy, horror, and anime entertainment.
on top of that how long would it take to get mad enough to be at superman's strenght level?
he has withstood temperatures equivalent  of those found in the sun’s core, been hit with a nuclear bomb and  survived planet-splitting impacts.
if he were to unleash wel...
it might be just enough to give  the hulk the upper hand.
star wars memorabilia movies dvd shopping bag: corman’s world exploits of a hollywood rebel third g.i.
old boy wb halts akira cruise set to kill producer talks poltergeist, old boy watanabe offered akira role stewart offered akira role games/toys level up!
come to think of it let hulk take on doomsday and superman at the same time.....
superman then proceeds to give the hulk a stern lecture about anger managment.
okay, so superman has like every major power known to man and "super"man alike, and the incredible hulk...well he's big, green, dumb, and persistent.
after several minutes of superman's corny speech the hulk becomes bored and his anger disapates.
mania offers insider entertainment industry info and original content for science fiction, fantasy, and horror entertainment genres including: video games, comics, gadgets, movies, television, toys, music, books, dvds and more.
i'm sorry -- my suspension of disbelief can easily handle a solar-powered alien and a gamma-irradiated human having an enormous battle, but penguins in the arctic is simply too much.
superspeed at times rivaling the flash, superstregnth on par with the hulk, heat vision, cold breath, flight, invulnerability...
by taking a look at the caliber of their  old rivals and their win/loss records, we can better determine who will come  out on top.
he gets stronger the madder he gets.
but wait, there’s  more!
this distraction allows the hulk to get in a few cheap shots,  weakening the man of steel.
general zoda kryptonian villain  who possesses all of superman’s powers but none of his morals.
login register rss home
superman possesses a smorgasbord of abilities far beyond those of  mortal men.
as a kid i didn't but now that i'm all grown-up i can't stand them.
if doomsday can do in superman then surely hulk would have no problem.
the way we see it, it goes  down like this… after doing a number on metropolis and laying waste  to the science police and a few minor heroes, the hulk finally comes  face-to-face with the toughest battle of his life: superman.
he’s as dumb as a box of rocks.
he took on the entire  marvel universe a couple of years ago in a story entitled “world war  hulk.”
superman has handed bizarro his ass on many occasions.
the  son of jor-el has narrowly defeated this villain by trapping him in the phantom  zone.
it’s sort of like the superhero equivalent of hitting a guy  with a loaded glove.
or to put it more simply, the madder hulk gets, the stronger hulk gets.
the walking dead: 18 miles... comments (31) walking dead: trigger finger...
free falling back to earth the hulk atomic pile drives superman's head straight into the roof of lexcorp.
despite his impressive intellect, he’s  never been able to get the hulk down for the count, proving that sometimes might does make right!
hulk  could care less about the puny humans who get in his way but superman is  determined to make sure there will be no collateral damage in this  fight.
plus, he is smart, has access to kryptonian technology.
the leader–gamma radiation gave this guy a big ol’ brain instead of muscles.
it’s a victory for the man of steel, but in the process, hulk laid waste to metropolis and trashed the fortress of solitude, destroying many of superman’s personal items, historical kryptonian artifacts and his prized stamp collection.
hulk could pull it off; his had allot more training fighting brusiers than supes.
when the hulk goes on a rampage, the best we can hope for is that he  eventually gets bored and leaves.
he could use his super breath to freeze the hulk.
people keep talking about superman is at his peak power... so.
the weaknesses as far as weaknesses go, the hulk has  really only got one, but it’s a doozy:
the two lock horns and create massive amounts of property damage.
historical matchups perhaps the best way to compare these two combatants is to take a look at some of the more notable bouts they’ve had in the past.
no matter how hard hulk hits supes, the big blue boy scout just won’t stay down, a fact that only serves to further enrage the hulk.
once clear of the city supes would use his super breath to freeze the hulk.
doomsday–a genetically modified kryptonian  engine of destruction, doomday is a lot like clubber lang inrocky iii,  or more appropriately, ivan drago inrocky iv.
a scoop - - news - features - reviews - properties - archive - - news - features - reviews - properties - archive - - news - features - reviews - properties - archive - - news - features - reviews - all recent reviews - anime reviews by title - manga reviews by title - properties - forums - special - upcoming release dates - studio list - weekly releases - pick of the week - license list - manga comparison - dvd award trophies
hulk could care less about the puny humans who get in his way but superman is determined to make sure there will be no collateral damage in this fight.
goldeneyez 9/17/2009 6:04:46 am superman wins.
the hulk is bad ass just because his powers are dictated by his state of mind.
the hulk while in orbit explodes from his icey prison only to float helplessly in zero gravity.
we review twisted metal!
the adrenaline starts flowing and  the hulk “hulks out,” to use a popular phrase.
popular topics video game industry movie industry info comic book movie characters comic book industry
he’s one of the few folks who has actually managed to ko the  hulk!
gamma-powered blood begins to flow,  pulse pounds and heart rate increases… next thing you know, we’ve  got an eight-foot, 1,400 lb rampaging behemoth tearing up  metropolis.
in darth maul returns comics third g.i. joe 2 spot hits the walking dead: 18 miles out review johnson circles ratner's hercules the geek life: the magic castle new avengers photo appears walking dead:
supes is at his highest peak from the begining since he does need recharge from the sun.
hulk’s strengths (or why hulk could knock supes for a loop)
superman’s got a few weaknesses, but since the hulk isn’t magical and he’s not likely carrying a chunk of kryptonite in those ripped-up purple pants, there’s really only one flaw left for him to exploit: superman’s heart.
looks like a job for superman!
superman’s got a few weaknesses, but since the hulk  isn’t magical and he’s not likely carrying a chunk of kryptonite in  those ripped-up purple pants, there’s really only one flaw left for him  to exploit: superman’s heart.
he could use his microscopic vision to… ok; maybe that one  wouldn’t be of much use.
just as it’s looking like we’re  going to see another doomsday scenario, kal-el whisks the hulk off to the  arctic circle where the only ones in danger are a few penguins and a polar bear.
all he would have to do - though - like you said - is throw him into the sun or something.
joe 2 spot hits 02/28/2012 comments (20) - johnson circles ratner's hercules 02/23/2012 comments (17) - new avengers photo appears 02/22/2012 comments (24) - parisot tackles red sequel 02/20/2012 comments (7) - first amazing spider-man clip 02/20/2012 comments (15) - safe house tops vow, rider 02/19/2012 comments (13) - new west comic developing 02/17/2012 comments (2) - blackley joins 300: battle of artemisia 02/17/2012
well, superman sort of has a reputation for being the most powerful being on the planet earth.
comments (6) more content by chad derdowski - reminiscing on spider-man’s rainments 04/27/2011 comments (13) - we’re sweet on sweet tooth 04/20/2011 comments (8) - mr. rogers' neighborhood 04/13/2011 comments (8) - can geoff johns save aquaman?
by chad derdowski     september  17, 2009 superman vs. hulk: who would win in a fight ©  bob trate bruce banner, on the run from the law and undercover, eventually  makes his way to metropolis.
who would win in a fight 86 comments | add rate & share: related links: info: superman vs. hulk: who would win in a fight hulk smash krypton man!
general zoda kryptonian villain who possesses all of superman’s powers but none of his morals.
so let's say this was supes, no doomsday fight.
absorbing man–crusher creel possesses the ability to take on  the characteristics of whatever he touches: steel, rock, etc. he’s  turned into stone and been smashed to pieces by the hulk more times than we can  count.
the thing is superman definitely has the advantage because of all his powers, so as long as hulk never actually got his hands on supes, superman could win.
the battle rages on but before it’s too late, superman manages to  get inside the fortress of solitude and nail the hulk with the phantom zone  projector, sending the gamma-spawned behemoth to that netherworld between  worlds.
if superman is going to win this battle, he’s going to have to rely on brains over brawn, which shouldn’t be too hard, considering the hulk’s intelligence level is on par with the average 5-year old.
even a nuclear explosion can’t put  him down for the count, so he could definitely go toe-to-toe with the hulk and  give ol’ jade jaws a run for his money.
he’s as dumb as a box of  rocks.
he reverts back to dr. bruce banner and before supes can react he suffocates in the cold vacume of space.
a stunned lex luthor looks up from his work bench tinkering with a bomb that apears to be laced with kryptonite.
i hate superman but admit, he'd win because he's neigh invunerable, which is one reason that i hate him and the movies he's been in.
cabal 9/17/2009 5:56:38 am i'm going to ignore the whole business of superman vs. the hulk, and confine myself to saying, penguins in thearctic?
superman possesses a smorgasbord of abilities far beyond those of mortal men.
hulk punches superman's face into a bloody pulp infront of a giddy lex.
well, superman sort of has a reputation for being the most powerful being on  the planet earth.
add to that the distraction of saving the lives of innocents caught in the midst of the battle and superman is gonna have his hands full.
maelo13 9/17/2009 5:18:13 am hulk wins!
the outcome so who wins?
probably the only one that - in relation to the superman's ethics - could possibly come out.
heck, he’s gone 12 rounds with the god of thunder and was barely breathing heavy.
working as a medic at a homeless shelter, he  runs into trouble when lex luthor decides to demolish the shelter to make way  for a lexcorp subsidiary or secret laboratory of some sort.
if you can figure out a way to outthink the hulk, you might be able  to beat him.
he  could bore a hole into the earth at super speed and bury the hulk in  it.
just as it’s looking like we’re going to see another doomsday scenario, kal-el whisks the hulk off to the arctic circle where the only ones in danger are a few penguins and a polar bear.
while only a temporary solution it's just long enough for supes to toss the hulk like a salad into outter space.
darkknight2280 9/17/2009 5:40:53 am mrjaw..superman died when he was fighting doomsday becasue he allowed himself to die..he gave up because he knew if they kept fighting more and more innocent people would die.
kow626_home 9/17/2009 6:07:45 am this article goes under the assumption that supes has already fought dooms and learned from it each time.
the leader–gamma radiation gave this guy a big ol’  brain instead of muscles.
hulk smash b-i-t-c-h-e-s!!!
gamma-powered blood begins to flow, pulse pounds and heart rate increases… next thing you know, we’ve got an eight-foot, 1,400 lb rampaging behemoth tearing up metropolis.
he’s all the brawn with half the brains.
doomsday–a genetically modified kryptonian engine of destruction, doomday is a lot like clubber lang inrocky iii, or more appropriately, ivan drago inrocky iv.
it’s a victory for the man of steel, but in the process,  hulk laid waste to metropolis and trashed the fortress of solitude, destroying  many of superman’s personal items, historical kryptonian artifacts and  his prized stamp collection.
the tale of the tape superman’s strengths (or why kal-el could ko hulk)
joe 2 spot hits more wrath of the titans spots set video from star trek sequel set pixar's first brave spot online sony planning dracula tale television dvd shopping bag: corman’s world exploits of a hollywood rebel ball departing true blood game of thrones season one blu-ray review
please click here to login.
not only that, he’s smart–not smarter than dr. bruce banner, but definitely smarter than the hulk.
no matter how hard  hulk hits supes, the big blue boy scout just won’t stay down, a fact that  only serves to further enrage the hulk.
heck, he’s gone 12 rounds with  the god of thunder and was barely breathing heavy.
comics reviews comments (47)
superman b-i-t-c-h-e-s!!!
the geek life: the magic castle toy fair 2012 wrap up books lair of the beasts: little bigfoot lair of the beasts: the origins of a monster hunter resurrection by arwen elys dayton lair of the beasts: origins of the werewolf lair of the beasts: an irish monster lair of the beasts: hairy giants maniacs blogs images videos groups reviews mania forums anime/manga forums beyond screenshot game iphone apps facebook connect twitter widgets send us a scoop!
his level  of strength, endurance and healing ability is determined by his emotional  state.
if you can figure out a way to outthink the hulk, you might be able to beat him.
a long drag out battle will eventually weaken supes of his energy but at that time while supes is wiping hulk around he is only getting madder & stonger.
while the hulk is just a big, strong monster, superman is faster than a speeding bullet and more powerful than a locomotive.
your idead about the negative zone is a good one.
it doesn’t really matter; the bottom line is that luthor won’t like dr. banner when he’s angry.
piss superman off & see if he doesn't unleash.
but wait, there’s more!
he could use his microscopic vision to… ok; maybe that one wouldn’t be of much use.
he took on the entire marvel universe a couple of years ago in a story entitled “world war hulk.”
and you think a little solar-powered kryptonian is gonna be able to beat him?
by taking a look at the caliber of their old rivals and their win/loss records, we can better determine who will come out on top.
comments (33) mania review: ghost rider:... comments (21) smallville: the complete... comments (110) walking dead: pretty much... comments (21) conan the barbarian blu-ray... comments (78) walking dead: secrets review comments (37) walking dead: chupacabra... comments (3) batman: noel review comments (35) the walking dead: cherokee... comments (43) walking dead: save the last... comments (27) walking dead: bloodletting... comments and responses showing items 1 - 10 of 86 1 2 3 4 > >> mrjawbreakingequilibrium 9/17/2009 1:35:14 am
first off i've always disliked superman...but i really try not be bias in my opinion.
the last son of krypton has had his share of notable  enemies, among them: bizarro–an imperfect clone of the man of  steel.
absorbing man–crusher creel possesses the ability to take on the characteristics of whatever he touches: steel, rock, etc.
hulk then jumps to about 30,000 feet holding supes like a rag doll and colides with oceanic flight 815.
he he killertomato 9/17/2009 5:23:36 am this fight has bothered me since marvel vs dc back in the day.
spiderman actually did this back in the super-spiderman days of the 90s.
04/06/2011 comments (19) - where have all the cowboys gone?
but im with you on superman, although i like the movies.
comics news updates - new mib 3 screenshot online 03/02/2012 comments (6) - new avengers trailer online 02/29/2012 comments (81) - olsen circles old boy 02/29/2012
if superman is  going to win this battle, he’s going to have to rely on brains over  brawn, which shouldn’t be too hard, considering the hulk’s  intelligence level is on par with the average 5-year old.