it also doesn’t hurt that the  wonderfulkitty pryde makes her debut in this story as well.
the  character-to-character interactions, the drama, the eye-popping action  sequences, the mind-blowing displays of power and destruction make this tale  unforgettable.
search example: batman, neil gaiman, hulk 181,  x-men 150-177 publisher marvel dc image dark horse idw publishing crossgen  valiant archie charlton dell gold key harvey -------------
when an unstoppable force starts to rip through the  multiverse and destroy everything in its path, every single hero and villain on  every single remaining parallel earth in every single time era, from the dawn  of mankind to the far-flung future, must unite to save all reality.
this is  quite possibly the best executed visual storytelling ever put to paper.
this tale  unquestionably and firmly establishes the hierarchy of power in the marvel  universe and, without a doubt, shows the mighty odinson at his  finest.
how does a writer challenge a hero as powerful as the mighty  thor?  he is the god of thunder, wielder of invincible mjolnir and the  prince of fabled asgard for crying out loud.
their planet will  now be judged by the celestials.
the  dark knight returns – this is the story that defined the caped  crusader for a whole generation of comic readers.
writer garth ennis is at his wicked best and artist steve dillon visually delivers a story for the ages.
$0.00 estimated  trade credit offer for these comics.
if you are unfamiliar or need to be reminded of just how immeasurably powerful these space-gods are, check outthe eternals saga.
i love to read about extraordinary  people in extraordinary circumstances, good vs. evil in exotic locales and far  off worlds that excite my imagination.
like mighty hercules or noble king arthur, the super heroes of the modern world inspire the readers to be better than they thought they could be and arouse their imaginations.
this tale allows the reader to see thor’s incredible power unleashed like very few times in the history of comics and witness one of the greatest displays of courage ever.
before this story, wolverine was walking a thin line with a  personality bordering on unlikable.
how  can i possibly describe a tale with vampires, angels, demons, clandestine  paramilitary secret empires, gun-toting girlfriends, two-fisted heroes,  underground goth societies, voodoo, evil racist business men, super cops,  serial killers, religious zealots, texas rangers, a war in the sun, the word of  god and last stands at the alamo and possibly do it justice.
this is odinson  bidding thee farewell
batman returns after a ten year hiatus, and he sets out to take back the night with a vengeance.
featuring the ultimate batman/superman showdown, dark knight returns  also went a long way in establishing the relationship between these two icons  for the next two decades.
as storyteller frank miller puts it “…this is the story that gave batman his [cojones] back.”
well, this was a star-making story of the feral x-man known as wolverine.
the following list is comprised of the tales that i keep coming back to over and over again.
marvel super-heroes secret wars – long before fear  itself, civil war, or house of m, long before big company crossovers and big  event storylines became everyday humdrum in the comic industry, there wasmarvel  super heroes secret wars.
this was at a time in marvel’s history when the marvel age was still young enough where all the heroes didn’t know each other inside and out and quite frankly didn’t necessarily get along.
grand comics database - comprehensive comic book data recording project.
watchmen is a cautionary tale,  a beautiful piece of literature and art, and it stars super heroes.
i am not a big x-men fan but this is, without a doubt, one of the must read comic book stories of all time.
be warned, this is not for the kids or faint of  heart.
the judas contract is just super hero comics at their very  best.
that is what a hero does, no matter what the odds.
he was the surly little tough guy that questioned authority, but always seemed to come through for his teammates in the end.
wolverine was popular, but the japan adventure made him a star, an  a-lister.
well, this was a  star-making story of the feral x-man known as wolverine.
betrayed by one of their own, the next generation of heroes is systematically  and utterly defeated by one of the most dangerous men alive.
visit one of our comic book stores next time you’re in the dallas/fort worth area.
and it was all set up by the  mega-event that iscrisis on infinite earths.
it also doesn’t hurt that the wonderfulkitty pryde makes her debut in this story as well.
betrayed by one of their own, the next generation of heroes is systematically and utterly defeated by one of the most dangerous men alive.
friendships and bonds that exist  today can be traced back to this original ultimate  team-up.
all-star superman is a perfect comic book and a definite must read.
marv  wolfman and george perez deliver the most epic super hero story ever  told.
longtime x-men scribe chris claremont explores  logan’s complex personality from all angles – feral berserker,  noble samurai, and mutant hero.
i love reading about brave men and women who are faster than a speeding bullet and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound.
the march auction has ended!
series) #387-389 beautifully shows why we love super heroes.
he is the god of thunder, wielder of invincible mjolnir and the prince of fabled asgard for crying out loud.
this was at a time  in marvel’s history when the marvel age was still young enough where all  the heroes didn’t know each other inside and out and quite frankly  didn’t necessarily get along.
rock of ages, the sinestro corps war, and annihilation.
thor: alone against the celestials – this three-issue arc from thor (1962-1996 1st
not only was secret wars one of the first big event stories but with its long lasting effects on the marvel universe, it encapsulated everything a big event should be.
all-star superman – grant morrison and frank quitely unite to tell quite frankly the greatest superman story of all time.
it literally changed the landscape of the dc  universe.
it’s just epic and a classic comic book story that absolutely must be read.
crisis on infinite  earths – crisis is the biggest, best, most influential big event  to ever be produced.
if they ever do another wolverine movie (a good one anyway), this  comic book tale should be used for the  storyboards.
they say that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts  absolutely.
my comic books - coming soon!
i  love reading about brave men and women who are faster than a speeding bullet  and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound.
crisis on infinite earths – crisis is the biggest, best, most influential big event to ever be produced.
the heroes  struggle with the dilemma of saving the universe at the cost of their beloved  friend’s life.
the thing quits the ff and the she-hulk joins the team, the next year for the hulk is set-up,colossus ends his romantic relationship with kitty pryde, we are introduced to a new hero (spider-woman) and new villains (volcana and titania), theabsorbing man gets a girlfriend whom he is with to this very day, magneto sides with the white hats, andspider-man gets his black costume which later joins with eddie brock to becomevenom.
items we want  to buy $0.00 estimated cash offer for these comics.
for the next twenty-five years this would be known as the post-crisis dcu.
in this tale the reader sees the death of a titan, the debut of a new member, and watches as dick grayson makes the transition fromboy wonder to the adult hero known as nightwing.
you must be logged in to leave a comment.
before this story, batman was already an a-list  super hero, but this tale made batman a legend.
read a little about our history.
posted 2:10 pm aug 5, 2011 by odinson · no comments tags: comics greetings from the odinson, i love super heroes.
crime is at an all time high, the united states is on the brink of nuclear war with russia, and there seems to be no hope in sight.
it is at this moment that bruce wayne, now an old man, decides that he has had enough.
this twelve issue maxi-series featured the world’s greatest heroes (theavengers, fantastic four, x-men, spider-man and thehulk) as they are kidnapped by a being of ultimate power and whisked to the far side of the cosmos to engage in mortal combat against a small army of the marvel u’s most dangerous super villains.
i am not a big  x-men fan but this is, without a doubt, one of the must read comic book stories  of all time.
it is the  ultimate road trip story of one man’s literal search for god.
one of my favorite things about  this story is the character-to-character interactions.
this is a vile planet where thieves, cutthroats and evil men reign supreme.
this tale, however, pulls the veil  back a bit and allows the reader to see logan in a different light, a  vulnerable one.
wolverine was popular, but the japan adventure made him a star, an a-lister.
community comic shop locator - find nearby comic stores and support your local shop!
not only was secret  wars one of the first big event stories but with its long lasting effects on  the marvel universe, it encapsulated everything a big event should be.
these are the reasons why i love comics so much.
join our  mailing list - weekly email newsletter.
it is at this moment that bruce wayne, now an old man, decides that  he has had enough.
crisis features the greatest super heroes in the world fighting against the greatest threat the world has ever seen.
i love to read about unparalleled detectives that can solve riddles that would turn an ordinary man’s brain to cream cheese.
when an unstoppable force starts to rip through the multiverse and destroy everything in its path, every single hero and villain on every single remaining parallel earth in every single time era, from the dawn of mankind to the far-flung future, must unite to save all reality.
batman: year one told the tale of how a young  rooftop vigilante outlaw became a hero.
this tale unquestionably and firmly establishes the hierarchy of power in the marvel universe and, without a doubt, shows the mighty odinson at his finest.
wolverine: the japan adventure – in hollywood the phrase “star-making-role” is used a lot.
other tales of great note include: rom  the spaceknight, avengers: under siege, jla:
preacher is an over-the-top action/adventure that makes a quentin  tarantino movie seem tame by comparison.
preacher is a tale the odinson revisits at least once a year and the best adult comic book story produced sincewatchmen.
series) #387-389 beautifully shows why we love super  heroes.
this is quite possibly the best executed visual storytelling ever put to paper.
chris claremont and john byrne orchestrate the ultimate super hero story.
if this is your first time here, pleaseregister.
preacher – preacher is a bold, in-your-face, and unapologetic epic that resonates with the reader long after the final page is turned.
set in the not too distant future, dark knight returns shows a world without super heroes.
new teen titans: the  judas contract – a super villain knowing a super hero’s
the thing quits the ff and the she-hulk joins the team, the next year for the hulk  is set-up,colossus ends his romantic relationship with kitty pryde, we are  introduced to a new hero (spider-woman) and new villains (volcana and titania),  theabsorbing man gets a girlfriend whom he is with to this very day, magneto  sides with the white hats, andspider-man gets his black costume which later  joins with eddie brock to becomevenom.
for years he was the stand-out character in the all-new, all-different x-men, which debuted in giant-size x-men #1.
if they ever do another wolverine movie (a good one anyway), this comic book tale should be used for the storyboards.
heroes died, whole galaxies crumbled, and the dcu has never  been the same since.
please enable javascript in your browser and refresh the page.
easy, put him up against the celestials.
how does a writer challenge a hero as powerful as the mighty thor?
there are no comments yet.
much like dc comics is doing now with the new 52,superman ,wonder woman, shazam, aquaman, flash and the justice league all restarted from number one and reintroduced and revamped their characters for a whole new generation, my generation.
all-star  superman is a perfect comic book and a definite must read.
they are the tales that inspire and thrill  me to no end.
this is the challenge the children of the atom must face when jean grey, due in no small part to the manipulations of the vilehellfire club, loses control of her cosmic power known as thephoenix.
fantastic four #1 at $0.25, seeone of our first ads) and on the web since 1996.
top 10 must read comic stories of all time posted 2:10 pm aug 5, 2011 by odinson · no comments tags:  comics greetings from the odinson, i love super heroes.
he was the surly little tough guy that questioned  authority, but always seemed to come through for his teammates in the  end.
mycomicshop comic book blog affiliate program - earn cash or credit for referrals!
set against the backdrop of a real world setting, watchmen is a murder mystery  where the last remaining masked crime-fighters assemble to save the world, and  themselves.
and artist frank miller creates a  definitive look for wolverine and a style that is still being emulated to this  day.
writer garth  ennis is at his wicked best and artist steve dillon visually delivers a story  for the ages.
so influential is this tale that the industry, as a whole, has been trying to capture that same lightning-in-a-bottle for over twenty-five years since watchmen came out.
this is an awe-inspiring, mind-blowing adventure that grabs hold of the reader’s imagination and never lets go.
for the next twenty-five years this would be known as the  post-crisis dcu.
their planet will now be judged by the celestials.
this tale explores superman’s mythos in a way rarely seen in comics and beautifully illustrates why the man of steel is the greatest super hero of all time.
batman returns after a ten year hiatus, and he sets  out to take back the night with a vengeance.
it literally changed the landscape of the dc universe.
featuring the ultimate batman/superman showdown, dark knight returns also went a long way in establishing the relationship between these two icons for the next two decades.
wolverine:  the japan adventure – in hollywood the phrase  “star-making-role” is used a lot.
rock of ages, the sinestro corps  war, and annihilation.
deathstroke the terminator blames the teen titans for the  death of his son,ravager, and plots the teen heroes’ downfall.
for years he was  the stand-out character in the all-new, all-different x-men, which debuted in giant-size x-men #1.
it’s a tale of ultimate sacrifice that does not talk down to its readers but rather invites them to experience the drama along with the x-men as this modern day tragedy unfolds.
please enable javascript in  your browser and refresh the page.
as i said, these are the tales that the odinson  revisits time and time again.
artist dave gibbons is a master storyteller and alan moore’s script is mesmerizing, haunting, and unforgettable.
the heroes struggle with the dilemma of saving the universe at the cost of their beloved friend’s life.
heroes died, whole galaxies crumbled, and the dcu has never been the same since.
one of my favorite things about this story is the character-to-character interactions.
artist dave gibbons is a master storyteller and alan moore’s script is  mesmerizing, haunting, and unforgettable.
x-men: the dark phoenix saga – the dark phoenix saga is a great example of two creators at the height of their powers.
set in the not too  distant future, dark knight returns shows a world without super heroes.
these are… top 10 must read comic stories of all time watchmen – to say that watchmen is a must read story is an enormous understatement.
email conan@mycomicshop.com ← previous entries comic book news and updates from mycomicshop.com rss lone star comics is the largest retailer in texas of comics, specialty games, and action figures.
in this tale  the reader sees the death of a titan, the debut of a new member, and watches as  dick grayson makes the transition fromboy wonder to the adult hero known as  nightwing.
batman: year one told the tale of how a young rooftop vigilante outlaw became a hero.
one minute the reader is gasping, the next he is laughing out loud, and the next he is cheering.
how can i possibly describe a tale with vampires, angels, demons, clandestine paramilitary secret empires, gun-toting girlfriends, two-fisted heroes, underground goth societies, voodoo, evil racist business men, super cops, serial killers, religious zealots, texas rangers, a war in the sun, the word of god and last stands at the alamo and possibly do it justice.
set against the backdrop of a real world setting, watchmen is a murder mystery where the last remaining masked crime-fighters assemble to save the world, and themselves.
vicious gangs have taken over the streets of gotham city and the police are powerless to stop them.
marvel super-heroes secret wars – long before fear itself, civil war, or house of m, long before big company crossovers and big event storylines became everyday humdrum in the comic industry, there wasmarvel super heroes secret wars.
many have  said they are the mythology of our time.
this tale  allows the reader to see thor’s incredible power unleashed like very few  times in the history of comics and witness one of the greatest displays of  courage ever.
thor: alone  against the celestials – this three-issue arc from thor  (1962-1996 1st
it’s a tale of ultimate sacrifice that does  not talk down to its readers but rather invites them to experience the drama  along with the x-men as this modern day tragedy unfolds.
whether you are a new reader or a longtime fan, these are  the top 10 must read comic stories of all time!
winning bidders please visit your shopping cart to complete your purchase.
even though this is a world of evil,  there are lives at stake and thor will do everything in his power to save  it.
i love to read about extraordinary people in extraordinary circumstances, good vs. evil in exotic locales and far off worlds that excite my imagination.
all the elements are here –lois lane, jimmy olsen,  lex luthor, bizarro, the daily planet, the fortress of solitude, the kent farm,  kryptonite, clark kent ripping open his shirt to reveal the unmistakable s  shield of superman!
this tale, however, pulls the veil back a bit and allows the reader to see logan in a different light, a vulnerable one.
it is the ultimate road trip story of one man’s literal search for god.
watchmen is a cautionary tale, a beautiful piece of literature and art, and it stars super heroes.
easy, put him up against the  celestials.
crime is at an all time high, the united states is on the brink of nuclear war  with russia, and there seems to be no hope in sight.
unprecedented…unparalleled…often imitated, but never duplicated…watchmen is a masterpiece of modern literature and is one of the must read comic book stories of all time.
comic book collecting association - promoting fellowship, education, and  ethics in comic collecting.
other tales of great note include: rom the spaceknight, avengers: under siege, jla:
moore and gibbons use juxtaposition and symbolism to explore politics, morals, and the human condition.
friendships and bonds that exist today can be traced back to this original ultimate team-up.
secret identity is one of the worst possible things that can happen, and that  is exactly what happens in this instant classic by the great marv wolfman and  george perez.
crisis features the greatest  super heroes in the world fighting against the greatest threat the world has  ever seen.
thor arrives on a far off world ruled by pirates.
deathstroke the terminator blames the teen titans for the death of his son,ravager, and plots the teen heroes’ downfall.
the dark knight returns – this is the story that defined the caped crusader for a whole generation of comic readers.
preacher – preacher is a bold, in-your-face, and unapologetic epic that  resonates with the reader long after the final page is turned.
longtime x-men scribe chris claremont explores logan’s complex personality from all angles – feral berserker, noble samurai, and mutant hero.
they say that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.
before this story, batman was already an a-list super hero, but this tale made batman a legend.
issues i want my want list - be notified when an issue is in stock.
chris claremont and john  byrne orchestrate the ultimate super hero story.
this is a vile planet  where thieves, cutthroats and evil men reign supreme.
if you are unfamiliar or need to be reminded of just how  immeasurably powerful these space-gods are, check outthe eternals saga.   thor arrives on a far off world ruled by pirates.
datethis weeklast weekpast month2 months3 months6 months1 year2 yearspre 1980 pre 1970pre 1960pre 1950pre 1940 2000-2012 1990s1980s1970s1960s1950s1940s 1996-20001991-19951986-19901981-19851976-19801971-19751966-19701961-1965 1956-19601951-19551946-19501940-1945 search advanced $0.00 0 items view shopping cart, place order javascript must be enabled to use this site.
many have said they are the mythology of our time.
preacher is an over-the-top action/adventure that makes a quentin tarantino movie seem tame by comparison.
we’ve been selling comics since 1961 (our first sale:
it’s just epic and a classic comic book story that  absolutely must be read.
why this guilty pleasure has not  been turned into a movie trilogy or hbo tv series is beyond me.
the following list is comprised of the tales that i keep  coming back to over and over again.
new teen titans: the judas contract – a super villain knowing a super hero’s secret identity is one of the worst possible things that can happen, and that is exactly what happens in this instant classic by the great marv wolfman and george perez.
x-men: the  dark phoenix saga – the dark phoenix saga is a great example of  two creators at the height of their powers.
i read comic books because of  super heroes.
moore and gibbons use juxtaposition and symbolism to explore  politics, morals, and the human condition.
winning bidders please visit your shopping  cart to complete your purchase.
the judas contract is just super hero comics at their very best.
and by the end of it, the dcu re-launched stronger and better than ever.
and by the end of it, the dcu re-launched stronger and better than  ever.
this is an awe-inspiring,  mind-blowing adventure that grabs hold of the reader’s imagination and  never lets go.
even though this is a world of evil, there are lives at stake and thor will do everything in his power to save it.
why this guilty pleasure has not been turned into a movie trilogy or hbo tv series is beyond me.
be warned, this is not for the kids or faint of heart.
as the reader turns each page he is treated to a spectacle  of wonderment rarely captured on the four color page.
preacher  is a tale the odinson revisits at least once a year and the best adult comic  book story produced sincewatchmen.
the character-to-character interactions, the drama, the eye-popping action sequences, the mind-blowing displays of power and destruction make this tale unforgettable.
this is odinson bidding thee farewell
these are… top 10 must read comic  stories of all time watchmen – to say  that watchmen is a must read story is an enormous understatement.
unprecedented…unparalleled…often imitated, but never  duplicated…watchmen is a masterpiece of modern literature and is one of  the must read comic book stories of all time.
this is the challenge the children of the atom must face when  jean grey, due in no small part to the manipulations of the vilehellfire club,  loses control of her cosmic power known as thephoenix.
all the elements are here –lois lane, jimmy olsen, lex luthor, bizarro, the daily planet, the fortress of solitude, the kent farm, kryptonite, clark kent ripping open his shirt to reveal the unmistakable s shield of superman!
one minute the reader is gasping, the  next he is laughing out loud, and the next he is cheering.
and artist frank miller creates a definitive look for wolverine and a style that is still being emulated to this day.
and it was all set up by the mega-event that iscrisis on infinite earths.
this is the story that inspired tim burton’s take on batman and set the stage for the character-defining batman: the animated series .
this tale explores superman’s mythos in a way  rarely seen in comics and beautifully illustrates why the man of steel is the  greatest super hero of all time.
as the reader turns each page he is treated to a spectacle of wonderment rarely captured on the four color page.
as i said, these are the tales that the odinson revisits time and time again.
whether you are a new reader or a longtime fan, these are the top 10 must read comic stories of all time!
questions about the blog?
like mighty hercules or noble  king arthur, the super heroes of the modern world inspire the readers to be  better than they thought they could be and arouse their imaginations.
these are the reasons why i love  comics so much.
so influential is this tale  that the industry, as a whole, has been trying to capture that same  lightning-in-a-bottle for over twenty-five years since watchmen came out.
copyright © 1996 - 2010 lone star comics inc. character images copyright © their respective owners.
all-star superman – grant morrison and frank quitely unite to tell quite frankly the  greatest superman story of all time.
i read comic books because of super heroes.
javascript must be enabled to use this site.
this twelve issue maxi-series featured the  world’s greatest heroes (theavengers, fantastic four, x-men, spider-man  and thehulk) as they are kidnapped by a being of ultimate power and whisked to  the far side of the cosmos to engage in mortal combat against a small army of  the marvel u’s most dangerous super villains.
marv wolfman and george perez deliver the most epic super hero story ever told.
they are the tales that inspire and thrill me to no end.
before this story, wolverine was walking a thin line with a personality bordering on unlikable.
as storyteller frank miller  puts it “…this is the story that gave batman his [cojones]  back.”
my consigned comics current consignments - set prices & preferences.
registration is fast and only requires your name and email address.
i love to read about  unparalleled detectives that can solve riddles that would turn an ordinary  man’s brain to cream cheese.
vicious gangs have  taken over the streets of gotham city and the police are powerless to stop  them.
much like dc comics is doing now with the new 52,superman ,wonder woman, shazam, aquaman, flash and the justice league all restarted from  number one and reintroduced and revamped their characters for a whole new  generation, my generation.