the main ones being the ground remains moist as it prevents evaporation and saves frequent watering, this means less water wasted but also lessweeds that would hinder germination.
many vegetal species can be used as mulch but the cover can also be composed of synthetic material.
it also saves money as less water is needed, no fertilizers and no  need to take organicwastes to the local dump.
pine barks on a clump of young perennials.
rcw helps pedogenesis which is necessary to the  formation of humus.
[edit]  ramial chipped wood (rcw) perennials covered with rcw.
the  mulch can be set any time of the year except in winter, this can be done  manually or using a trowel for tiny patches so as to lay an even cover about 4  to 5 inches thick.
components derived from conifers provoke acidification, so they're not suitable for all plants but are good for heath plants.
the mulch will decay and rot, providing humus to the soil ; thanks to these natural nutrients, chemical ones are useless so it's also a means to contribute to the preservation of microfauna.
[edit]  materials many vegetal species can be used as mulch but the cover can also be  composed of synthetic material.
ekopedia's base contains free multimedia documents on mulch.
the mulch can be set any time of the year except in winter, this can be done manually or using a trowel for tiny patches so as to lay an even cover about 4 to 5 inches thick.
[edit]  setting before setting the mulch, the soil should be hoed about 5 inches deep.
it's always better to use local species rather than imported materials from tropical plants such as cacao pods which are much more expensive.
it's better not to form little heaps around the plants to  avoid an excess of moisture.
besides being environment friendly, this technique also has advantages for the gardener who saves time : no need to weed, hoe or till, thus less soil erosion.
before setting the mulch, the soil should be hoed about 5 inches deep.
5 ramial chipped wood (rcw) 6 gallery 7 see also [edit]  advantages laying organic wastes as mulch enables the gardener to  recycle them.
laying organic wastes as mulch enables the gardener to recycle them.
it's better not to form little heaps around the plants to avoid an excess of moisture.
besides being environment friendly, this technique also has advantages for  the gardener who saves time : no need to weed, hoe or till, thus less soil  erosion.
the use of rcw is considered as essential for organic  farming and  sustainable farming and to fight desertification.
rcw helps pedogenesis which is necessary to the formation of humus.
these branches or very young trees that compose rcw are the richest part  of the tree, they contain 75% of the minerals, amino acids, proteins and  catalysts.
the  mulch will decay and rot, providing humus to the soil ; thanks to these  natural nutrients, chemical ones are useless so it's also a means to contribute  to the preservation of microfauna.
[edit]  see also ekopedia's base contains free multimedia documents on mulch.
double mulch combines the benefits of two complementary mulches, e.g. dead leaves create humus but will easily be blown by the wind so covering these with homecompost will protect this first layer.
it also saves money as less water is needed, no fertilizers and no need to take organicwastes to the local dump.
ramial chipped wood (rcw) is the name given to chipped branches of deciduous trees of less than 3 inches in diameter, pinales can be mixed, up to 20%.
by extension, rcw also refers to innovative agricultural methods, the use of chipped wood as an upper layer or as mulch will recreate a "forest floor".
these branches or very young trees that compose rcw are the richest part of the tree, they contain 75% of the minerals, amino acids, proteins and catalysts.
it's always better to use local species rather  than imported materials from tropical plants such as cacao pods which are much  more expensive.
[edit]  double mulch double mulch combines the benefits of two complementary mulches, e.g. dead  leaves create humus but will easily be blown by the wind so covering these with  homecompost will protect this first layer.
mulching consists in laying an organic cover around plants (usuallystraw).
ramial chipped wood (rcw) is the name given to chipped branches of  deciduous trees of less than 3 inches in diameter, pinales can be mixed, up to  20%.
straw around a strawberry plant.
[edit]  gallery pine barks on a clump of young perennials.
by extension, rcw also refers to innovative agricultural methods,  the use of chipped wood as an upper layer or as mulch will recreate a  "forest floor".
this technique has many advantages for the gardener as well as for the environment.
the use of rcw is considered as essential for organic farming and sustainable farming and to fight desertification.
components derived from conifers provoke acidification, so  they're not suitable for all plants but are good for heath plants.