for example, if you want your lamp to make an architectural statement, check out thisteal drum lamp from pier 1 imports.
in fact, lighting is one area where you don’t want  to skimp: combine different types of general, task, and ambient lighting based  on your lighting requirements.
and when you’re stuck with boring beige walls like mine, framed art can make a world of difference.
and don’t just stop with earth-friendly paper.
if you’re looking for more info on improving your fridge’s energy efficiency, visit the website of theamerican council for an energy-efficient economy.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 3, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: garden, hardwood, inorganic mulch, landscape, mulch, organic, organic mulch, outdoors our gradual journey through popular decorating styles continues.
if not, you may want to consider making the switch: not only does stainless steel lend a contemporary edge, it’s durable and can stand up to serious cooks and rowdy children alike.
keep your refrigerator compartment between 35 and 38 degrees fahrenheit and your freezer compartment at 0 degrees fahrenheit.
style considerations your roof not only protects your home from the elements, it’s also a major feature of your exterior.
changing up your sink style is an easy way to add instant personality (and function!) to your kitchen.
technorati tags: decorating, frames, framing, photos, pictures april 15, 2008 luxury bathroom items dtv ii.
and it’s a trend that boasts long-lasting benefits for everyone  in your family.
spill the details here!
and if that weren’t cool enough, the tub’s wooden surround boasts a large built-in shelf.
with the right prep, you can transform that  under-deck area into a storage unit.
want to build a cottage-like shed that’ll  serve as the focal point of your yard (and wow your neighbors)?
try these coolpendant lamps from target (i’m particularly fond of their funky striped shades).
luckily, those days are long gone, and the kitchen design industry is booming with trends that blend function with visual appeal.
if you’re looking to make an artistic statement with your frames, give your photos and art a funky edge with these cool frames: the magnetic photo frame clock allows you to insert wallet-size photos around the clock face—a perfect solution for putting those school photos to good use.
whether you choose to paint it, wrap it in decorative paper or fabric, or jazz it up with beads, buttons, or ribbon, the options are endless.
but did you know those pages you browse also make a fully functional wallpaper too?pallas textiles’ dial tones wallcoverings are made of 50 to 70 percent recycled telephone book paper.
organic mattresses aren’t made with toxic chemicals and are hypoallergenic, which is ideal for people with allergies or chemical sensitivities.
for example,  if you want your lamp to make an architectural statement, check out thisteal  drum lamp from pier 1 imports.
the heart of the outdoor kitchen is, of course, the grill.
making your own rain barrel is a  pretty darn easy diy project—all you really need is a large food-quality  barrel or even a big plastic garbage can with a lid.
milgard  offers handy, basic illustrations of window styles and links to their windows  that fit in each category.
one that might be worth the price tag, according to consumer reports, is a  three-in-one mower that can mulch grass, bag grass, and discharge it out the  side.
while i’m swapping out my wardrobe, i figure it’s a great time  to bone up on some closet-organizing pointers.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 18, 2008 in around the house | permalink |  comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: casement windows, double-hung windows, home, house,  picture windows, single-hung windows, sliding windows, window, windows april 17,
steep-slope roof systems (those with a slope of 25 percent or more) have five main parts, according to the national roofing contractors association: 1.
(and if you have a giant walk-in closet and still can’t fit everything?
to help you figure out which country decorating style is right for you, take thisbhg.com quiz.
the structure includes the rafters and trusses constructed to support the sheathing.
but there’s so much  more to universal design.
you can catch uphere.)
and while you’re at it, you’ll want to inspect your gutters too.
yesterday, i posted about the benefits of mulching.
here are a few keys for keeping  your clothes closet in shape: declutter first.
this is the shape, slope, and layout of the roof system, which affects its ability to shed water.
corral all tools  and garden, lawn, and automotive equipment in a locked storage shed.
stay tuned—i’ll be back with more trends soon,  such as including expanded office work areas in the kitchen.
they’re made from a variety of materials, such as wood, vinyl, and metal, and you have several installation options: you can purchase diy kits, you can build one from scratch using mail-order plans, or you can hire someone to build it for you.
could be any or all of the above.
if you're in the market for a new mower to start off the season, here are a  few questions to get you started.
but if you have a dog, be wary of cocoa-shell mulch, which contains toxic theobromine.
because lamps come in an abundance of shapes, sizes, and materials, lamp shopping can be a challenge.
and when  it comes to storing outdoor essentials such as garden gear, patio furniture,  and recreation equipment, who really wants to waste time digging around the  basement?
that’s why selecting the right roofing for your home is such a vital part of the home-planning process.
start with these sites: the decorating diva, hgtv, and lowe’s.
for example, if fido has mastered the art of nosing his way into your cabinets, try adding childproof locks.
get  started with these ideas fromsecurity world.
instead, invest in quality wood and padded hangers.
just as you’d childproof your home, you should make your house safe for your pets, too.
lighter roofing can make a house appear larger, while darker roofing can make larger houses seem less imposing.
so, without further ado, here’s a rundown on the most common windows styles to help you pick out the ones that will look best on your home and fit your needs.
or, to  avoid replacing windows and screens altogether, look for models with panels  that slide past one another on tracks or that store extra panels right in the  door.
but that doesn’t mean you still can’t have fun with gardening—i used to love wandering around the garden with my mother, as she pointed out all different plant varieties and let me touch and smell them.
you’ll also want to pick a lamp that complements, rather than competes with, your décor.
stay tuned—i’ll be back with more trends soon, such as including expanded office work areas in the kitchen.
average-quality asphalt shingles generally will be the least expensive option; clay tile and natural slate usually cost the most.
where else do you find color inspiration?
if you and your family spend a large chunk of time outdoors, or if you entertain frequently, chances are you can always use more seating.
save energy by minimizing how long you keep the door open.
but is  your outdoor living space suited for guests of all ages?
though trends vary, remember this: customized kitchens rule, so opt for  fixtures, appliances, and designs that best fit your needs, lifestyle, and  style preferences.
you can also purchase impact-absorbing solid  surfacing tiles or sheets made of rubber or synthetic compounds to cover  expanses of hard surfaces such as concrete.
that’s where the universal design concept comes in.
break out your hammer and nails: it’s time to pull your favorite photos out of hiding and frame them for everyone to see.
for custom flair, why not embellish a plain lampshade?
even if your closet is tiny, you can pack twice  as many clothes in it if you install double rods.
prices vary based on model.
store frequently used items at the right height.
and slender  floor lamps also brighten a room without sacrificing much space.
well, you’re in luck.
and luckily, many of the approaches used for childproofing can be applied to pet-proofing too.
hang it on  the wall or stand it on an end table.
in my kitchen, my step stool is  my best friend, because almost all of the cabinets are out of my reach.
made from an old lp, the vinylux lp picture frame at 3rliving holds a 5x5  photo and brims with retro style—and it’s versatile too.
when it comes to main sinks, bigger really is better.
what other decorating styles do you prefer?
well then here’s a terrific idea michelle kaufmann posted oninstructables: make your barrel part of your garden.
bone up ongeneral guidelines for mulch application , courtesy of the united states department of agriculture’s natural resources conservation service.
highlighting a  specific object in your living room?
this consists of shingles, tile, slate, or metal, as well  as an underlayment to protect the sheathing from weathering.
position it as far away from these appliances as possible.
if you really don’t want to make your own barrel, you can also buy one , of course.
and cover the water feature when  it’s not in use—motorized pool covers do the trick.
you don’t want your water catchment system  out in the open?
or if you want to dress up an existing  prefab shed,southern living shows how.
if you could design your dream sink, what elements would it include?
so if you spray fertilizer, for example, keep pets away for at least 24 hours after application.
» my apartment is not very well lit.
and life organizers provides a slew of articles on creating a happy, tidy closet.
few things are as cozy as chasing away  post-shower chills with a warm towel.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 30, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (3)  | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorate, decorating, design, illumination, lamp, light april 29, 2008 kitchen design trends kitchens of yesteryear used to be tiny, cramped spaces set apart from  the rest of the house—hardly functional by today’s standards.
of course, if you prefer to soak with an exhilarating book but  still love warm towels, try these decorative towel racks fromwesaunard.
or if you want a burst of color and a  simple profile (and are feeling crafty), you can even transform colorful glass  bottles into lamps too—hallmark magazine shows you how.
and if stainless steel just isn’t your thing, sinks made of natural  materials such as copper, stone, and wood are also popular.
or do anything inside, for that matter.
and there’s nothing quite like watching television from the tub.
decks are ripe with outdoor living opportunities—just keep a few things in mind.
single-hung windows have a traditional look akin to that of old-style sash windows.
and cover the water feature when it’s not in use—motorized pool covers do the trick.
in addition, many are covered with chemical flame-retardants that can cause health problems (think reproductive and developmental issues—yuck).
if you and your family spend a large chunk  of time outdoors, or if you entertain frequently, chances are you can always  use more seating.
check out other earth-friendly frames at  3rliving too.
if not,  consider a thatching mower that grinds up the clippings essentially - you are  creating fertilizer while you are cutting.
if  you don’t want a storage shed, try transforming an unused exterior wall  into a place for tools using just a few basic materials.
design note: keep in mind that  positioning your outdoor kitchen next to your house may make it possible to  connect to your indoor plumbing, which can save on construction costs.
have a multilevel deck?
green eggs and planet has some great info too (and a great blog name to boot).
hues found in nature a magazine advertisement you see?
check out thisthis old house photo gallery showcasing mulch materials.
which you ultimately  choose is a matter of taste and budget.
close the door over a piece of paper—if you can pull the paper out easily with the door closed, it’s time to replace the rubber gasket or adjust the door latch.
whether you choose  to paint it, wrap it in decorative paper or fabric, or jazz it up with beads,  buttons, or ribbon, the options are endless.
thisquad floor lamp from bed bath & beyond puts a  unique twist on standard floor lamps.
and you  can't beat the information provided by consumer reports either.
this clemson university extension detailedinfo guide is also handy.
i took it and expected the results to say “you’re not country at all.”
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 25, 2008 in around the house | permalink |  comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: door, entry, screen, storm april 24, 2008 childproof your yard with spring in full swing and summer just around the corner,  there’s no better time to be outdoors, whether you’re dining,  entertaining, relaxing—or all three.
remember: the edges of the shade shouldn’t extend past the edges of the table.
of course, if your outdoor cooking space is located near your indoor kitchen, you can haul things back and forth.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 15, 2008 in kitchen & bath | permalink |  comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bath, bath design, bathroom, luxury april 14, 2008
others add-ons to consider: single-level height adjustment (so you can adjust the mower wheel height) and a blade-brake clutch (so you can safely stop the mower's blade without the entire engine shutting off).
or  try this standingmulti-square frame clock from wrapables.
include a container for recycling bottles and cans as well.
in addition to modern and eclectic country, don’t forget aboutshabby chic, cottage, and rustic.
get caught up with these kitchen design trends trends: stainless-steel sinks.
few things are as cozy as chasing away post-shower chills with a warm towel.
if you haven’t done so already, you’re probably in the process ofgetting your garden in gear for spring.
and check out these plant varieties, which are fun to touch.
you’ll need to make a hole in the lid for the gutter connector and a hole near the bottom of the can where you’ll want to screw in a spigot.
remind me of summertime.
in case you’re like me and like to shop around for how-to info, i thought i’d include a few more sites with step-by-step pointers:hgtv, diy network, naturalrainwater.com (i love the illustrations here) are three that will have you in the know.
so why not update your walls (and create cool diy decorating projects) with eco-friendly wallpaper?
my best friend’s mother can’t keep food on the countertop, or their black lab lunges for it.
another way to  save space is to hang lights from the ceiling.
a 9- to 12-inch  layer is best.
this weekend, i’m going to buy a watersaver downspout rainwater  diverter and make a homemade barrel to use with it.
get serious about siding.
(then you have an excuse  to go shopping!)
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 11, 2008 in garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, green living, rain barrel, weekend project
once you narrow down a purpose, pick a  lamp that fits the scale of the space you’re working with.
how do you know you’re getting one that suits your needs and makes a decorative statement?
if you don’t want a storage shed, try transforming an unused exterior wall into a place for tools using just a few basic materials.
surround the area around pools, spas, and  hot tubs with a secure, locked fence.
and check out these plant varieties, which are  fun to touch.
for more information on all things roof-related, check  outroofhelp.
odds are if you have a striking red accent door you won’t want to  cover it up with a storm door made mostly of metal.
begin by learning aboutcolor scheme basics and color and mood.
the main difference is that with  double-hung versions both sashes slide, so you can open the window from the top  and bottom.
if you’ve got a multilevel deck with a long or steep stairway, be sure to install safety gates to prevent spills.
and they come in six neutral colors, from linen to pumice.
here’s how to  plant a child-friendly garden.
use your home’s architecture as a starting point for narrowing down  your roofing choices.
functional yet attractive lighting.
(also consider how hefty your lamp is—if you have small children, heavier lamps are best because they’re more resistant to tipping.)
luckily, fence repair is an easy  diy project, according tobe jane.
even if your fence doesn’t show  telltale signs of disrepair, there are still a few preventative steps you can  take to lengthen its lifespan, such as painting or staining it each year, and  trimming excess vegetation away from the fence.
topping your plants with a layer of mulch protects roots from heat, cold, and drought.
although thisorganized home article was written  for autumn, it applies just as nicely to spring too.
they’re all options depending on your tastes.
a common arrangement is to hang blouses and jackets on the top and skirts and pants on the bottom.
and its porcelain finish resists heat damage.
because  there are no sashes to get in the way, they allow uninterrupted views.
then, when it’s time to find inspiration for your color scheme, try starting with and building on one of the following: find more color inspiration from benjamin moore paints and home decorating made easy.
plus, many of these wallcoverings are made from renewable products, too.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 23, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: color scheme, decorate, decorating, design, interior, interior design with 70-degree weather like we’re having right now, the last thing i want to do is cook inside.
one of the most important?
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 8, 2008 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: energy efficiency, fridge, green, recycle, refrigerator caution: read this and you may want to toss your synthetic mattress out the door in favor of an organic mattress.
and if you’re still not finding what you’re looking for, you can  design your own.
sliding windows are often used in rooms that require egress.
although an outdoor kitchen might be as simple as a grill, there are plenty of options for creating an alfresco cooking space that functions just like your indoor kitchen.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 16, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (1)  | trackback (0)
or you can decorate several mini shades to dress up a ho-hum chandelier.
and while you’re at it, check out these pointers fromivillage.
to me, country style is friendly.
corral all tools and garden, lawn, and automotive equipment in a locked storage shed.
oh, and if you’re not opting for a glass-panel storm door and are worried your storm door will detract from the appearance of your home, don’t be.
the organic shape of the cast-iron base  functions as a work of art—and i love the way the teal silk shade  contrasts against it.
it’s the  perfect spot to stash scarves until next winter or that box containing your  wedding dress until … well, until you feel the need to see if you can  still fit in it.
now for the best part: not only are they made from 100 percent post- and pre-consumer waste paper, you can take them straight to the recycling center when you decide to change your look.
want to learn more about different type of mulches—as well as their pros and cons?
if you’re in the market for  a new roof, you have two basic options, according to thenational roofing  contractors association.
learn more about protecting your pool.
the refrigerator is the biggest energy hog in the kitchen—and it uses almost 14 percent of your home’s electricity too!
this sleek unit features a waterproof 17” lcd tv behind a mirror panel with an attached towel rail.
oh, and did i mention that naturally softened rainwater  is great for water plants, cleaning your car, or even washing windows?
in many parts of the country the  grass is already sprouting up in all its green glory, which means the first cut  isn't far away.
storm doors are relatively easy to install because they’re typically  sold as pre-hung units in standard door width—just screw them onto the  existing doorjamb.
lighter roofing can make a house appear larger, while  darker roofing can make larger houses seem less imposing.
oh, and did i mention that naturally softened rainwater is great for water plants, cleaning your car, or even washing windows?
if you’ve already done one re-cover of your roof system, you’ll likely have to go for a complete replacement, as most building codes only allow one roof system re-cover.
there are lots of fancy bells and whistles you can  get if you have the cash - but that doesn't necessarily mean they are worth it.
in the grand scheme of decorating, few things make a home (or tiny  apartment, in my case) feel more welcoming than a bunch of framed pictures  artfully hung on the wall or dispersed on bookshelves, mantels, and tables.
before purchasing a door, also inspect the quality of hardware and the corner joints, both of which can provide clues as to the quality of your door’s construction.
prep, cook, and clean in the same spot?
a stainless-steel finish gives these units a professional edge—perfect for serious cooks.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 21, 2008 in cleaning & organizing | permalink  | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: organize, shed, storage, storage shed, tool shed april 18, 2008 window styles i recently wrote about some considerations to make when it’s  time toreplace your windows.
and you can’t beat tryingkuler.com, an online color scheme generator  created by adobe.
large, steep roofs will have a much greater  visual impact on the exterior home—and may require more careful selection  of roofing materials style and color—than smaller, lower-sloped roofs  that are less visible.
the sculptural bowl (basically a work of art itself!) boasts a lustrous satin finish, and it’s made of ultra-durable 16-gauge steel.
or you can have it serve as the room’s focal point—but in a more visually appealing manner.
the american humane society is chockfull ofroom-by-room tips.
bay windows are often used to create a focal point on the home’s exterior.
or check out the offerings atandersen windows &  doors and pella.
and while you’re  at it, check out these pointers fromivillage.
looking to learn more?
that way it’s easy to spot things, get them out, and return  them to their proper place.
the key is to pick frames and mats with similar finishes for a more unified look.
you can paint them to your heart’s content.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 29, 2008 in kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: kitchen, kitchen design, kitchen trends, trends, universal design there are plenty of necessary components that comprise the exterior of your house.
a mower can last 10 years or longer if  you keep it in good shape, so it pays to pick the right one.
what features are worth it?
ultimate shower experience.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 10, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink |  comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: do-it-yourself, exterior, fence, maintenance, outdoor  maintenance, repair, roofing, siding, spring cleaning april 09, 2008
soak in the teuco seaside whirlpool tub long enough, and you might just think you’re seaside.
or maybe that picture looks too  small behind the sofa.
don’t forget about storm and screen doors either!
home tips provides some great information if you’re looking to learn more.
in many parts of the country the grass is already sprouting up in all its green glory, which means the first cut isn't far away.
(i didn’t find any useful sites on rustic decorating—so if you know of any good ones let me know!)
they’re free from the dry cleaner for a reason.
the boards or sheet material that are fastened to the roof rafters to cover a house or building.
what’s that you say?
luckily, fence repair is an easy diy project, according tobe jane.
i’ll let ideal bite tell you why it’s a good idea—and will post more about it soon!
as if setting customized temperature and  water delivery options and grooving to your favorite tunes weren’t cool  enough, you’ll reap the benefits of chromatherapy too.
when selecting a storm door, you’ll need to determine the type and  size of window as well as the screen system you’d like.
include these components, which are pivotal for kitchen design indoors or out, and you’ll be enjoying your new outdoor cooking space in no time.
and when the tv is on, the glass is clear so you can catch up on your favorite programs.
in general, metal options will require less maintenance than wood but may dent more easily.
what would you like to see?
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 29, 2008 in kitchen & bath | permalink |  comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: kitchen, kitchen design, kitchen trends, trends,  universal design april 28, 2008 selecting roofing there are plenty of necessary components that comprise the exterior  of your house.
the bottom sash slides upward, while the top sash is permanently fixed.
how do you know you’re getting one that  suits your needs and makes a decorative statement?
when working with finer materials, a 1- to 2-inch layer should be sufficient; for thicker mulches, try a 3- to 4-inch layer.
for even more food prep functionality, include  a prep sink with a faucet
roof system components even if you plan to hire someone else to handle your roof replacement, it’s a good idea to know the basic components of your roof.
check out the  plans frompopular mechanic.
plus, harvesting that water means less of it ends up in your sewer treatment facility—and you’re helping to keep river, beaches, and the like a bit cleaner (because that water runoff often picks up some nasty contaminants and litter on its way).
latex rubber is chemical free, naturally repels dust mites, resists mold and mildew, and supports the natural alignment of your spine.
those over-the-door shoe holders can be used for holding all sorts of smaller items—and shoes too, of course.
best of all, in the wonderful, ever-changing world of kitchen design, innovative new sink styles are constantly popping up—and it’s not uncommon to see more than one sink in modern kitchens.
sure, your phone book is your go-to guide when you have a pizza craving.
after the party’s over, make cleaning up a breeze by tossing food scraps in a garbage stashed under the countertop.
luckily, you can goof-proof picture hanging—without accidentally nailing holes in your walls—by tracing different frame arrangements on craft paper first.
the key is to keep everything protected from the elements—there’s no point tossing a bunch of stuff under the deck if it’s going to get soggy.
how prominent is your roof?
plus,  harvesting that water means less of it ends up in your sewer treatment  facility—and you’re helping to keep river, beaches, and the like a  bit cleaner (because that water runoff often picks up some nasty contaminants  and litter on its way).
the possibilities for mulch materials are endless.
because there are so many different types of siding—from aluminum to wood—problems vary from house to house.
the university of michigan health system explains moresafety tips for playground and outdoor structures.
open your eyes and take a look around—you might be surprised  at what you discover!
thisquad floor lamp from bed bath & beyond puts a unique twist on standard floor lamps.
want more insight on picking the perfect lamp?
picture windows are fixed (they don’t open).
while scanning the this old house hardware aisle blog, i couldn’t help but be intrigued byove integral shelving—a shelf-like compartment inside the shower that’s closed off by a door so bar soaps and towels don’t become soggy messes.
though trends vary, remember this: customized kitchens rule, so opt for fixtures, appliances, and designs that best fit your needs, lifestyle, and style preferences.
just like an indoor kitchen has myriad cabinets to corral dishes, food items, and the like, your outdoor kitchen should feature storage too.
sliding windows offer a more contemporary look.
in general, metal options will require  less maintenance than wood but may dent more easily.
common models are hinged on either side, but if you’re  in the market for storm doors to fit in front of double doors you can find  those too.
traditional push mowers are  cheaper and less complex but require more muscle.
hanging rods aren’t the only means of  storing items in your closet.
wanting to build a fence?
and slender floor lamps also brighten a room without sacrificing much space.
photo courtesy ofpallas textiles.
i’ll try to post on more outdoor kitchen-related topics soon.
but don’t just take my word for it.
look no  further than this article fromhometime.
the structure includes the rafters and trusses  constructed to support the sheathing.
make the application process healthy as well by ditching toxic wallpaper paste in favor of safe, homemadewallpaper paste.
so is it possible to get the best of both worlds?
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 1, 2008 in kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bathroom, kitchen, sinks, trends
for example, if you opt for a table lamp, you don’t want to overwhelm the tabletop, yet you don’t want a lamp that looks incredibly small either.
lighting is an  essential element of any kitchen design scheme, but it doesn’t have to be  all work and no play.
do you want to catch your grass  clippings?
they, too, are available in single- or double-hung models, but in either case the sash moves horizontally rather than vertically.
and if you’re still not finding what you’re looking for, you can design your own.
regardless of which route you choose,this old house provides all the info you need to be storage-shed savvy.
if your roof existing roofing has sustained any damage or leaks,  you’ll likely want to remove the existing roof and repair the substrate  before installing a new roof.
for instance, tile is commonly found on mediterranean- or southwestern-style homes, while standing-seam metal roofing offers a more contemporary touch.
what are you waiting for?
you will want to factor in your budget as well as the quality of materials—installing a quality roof that will last for years without problems or maintenance may be worth a bit of additional upfront cost.
if you’re short on space, look for a lamp that multitasks as a shelf, such as thisetagère wood lamp from bed bath & beyond.
after the party’s over, make cleaning up a  breeze by tossing food scraps in a garbage stashed under the countertop.
design note: just as ventilation is important indoors, be sure to position your cooking area away from the house and facing such that the smoke moves away from your house and your guests.
the goal, according tolowe’s, should be  to leave about 15 percent of your closet space free.
soak in the teuco seaside whirlpool tub  long enough, and you might just think you’re seaside.
even if you don't have a subscription, you can still access some handy general recommendations on theirwebsite.
as you might have guessed, inorganic varieties—recycled rubber, crushed stone, landscape cloth, and more—don’t offer any nutritional benefits to the soil but are often more long-lasting.
plant fun varieties such as snapdragons, sunflowers, and lamb’s ear, which are kid-safe and beautiful.
and you can't beat the information provided by consumer reports either.
prices start at $768.00.
« march 2008 | main | may 2008
the world of kitchen design is bursting with trends, and i’ve barely skimmed the surface.
in the meantime, here are a few sources of outdoor kitchen planning information  to take your ideas even further: hgtv outdoor kitchen design guide plan your outdoor kitchen courtesy of lowe’s outdoor kitchens planning and ideas from this old house
hgtv garden expert  marianne binetti explains how.
that way it’s easy to spot things, get them out, and return them to their proper place.
but that doesn’t mean you can’t  have fun—look for playful shapes, colorful shades, and more.
and make  sure the space between railing posts is no more than 4 inches apart so a small  child’s head can’t get stuck.
the main difference is that with double-hung versions both sashes slide, so you can open the window from the top and bottom.
if your deck is more than 24 inches off the ground, you’ll probably need a railing system.
other items in the kitchen that give off heat—like the microwave, oven, and toaster—can affect the energy efficiency of your fridge.
in the meantime, here are a few sources of outdoor kitchen planning information to take your ideas even further: hgtv outdoor kitchen design guide plan your outdoor kitchen courtesy of lowe’s outdoor kitchens planning and ideas from this old house
and check out the national kitchen and bath association’skitchen planning guidelines.
as a general rule, these fences should be  at least 4 to 5 feet high and have no gaps.
the key is to pick frames and mats with similar finishes for  a more unified look.
search for “organic mattresses” and you’ll find a slew of options.
the easiest systems allow you to clip in glass panels or insect screening with ease.
today’s green wallpaper selections allow you to dress your walls in style and do your part to save the environment.
(then you have an excuse to go shopping!)
if you’re not sure what style you want—picket, privacy, etc.—this this old house article can help you narrow your selection.
and it makes telling time a lot more interesting, too.
(i’ll post  more about roofing materials soon!)
traditional push mowers are cheaper and less complex but require more muscle.
use hard-to-reach space at the top of the closet for storing out-of-season or infrequently worn items.
for example, you’ll want to  leave open space under the countertops.
i especially like thisstripe-y  shade courtesy of martha stewart living because its bright colors
and here are three  exterior-improvement areas you’ll want to pay particular attention to: fix your fence.
break out your hammer and nails: it’s time to pull  your favorite photos out of hiding and frame them for everyone to see.
cost how much your roofing material costs will, of course, be an important consideration.
but that doesn’t mean you still  can’t have fun with gardening—i used to love wandering around the  garden with my mother, as she pointed out all different plant varieties and let  me touch and smell them.
this helps the refrigerator cool more efficiently and run less frequently.
first, ask yourself what the lamp will be used for.
for more specific information, check your local building codes.
or try this standingmulti-square frame clock from wrapables.
why not replace some of that water coming from the outdoor faucet with rainwater?
it’s possible by reducing chlorine and other free radicals from  your shower system, according to wellness enterprises.
what’s your take on country style?
of course the construction of the storm door is as much as—if not more—important than its appearance.
wow guests with elkay’smystic entertainment sink mystic5014c, which features an organic wave shape—perfect for contemporary kitchens.
even if you  don't have a subscription, you can still access some handy general  recommendations on theirwebsite.
and once you get home with your new storm door, here’s a handy video on how to install it, courtesy ofthis
if not, consider a thatching mower that grinds up the clippings essentially - you are creating fertilizer while you are cutting.
don’t let the space underneath go to waste.
while i’m swapping out my wardrobe, i figure it’s a great time to bone up on some closet-organizing pointers.
but because it’s made from cocoa shells, it’s dangerous for pets—especially dogs.
if so, look for mowers with a rear-mounting catcher.
that’s a lot of water for very little money or work.
and that’s just  what thewellness shower does—in fact, it reduces chlorine three times  longer than the average shower filter and increases hydration of skin and hair.
to prevent water seepage, this sheet metal or other material is installed into the roof system’s joints and valleys.
you can only fit so much in a closet, regardless of the organizational pointers you press into use.
you’re wasting precious cold air if your door doesn’t seal tightly.
that’s where outdoor storage options come into play—they  corral your stuff where you need it most.
and if you’re afraid of heights, no worries—all you  need is a good pair of binoculars to scan your roof from all sides.
the sashes are framed to bump out beyond the wall, often with three separate windows jointed at 45-degree angles.
a mower can last 10 years or longer if you keep it in good shape, so it pays to pick the right one.
self-propelled mowers are pushed along by an engine, which means less work for you - an attractive option if you have a large or hilly yard.
even the most mundane items can potentially be safety hazards for little ones, so it’s best to take precautions to ensure a safe, enjoyable summer for everyone.
and with an  undercounter fridge, you can even store beverages for entertaining and  foodstuffs for grilling right where you need them too.
why not replace that worn-out storm door?
you’ll need to make  a hole in the lid for the gutter connector and a hole near the bottom of the  can where you’ll want to screw in a spigot.
the tray holds one 4x6  photo and four 3x3 photos.
but there’s so much more to universal design.
synthetic mattresses have a number of downsides.
the sashes are framed to bump out beyond the wall, often  with three separate windows jointed at 45-degree angles.
according to energy star, replacing a refrigerator bought in 1990 with an energy star-qualified model can save enough energy to light the average household for nearly four months.
want to bring your kitchen up to speed?
think outside the closet.
swing sets and play areas entertain kids  for hours, but it’s essential that they’re sturdy and safe.
stash purses, accessories, and such in small baskets or canvas storage bins.
tie racks, belt hooks, and hanging shelves all come in handy too.
drab expanses of walls in  stairwells, behind the sofa, and in other spaces are framing opportunities too  good to pass up—try creating a cool collage with frames of different  shapes and sizes.
as you  begin returning things to your closet, make certain the clothes, accessories,  and shoes that see the most frequent use are stored between shoulder- and  knee-height.
while you’re at it, check out their line of fabrics, too.
before you put a single garment back in your closet, toss those crappy wire hangers you’re using.
also make sure to clear all debris from the roof’s surface, replace damaged shingles, refresh old or deteriorated caulking, and trim back tree branches that hang over the roof.
in others, you may find a fresher version of country style that’s simple, practical, and relaxed.
design note: keep in mind that positioning your outdoor kitchen next to your house may make it possible to connect to your indoor plumbing, which can save on construction costs.
many grills come with burners, which makes preparing side  dishes outside a cinch (i used ours for making baked beans to accompany brats  this weekend).
though it’s commonly advised to  inspect your roof before the onslaught of winter, it’s also wise to check  it after too.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 30, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorate, decorating, design, illumination, lamp, light kitchens of yesteryear used to be tiny, cramped spaces set apart from the rest of the house—hardly functional by today’s standards.
also trybutterfly gardens or gardens with themes, such as a pizza garden.
how else do your store your outdoor gear?
style considerations your roof not only protects your  home from the elements, it’s also a major feature of your exterior.
so where should you put all those photos?
every time you dig around for a snack, you’re letting cold air escape from your refrigerator.
once a year, you should also pull your refrigerator away from the wall to vacuum the condenser coils.
the boards or sheet material that are fastened to the roof  rafters to cover a house or building.
look no further than this article fromhometime.
for example,  if you opt for a table lamp, you don’t want to overwhelm the tabletop,  yet you don’t want a lamp that looks incredibly small either.
that’s what makes the thought of an outdoor kitchen so appealing.
also trybutterfly  gardens or gardens with themes, such as a pizza garden.
or colored glass jars, handmade fabrics, and furnishings with distressed finishes?
i plan on removing everything from my closet, piling it all on my bed, and sorting everything into piles.
so now the home know-it-all is going country.
and if stainless steel just isn’t your thing, sinks made of natural materials such as copper, stone, and wood are also popular.
and that’s just what thewellness shower does—in fact, it reduces chlorine three times longer than the average shower filter and increases hydration of skin and hair.
check back later  this month—julie will have the scoop.
so take  advantage of other available space—behind the door, underneath the bed,  even outside the bedroom—for items that won’t fit in the closet.
(of  course, the fact that there was a chance of snow last weekend should deter me,  but it’s spring
but there are plenty of other grill features and additional cooking  option worth considering too depending on how gourmet you want your outdoor  cooking space to be.
get rid of wire hangers.
for instance, tile is commonly found on mediterranean- or  southwestern-style homes, while standing-seam metal roofing offers a more  contemporary touch.
why not  replace some of that water coming from the outdoor faucet with rainwater?
hate the way your refrigerator  sticks out like a sore thumb, but don’t want to completely replace it?
but today’s sheds  blend function with flair.
see the first pointer above—it’s time to downsize!)
so is theseattle times.
shop around at spacesavers and the container store for ideas.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 25, 2008 in around the house | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: door, entry, screen, storm with spring in full swing and summer just around the corner, there’s no better time to be outdoors, whether you’re dining, entertaining, relaxing—or all three.
with the right prep, you can transform that under-deck area into a storage unit.
check out a few of these  luxury items guaranteed to transform your bathroom into a space that wows.
it’s easy to mess up when hanging a picture—perhaps  you’re off by just a few millimeters.
if your deck is more than  24 inches off the ground, you’ll probably need a railing system.
if a standard storm door doesn’t do the trick, one of the  variety of more decorative styles now available is sure to suit your tastes.
for that reason, you’ll want to consider material selection carefully.
in fact, lighting is one area where you don’t want to skimp:
oh, and if you’re not opting for a glass-panel storm door and are  worried your storm door will detract from the appearance of your home,  don’t be.
mulch varieties fall into one of two categories: organic and inorganic.
so maybe the bamboo, jute, raffia, cork, and other natural wallcoverings from phillip jeffries ltd. aren’t straight-up wallpaper.
i can buy those results.
the world of kitchen design is bursting with trends, and i’ve barely  skimmed the surface.
you will want to factor in your budget  as well as the quality of materials—installing a quality roof that will  last for years without problems or maintenance may be worth a bit of additional  upfront cost.
you’ll also want to pick a lamp that complements, rather than  competes with, your décor.
photo courtesy of kohler co.
also keep photos at eye level and make sure they’re not too close  together, but not too far apart, either.bhg.com explains how to jazz up empty  wall space in a way that’s tasteful, not overdone.
and avoid piling mulch up against tree bark or the stems of woody plants.
the organic shape of the cast-iron base functions as a work of art—and i love the way the teal silk shade contrasts against it.
hate the way your refrigerator sticks out like a sore thumb, but don’t want to completely replace it?
learn how fromhome tips.
rather, i’m 70 percent modern country, 20 percent eclectic country, and 10 percent country cottage.
that’s where the universal design concept  comes in.
so you’ve decided it’s time for a new color scheme.
technorati tags: color scheme, decorate, decorating, design, interior,  interior design april 22, 2008
in my kitchen, my step stool is my best friend, because almost all of the cabinets are out of my reach.
and you can’t beat tryingkuler.com, an online color scheme generator created by adobe.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 22, 2008 in garden & outdoor , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: grill, grilling, kitchen, outdoor kitchen garages, basements, and attics can only hold so much stuff.
2008 lawn mower buying guide ah, the lawn-mowing season is upon us.
but there are plenty of other grill features and additional cooking option worth considering too depending on how gourmet you want your outdoor cooking space to be.
better for the environment?
but there’s more to it than good looks: use it to wash fruits and veggies, and fill it with ice to keep beverages chilled.
the family handyman can show you how to fix the gasket yourself.
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner better homes & gardens: 501 decorating ideas under $100 (better homes & gardens decorating) rsmeans and lexicon consulting, inc.: universal design ideas for style, comfort & safety editors of creative homeowner: the new smart approach to home decorating crissy trask: it's easy being green: a handbook for earth-friendly living the home depot: patios designs for living this work by lexicon consulting, inc. is licensed under a creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united states license.
if you're in the market for a new mower to start off the season, here are a few questions to get you started.
and for the biggest of lawns?
are there any other spots around the house where you’d like to learn to use less energy or water?
and with an undercounter fridge, you can even store beverages for entertaining and foodstuffs for grilling right where you need them too.
have a stylish shed you’re  particularly proud of?
now you can have it blend in with your kitchen’s more  appealing features.
even better: it reduces bacteria and fungus growth.
sliding windows are often used in  rooms that require egress.
the tray holds one 4x6 photo and four 3x3 photos.
keep reading too—soon we’ll post on great products to help you keep everything in your closet in place.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 18, 2008 in around the house | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: casement windows, double-hung windows, home, house, picture windows, single-hung windows, sliding windows, window, windows ah, the lawn-mowing season is upon us.
while scanning the this old house hardware aisle blog, i couldn’t help but be intrigued byove integral
hgtv garden expert marianne binetti explains how.
try these storage ideas: storage shed.
slow the aging process of skin and hair?
if a standard storm door doesn’t do the trick, one of the variety of more decorative styles now available is sure to suit your tastes.
because lamps come in an abundance of shapes, sizes, and materials, lamp  shopping can be a challenge.
this is the shape, slope, and layout of the roof system, which  affects its ability to shed water.
storm doors may be made of solid wood or boast a solid-wood core clad with steel or aluminum.
regardless of what type of siding you have,do it yourself is a good go-to guide for repair help.
(and if you do upgrade or decide to get rid of that additional energy-hogging fridge or freezer in the garage or basement, be sure torecycle your old fridge.)
i recently wrote about some considerations to make when it’s time toreplace your windows.
those over-the-door shoe holders can be used  for holding all sorts of smaller items—and shoes too, of course.
and give it a sophisticated twist: for example,  you can hang pendant lights together or hang several at different heights,  according to the kitchen designer.
also  make sure to clear all debris from the roof’s surface, replace damaged  shingles, refresh old or deteriorated caulking, and trim back tree branches  that hang over the roof.
when the tv is off, the glass looks like a mirror.
here are a few keys for keeping your clothes closet in shape: declutter first.
the shelf fits neatly into the corner of the shower—and it’s attractive too.
get more information about the benefits and drawbacks of organic mattresses frommattress guru.
i have three that are in desperate need of some help, so i  figured it was a good time to go shopping.
instead, invest in  quality wood and padded hangers.
or how about a wood-burning oven, open fire pit, or smoker?
but having a few cabinets or a rolling cart allows you to stash frequently used items like grilling utensils and cleaning supplies right where they’re needed.
thisbetter homes and gardens project will get you started.
steep-slope roof systems (those with a slope of 25 percent or more) have  five main parts, according to the national roofing contractors association: 1.
and while you’re at it, you’ll want to inspect your  gutters too.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 2, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cottage style, country style, decorating, furnishings, rustic, shabby chic assure(tm) barrier-free kitchen sink.
this weekend, i’m going to buy a watersaver downspout rainwater diverter and make a homemade barrel to use with it.
(also  consider how hefty your lamp is—if you have small children, heavier lamps  are best because they’re more resistant to tipping.)
drab expanses of walls in stairwells, behind the sofa, and in other spaces are framing opportunities too good to pass up—try creating a cool collage with frames of different shapes and sizes.
even if you’ve got the rest of your landscape looking snazzy, a rotting or damaged fence can easily turn your yard into an eyesore, erasing all your hard work (and probably annoying your neighbors).
a 9- to 12-inch layer is best.
make sure to provide an open, soft playing  surface like grass for kids.
want to learn more about window styles, finish materials, and more?
so, without further ado, here’s a rundown on the most common windows  styles to help you pick out the ones that will look best on your home and fit  your needs.
all of these items beg the question: what’s next in the world of bath design?
roof system components even if you plan to hire  someone else to handle your roof replacement, it’s a good idea to know  the basic components of your roof.
if these colors just don’t mesh with your decorating scheme, no worries!
or you can have it serve as the room’s focal  point—but in a more visually appealing manner.
instead, opt for a  full-height glass panel so your other door is fully visible.
transom windows, which may be short awning windows or have  fixed sashes, are typically mounted over casement or double-hung windows to  allow in additional light.
learn even more about the benefits of organic mattress materialshere.
and to make hard-to-reach items at your fingertips, try mounting pegboard along one wall.
for example, you’ll want to leave open space under the countertops.
and when it comes to storing outdoor essentials such as garden gear, patio furniture, and recreation equipment, who really wants to waste time digging around the basement?
but today’s sheds blend function with flair.
and if you’re afraid of heights, no worries—all you need is a good pair of binoculars to scan your roof from all sides.
if you’re in the market for a new roof, you have two basic options, according to thenational roofing contractors association.
that’s why it’s best to wait until mid to late spring to apply it.
whether it’s a rolling cart or a stretch  of countertop, an easy-clean work surface is key for preparing and placing food  as it goes on and off the grill.
prices vary from $312 to $434, based on color.
i’ve seen  exceptionally high-end outdoor kitchens that include dishwashers, but if  that’s out of your price range at the very least you can use your prep  sink to rinse dishes before carrying them indoors.
but if the damage is extensive, it might be wise tocall in a pro.
and if you have a giant walk-in closet and still can’t fit everything?
for more information on all things roof-related, check outroofhelp.
(though you can wear them if you want to.)
oh, and did i mention that it has a non-toxic, water-based glaze that’s easy to clean
check out these nifty sink models: make a splash.
i’ve seen exceptionally high-end outdoor kitchens that include dishwashers, but if that’s out of your price range at the very least you can use your prep sink to rinse dishes before carrying them indoors.
shelving—a shelf-like compartment inside the shower that’s closed  off by a door so bar soaps and towels don’t become soggy messes.
hanging rods aren’t the only means of storing items in your closet.
because you’re going to be working outdoors, now’s the perfect time to whip the exterior of your home into shape too—after all, it’s probably taken quite a beating from the harsh winter weather.
and when the tv  is on, the glass is clear so you can catch up on your favorite programs.
as you begin returning things to your closet, make certain the clothes, accessories, and shoes that see the most frequent use are stored between shoulder- and knee-height.
when the glass is tilted out, it protects the window much like an awning protects your house, so you can have fresh air even if it’s raining outside.
highlighting a specific object in your living room?
available in a variety of funky, fresh prints—think large-scale, modern versions of damask, hip hues, and butterfly silhouettes—vinyl-free mod green pod wallpaper is made with water-based, non-toxic inks.
here’s how to plant a child-friendly garden.
don’t let  the space underneath go to waste.
the kitchen and bath design  industry never ceases to amaze me.
if you want the benefits of cocoa mulch without the harmful side effects, make sure you select a variety that’s theobromine-free.
just remember, as with anything that’s labeled organic, it’s important to do your research so you don’t get duped into buying a mattress that may have some organic materials but isn’t 100 percent organic.
check out the easy instructions provided bysouthwest florida water  management district or the city of bremerton, washington (you can even download  their handy brochure).
not sure how to describe the country style you want?
create an outdoor kitchen
until tomorrow, posted by julie on april 17, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink |  comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: clippings, electric mower, grass, green, mower, mulch,  push mower, self-propelled mower april 16, 2008 creative framing
in each room, be on the lookout for: it’s just as important to take your pet-friendly attitude outside, too.
of course, if your outdoor cooking space is located near your  indoor kitchen, you can haul things back and forth.
these tried-and-true units are the most common form of outdoor storage—and they come in many shapes and sizes to fit even the smallest of yards.
as if setting customized temperature and water delivery options and grooving to your favorite tunes weren’t cool enough, you’ll reap the benefits of chromatherapy too.
window manufacturers are great sources of window information too.
and while you’re at it, make sure your fridge isn’t pushed right up against the wall so there’s room for air to circulate behind it.
because chances are, if you have a dog, it spends quite a bit of time outdoors.
get caught up with  these kitchen design trends trends: stainless-steel sinks.
until tomorrow, posted by julie on april 23, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (1)  | trackback (0)
the easiest  systems allow you to clip in glass panels or insect screening with ease.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 9, 2008 in decorating , green living | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorating, eco-friendly, renewable, wallcoverings, wallpaper
you can tear off your existing roof system and do a complete roof replacement or re-cover your existing roof system.
it makes sense to get rid of poisonous plants and plants with sharp spines or thorns.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 22, 2008 in garden & outdoor , kitchen &  bath | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: grill, grilling, kitchen, outdoor kitchen april 21, 2008 outdoor storage ideas garages, basements, and attics can only hold so much stuff.
combine different types of general, task, and ambient lighting based on your lighting requirements.
as with any big purchase, it's a good idea to do your research on product  options before you head to the store.
then, when  it’s time to find inspiration for your color scheme, try starting with  and building on one of the following: a favorite color a classic combination (think blue and yellow or even red, white, and blue) the hues of a great piece of fabric a fantastic piece of art (to see what i mean, check out this blog post  about gleaning color scheme inspiration from the masters of painting) a favorite object (classic blue and white china often inspires kitchen or  dining room color schemes; a colorful lamp from a garage sale might spark a  whole room; even a favorite shirt or purse might stimulate your color  imagination)
but is your outdoor living space suited for guests of all ages?
luckily, those days are long gone, and the kitchen design industry is booming  with trends that blend function with visual appeal.
casement windows are hinged at the sides and open outward  by pushing or cranking them open with a handle.
and if you’re contemplating buying, be sure to read this exceptionally useful post ona child grows in brooklyn.
have a stylish shed you’re particularly proud of?
casement windows are hinged at the sides and open outward by pushing or cranking them open with a handle.
it makes sense to get rid of poisonous plants and  plants with sharp spines or thorns.
if you’ve got a multilevel deck  with a long or steep stairway, be sure to install safety gates to prevent  spills.
though it’s commonly advised to inspect your roof before the onslaught of winter, it’s also wise to check it after too.
and if you still can’t decide between an organic or inorganic mulch, thishgtv article provides insight—and also addresses other mulch-related issues such as selecting light or dark materials.
what to do with the old wire ones?unclutterer  has the answer.
but they’re just as cool—and they provide a unique blend of color and texture in one neat package.
or, to avoid replacing windows and screens altogether, look for models with panels that slide past one another on tracks or that store extra panels right in the door.
you can enjoy  hydrotherapy in the comforts of your home, thanks to the tub’s  moonlights, integral waterfall, cushy headrest, and heater.
according to greener choices, if you have a small, flat lawn, a reel or walk-behind electric mower will probably do the trick.
because when you sleep on an organic mattress, you likely will sleep more soundly — not only because it’s comfortable, but also because you can rest easy knowing the materials you’re sleeping on are better for you and the environment.
until tomorrow, posted by julie on april 14, 2008 in cleaning & organizing | permalink  | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: closet, closet organization, organization, organize,  spring cleaning april 11, 2008 rain water harvesting whether you live in an area hard-hit by drought, are looking to save money  on your water bills, or just want to conserve water because it’s a  precious resource (or all three!), perhaps this spring it’s time to  harvest rain water and use it around your house.
storage sheds—especially prefab ones—often get a bad rap for their not-so-attractive appearance.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 28, 2008 in around the house , general | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: roof, roofing, roofing materials, roofing options, shake, shingle, tile looking for an easy and effective weekend project?
while you’re at it, how about some organic bedding?
looks good, doesn’t it?
the smart sink teams a deep work basin and a small prep/disposal basin for total convenience—and comes in a variety of colors to complement your kitchen.
pumice dial tones natural wallcoverings.
when the glass is tilted out, it protects the window much like an awning  protects your house, so you can have fresh air even if it’s raining  outside.
that’s why taking preventative pet-proofing measures can keep your pets happy, safe, healthy—and out of trouble.
i especially like thisteak bench/trunk from frontgate.
according to the u.s. epa, a rain barrel can  save a single homeowner about 1,300 gallons of water during the peak summer  months.
storage benches come in a variety of finishes, so you can find one that matches your outdoor decor—just make sure it’s water resistant.
or if you want to dress up an existing prefab shed,southern living shows how.
the goal, according tolowe’s, should be to leave about 15 percent of your closet space free.
it’s the perfect spot to stash scarves until next winter or that box containing your wedding dress until … well, until you feel the need to see if you can still fit in it.
it’s possible by reducing chlorine and other free radicals from your shower system, according to wellness enterprises.
a kitchen just wouldn’t be a kitchen without a sink.
to prevent water seepage, this sheet metal or other material  is installed into the roof system’s joints and valleys.
regularly inspect the equipment for loose bolts, cracks, sharp edges, and other warning signs.
to really set your kitchen aglow, check out these other illuminating ideas fromthe kitchen designer.
so you have access to water for filling pots,  cleaning veggies, and rinsing plates.
oh, and how about one more article on the topic frommother jones while i’m at it?
because there are no sashes to get in the way, they allow uninterrupted views.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 10, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: do-it-yourself, exterior, fence, maintenance, outdoor maintenance, repair, roofing, siding, spring cleaning butterfly jubilee vinyl-free wallpaper photo courtesy of mod green pod you’ve already gotten the lowdown on removing wallpaper and using wallpaper creatively.
as a bonus, when  the main door is open and the storm door is closed you’ll allow maximum  light into your home.
$27.95 since i live in an apartment where floor space is limited, i appreciate the  ladder floor screen frame from target.
lucky for you, there are lots of resources online to help you with the steps.
if you already have stainless steel sinks, you deserve a round of applause—this is one trend that boasts serious staying power.
add instant texture to any room with mio wallpapers.
double-hung windows, much like their single-hung  counterparts, boast traditional styling.
and even though my living quarters are  small, i need adequate lighting for reading, dining, paying bills, and more.
if not, you may want to consider making the switch: not  only does stainless steel lend a contemporary edge, it’s durable and can  stand up to serious cooks and rowdy children alike.
plus,  fixed windows are usually less expensive and more energy efficient than ones  that open.
others add-ons to consider: single-level height adjustment (so you can  adjust the mower wheel height) and a blade-brake clutch (so you can safely stop  the mower's blade without the entire engine shutting off).
awning windows are hinged at the top and open outward.
look for a riding lawn mower or tractor (or, better yet, reduce your lawn size).
but, essentially, that’s it.
one pile  will go to the thrift store, another will get stored until next year, and a  third will go back in the closet.
and with good reason: we use our kitchens for food prep, entertaining, dining, even paying the bills.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 16, 2008 in decorating | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorating, frames, framing, photos, pictures dtv ii.
lamps provide  portable, much-needed light—and look good doing it.
available in four modern patterns, mio wallcoverings provide acoustic dampening qualities too (style and substance rolled into one—wow!).
or check out the offerings atandersen windows & doors and pella.
instead, opt for a full-height glass panel so your other door is fully visible.
odds are if you have a striking red accent door you won’t want to cover it up with a storm door made mostly of metal.
also keep photos at eye level and make sure they’re not too close together, but not too far apart, either.bhg.com explains how to jazz up empty wall space in a way that’s tasteful, not overdone.
for an unexpected twist, why not hang photos from the ceiling?
this sleek unit  features a waterproof 17” lcd tv behind a mirror panel with an attached  towel rail.
in some homes, you may find rustic furniture and folk art.
regardless of what type of siding  you have,do it yourself is a good go-to guide for repair help.
if you’re not convinced, learn more about why rain barrels are great  fromharvesth20.com.
one thing i didn’t touch on in that post, however, is selecting the right window style to fit your house and needs.
that’s where theaquavision towel rail tv comes in.
they, too,  are available in single- or double-hung models, but in either case the sash  moves horizontally rather than vertically.
« march 2008 | main | may 2008 » april 30, 2008 decorate with lamps
in the meantime, keep me posted with your favorite kitchen design trends.
with 70-degree weather like we’re having right now, the last  thing i want to do is cook inside.
single-hung windows have a traditional look akin to that  of old-style sash windows.
so i’m going to forge ahead anyway!)
(of course, the fact that there was a chance of snow last weekend should deter me, but it’s spring
and here are three exterior-improvement areas you’ll want to pay particular attention to: fix your fence.
with as  much use as the kitchen gets, it’s important that  everyone—regardless of age or ability—should be able to access  appliances and fixtures easily.
doesn’t seem fair, does it?
the vertical frame holds five 8x10  photos and has a stylish black finish.
to really set your kitchen aglow, check out  these other illuminating ideas fromthe kitchen designer.
the basics to creating the perfect outdoor kitchen.
photo courtesy of kohler co. beach vacation.
and also pay attention to these  specific elements common to most yards: surfaces.
just think of all the rainwater that washes away each time it pours (like it is right now here, by the way).
but having a few cabinets  or a rolling cart allows you to stash frequently used items like grilling  utensils and cleaning supplies right where they’re needed.
i can’t say enough about the benefits of auniversally designed kitchen.
so there you have it.
for  that reason, you’ll want to consider material selection carefully.
and there’s nothing quite like  watching television from the tub.
stay tuned—in tomorrow’s post, i’ll address how to pet-proof your home.
find more color inspiration from benjamin moore paints and home decorating  made easy.
install avinyl covering or a waterproof membrane below the deck and deck lattice along the sides.
one that might be worth the price tag, according to consumer reports, is a three-in-one mower that can mulch grass, bag grass, and discharge it out the side.
why not replace that  worn-out storm door?
or if you want a burst of color and a simple profile (and are feeling crafty), you can even transform colorful glass bottles into lamps too—hallmark magazine shows you how.
one thing i didn’t touch on in that post,  however, is selecting the right window style to fit your house and needs.
luckily, you can goof-proof picture  hanging—without accidentally nailing holes in your walls—by tracing  different frame arrangements on craft paper first.
the  shelf fits neatly into the corner of the shower—and it’s attractive  too.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 24, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: backyard, childproof, garden, kid-safe, safe, secure, yard
lowe's has a handy lawn-mower buying guide that breaks down some of the common terms and gives you a better idea of what mower is best for your terrain and yard size.
if you’re not convinced, learn more about why rain barrels are great fromharvesth20.com.
read up on more ways to make yourlandscape more dog-friendly.
made from an old lp, the vinylux lp picture frame at 3rliving holds a 5x5 photo and brims with retro style—and it’s versatile too.
looks good,  doesn’t it?
swing sets and play areas entertain kids for hours, but it’s essential that they’re sturdy and safe.
before purchasing a door, also inspect the quality of hardware and the  corner joints, both of which can provide clues as to the quality of your  door’s construction.
consumer research  has a handy article listing some product reviews to get you started.
of course, to increase functionality even moreyou’ll likely want to think about landscape lighting and additional amenities like speakers for listening to music.
adjust the temperature.
organic mulch—think bark, wood chips, grass clippings, and shredded hardwood, to name a few—decomposes into the soil over time to add vital nutrients and needs to be replaced on occasion.
yes, it’s an option, thanks tokohler’s pro cookcenter and taskcenter lines, which offer amenities such as a cooking vessel, cutting boards, double-basin sink, disposal basin, left-hand drainboard, and more.
get started with these ideas fromsecurity world.
a common arrangement is to  hang blouses and jackets on the top and skirts and pants on the bottom.
use your home’s architecture as a starting point for narrowing down your roofing choices.
as a bonus, when the main door is open and the storm door is closed you’ll allow maximum light into your home.
it is—you just can’t drink it!
and that’s a good thing.
if you're looking for additional universal design ideas, check out universal design ideas for style, comfort & safety.
walk around your backyard and make note of potential dangers.
of course the construction of the storm door is as much as—if not  more—important than its appearance.
what to do with the old wire ones?unclutterer has the answer.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 28, 2008 in around the house , general | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: roof, roofing, roofing materials, roofing options, shake,  shingle, tile april 25, 2008 storm and screen doors looking for an easy and effective weekend project?
storage sheds—especially prefab ones—often  get a bad rap for their not-so-attractive appearance.
tie  racks, belt hooks, and hanging shelves all come in handy too.
which you ultimately choose is a matter of taste and budget.
bay windows are often used to create a focal point on the  home’s exterior.
it’s thesave, toss, or donate approach i’m so fond of.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 15, 2008 in kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bath, bath design, bathroom, luxury i don’t know about you, but i think it’s time to get out the spring clothes and banish my sweaters to the basement for another year.
even if your fence doesn’t show telltale signs of disrepair, there are still a few preventative steps you can take to lengthen its lifespan, such as painting or staining it each year, and trimming excess vegetation away from the fence.
cost how much your roofing material costs will, of  course, be an important consideration.
or forgo that second rod in favor of some portable drawers, shoe racks, open shelves, or other organization tools for taking advantage of that floor space.
here’s why—and how you can too.
want to build a cottage-like shed that’ll serve as the focal point of your yard (and wow your neighbors)?
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 17, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: clippings, electric mower, grass, green, mower, mulch, push mower, self-propelled mower
and many are naturally flame retardant.
check out other earth-friendly frames at 3rliving too.
they provide maximum ventilation.
and they come in four colors: natural, white, mint, and orange.
make sure to provide an open, soft playing surface like grass for kids.
even if you’re not in the market for a new refrigerator, however, you can save a considerable amount of energy by making a few smart moves.
on the flip side,  however, in an area with a lot of houses close together, light-color roofing  may make the lots appear too crowded; and small houses appear even smaller when  topped with dark roofs.
and life organizers provides a slew of articles on  creating a happy, tidy closet.
regularly inspect the equipment for loose bolts, cracks, sharp edges, and other  warning signs.
in fact, you may want to offer a couple of  seating arrangements if there’s room, because once your outdoor kitchen  is complete you’ll likely want to entertain quite a lot!
i plan on removing everything  from my closet, piling it all on my bed, and sorting everything into piles.
design note: just as ventilation is important indoors, be sure to position your  cooking area away from the house and facing such that the smoke moves away from  your house and your guests.
so it’s just as durable as it is cool?
and chances are, you’ve got a host of family and friends out with you basking in the warm weather.
for even more food prep functionality, include a prep sink with a faucet
from cabinetry-matching  panels to magnetic panels, read more about cool ways todisguise your appliances.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 11, 2008 in garden & outdoor , green living |  permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, green living, rain barrel, weekend project april 10, 2008 spring outdoor maintenance
check out the easy instructions provided bysouthwest florida water management district or the city of bremerton, washington (you can even download their handy brochure).
now you can have it blend in with your kitchen’s more appealing features.
regardless of which route you  choose,this old house provides all the info you need to be  storage-shed savvy.
the bathroom is a haven for  relaxation at the end of a long day, and thekohler dtv ii custom shower system  takes relaxation to the next level.
it’s also a good idea to analyze each room for potential dangers—and to get down on all fours to see hazards from your pet’s perspective.
and also pay attention to these specific elements common to most yards: surfaces.
benches with built-in storage allow you to get the best of  both worlds.
and once you get home with your new storm door, here’s a handy  video on how to install it, courtesy ofthis
so you have access to water for filling pots, cleaning veggies, and rinsing plates.
photo courtesy of kohler co. all-in-one.
that’s why i rely on lamps for nighttime illumination.
lighting is an essential element of any kitchen design scheme, but it doesn’t have to be all work and no play.
(i’ll post more about roofing materials soon!)
if  you’ve already done one re-cover of your roof system, you’ll likely  have to go for a complete replacement, as most building codes only allow one  roof system re-cover.
if you already have stainless steel  sinks, you deserve a round of applause—this is one trend that boasts  serious staying power.
i plan to do so within the  next couple of weeks.
even if you’ve got the rest of your  landscape looking snazzy, a rotting or damaged fence can easily turn your yard  into an eyesore, erasing all your hard work (and probably annoying your  neighbors).
cut down on door opening.
don’t forget to defrost.
just like an indoor kitchen has myriad cabinets  to corral dishes, food items, and the like, your outdoor kitchen should feature  storage too.
in the grand scheme of decorating, few things make a home (or tiny apartment, in my case) feel more welcoming than a bunch of framed pictures artfully hung on the wall or dispersed on bookshelves, mantels, and tables.
or place a layer of mulch, sand, or  other soft materials under play equipment to cushion falls.
not only does it have an attractive finish, its slatted bottom lets fresh air circulate inside to deter icky mold or mildew growth.
and if that  weren’t cool enough, the tub’s wooden surround boasts a large  built-in shelf.
and with good reason: we  use our kitchens for food prep, entertaining, dining, even paying the bills.
and blogger dean novosat explains the nitty gritty oflamp-shade decorating, such as making sure you select heat-resistant decorating materials.
it has evolved so much over the years—and is continually changing even today—that to saythis is country and that is not doesn’t get you very far.
as with any big purchase, it's a good idea to do your research on product options before you head to the store.
milgard offers handy, basic illustrations of window styles and links to their windows that fit in each category.
lamps provide portable, much-needed light—and look good doing it.
these gems come in 17 glistening hues—from white smoke to sunset.
because our curious toy poodle, lucky, has an interesting affinity for all things paper and enjoys shredding tissues.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 21, 2008 in cleaning & organizing | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: organize, shed, storage, storage shed, tool shed
i especially like thisstripe-y shade courtesy of martha stewart living because its bright colors remind me of summertime.
you can also purchase impact-absorbing solid surfacing tiles or sheets made of rubber or synthetic compounds to cover expanses of hard surfaces such as concrete.
self-propelled or push?
while you’re at it, learn how to keep your refrigerator in tip-top shape thanks tohowstuffworks.
and blogger dean novosat explains the nitty gritty oflamp-shade  decorating, such as making sure you select heat-resistant decorating materials.
because you’re going to be  working outdoors, now’s the perfect time to whip the exterior of your  home into shape too—after all, it’s probably taken quite a beating  from the harsh winter weather.
remember: the edges of the shade shouldn’t extend past the edges of  the table.
but if the  damage is extensive, it might be wise tocall in a pro.
they provide maximum  ventilation.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 14, 2008 in cleaning & organizing | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: closet, closet organization, organization, organize, spring cleaning whether you live in an area hard-hit by drought, are looking to save money on your water bills, or just want to conserve water because it’s a precious resource (or all three!), perhaps this spring it’s time to harvest rain water and use it around your house.
don’t forget to include a dining set or picnic table on the patio or deck.
that’s where outdoor storage options come into play—they corral your stuff where you need it most.
common models are hinged on either side, but if you’re in the market for storm doors to fit in front of double doors you can find those too.
do you want to catch your grass clippings?
don’t forget to include a dining set or  picnic table on the patio or deck.
collections are common but also vary depending on your definition of country—is it baskets, americana, and folk art?
concealed appliances.
you can enjoy hydrotherapy in the comforts of your home, thanks to the tub’s moonlights, integral waterfall, cushy headrest, and heater.
check out the plans frompopular mechanic.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on april 4, 2008 in around the house | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cat, cat-friendly, dog, dog-friendly, pet, pet-proof, pet-proofing what’s one of the best—and easiest—things you can do to keep your plants in tip-top shape this spring?
and give it a sophisticated twist: for example, you can hang pendant lights together or hang several at different heights, according to the kitchen designer.
stash purses, accessories, and such in small  baskets or canvas storage bins.
you can’t beat all the closet organization  pointersreal simple offers.
and chances are, you’ve got a  host of family and friends out with you basking in the warm weather.
seeking a small-space storage solution?
on the flip side, however, in an area with a lot of houses close together, light-color roofing may make the lots appear too crowded; and small houses appear even smaller when topped with dark roofs.
or  forgo that second rod in favor of some portable drawers, shoe racks, open  shelves, or other organization tools for taking advantage of that floor space.
the vertical frame holds five 8x10 photos and has a stylish black finish.
as a general rule, these fences should be at least 4 to 5 feet high and have no gaps.
storm doors are relatively easy to install because they’re typically sold as pre-hung units in standard door width—just screw them onto the existing doorjamb.
guardrails should be at least 36 inches high above the deck surface.
color inspiration is  everywhere.
you don’t want your water catchment system out in the open?
you can only fit so much in a  closet, regardless of the organizational pointers you press into use.
but enjoying the two comforts together?
many grills come with burners, which makes preparing side dishes outside a cinch (i used ours for making baked beans to accompany brats this weekend).
it’s easy to mess up when hanging a picture—perhaps you’re off by just a few millimeters.
there are lots of fancy bells and whistles you can get if you have the cash - but that doesn't necessarily mean they are worth it.
and you can’t beatgarden gate magazine’scomprehensive guide.
and to keep small pets from getting into trouble in off-limits areas around the house, install child safety gates.
you’ve already learned about traditional style.
plant fun varieties such as snapdragons, sunflowers,  and lamb’s ear, which are kid-safe and beautiful.
one type of mulch—cocoa mulch—is touted for being a fabulous soil amendment and pest deterrent.
they’re made from a variety of materials,  such as wood, vinyl, and metal, and you have several installation options: you  can purchase diy kits, you can build one from scratch using mail-order plans,  or you can hire someone to build it for you.
so take advantage of other available space—behind the door, underneath the bed, even outside the bedroom—for items that won’t fit in the closet.
also be sure to check out the ideas offered by behr, which center on the practical, artistic, emotional, fashionable, and historical inspiration.
clean it inside and out.
target’sten-photo mobile allows you to do just that.
if you haven’t childproofed your yard yet, now is the perfect time.
if your roof existing roofing has sustained any damage or leaks, you’ll likely want to remove the existing roof and repair the substrate before installing a new roof.
this can be particularly challenging because windows come in so many sizes and shapes—big, little, rectangular, circular, square, you name it.
read more aboutstainless steel sinks.
it  is—you just can’t drink it!
storage benches come in a variety of finishes, so you can find one  that matches your outdoor decor—just make sure it’s water  resistant.
to take the trend a step further, go beyond standard sink shapes—look for prep sinks with a curvy outline or oversized single-bowl models.
if you’re looking to make an artistic statement with your frames,  give your photos and art a funky edge with these cool frames: the magnetic photo frame clock allows you to insert wallet-size photos  around the clock face—a perfect solution for putting those school photos  to good use.
benches with built-in storage allow you to get the best of both worlds.
according to greener choices, if you have  a small, flat lawn, a reel or walk-behind electric mower will probably do the  trick.
and to make hard-to-reach items at your  fingertips, try mounting pegboard along one wall.
from cabinetry-matching panels to magnetic panels, read more about cool ways todisguise your appliances.
to  look for—following the suggestions on it can help prevent nasty mold  growth and leaks (as if missing shingles weren’t bad enough!).
if you haven’t done so already, you’re probably in the process  ofgetting your garden in gear for spring.
better homes & gardens: 501 decorating ideas under $100 (better homes  & gardens decorating) rsmeans and lexicon consulting, inc.: universal design ideas for style,  comfort & safety editors of creative homeowner: the new smart approach to home decorating crissy trask: it's easy being green: a handbook for earth-friendly living the home depot: patios designs for living technorati add me to your typepad people list creative commons this work by lexicon consulting, inc. is licensed under a  creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united  states license.
and for the  biggest of lawns?
of course, to increase functionality even moreyou’ll likely want to think  about landscape lighting and additional amenities like speakers for listening  to music.
keep reading too—soon we’ll post on great products to help you  keep everything in your closet in place.
if ice buildup reaches more than one-quarter inch, it’s time to defrost.
of course budget  comes into consideration.
the bathroom is a haven for relaxation at the end of a long day, and thekohler dtv ii custom shower system takes relaxation to the next level.
it can be tailored to fit your tastes and your lifestyle—no cowboy boots required.
thisoregon state university extension service checklist will help you determine what
thisbetter homes and gardens project will get you  started.
many manufacturers—likelarson storm doors—allow  you to mix and match the frame style and color, glass, and hardware of your  choice.
surround the area around pools, spas, and hot tubs with a secure, locked fence.
although thisorganized home article was written for autumn, it applies just as nicely to spring too.
home tips provides some great information if you’re looking to learn  more.
universally designed.
this consists of shingles, tile, slate, or metal, as well as an underlayment to protect the sheathing from weathering.
once you narrow down a purpose, pick a lamp that fits the scale of the space you’re working with.
and even though my living quarters are small, i need adequate lighting for reading, dining, paying bills, and more.
aol home improvement editortom kraeutler walks you through the process.
many manufacturers—likelarson storm doors—allow you to mix and match the frame style and color, glass, and hardware of your choice.
standard wallpaper has a harmful pvc coating.
transom windows, which may be short awning windows or have fixed sashes, are typically mounted over casement or double-hung windows to allow in additional light.
ehow explains how to inspect your existing siding.
and of course, you can’t go wrong by going straight to the sources for modern country style—country home and country living magazines.
serve up style with this cool wooden serving tray from wrapables, which  allows you to reminisce as you eat breakfast in bed.
to look for—following the suggestions on it can help prevent nasty mold growth and leaks (as if missing shingles weren’t bad enough!).
also be sure to check out the ideas offered by behr, which center on  the practical, artistic, emotional, fashionable, and historical inspiration.
use hard-to-reach space at the top of the  closet for storing out-of-season or infrequently worn items.
thissuite 101 article explains more.
stay tuned—you’ll learn more about these materials (and more!)
and make sure the space between railing posts is no more than 4 inches apart so a small child’s head can’t get stuck.
but, essentially,  that’s it.
check back later this month—julie will have the scoop.
or maybe that picture looks too small behind the sofa.
of course, if you prefer to soak with an exhilarating book but still love warm towels, try these decorative towel racks fromwesaunard.
most are made with materials derived from petrochemicals, which are prone to combustion and can off-gas toxic elements that you may inhale while you sleep.
plus $32 for 12 tiles, these are just as friendly on your wallet as they are on the environment.
the heart of the outdoor kitchen is, of course,  the grill.
that’s why i’m a fan of kohler’sassure barrier-free sinks which allows you to stand or sit while working at the sink.
and there’s not much this 33” x 22”-inchamerican standard large single bowl kitchen sink can’t hold—whether it’s a mountain of dishes or the largest cookie sheets.
or something i didn’t even mention.
and  when you’re stuck with boring beige walls like mine, framed art can make  a world of difference.
although organic mattresses often are a bit pricier than synthetic options, isn’t buying a quality mattress an investment in your health and life?
it: clothes closets i don’t know about you, but i think it’s time to get out the  spring clothes and banish my sweaters to the basement for another year.
plus, fixed windows are usually less expensive and more energy efficient than ones that open.
self-propelled mowers are  pushed along by an engine, which means less work for you - an attractive option  if you have a large or hilly yard.
all of these items beg the question: what’s next in the world of bath  design?
in fact, you may want to offer a couple of seating arrangements if there’s room, because once your outdoor kitchen is complete you’ll likely want to entertain quite a lot!
you can tear off your existing roof system and do a  complete roof replacement or re-cover your existing roof system.
thisoregon  state university extension service checklist will help you determine what
that way your fridge doesn’t have to kick in to help cool them to the right temperature.
$27.95 since i live in an apartment where floor space is limited, i appreciate the ladder floor screen frame from target.
your unit has to work harder if there’s frost buildup in the freezer (or fridge, for that matter).
storm doors may be made of solid wood  or boast a solid-wood core clad with steel or aluminum.
plus organic mattresses haven’t been produced with pesticide-ridden cotton or wool.
what other funky frames do you recommend?
and just as a shade shouldn’t take over a table, it shouldn’t take over the lamp either.
too much mulch can be a bad thing—especially during early spring, when an overly thick layer could slow the warming process.
making your own rain barrel is a pretty darn easy diy project—all you really need is a large food-quality barrel or even a big plastic garbage can with a lid.
made from the company’s signature “hard roc” glass, they stand up to stains, scratches, and thermal shocks.
for bigger lawns though, you'll want a gasoline-powered option.
i have three that are in desperate need of some help, so i figured it was a good time to go shopping.
to get started, check out these general ideas for cleaning up your outdoor surroundings.
did you know that in the summer, as  much as 40 percent of a homeowner’s water use goes to the yard?
not only does  it have an attractive finish, its slatted bottom lets fresh air circulate  inside to deter icky mold or mildew growth.
in case you’re like me and like to shop around for how-to info, i  thought i’d include a few more sites with step-by-step pointers:hgtv, diy  network, naturalrainwater.com (i love the illustrations here) are three that  will have you in the know.
and just as a shade shouldn’t take over a table, it  shouldn’t take over the lamp either.
organic mattresses may be made from natural latex rubber, organic cotton, or organic wool.
although an outdoor kitchen might be as simple as a grill, there are plenty of  options for creating an alfresco cooking space that functions just like your  indoor kitchen.
i plan to do so within the next couple of weeks.
transform your kitchen theuniversal design way.
slow the aging process of skin and  hair?
if you’re short on space, look for a lamp that multitasks as a shelf,  such as thisetagère wood lamp from bed bath & beyond.
the key is to plan carefully.
mulching a host of other benefits, too: and that just skims the surface.
these tried-and-true units are the most  common form of outdoor storage—and they come in many shapes and sizes to  fit even the smallest of yards.
did you know that in the summer, as much as 40 percent of a homeowner’s water use goes to the yard?
large, steep roofs will have a much greater visual impact on the exterior home—and may require more careful selection of roofing materials style and color—than smaller, lower-sloped roofs that are less visible.
in an upcoming post.
if you’re in the market for a new refrigerator, be sure to look for one with anenergy star label , which means you’re buying a fridge that consumes 15 percent less energy than required by current federal standards.
just when i’m enamored with one  luxury—say, radiant-heat flooring—something completely new (like  2-way mirrors with televisions) sweeps me off my feet.
when selecting a storm door, you’ll need to determine the type and size of window as well as the screen system you’d like.
and it’s a trend that boasts long-lasting benefits for everyone in your family.
the key is to keep everything protected  from the elements—there’s no point tossing a bunch of stuff under  the deck if it’s going to get soggy.
try these coolpendant lamps from  target (i’m particularly fond of their funky striped shades).
if  you’re not sure what style you want—picket, privacy, etc.—this this old house article can help you narrow your selection.
start with these sites: the  decorating diva, hgtv, and lowe’s.
that’s why selecting  the right roofing for your home is such a vital part of the home-planning  process.
decks are ripe with outdoor living  opportunities—just keep a few things in mind.
before you put a single garment  back in your closet, toss those crappy wire hangers you’re using.
just like about every decorating style, country is hard to define.
my apartment is not very well lit.
before you stick tonight’s leftovers in the fridge, let them sit on the countertop until they’re cool.
lowe's has a handy lawn-mower buying guide that breaks down some of the  common terms and gives you a better idea of what mower is best for your terrain  and yard size.
until tomorrow, posted by katie on april 24, 2008 in garden & outdoor | permalink |  comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: backyard, childproof, garden, kid-safe, safe, secure, yard april 23, 2008 color scheme inspiration
if your closet clutter is so overwhelming that you don’t think  you’ll be able to tackle it on your own,simply stated provides info to  help you figure out when it’s time to hire help.
when checking out your siding, look for cracks, loose seams, buckling, bulging sections, and anything else that looks amiss.
(as in, no country clutter here, folks.)
but then again,mod green pod wallpaper isn’t your average paper.
consumer research has a handy article listing some product reviews to get you started.
just think of all the rainwater that washes away each time it pours (like  it is right now here, by the way).
and  check out the national kitchen and bath association’skitchen planning  guidelines.
with as much use as the kitchen gets, it’s important that everyone—regardless of age or ability—should be able to access appliances and fixtures easily.
better yet, if you know the dimensions of the space you’re working with, thismulch calculator from lowe’s takes the guesswork out of the whole process.
oh, and have i mentioned that they last longer?
according to the u.s. epa, a rain barrel can save a single homeowner about 1,300 gallons of water during the peak summer months.
average-quality asphalt shingles generally will be the least  expensive option; clay tile and natural slate usually cost the most.
hang it on the wall or stand it on an end table.
serve up style with this cool wooden serving tray from wrapables, which allows you to reminisce as you eat breakfast in bed.
cleaning out old food and wiping down shelves and drawers regularly is just good maintenance.
but that doesn’t mean you can’t have fun—look for playful shapes, colorful shades, and more.
well then here’s a terrific idea michelle kaufmann  posted oninstructables: make your barrel part of your garden.
what other smart moves do you make to save refrigerator energy?
if your closet clutter is so overwhelming that you don’t think you’ll be able to tackle it on your own,simply stated provides info to help you figure out when it’s time to hire help.
of course budget comes into consideration.
this  can be particularly challenging because windows come in so many sizes and  shapes—big, little, rectangular, circular, square, you name it.
learn more about the benefits of mulching from thisohio state university extension fact sheet.
organic wool wicks away body moisture, allowing you to maintain a comfortable body temperature while you sleep.
lucky for you, there are lots of resources online to help you with the  steps.
double-hung windows, much like their single-hung counterparts, boast traditional styling.
even if your closet is tiny, you can pack twice as many clothes in it if you install double rods.
this handy spring project checklist from consumer reports will help you stay on track.
or you can decorate several mini shades to dress up a  ho-hum chandelier.
or place a layer of mulch, sand, or other soft materials under play equipment to cushion falls.
one pile will go to the thrift store, another will get stored until next year, and a third will go back in the closet.
you’ll find pointers at the decorating country home website.
because there are so many different types of siding—from aluminum to  wood—problems vary from house to house.
install avinyl covering or a  waterproof membrane below the deck and deck lattice along the sides.
even the most mundane  items can potentially be safety hazards for little ones, so it’s best to  take precautions to ensure a safe, enjoyable summer for everyone.
include these components, which are pivotal for kitchen design indoors or  out, and you’ll be enjoying your new outdoor cooking space in no time.
another way to save space is to hang lights from the ceiling.
whether it’s a rolling cart or a stretch of countertop, an easy-clean work surface is key for preparing and placing food as it goes on and off the grill.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 7, 2008 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bedding, green, green mattresses, organic, organic bedding the bathroom doors at my parents’ house are always shut.
when checking out your siding,  look for cracks, loose seams, buckling, bulging sections, and anything else  that looks amiss.
to take the trend a step  further, go beyond standard sink shapes—look for prep sinks with a curvy  outline or oversized single-bowl models.
who says glass sinks are strictly for the bathroom?jsg oceana undermount models prove glass sinks have a rightful place in the kitchen too.
the bottom sash slides upward, while the top sash is  permanently fixed.
you can’t beat all the closet organization pointersreal simple offers.
the university of michigan health system explains moresafety tips  for playground and outdoor structures.