therefore, we have a very strong bias towards organic cotton, making exceptions only when a necessary ingredient or a one-of-a-kind product is not available in organic cotton.
although a small amount of synthetic fibers are allowed under  gots, we do not source products with synthetic fibers unless they are  biodegradable.
we request the  minimal amount of packaging possible when we order our products from  manufacturers.
hemp fiber can be used to make a variety of products including cloth,  rope, twine, paper, and carpet.
we offer the following united states department of agriculture standards below.
many of the products will not compost  as quickly as the certified compostables or food scraps, but will degrade over  a longer period of time and will not contribute to our waste stream.
the adhesive is reportedly biodegradable, although we are not able to confirm this, so you may wish to recycle, not compost, parts of the box with tape if you are concerned about adhesive residue.
the tissue papper is also kraft.
for products requiring packaging for which biodegradable packaging is not available (e.g., liquids), we highly prefer recyclable packaging (e.g., metal tins or recyclable plastic).
taterware cutlery - 10 pack -  spoons and knives 04.
yes, it is a  related to marijuana but contains little of the psychoactive ingredient in  marijuana and has no value as a drug.
wool - we refer to wool as the fibers from sheep, llama, alpaca, goats,  rabbits, etc.
when possible, we source products that are made from wood that comes fromforest stewardship council certified wood, which assures that the wood "comes from forests that are managed to meet the social, economic, and ecological needs of present and future generations".
others will biodegrade in microbially-active soil and do not require high temperatures.
our boxes are made from recycled kraft board.
this paper can be recycled, composed or reused as kids' drawing paper or other craft projects.
see the cotton and wool sections  for more information on organic methods specific to those materials.
since  hemp is strong and durable, hemp thread is used for sewing.
these boxes can be recycled or  used as a bulking agent for compost piles.
although not formally described as such, many of our other products made from plant materials could also be considered vegan.
see theresources section  for links to more hemp information.
all hemp products described as natural reflect the color of hemp without dyes, so there may be some color variation from item to item.
non-compostable parts - some items such as belts and dog collars contain  non-compostable parts.
this paper  can be recycled, composed or reused as kids' drawing paper or other craft  projects.
items listed as biodegradable are not certified as such, but rather  typically declared so by the manufacturer based on ingredients used.
many of our textiles fall under theglobal organic textile standard, an international effort to create unification among various existing standards.
we prefer cotton in its natural color to avoid the bleaching process, plus we think it is more interesting than white.
from time to time you may  even find products from our own family woodlot.
you will likely also need to recycle other box flaps with writing, labels or stamps on them.
some materials may be biodegradable under some conditions but not others.
although focused on food, fibers can also be certified under these standards.
wood  buttons - 1-3/4 inch
terms used to describe product attributes organic - organic standards vary by country.
usda national organic standards board (nosb) definition, april 1995
all products fall under at least one of the following three categories: 1.
the fiber is grown and processed in romania using a series of mechanical  combings, rather than chemical methods of processing.
seed oils can be used in foods and personal products.
wood buttons -  3/4 inch 02.
the term  biodegradable refers to the process of microbes in the environment breaking  down materials as a source of food.
hemp is a fast growing and relatively pest free plant, making it a good ecological choice for sustainable textiles.
although generally desirable, we do not require all of our materials to be  organic.
the product description  contains all information that is available to us.
some of our cotton items are  naturally dyed with plant dyes and mordants that are natural soil components or  break down into such.
certification applies to composing in a commercial or municipal aerobic composting facility, although some of these products can also be composted in the home setting.
currently we only offer items with non-compostable parts made from metal which can either be reused or can be recycled as scrap metal.
if adhesive is necessary to secure the package, we use a  biodegradable glue.
we  accept guide to products descriptions compostable goods carefully selects products that we believe will break  down completely and safely based upon information supplied to us by the  manufacturer and/or distributor; however, we do not independently verify the  compostability and biodegradability of our products.
our wood products are either unfinished or have a  natural oil (e.g., linseed oil) or wax finish on them.
all materials and ingredients disclosed - the manufacturer has disclosed all materials and ingredients used to make the product.
we require processing of wool to be certified organic or consistent with organic standards but do not require wool to be from organic farms as we do not believe that it is always in the best interest of the animal.
the primary goal of  organic agriculture is to optimize the health and productivity of  interdependent communities of soil life, plants, animals and people.
wool fibers decompose when in contact with moisture and microbially active soil, although take longer than typical vegetative compostables.
this is the case when the item cannot be made (or cannot be made to function well) without these parts.
due to the inks used, we recommend recycling rather than composting the gift tags.
the term biodegradable refers to the process of microbes in the environment breaking down materials as a source of food.
the adhesive is reportedly biodegradable, although we are not able  to confirm this, so you may wish to recycle, not compost, parts of the box with  tape if you are concerned about adhesive residue.
of greater  importance is an organic method for processing wool and animal fibers.
all products fall under at  least one of the following three categories: 1.
some of our cotton items are naturally dyed with plant dyes and mordants that are natural soil components or break down into such.
all materials and ingredients disclosed - the manufacturer has disclosed  all materials and ingredients used to make the product.
organic agriculture practices cannot ensure that products are completely  free of residues; however, methods are used to minimize pollution from air,  soil and water.
compostability standards are astm standards d6400 - 04 for compostable plastics and astm d6868 - 03 for compostable packaging (biodegradable plastics used as coatings on paper or other compostable substrates).
since hemp is strong and durable, hemp thread is used for sewing.
we request the minimal amount of packaging possible when we order our products from manufacturers.
the tape used to secure the box is paper  tape but is necessarily reinforced with fiberglass so be sure to recycle, not  compost, it.
product materials and ingredients bioplastics - bioplastics are plastics made from a biological source that  are capable of biodegradation.
this is typically the  case when there are many parts or if the object needs this protection during  storage and shipping.
materials  and ingredients are listed in the product description.
seed oils can be used in foods  and personal products.
all products and product descriptions are subject to this site's conditions of use.
the principal  guidelines for organic production are to use materials and practices that  enhance the ecological balance of natural systems and that integrate the parts  of the farming system into an ecological whole.
fair trade organisations (backed by consumers) are engaged  actively in supporting producers, awareness raising and in campaigning for  changes in the rules and practice of conventional international trade.
cardboard also makes a good mulch for killing sod where you want a garden bed or a weed barrier where you'd like a path through your garden.
the oldest bioplastic is cellulose film made  from wood cellulose.
due to the inks used, we recommend recycling rather than  composting the gift tags.
this is a very useful plant!
others will biodegrade in microbially-active soil and do  not require high temperatures.
although differences exist among the fiber types, they are all  protein fibers that are high in nitrogen, as opposed to cellulose plant fibers.
we feel organic methods of raising fiber animals are less important since relatively small amounts of medicinals (e.g., worming agents) are used and are generally not applied directly to the wool.
wood biodegrades slowly,  but the process can be hastened by making wood chips which can be used as mulch  or added to a compost pile.
acceptable non-compostable parts must be able to be easily removed from the compostable part and either be reusable or easily recyclable.
wool types are often blended to acquire both qualities in the yarn (e.g., sheep's wool for its elasticity and mohair for its superior dye-ability).
acceptable non-compostable parts  must be able to be easily removed from the compostable part and either be  reusable or easily recyclable.
some of our wool items are organic, but others are not.
many bioplastics are certified compostable ifamerican  society for testing and materials (astm) standards are met.
items listed as biodegradable are not certified as such, but rather typically declared so by the manufacturer based on ingredients used.
the core of the stalk and fibers can be used for construction materials.
this excludes the  need for a non-biodegradable cotton and polyester blend thread which is often  used over pure cotton in the textile industry because of its increased  strength.
the core of the stalk and fibers can be used for  construction materials.
hemp - hemp fiber comes from the plant cannabis sativa.
the reality is that some products are enclosed in plastic by the manufacturer.
color-grown cotton grows naturally in shades or green and brown which,  unlike dyed fabrics, get darker with washing.
cotton - production of conventional cotton uses large amounts of pesticides, posing risks to farm workers, wildlife, the environment, and the end user.
fair trade - we offer the following definition of fair trade from the european fair trade association: fair trade is a trading partnership, based on dialogue, transparency and respect, that seeks greater equity in international trade.
the hemp used in our items made from 100% hemp is grown according to the european union organic regulations.
bioplastics are made from a variety of biological sources including corn, wheat, and starches such as potato.
in the ideal world,  your entire order would completely biodegrade.
shipping - when we send items to you, we put them in cardboard boxes made  from 100% post-consumer waste recycled content.
cotton - production of conventional cotton uses large amounts of  pesticides, posing risks to farm workers, wildlife, the environment, and the  end user.
of greater importance is an organic method for processing wool and animal fibers.
cotton is naturally an off-white color, which may be slightly different  from year to year based on field conditions.
kraft-type paper is used for wrapping and protecting items during shipping as well as for fill.
although a small amount of synthetic fibers are allowed under gots, we do not source products with synthetic fibers unless they are biodegradable.
cardboard also makes a good mulch  for killing sod where you want a garden bed or a weed barrier where you'd like  a path through your garden.
wood biodegrades slowly, but the process can be hastened by making wood chips which can be used as mulch or added to a compost pile.
we consider most  certified organic cotton products to be biodegradable since chemical imputs  must meet certain biodegradability standards under theglobal organic textile  standard (gots).
if a product comes to us packaged in plastic we will typically send it to you that way, although we are happy to remove the plastic for most products if you request this in the comments box on the checkout page.
it is based on minimal use of off-farm inputs and on management  practices that restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony.
the organic cotton used in our products is certified by various certifying agencies which may follow slightly different standards.
the fiber goes through  several rounds of combing known as scotching and hackling, which is the  traditional method for processing hemp in eastern europe.
we feel the relevance of organic certification varies by product.
many bioplastics are certified compostable ifamerican society for testing and materials (astm) standards are met.
the product description contains all information that is available to us.
vegan - no animal products are used in the manufacturing of the product.
we use hand-made sun-bleached paper with embedded leaves or flowers as our gift wrap.
compostable, biodegradable or all natural -
we offer the following united  states department of agriculture standards below.
seeds can be used as a food as is or made into  hemp milk, flour, cheese, beer, and animal feed.
our items described as vegan are cotton yarns and hemp, made completely  from plant fibers.
we require processing  of wool to be certified organic or consistent with organic standards but do not  require wool to be from organic farms as we do not believe that it is always in  the best interest of the animal.
yes, it is a related to marijuana but contains little of the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana and has no value as a drug.
all hemp products described as natural reflect the color of hemp  without dyes, so there may be some color variation from item to item.
the necessary (and often not compostalbe) extras packaging -
we are continually searching for the most sustainable packaging  options and are always open to suggestions for improvement.
although generally desirable, we do not require all of our materials to be organic.
for example,  conventional cotton requires large amounts of pesticide, so nearly all of our  cotton products are organic.
if a product comes to us packaged in plastic we will  typically send it to you that way, although we are happy to remove the plastic  for most products if you request this in the comments box on the checkout page.
one flap of the box is printed with box information.
the fiber is grown and processed in romania using a series of mechanical combings, rather than chemical methods of processing.
from time to time you may even find products from our own family woodlot.
the tape used to secure the box is paper tape but is necessarily reinforced with fiberglass so be sure to recycle, not compost, it.
currently we only offer items with  non-compostable parts made from metal which can either be reused or can be  recycled as scrap metal.
the organic cotton used in our products is  certified by various certifying agencies which may follow slightly different  standards.
in a commercial or municipal aerobic composting facility products meeting these requirements will: 2.
in the ideal world, your entire order would completely biodegrade.
seeds can be used as a food as is or made into hemp milk, flour, cheese, beer, and animal feed.
furthermore, standards may change over time.
materials and ingredients are listed in the product description.
this excludes the need for a non-biodegradable cotton and polyester blend thread which is often used over pure cotton in the textile industry because of its increased strength.
wool - we refer to wool as the fibers from sheep, llama, alpaca, goats, rabbits, etc.
these boxes can be recycled or used as a bulking agent for compost piles.
hemp production is still illegal in the united sates, so all of our hemp  necessarily comes from outside the country.
"organic" is a labeling term that denotes products produced  under the authority of the organic foods production act.
it  contributes to sustainable development by offering better trading conditions  to, and securing the rights of, marginalised producers and workers, especially  in the south.
in a commercial or  municipal aerobic composting facility products meeting these requirements will: biodegrade under composting conditions at a rate comparable to known  compostable materials.
please contact us if you would like additional information about our products.
non-compostable parts - some items such as belts and dog collars contain non-compostable parts.
we  attempt to screen out products that are not truly biodegradable or compostable  even when labeled as such (e.g., some products described as biodegradable are  made with biodegradable materials but have added ingredients not appropriate  for the compost).
we attempt to screen out products that are not truly biodegradable or compostable even when labeled as such (e.g., some products described as biodegradable are made with biodegradable materials but have added ingredients not appropriate for the compost).
biodegradation can occur quickly (as with food or paper) or slowly (as with wood).
although we're trying to change the world, we're living in the real one so non-biodegradable packaging is a fact of life.
see our resources section for tips on composting specific items.
the manufacturer describes the product as compostable, biodegradable or made with all natural materials, but the product is not certified compostable and a full list of materials and ingredients is not disclosed for proprietary reasons.
in fact, our own goats and llamas would not be considered organic.
bioplastics can be hard plastic (e.g., cutlery) or pliable (e.g., kitchen bags).
we  feel the relevance of organic certification varies by product.
one flap of the box is printed with box  information.
when independent laboratory  results are available, we will provide a link to the manufacturer's website.
see theresources section for links to more hemp information.
the oldest bioplastic is cellulose film made from wood cellulose.
certification applies to  composing in a commercial or municipal aerobic composting facility, although  some of these products can also be composted in the home setting.
some bioplastics require high heat and humidity conditions to biodegrade while others only require microbially-active soil.
fair trade organisations (backed by consumers) are engaged actively in supporting producers, awareness raising and in campaigning for changes in the rules and practice of conventional international trade.
hemp yarn - 1 lb cone 03.
the compostability of the product has been  assessed by a third party to meetamerican society for testing and materials  (astm) standard specifications for compostables.
kraft-type paper is used for  wrapping and protecting items during shipping as well as for fill.
when possible, we source  products that are made from wood that comes fromforest stewardship council  certified wood, which assures that the wood "comes from forests that are  managed to meet the social, economic, and ecological needs of present and  future generations".
biodegradation can occur quickly (as with  food or paper) or slowly (as with wood).
our wood products are either unfinished or have a natural oil (e.g., linseed oil) or wax finish on them.
compostability standards are astm standards d6400 - 04 for compostable  plastics and astm d6868 - 03 for compostable packaging (biodegradable plastics  used as coatings on paper or other compostable substrates).
fair trade - we offer the following definition of fair trade from the  european fair trade association: fair trade is a trading partnership, based on dialogue,  transparency and respect, that seeks greater equity in international trade.
all products and product descriptions are subject to this site's conditions  of use.
copyright © 2012 compostable goods
although not formally described as such, many of our other  products made from plant materials could also be considered vegan.
unfinished wood beads - 12mm barrels 05.
bioplastics can be hard plastic (e.g., cutlery)  or pliable (e.g., kitchen bags).
although focused on food,  fibers can also be certified under these standards.
for example, conventional cotton requires large amounts of pesticide, so nearly all of our cotton products are organic.
we prefer cotton in its natural  color to avoid the bleaching process, plus we think it is more interesting than  white.
you will likely also need to recycle other box flaps with  writing, labels or stamps on them.
the materials and  ingredients are either naturally-occurring products known to biodegrade (e.g.,  wood) or are naturally-occurring components of soil (e.g., minerals).
we are unable to reliably determine the source of the ink for all  of the boxes we receive, so recommend recycling the printed flap rather than  composting it.
the hemp used in our items made  from 100% hemp is grown according to the european union organic regulations.
wood - many of our wood products are made locally with wood from the forests of vermont which are rich with sugar maples.
product materials and ingredients bioplastics - bioplastics are plastics made from a biological source that are capable of biodegradation.
please selectbioplasticcottonhempmixed materialsother animal-based  materialother plant-based materialpaperwaxes and oilswoodwool bestsellers 01.
for products requiring packaging for which  biodegradable packaging is not available (e.g., liquids), we highly prefer  recyclable packaging (e.g., metal tins or recyclable plastic).
we are unable to reliably determine the source of the ink for all of the boxes we receive, so recommend recycling the printed flap rather than composting it.
hemp production is still illegal in the united sates, so all of our hemp necessarily comes from outside the country.
the fiber goes through several rounds of combing known as scotching and hackling, which is the traditional method for processing hemp in eastern europe.
it contributes to sustainable development by offering better trading conditions to, and securing the rights of, marginalised producers and workers, especially in the south.
the  tissue papper is also kraft.
please  contact us if you would like additional information about our products.
the reality is that some  products are enclosed in plastic by the manufacturer.
we consider most certified organic cotton products to be biodegradable since chemical imputs must meet certain biodegradability standards under theglobal organic textile standard (gots).
compostable goods carefully selects products that we believe will break down completely and safely based upon information supplied to us by the manufacturer and/or distributor; however, we do not independently verify the compostability and biodegradability of our products.
see the cotton and wool sections for more information on organic methods specific to those materials.
this is typically the case when there are many parts or if the object needs this protection during storage and shipping.
shipping - when we send items to you, we put them in cardboard boxes made from 100% post-consumer waste recycled content.
wool fibers decompose when in contact with moisture and  microbially active soil, although take longer than typical vegetative  compostables.
there are no spinning  oils used.
although differences exist among the fiber types, they are all protein fibers that are high in nitrogen, as opposed to cellulose plant fibers.
organic food handlers, processors and retailers adhere to standards that  maintain the integrity of organic agricultural products.
we feel organic methods of raising fiber animals  are less important since relatively small amounts of medicinals (e.g., worming  agents) are used and are generally not applied directly to the wool.
hemp is a fast growing and relatively  pest free plant, making it a good ecological choice for sustainable textiles.
if adhesive is necessary to secure the package, we use a biodegradable glue.
our items described as vegan are cotton yarns and hemp, made completely from plant fibers.
cotton is naturally an off-white color, which may be slightly different from year to year based on field conditions.
hemp fiber can be used to make a variety of products including cloth, rope, twine, paper, and carpet.
bioplastics are made from a variety of biological sources  including corn, wheat, and starches such as potato.
there are no spinning oils used.
we use hand-made sun-bleached paper with embedded leaves or  flowers as our gift wrap.
the compostability of the product has been assessed by a third party to meetamerican society for testing and materials (astm) standard specifications for compostables.
bows and ties are made from our selection of yarns and hemp twine.
wood - many of our wood products are made locally with wood from the  forests of vermont which are rich with sugar maples.
many of the products will not compost as quickly as the certified compostables or food scraps, but will degrade over a longer period of time and will not contribute to our waste stream.
this is the case when the item cannot be made (or cannot  be made to function well) without these parts.
many of our textiles fall  under theglobal organic textile standard, an international effort to create  unification among various existing standards.
when independent laboratory results are available, we will provide a link to the manufacturer's website.
we are continually searching for the most sustainable packaging options and are always open to suggestions for improvement.
not diminish the value or utility of the compost resulting from the  process (e.g., does not contain regulated metals).
although we're trying to change the world, we're living in the  real one so non-biodegradable packaging is a fact of life.
usda national organic standards board (nosb) definition, april 1995 organic agriculture is an ecological production management system that  promotes and enhances biodiversity, biological cycles and soil biological  activity.
the materials and ingredients are either naturally-occurring products known to biodegrade (e.g., wood) or are naturally-occurring components of soil (e.g., minerals).
certified compostable -
wool types are often blended to acquire both  qualities in the yarn (e.g., sheep's wool for its elasticity and mohair for its  superior dye-ability).
for example, some compostable plastics will only biodegrade under conditions of  high heat such as the temperatures obtained in a municipal or commercial  composting facility.
some bioplastics require  high heat and humidity conditions to biodegrade while others only require  microbially-active soil.
some products have manufacturer-printed paper tags or are packaged in cardboard  boxes which should be recycled.
disintegrate rapidly leaving no large fragments needing to be screened out.
bows and ties are made from our selection of yarns  and hemp twine.
some products have manufacturer-printed paper tags or are packaged in cardboard boxes which should be recycled.
the manufacturer describes  the product as compostable, biodegradable or made with all natural materials,  but the product is not certified compostable and a full list of materials and  ingredients is not disclosed for proprietary reasons.
color-grown cotton grows naturally in shades or green and brown which, unlike dyed fabrics, get darker with washing.
for example, some compostable plastics will only biodegrade under conditions of high heat such as the temperatures obtained in a municipal or commercial composting facility.
therefore, we have a very strong bias towards organic cotton, making  exceptions only when a necessary ingredient or a one-of-a-kind product is not  available in organic cotton.