â water forever - south east queensland - website savewater - victoria - website sydney water - new south wales - website join the free
- plug the bathtub before turning the water on, and then adjust the temperature as the tub fills up - turn off the water while you brush your teeth to save a family of four an average of 94 litres per week.
avoid watering in the middle of the day or when it is windy to reduce water loss through evaporation.
if more than 10mm of water pools above the soil, water will seep past the feeder root zone and is wasted.
turn the water off while you shampoo and condition hair and you can save  more than 180 litres a week.
most of our gardens contain plants inappropriate for our  environment, and we also often water far more than we should.
â laundry match the water level to the size of the load â kitchen - avoid rinsing dishes before putting them in the dishwasher - run the dishwasher only when it is full and you could save over 1,500 litres a month - soak pots and pans instead of letting the water run while scraping them clean.
rain harvesting pty ltd site by khemistry
by fixing the leak you can save more than 2,250 litres a month.
accept that a less-than-lush lawn during periods of drought will  readily regenerate when water becomes available.
mar 2011 s fenner wa apr 2011 j van der
run the dishwasher only when it is full and you could save over 1,500  litres a month soak pots and pans instead of letting the water run while scraping them  clean.
nsw - rainwater tank rebates vic - water conservation - huge costs to supply mains water - damage from stormwater runoff - our main uses of water - how to reduce water usage - rainwater harvesting - grey water recycling - water wise habit - sustainable housing - mosquito prevention water wise habits
- install an instant hot water heater on the kitchen sink so you don't have to let the water run while it heats up.
designate one glass to drink water from each day to reduce the number of  times you run the dishwasher when washing dishes by hand, don't let the water run while rinsing.
if more  than 10mm of water pools above the soil, water will seep past the feeder root  zone and is wasted.
group plants with similar water  requirements together.
by fixing the leak you can save  more than 2,250 litres a month.
choosing a water-efficient product is one way to reduce water usage and save money.
it is important to select  appropriate plants for local conditions and understand how much water those  plants really need.
only water until the top 15-20cm of soil is wet.
hoeven qld may2011 fiona rayns act got a question?
sweep rather  than hose paths and driveways.
practical habits  to save water in and around the garden include: â water efficient products when selecting water products for use outside the home look for those that  are rated favourably for their water efficiency.
â maintenance check for leaks in hoses and taps, and repair leaky equipment.
in australia , the smart approved watermark is available for products that achieve specific efficiency ratings.
â pools pool covers can reduce evaporation losses by up to 90 per cent and help  keep water clean.
â bathroom - install low-flow showerheads.
the wels rating scheme is a new scheme, and is similar to the '5a appliance labelling & rating scheme' used to identify a product's water efficiency rating.
â pools pool covers can reduce evaporation losses by up to 90 per cent and help keep water clean.
â watering use trigger operated hose nozzles.
if the soil is water repellent, apply soil-wetting agents in spring  to help water retention.
it is important to select appropriate plants for local conditions and understand how much water those plants really need.
- use the kitchen garbage disposal less often - don't use running water to thaw food - wash produce in the sink or a container that is partially filled with water instead of running water from the tap - keep a jug of water in the refrigerator instead of running the tap for cold drinks â in and around the garden the average garden hose delivers 1,000 litres of water an hour and about 35-50% of all domestic water is used in the garden.
if the soil is water repellent, apply soil-wetting agents in spring to help water retention.
most of our gardens contain plants inappropriate for our environment, and we also often water far more than we should.
the water efficiency labelling and standards (wels) scheme can assist purchasers of household water-using products to compare the relative water efficiency of the available models.
fill  one sink with wash water and the other with rinse water.
mulch garden beds with wood chips, chipped tree waste, gravel or stone to retain moisture and control weeds that compete with plants for water.
install dual-flush toilets make sure your toilet button doesn't stick open after flushing test your toilet for leaks.
fill one sink with wash water and the other with rinse water.
turn off the water while you shave and you can save more than 350 litres a  week.
prepare the garden bed with good soil, water storing granules and wetting agent.
mulch garden beds with wood chips, chipped tree waste,  gravel or stone to retain moisture and control weeds that compete with plants  for water.
â lawns minimise grass areas in the yard and use water-efficient landscaping instead.
â useful links water forever - south east queensland - website savewater - victoria - website sydney water - new south wales - website join the free name email online rainwater tank maintenance program winners!
these schemes rate products covering groups such as: â - shower heads - dishwashers - clothes washing machines - taps and tap outlets - toilet suites or matching-set cisterns â â â toilets - install dual-flush toilets - make sure your toilet button doesn't stick open after flushing - test your toilet for leaks.
ask away & we'll post the answer right here!
they can save a typical family over 1,800  litres a week.
group plants with similar water requirements together.
- by spending 2 minutes less in the shower, you'll save over 425 litres a month.
plug the bathtub before turning the water on, and then adjust the  temperature as the tub fills up turn off the water while you brush your teeth to save a family of four an  average of 94 litres per week.
practical habits to save water in and around the garden include: â water efficient products when selecting water products for use outside the home look for those that are rated favourably for their water efficiency.
- turn off the water while you shave and you can save more than 350 litres a week.
â planting select water efficient plants.
reduce watering times and days wherever possible.
prepare the garden bed with good soil, water  storing granules and wetting agent.
by spending 2 minutes less in the shower, you'll save over 425 litres a  month.
install an instant hot water heater on the kitchen sink so you don't have  to let the water run while it heats up.
they can save a typical family over 1,800 litres a week.
select languageenglishafrikaansalbanianarabicarmenianazerbaijanibasquebelarusian bulgariancatalanchinese (simplified)chinese (traditional)croatianczechdanish dutchestonianfilipinofinnishfrenchgaliciangeorgiangermangreekhaitian creole hebrewhindihungarianicelandicindonesianirishitalianjapanesekoreanlatvian lithuanianmacedonianmalaymaltesenorwegianpersianpolishportugueseromanianrussian serbianslovakslovenianspanishswahiliswedishthaiturkishukrainianurduvietnamese welshyiddish - about us - products - pre filtration - tank essentials - tank accessories - rainwater accessories - measuring & monitoring - blue mountain mesh - rainwater harvesting - rainwater quality and safety - rainwater research - benefits of first flush devices - ideal uses for rainwater - reasons for using rainwater - how to create a complete system - water storage and tank selection - types of water storage vessels - above or below ground - concrete tanks - metal/steel tanks - poly/plastic tanks - fibreglass tanks - bladders - choosing the size of your tank - average rainfall - roof surface & area - water usage - 'wet' and 'dry' systems - 'dry' systems - 'wet' systems - pump selection - recommended systems - under eaves tank - mid size tank - the ultimate system - regulation and rebates - national guidelines - energy and water efficiency - rainwater tank rebates qld - rainwater tank rebates
- turn the water off while you shampoo and condition hair and you can save more than 180 litres a week.
sweep rather than hose paths and driveways.
use the kitchen garbage disposal less often don't use running water to thaw food wash produce in the sink or a container that is partially filled with  water instead of running water from the tap keep a jug of water in the refrigerator instead of running the tap for  cold drinks â in and around the garden the average garden hose delivers 1,000 litres of water an hour and about  35-50% of all domestic water is used in the garden.
â lawns minimise grass areas in the yard and use water-efficient landscaping  instead.
install automatic  timers and restrict the time that sprinklers are left on.
in the home â water efficient products water is a national priority issue, and households account for about 16% of the consumption of the mains-supplied water in australia, the second largest share of mains water use after agriculture.
put food colouring in your toilet tank and if  it seeps into the toilet bowl, you have a leak.
install automatic timers and restrict the time that sprinklers are left on.
the scheme operates in the same way as the '5 star' energy rating scheme, which compares the relative energy efficiency of products.
put food colouring in your toilet tank and if it seeps into the toilet bowl, you have a leak.
reduce watering times  and days wherever possible.
accept that a less-than-lush lawn during periods of drought will readily regenerate when water becomes available.
â install low-flow showerheads.
â match the water level to the size of the load â kitchen avoid rinsing dishes before putting them in the dishwasher
in australia , the smart  approved watermark is available for products that achieve specific efficiency  ratings.
- designate one glass to drink water from each day to reduce the number of times you run the dishwasher - when washing dishes by hand, don't let the water run while rinsing.
avoid watering in the middle of the day  or when it is windy to reduce water loss through evaporation.