the rest moves through the plants to the atmosphere.
most recently, nickel and sodium  have received attention as essential micronutrients.
these islands of dying grass tend to increase in size and merge as insect numbers increase.
especially created for family outings and backyard picnics, empire  welcomes a variety of activities without taking extensive wear and tear.
drought-stressed lawns are more  susceptible to chinch bug infections.
you might not expect turf grass this strong to also be soft, but empire  beckons you to take barefoot walks across its plush carpet of densely packed  blades.
the amount of each primary nutrient found in turfgrass tissue, in descending order, is n > k > p. seven other essential nutrients are required in minor amounts.
compost not only improves the soil structure but provides an excellent source of plant nutrients.
the damage usually moves in from the  edges and often proceeds in a relatively straight line as the armyworms march  across the lawn.
find us on facebook tags: armyworm, organic, organic gardening, sod, turfgrass posted in  uncategorized |
expanding, irregular patches of dead or stunted grass surrounded by a halo  of yellowing, dying grass often provide the first clue to the presence of  chinch bugs.
therefore, this tip sheet is limited to the use  of organic mulches.
and really, what beats the smell of a new-mown lawn on a sultry  summer day?
cool, wet soils tend to slow seed germination and increase the decay of seeds and seedlings.
your community may also have wood chips from the removal of street trees that  are available free to residents.
“unfortunately the corrected data has not generated any media interest.
actively growing turfgrasses often contain more than 75 percent water on a dry-weight basis and use from 1/10 to 3/10 inch of water each day.
smaller chips tend to be easier to spread, especially around small plants.
overview & history client spotlight partners news
once inside plants, water  helps protect them from sudden changes in temperature.
turfgrass species are broadly categorized as warm-season or cool-season, depending on the temperatures at which they thrive.
thursday, march 18th, 2010 misconceptions can spread on the internet like dollar weed spreads through  a lawn!
it’s not a cinch, but controlling chinch bugs in st. augustine grass  is possible with careful observation and deliberate steps.
actively growing turfgrasses often contain more than 75 percent water  on a dry-weight basis and use from 1/10 to 3/10 inch of water each day.
tags: brown patch, chinch bugs, drought, lawn, lawn care, st. augustine  grass, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
many turfgrass managers use pyrethroids for armyworm control.
bark mulch and wood chips are sometimes used with landscape fabric or plastic.
the fine texture allows them to be spread easily even around small plants.
watching fireworks is another.
bagged mulch is often easier to handle, especially for smaller projects.
armyworms will eat everything in an area and once the food  supply is exhausted the entire “army” will move to the next  available food source, feeding and moving stealthily during the night,  hunkering down beneath fallen debris during the day.
organic matter is a source of  plant nutrients and provides an ideal environment for earthworms and other  beneficial soil organisms.
carbon sequestration is a  geoengineering technique for the long-term storage of carbon dioxide or other  forms of carbon, for the mitigation of global warming.
newspaper, as a mulch, works especially well to control weeds.
so your little patch of paradise is cooling, cleaning and purifying your environment.
roasting marshmallows over a campfire is one.
animals take in  oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide.
monday, july 5th, 2010 do you dread summer lawncare?
tags: empire zoysia, lawn, lawn care, mowing, sod, spring lawn care, turfgrass, watering lawn posted in uncategorized |
armyworms will eat everything in an area and once the food supply is exhausted the entire “army” will move to the next available food source, feeding and moving stealthily during the night, hunkering down beneath fallen debris during the day.
this leaves their root systems exposed and results in injury or death.
mulches can either be organic — such as grass  clippings, straw, bark chips, and similar materials — or inorganic  — such as stones, brick chips, and plastic.
step 5 – empire turf needs about 3/4 of an inch of  water per week from either natural rainfall or in-ground irrigation.
choose a chinch bug resistant type of grass.
seaweed mulch, ground corn cobs, and pine needles can also be used.
in addition to carbon (c), hydrogen (h) and oxygen (o), turfgrasses require at least 13 mineral nutrients for survival and seed production.
there are also numerous  chemical sprays available to control armyworms.
bulk may  be cheaper if you need large volumes and have a way to haul it.
on the other hand, over-watering creates an environment  that cannot sustain the microbes needed to decompose thatch.
thursday, may 19th, 2011
the ftga reported that “dr. thomas rufty and two graduate students at north carolina state university took apart all of the assumptions and calculations in the research report and found mistakes.
step 3 – apply pre-emergent herbicide to prevent  summer weeds.
as an example, if you have an area 10 feet by 10 feet and you wish to  apply 3 inches of mulch, you would need 25 cubic feet.
mulches used to protect plants over winter should be loose material such as  straw, hay, or pine boughs that will help insulate the plants without  compacting under the weight of snow and ice.
most warm-season grasses have very poor cold tolerance ratings and enter a  state of dormancy or a reduction in growth and metabolism in the fall.
**this information was reproduced in its entirety from the website of the usda’s natural resources conservation service at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov .
preventive and organic control measures include raking up fallen debris to eliminate daytime hiding places encouraging birds to visit by setting out feeders, birdbaths or nesting  material in the area where the worms are feeding attracting predatory wasps to control the armyworms by planting dill,  fennel, coreopsis and brightly colored flowers near the feeding areas spraying bacillus thuringiensis, an organic control for caterpillars, in  the late afternoon or early evening hours when you see the first signs of  armyworm damage in your garden.
bagged mulch is  often easier to handle, especially for smaller projects.
turfgrasses help purify water entering underground aquifers by its root  mass and soil microbes acting as a filter to capture and break down many types  of pollutants.
bulk may be cheaper if you need large volumes and have a way to haul it.
most bagged mulch comes in 3-cubic-feet bags.
they produce carbohydrates through photosynthesis, the combination of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen from carbon dioxide and water in the presence of light.
compost leaves over winter.
tags: damage, low temperatures, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
the damage usually moves in from the edges and often proceeds in a relatively straight line as the armyworms march across the lawn.
especially created for family outings and backyard picnics, empire welcomes a variety of activities without taking extensive wear and tear.
step 2 – apply fertilizer at a recommended 1-0-1  ratio.
and really, what beats the smell of a new-mown lawn on a sultry summer day?
note that although the required quantity varies among the  six macronutrients, each is equally important.
smaller chips tend to  be easier to spread, especially around small plants.
guard against stress caused by drought.
newspaper save your own newspapers.
find us on facebook follow us on twitter tags: armyworm, organic, organic gardening, sod, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
in addition,  slow growth plus natural chinch bug and chemical resistance means your lawn  will require less maintenance, mowing, and watering than with other types of  warm season grass.
no comments » mulching is one of the simplest and most beneficial practices you can use in the garden.
there is no need to apply the mulch 6 or 8 inches high, as often is seen.
follow these five  steps: step 1 – mow low!
how much mulch will i need to cover the area?
of these,  n, p and k are primary essential nutrients.
these repeated cycles of freezing at night  and then thawing in the warmth of the sun cause many small or shallow rooted  plants to be heaved out of the soil.
leaves collect leaves in the fall.
brown patch symptoms, however, usually occur in a circular or semi-circular pattern, whereas chinch bug feeding results in irregular-shaped areas of dead and dying grass.
inspect your lawn weekly looking for  off-color areas, especially in direct sun, and along sidewalks and driveways.
these islands of dying grass tend to increase in size and merge as  insect numbers increase.
pine needles tend to increase the acidity of the soil so they work best around acid-loving plants such as rhododendrons and blueberries.
many thanks to the ftga for keeping watch.
seven other essential nutrients are required in minor amounts.
a turf area of just 50 feet square absorbs carbon dioxide, ozone, hydrogen  fluoride and perosyacetyle nitrate and will release enough oxygen to meet the  needs of a family of four.
tags: lawn, lawn care, turfgrass, watering lawn posted in uncategorized  |no comments » controlling chinch bugs is not a cinch!
overwatering can lead to fungus outbreaks.
tags: growing grass, growing sod, growing turfgrass, turfgrass posted  inuncategorized |
one of the benefits from winter  applications of mulch is the reduction in the freezing and thawing of the soil  in the late winter and early spring.
animals take in oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide.
this leaves their root systems exposed and  results in injury or death.
therefore, this tip sheet is limited to the use of organic mulches.
do not use clippings from lawns treated with herbicides.
aerial shoots of healthy, actively growing turfgrasses reflect  green light, contributing to the turf’s color.
turfgrass seed germination and growth are restricted to a  specific range of temperatures.
if other mulch materials are not  available, cover edges of paper with soil.
you might not expect turf grass this strong to also be soft, but empire beckons you to take barefoot walks across its plush carpet of densely packed blades.
some  plants (legumes) capture and use nitrogen from the atmosphere.
so how to take advantage of the optimum conditions but avoid the potential  pitfalls?
plants obtain carbon from atmospheric carbon  dioxide.
the amount of mulch to apply will be determined by the mulch material you  are using.
the rest moves through the  plants to the atmosphere.
chop with a lawnmower or shredder.
discovered in brazil, amid the lush, tropical foliage, there’s no wonder empire thrives in hot and humid as well as desert areas.
boron (b),  chlorine (cl), copper (cu), iron (fe), manganese (mn), molybdenum (mo) and zinc  (zn) are essential minor or micronutrients.
when it drops below 20°f, injury to turfgrass can  occur.
as these mulches  slowly decompose, they provide organic matter which helps keep the soil loose.
poor drainage, excessive thatch, reduced lighting, excessive fall nitrogen  fertilization and a close mowing height are all cultural practices which tend  to promote cold injury.
the amount of mulch to apply will be determined by the mulch material you are using.
depending on where you live, numerous other materials make excellent mulches.
compost 3-4 inches excellent material for enriching soil.
turfgrasses help purify water entering underground aquifers by its root mass and soil microbes acting as a filter to capture and break down many types of pollutants.
tight blade growth also contributes to the depth of color found in empire  zoysia.
the ftga explained the californians’ research process and their conclusion, “focusing on four parks in the irvine area, the study found that greenhouse gas emissions from fertilizer production, mowing, leaf blowing and other lawn management practices were four times greater than the amount of carbon stored by grass in parks and lawns.”
inorganic mulches, because of  their permanence, may be difficult to remove if you decide to change your  garden plans at a later date.
shut the water off 30 minutes before sundown to give the grass time  to dry.
if the turf has been exposed to several frosts prior to a dramatic drop in temperature, it has been better conditioned to withstand extra cold temperatures.
tags: lawn, lawn care, mulch, organic, sod, turfgrass, watering lawn
as these mulches slowly decompose, they provide organic matter which helps keep the soil loose.
step 4 – to prevent billbugs and other insect pests,  put down a broad spectrum insecticide containing bifenthrin.
growing a reputation is just like growing turfgrass – you have to be  vigilant about eradicating the weeds!
cool, wet soils  tend to slow seed germination and increase the decay of seeds and seedlings.
the armyworm causes damage similar to that of sodworms, but it is more  scattered and not confined to patches.
most bagged mulch  comes in 3-cubic-feet bags.
tight blade growth also contributes to the depth of color found in empire zoysia.
this means that a mulched soil in the summer  will be cooler than an adjacent unmulched soil; while in the winter, the  mulched soil may not freeze as deeply.
carbon sequestration is a geoengineering technique for the long-term storage of carbon dioxide or other forms of carbon, for the mitigation of global warming.
aerial shoots of healthy, actively growing turfgrasses reflect green light, contributing to the turf’s color.
the article reported  conclusions that were fundamentally the opposite of previous research findings.
bark chips and composted bark mulch are available at garden centers.
mulches used to help moderate winter temperatures can be applied late in  the fall after the ground has frozen but before the coldest temperatures  arrive.
the armyworm is actually the caterpillar life stage of a moth, and grows to about 1½” long.
in addition, slow growth plus natural chinch bug and chemical resistance means your lawn will require less maintenance, mowing, and watering than with other types of warm season grass.
the frost conditions help to increase carbohydrates and proteins in the plants which enable the crown tissue to withstand a cold snap without severe membrane disruption.
if these measures are not sufficient to control the advancing army,  enlist the aid of a professional pest control company.
while it’s true that watering your lawn is more cost effective when  there is less water loss due to evaporation or wind, and those conditions are  usually present at night, watering at night has its drawbacks: you won’t be as likely to notice problems with your irrigation  system such as water runoff, poor sprinkler coverage or water breaks grass stays wet longer at night and is more likely to become infected with  disease (some diseases can develop in as little as two hours when a film of  water remains on the grass!)
damage can develop rapidly, especially in sunny  locations during hot, dry weather.
these may last for one to three years or more depending on the size of the chips or how well composed the bark mulch is.
newspaper 1/4 inch apply sheets of newspaper and cover lightly with grass  clippings or other mulch material to anchor.
the barrier between the soil and the mulch also prevents any improvement in the soil condition and makes planting additional plants more difficult.
for the first mowing of the  year, scalp the lawn with the mower and bag the clippings.
leaves are another readily available material to use as  mulch.
pale green when first hatched, they change to  olive green with a white stripe later on in the season, eventually morphing  into brown moths sporting a white spot on each wing.
no  comments » the pros and cons of night watering thursday, july 14th, 2011 some activities are best suited to the deep dark of night.
if adding additional layers of mulch to existing perennial beds, wait until  the soil has warmed completely.
tags: growing grass, growing sod, growing turfgrass, turfgrass posted inuncategorized |
grass clippings — spread them immediately to avoid heating and  rotting.
remove weeds before spreading mulch.
tags: carbon sequestration, florida turfgrass association, lawn, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
a turf area of just 50 feet square absorbs carbon dioxide, ozone, hydrogen fluoride and perosyacetyle nitrate and will release enough oxygen to meet the needs of a family of four.
the barrier between the  soil and the mulch also prevents any improvement in the soil condition and  makes planting additional plants more difficult.
before resorting to chemical controls,  be certain chinch bugs are the culprit.
chopping will reduce the volume and facilitate composting.
no comments » bethel farms blog is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) and comments (rss).
if needed, put down a systemic fungicide with an active ingredient.
the ftga reported that “dr. thomas rufty and two graduate students at north carolina state  university took apart all of the assumptions and calculations in the research  report and found mistakes.
a caution to this practice: while initially the plastic  or fabric may provide additional protection against weeds, as the mulch breaks  down, weeds will start to grow in the mulch itself.
as hardy as it is attractive, empire has a deep, thick root structure, and is more drought tolerant than most varieties of zoysia once established.
general guidelines there is no need to apply the mulch 6 or 8 inches high, as often is seen.
follow these five steps: step 1 – mow low!
compost not only improves the soil structure but provides an  excellent source of plant nutrients.
they produce carbohydrates  through photosynthesis, the combination of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen from  carbon dioxide and water in the presence of light.
you can buy it already mixed in with fertilizer.
hay and straw work well  in the vegetable garden, although they may harbor weed seeds.
media attention to these findings was extensive, but the study contained errors and miscalculations.
mulches used to help moderate winter temperatures can be applied late in the fall after the ground has frozen but before the coldest temperatures arrive.
compost makes a wonderful mulch if you have a  large supply.
mulch is simply a protective layer of a material that is spread  on top of the soil.
for instance brown patch is a common disease affecting the leaf blades of st. augustinegrass.
one correct answer is, “all are equally important.”
a question often asked of students studying turfgrass management is  “which of the following – light, temperature, water, atmospheric  carbon dioxide or nutrition – is most important for turfgrass  survival?”
while inorganic mulches have their place in certain landscapes, they lack the soil improving properties of organic mulches.
what’s your lawn doing for you?
it is one of the few grasses rated to perform well in all zones.
leave an inch or so of  space next to plants to help prevent diseases flourishing from excessive  humidity.
use 3 or 4 sheets together, anchored with grass clippings or other mulch  material to prevent blowing away.
growing a reputation is just like growing turfgrass – you have to be vigilant about eradicating the weeds!
now, go out and enjoy your lawn, knowing you have a positive impact on the environment!
shut the water off 30 minutes before sundown to give the grass time to dry.
does the thought of spending hours out in the hot sun mowing, weeding, fertilizing and watering leave you less than enthusiastic about your yard?
chinch bug damage also can be difficult to distinguish from damage caused by drought.
general guidelines do not apply mulch directly in contact with plants.
creeping bentgrass,  kentucky bluegrass, ryegrasses and the fescues are cool-season turfgrasses.
applying mulch begin by asking yourself the following questions: what do i hope to achieve by mulching?
nutrients and sugars move through plants  in water.
plants obtain carbon from atmospheric carbon dioxide.
while inorganic mulches have their place in certain landscapes, they lack  the soil improving properties of organic mulches.
mulches, by providing an insulating barrier between the soil and the air, moderate the soil temperature.
the atmosphere contains several very important gases including nitrogen  (~78 percent), oxygen (~21 percent) and carbon dioxide (~0.03 percent).
photosynthesis cannot occur  without an appropriate amount of light of specific (e.g., red, violet and blue)
both organic and inorganic  mulches have numerous benefits.
turfgrasses trap much of an estimated 12 million tons of dust and dirt released annually into the u.s. atmosphere.
however, grass clippings are becoming scarce  because of the increased popularity of mulching lawnmowers that provide many of  the same benefits of mulching to lawns.
step 3 – apply pre-emergent herbicide to prevent summer weeds.
their corrected calculations showed that co2  generation was 122 g m-2 yr-1 rather than 1238 g m-2 yr-1, a miscalculation of  10x in the original paper.”
one of the benefits from winter applications of mulch is the reduction in the freezing and thawing of the soil in the late winter and early spring.
warm-season turfgrasses have a very efficient  photosynthetic system compared to the cool-season turfgrasses.
the fact that turfgrass has a  positive impact on the environment when it comes to carbon sequestration is not  new, hence it is not newsworthy.”
lawn clippings make excellent mulch.
seaweed mulch,  ground corn cobs, and pine needles can also be used.
the fabric or plastic is laid on top of the soil and then covered with  a layer of bark chips.
products containing diazinon,  chlorpyrifos (dursban®), or acephate (orthene®) are suggested for  homeowner applications.
when chinch bugs are present in high enough numbers to cause grass to yellow,  they can often be found by parting the grass at the edge of affected areas and  examining the soil and base of the turf.
of these, n, p and k are primary essential nutrients.
the frost conditions help to increase carbohydrates  and proteins in the plants which enable the crown tissue to withstand a cold  snap without severe membrane disruption.
as hardy  as it is attractive, empire has a deep, thick root structure, and is more  drought tolerant than most varieties of zoysia once established.
make sure to  water any granular insecticides into the lawn.
excellent for use around trees, shrubs, and  perennial gardens.
no comments » archives
it doesn’t happen often, but the temperature can plummet, even in the most tropical of climes.
this state is maintained throughout the winter and although brown, dead shoot tissue may be evident, that doesn’t necessarily mean the grass will not recover.
so your little patch of paradise is cooling, cleaning and purifying your  environment.
leaf mold, or the decomposed remains of leaves, gives the forest floor its absorbent spongy structure.
posted inuncategorized |
calcium, mg and s are secondary  essential nutrients.
applying mulches before the ground has frozen may attract rodents  looking for a warm over-wintering site.
mulches can either be organic — such as grass clippings, straw, bark chips, and similar materials — or inorganic — such as stones, brick chips, and plastic.
only use newspaper text pages (black ink); color dyes may be harmful to  soil microflora and fauna if composted and used.
mulching helps prevent the rapid fluctuations in  soil temperature and reduces the chances of heaving.
tags: lawn, lawn care, turfgrass, watering lawn posted in uncategorized |no comments » it’s not a cinch, but controlling chinch bugs in st. augustine grass is possible with careful observation and deliberate steps.
the amount of each primary  nutrient found in turfgrass tissue, in descending order, is n > k > p.
pale green when first hatched, they change to olive green with a white stripe later on in the season, eventually morphing into brown moths sporting a white spot on each wing.
hay and straw work well in the vegetable garden, although they may harbor weed seeds.
this article was reprinted in its entirety from the university  of tennessee extension solely for educational purposes.
if adding additional layers of mulch to existing perennial beds, wait until the soil has warmed completely.
if the turf has been exposed to several frosts prior  to a dramatic drop in temperature, it has been better conditioned to withstand  extra cold temperatures.
no comments » much ado about mulch thursday, july 15th, 2010 mulching is one of the simplest and most beneficial practices you can use  in the garden.
lawn clippings make  excellent mulch.
however, since mulch acts as an insulating layer, mulched soils tend to warm up more slowly in the spring and cool down more slowly in the fall than unmulched soils.
whole leaves tend to compact if wet or  blow away if dry.
reduce your exposure to chinch bugs with these best practices: tags: brown patch, chinch bugs, drought, lawn, lawn care, st. augustine grass, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
with its wide blades and luscious dark green hue that lasts through much of the winter, it’s truly a turf grass that will greatly enhanced curb appeal for your home.
cool-season  turfgrasses need about three times more water than warm-season turfgrasses to  produce equal amounts of shoot and root tissue.
if using dry  leaves, apply about 6 inches.
roots contain the least  amount of water, and stems the most.
if using fresh wood  chips that are mixed with a lot of leaves, composting may be beneficial.
if necessary, employ the use  of a vertical mower or aeration techniques if excessive thatch becomes a  problem.
turfgrasses capture light energy and use it to produce compounds that can be stored in reserve for use at a later date.
an estimated 1 to 3 percent of the total amount of water taken up by turfgrasses every day is required for growth and development.
if you are using mulches in your vegetable garden or flower garden, it is best to apply them after the soil has warmed up in the spring.
turfgrass seed germination and growth are restricted to a specific range of temperatures.
once inside plants, water helps protect them from sudden changes in temperature.
some studies have indicated that freshly  chopped leaves may inhibit the growth of certain crops.
this  state is maintained throughout the winter and although brown, dead shoot tissue  may be evident, that doesn’t necessarily mean the grass will not recover.
mulches, by providing an insulating barrier between the soil and the air,  moderate the soil temperature.
the fine texture allows them to be spread  easily even around small plants.
in fact, this natural state provides protection for the grass when exposed to  cold temperatures.
too little  watering produces this.
organic matter is a source of plant nutrients and provides an ideal environment for earthworms and other beneficial soil organisms.
reduce your exposure to chinch bugs with these best practices: keep thatch to a minimum with proper mowing.
turfgrasses capture light energy and use it to produce compounds that can  be stored in reserve for use at a later date.
no comments » like its namesake military force, armyworms can strike anywhere and become harder to control the larger they grow, however its name is derived from its feeding habits.
these  make a neat finish to the garden bed and will eventually improve the condition  of the soil.
over fertilization not only creates a  delectable dining table for chinch bugs, but it contributes to thatch formation.
determine what mulch material to use and purchase or accumulate what you  need.
these make a neat finish to the garden bed and will eventually improve the condition of the soil.
applying mulch begin by asking yourself the following questions: determine what mulch material to use and purchase or accumulate what you need.
turfgrasses obtain the majority of each from the soil.
no comments » do you dread summer lawncare?
inorganic mulches, because of their permanence, may be difficult to remove if you decide to change your garden plans at a later date.
photosynthesis cannot occur without an appropriate amount of light of specific (e.g., red, violet and blue) wavelengths.
expanding, irregular patches of dead or stunted grass surrounded by a halo of yellowing, dying grass often provide the first clue to the presence of chinch bugs.
use chemical controls judiciously.
boron (b), chlorine (cl), copper (cu), iron (fe), manganese (mn), molybdenum (mo) and zinc (zn) are essential minor or micronutrients.
carbon, a component of amino acids, proteins, sugars and starch, is  also found in the walls of plant cells.
this means that a mulched soil in the summer will be cooler than an adjacent unmulched soil; while in the winter, the mulched soil may not freeze as deeply.
discovered in brazil, amid the lush, tropical foliage,  there’s no wonder empire thrives in hot and humid as well as desert  areas.
they are best adapted to air temperatures from 60 to 75 degrees f. warm-season turfgrasses, including bermudagrass, centipedegrass, st. augustinegrass and zoysia, grow best at air temperatures from 80 to 95 degrees f. warm season turfgrasses lose their color and are dormant during cold winter months.
the authors of the original article have acknowledged that the new data is the correct data, according to the ftga.
how large is the area to be mulched?
delayed applications of mulch should  prevent this problem as, hopefully, the creatures would already have found some  other place to nest!
poor drainage, excessive thatch, reduced lighting, excessive fall nitrogen fertilization and a close mowing height are all cultural practices which tend to promote cold injury.
when to apply mulch time of application depends on what you hope to achieve by mulching.
no comments » how low temperatures damage turf saturday, december 24th, 2011 what happens to a warm-season grass when it is exposed to cold?
it  doesn’t happen often, but the temperature can plummet, even in the most  tropical of climes.
brown patch symptoms, however, usually occur in a circular or  semi-circular pattern, whereas chinch bug feeding results in irregular-shaped  areas of dead and dying grass.
for sources of mulch check under mulches or garden centers or nurseries in the yellow pages.
therefore, it may be  advisable to compost the leaves over winter before spreading them.
this article was reprinted in its entirety from the university of tennessee extension solely for educational purposes.
the turf’s cold tolerance is also affected by the weather pattern  preceding a severe frost.
to better appreciate the work your turfgrass is  doing for you, consider these facts from the professional lawn care association  of america: the front lawns of 8 average size houses have the cooking effect as about  70 tons of air conditioning, while the average home-size central air unit has  only a 3- to 4-ton capacity.
nutrients and sugars move through plants in water.
mulch materials you can find mulch materials in your own yard!
tags: lawn, lawn care, mowing, sod, turfgrass posted in uncategorized |
while it’s true that watering your lawn is more cost effective when there is less water loss due to evaporation or wind, and those conditions are usually present at night, watering at night has its drawbacks: so how to take advantage of the optimum conditions but avoid the potential pitfalls?
because they are most active in the fall, it is time to set up your  reconnaissance mission now, becoming familiar with the health of your lawn or  garden.
both organic and inorganic mulches have numerous benefits.
now, go out and enjoy your lawn, knowing you have a positive impact on  the environment!
watering your lawn is not!
a caution to this practice: while initially the plastic or fabric may provide additional protection against weeds, as the mulch breaks down, weeds will start to grow in the mulch itself.
preventive and organic control measures include many turfgrass managers use pyrethroids for armyworm control.
warm-season turfgrasses have a very efficient photosynthetic system compared to the cool-season turfgrasses.
pine needles tend to  increase the acidity of the soil so they work best around acid-loving plants  such as rhododendrons and blueberries.
roots contain the least amount of water, and stems the most.
with its wide blades and luscious dark green hue that lasts through  much of the winter, it’s truly a turf grass that will greatly enhanced  curb appeal for your home.
however, grass clippings are becoming scarce because of the increased popularity of mulching lawnmowers that provide many of the same benefits of mulching to lawns.
in its newsletter for march, theflorida turfgrass association alerted members to an article published on january 22, 2010 ingeophysical research letters by researchers at the university of california, irvine.
however, since mulch acts as an  insulating layer, mulched soils tend to warm up more slowly in the spring and  cool down more slowly in the fall than unmulched soils.
bark mulch and wood chips are sometimes used with landscape fabric or  plastic.
mulch is simply a protective layer of a material that is spread on top of the soil.
cool-season turfgrasses need about three times more water than warm-season turfgrasses to produce equal amounts of shoot and root tissue.
a couple inches of mulch is adequate.
these repeated cycles of freezing at night and then thawing in the warmth of the sun cause many small or shallow rooted plants to be heaved out of the soil.
in fact, this natural state provides protection for the grass when exposed to cold temperatures.
mulch can often be purchased bagged or bulk from garden centers.
applying mulches before the ground has frozen may attract rodents looking for a warm over-wintering site.
if you are using mulches in your vegetable garden or flower garden, it is  best to apply them after the soil has warmed up in the spring.
roasting marshmallows over a campfire is  one.
applying on a windy day can be a  problem.
the atmosphere contains several very important gases including nitrogen (~78 percent), oxygen (~21 percent) and carbon dioxide (~0.03 percent).
no comments » 5 tips to get your empire zoysia lawn ready for spring tuesday, april  26th, 2011 when you’re seeking a thick blanket of deep green to make a striking  appearance in your yard, you’ll appreciate the superior performance and  beauty of empire zoysia.
add additional layers  as clippings decompose.
tags: empire zoysia, lawn, lawn care, mowing, sod, spring lawn care,  turfgrass, watering lawn posted in uncategorized |
when spreading mulch around trees, keep the mulch an inch or  two away from the trunk.
many thanks to the ftga for keeping  watch.
the ftga explained the californians’ research process and their  conclusion, “focusing on four parks in the irvine area, the study found  that greenhouse gas emissions from fertilizer production, mowing, leaf blowing  and other lawn management practices were four times greater than the amount of  carbon stored by grass in parks and lawns.”
when it drops below 20°f, injury to turfgrass can occur.
mulch organic mulches also improve the condition of the soil.
while not particularly attractive for a flower bed, they work  wonderfully in the vegetable garden.
no comments » misconceptions can spread on the internet like dollar weed spreads through a lawn!
newsletters blog empire celebration palmetto sapphire other grasses faqs store locator turf calculator usda hardiness zone map current openings basic turfgrass requirements saturday, january 14th, 2012
grass clippings 2-3 inches thicker layers  tend to compact and rot, becoming quite slimy and smelly.
turfgrass species are broadly  categorized as warm-season or cool-season, depending on the  temperatures at which they thrive.
bacillus thuringiensis (or bt) is actually a  bacteria and is safe to use around children and pets.
the turf’s cold tolerance is also affected by the weather pattern preceding a severe frost.
chinch bug damage can be confused with certain lawn diseases.
some plants (legumes) capture and use nitrogen from the atmosphere.
compost makes a wonderful mulch if you have a large supply.
this improves root growth, increases the infiltration of water, and also improves the water-holding capacity of the soil.
the fabric or plastic is laid on top of the soil and then covered with a layer of bark chips.
winter injury can result from any one or a combination of four  conditions: tissue desiccation, direct low temperature kill, diseases and  traffic effects.
for example 15-0-15.
note that although the required quantity varies among the six macronutrients, each is equally important.
your community may also have wood chips from the removal of street trees that are available free to residents.
leaves are another readily available material to use as mulch.
nitrogen (n), phosphorus (p),  potassium (k), calcium (ca), magnesium (mg) and sulfur (s) are classified as  macronutrients according to the amount of each used by turfgrasses.
damage can develop rapidly, especially in sunny locations during hot, dry weather.
newspaper, as a mulch, works especially  well to control weeds.
no comments » when you’re seeking a thick blanket of deep green to make a striking appearance in your yard, you’ll appreciate the superior performance and beauty of empire zoysia.
make sure to water any granular insecticides into the lawn.
delayed applications of mulch should prevent this problem as, hopefully, the creatures would already have found some other place to nest!
where any of these products fail to provide control,  apply a synthetic pyrethroid such as permethrin.
the fact that turfgrass has a positive impact on the environment when it comes to carbon sequestration is not new, hence it is not newsworthy.”
step 4 – to prevent billbugs and other insect pests, put down a broad spectrum insecticide containing bifenthrin.
nitrogen (n), phosphorus (p), potassium (k), calcium (ca), magnesium (mg) and sulfur (s) are classified as macronutrients according to the amount of each used by turfgrasses.
the  article was about carbon sequestration in turfgrass and the amount of carbon  resulting from the care and maintenance of turf.
most warm-season grasses have very poor cold tolerance ratings and enter a state of dormancy or a reduction in growth and metabolism in the fall.
internet strategy by gatesix
they are best adapted to air temperatures from 60 to 75 degrees f. warm-season turfgrasses,  including bermudagrass, centipedegrass, st. augustinegrass and zoysia, grow best at air temperatures from 80 to 95 degrees f. warm season turfgrasses lose their color and are dormant during cold winter months.
the armyworm is actually the caterpillar life stage of a moth, and grows to  about 1½” long.
depending on where you  live, numerous other materials make excellent mulches.
carbon, a component of amino acids, proteins, sugars and starch, is also found in the walls of plant cells.
mulch materials material amount to apply notes bark mulch 2-4 inches smaller chips are easier to spread,  especially around small plants.
**this information was reproduced in its entirety from the  website of the usda’s natural resources conservation service at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov .
compost — refer to the tip sheet on composting for information on  how to make your own compost.
turfgrasses  obtain the majority of each from the soil.
no comments » once on the move, armyworm hard to control thursday, august 12th, 2010 like its namesake military force, armyworms can strike anywhere and become  harder to control the larger they grow, however its name is derived from its  feeding habits.
mulches used to protect plants over winter should be loose material such as straw, hay, or pine boughs that will help insulate the plants without compacting under the weight of snow and ice.
in addition to carbon (c), hydrogen (h) and oxygen (o), turfgrasses require  at least 13 mineral nutrients for survival and seed production.
most recently, nickel and sodium have received attention as essential micronutrients.
step 5 – empire turf needs about 3/4 of an inch of water per week from either natural rainfall or in-ground irrigation.
does the thought of spending hours out in the  hot sun mowing, weeding, fertilizing and watering leave you less than  enthusiastic about your yard?
for instance  brown patch is a common disease affecting the leaf blades of st.  augustinegrass.
leaf mold, or the decomposed remains of leaves, gives the forest floor  its absorbent spongy structure.
if these measures are not sufficient to control the advancing army, enlist the aid of a professional pest control company.
step 2 – apply fertilizer at a recommended 1-0-1 ratio.
atmospheric carbon dioxide.
water moves from the soil solution into roots.
calcium, mg and s are secondary essential nutrients.
an  estimated 1 to 3 percent of the total amount of water taken up by turfgrasses  every day is required for growth and development.
mulch protects the soil from erosion reduces compaction from the impact of heavy rains conserves moisture, reducing the need for frequent waterings maintains a more even soil temperature prevents weed growth keeps fruits and vegetables clean keeps feet clean, allowing access to garden even when damp provides a “finished” look to the garden organic mulches also improve the condition of the soil.
not according to new research!
mulching helps prevent the rapid fluctuations in soil temperature and reduces the chances of heaving.
while not particularly attractive for a flower bed, they work wonderfully in the vegetable garden.
the authors of the original article have acknowledged that the new data is  the correct data, according to the ftga.
their corrected calculations showed that co2 generation was 122 g m-2 yr-1 rather than 1238 g m-2 yr-1, a miscalculation of 10x in the original paper.”
these may last for one to three years or more depending on the  size of the chips or how well composed the bark mulch is.
to better appreciate the work your turfgrass is doing for you, consider these facts from the professional lawn care association of america: the front lawns of 8 average size houses have the cooking effect as about 70 tons of air conditioning, while the average home-size central air unit has only a 3- to 4-ton capacity.
no comments » some activities are best suited to the deep dark of night.
don’t feed the bugs!
how to get your empire zoysia lawn ready for spring?
the article reported conclusions that were fundamentally the opposite of previous research findings.
“unfortunately the corrected  data has not generated any media interest.
if needed, put down a systemic  fungicide with an active ingredient.
because they are most active in the fall, it is time to set up your reconnaissance mission now, becoming familiar with the health of your lawn or garden.
in its newsletter for march, theflorida turfgrass association alerted  members to an article published on january 22, 2010 ingeophysical research  letters by researchers at the university of california, irvine.
wood chips 2-4 inches similar to bark mulch.
chinch bug damage also can be difficult to  distinguish from damage caused by drought.
this improves root growth, increases the infiltration of water, and also  improves the water-holding capacity of the soil.
for the first mowing of the year, scalp the lawn with the mower and bag the clippings.
the armyworm causes damage similar to that of sodworms, but it is more scattered and not confined to patches.
tags: lawn, lawn care, mowing, sod, turfgrass posted in uncategorized | no comments » is your lawn contributing to global warming?
creeping bentgrass, kentucky bluegrass, ryegrasses and the fescues are cool-season turfgrasses.
winter injury can result from any one or a combination of four conditions: tissue desiccation, direct low temperature kill, diseases and traffic effects.
the article was about carbon sequestration in turfgrass and the amount of carbon resulting from the care and maintenance of turf.
mulch is measured in cubic  feet.
a question often asked of students studying turfgrass management is “which of the following – light, temperature, water, atmospheric carbon dioxide or nutrition – is most important for turfgrass survival?”
no comments » what happens to a warm-season grass when it is exposed to cold?
turfgrasses trap much of an estimated 12 million tons of dust and dirt  released annually into the u.s. atmosphere.
leaves 3-4 inches best to chop and compost before spreading.
chinch bugs prefer hot, dry environments.