#6 picture "rubber mulch" playground surface: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/rubber_mulch 7.
artificial turf playground surfacing ·        means of containment are  sometimes not necessary ·        surfaces are wheelchair  accessible and easy to walk on ·        displacement of  materials is not an issue, so the protective ability of these surfaces remains  consistent even in high-traffic areas
this specification establishes minimum characteristics for those factors that determine accessibility.
·        limitation in  free-flowing graphic design potential.
#9 playground surfacing in playground injuries, jennifer a himmelsbach, ms and martyn r. shorten, phd biomechanica, llc, portland, oregon, usa himmelsbach, - j.a. and shorten m.r. (2003)
·        surfaces may require  professional installation.
typical maintenance frequencies organic loose fill organic loose fill organic loose fill (sand/gravel) (mulch/would/chips)wood fiber ewf) inspection daily-weekly daily-weekly daily-weekly rack and level daily-weekly daily-weekly daily-weekly replace till when in compacted mulch-yearly usually not condition-replace as hardwood-usually required required to maintain not required proper depth top off 1-3 yrs more in 1-3 yrs more in 1-3 yrs more in frequently high frequently high frequently high use playground use playground use playground typical maintenance frequencies rubber matting poured-in-place artificial turf and tiles rubber inspection weekly weekly weekly rake & level not required not required may need raking when becomes matted down replace replace damaged repair as repair as tiles as required necessary necessary top off not required not required not required the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) has identified that each year in the united states, more than 200,000 children 14 years of age and younger are injured seriously enough to be seen in emergency room, i.e., every 1.6 minutes someone is taken to an emergency room concerning a playground injury.
contact  the manufacturer or supplier for details.
users should determine their own frequency for each playground based on use levels and operating environment.
this specification establishes minimum performance requirements for the impact attenuation of playground surfacing materials installed within the use zone of playground equipment.
#5 picture "artificial turf" playground surface:  http://www.xgrass.com 6.
by tom peeples cpsi, npcai (reprinted with permission from npcai – www.playground-contractors.org) there are many loose fill playground surfacing materials in use today, such as pea stone (pea gravel), sand, rubber mulch and engineered wood fiber (ewf).
recreational facilities,  including play areas, are among the facilities required to comply with the ada.
cushioning potential can be reduced by compaction,  environmental conditions, use over time and displacement of materials ·        spreads outside of  contained area ·        can harbor foreign  matter, e.g., broken glass, debris, sharp objects, etc. ·        can be blown or thrown  in the children's eyes ·        sand attracts  animals—defecation of feces ·        requires periodic  renewal or replacement ·        overtime may combine  with other loose fill materials which may reduce its impact attenuation ·        requires a method of  containment ·        requires good drainage  material underneath ·        may be susceptible to  weed growth engineered wood fiber (ewf) not to be confused with wood chips advantages ·        less attractive to  animals vs. sand ·        attractive appearance ·        less finger breaks vs.  unitary rubber disadvantages #3 (ewf) ·        holds moisture ·        can combine with dirt  and other loose surfacing materials such as sand and gravel which will reduce  its impact attenuation ·        decomposes over time ·        depth reduced from use  (kick-out) ·        depth may be reduced by  wind ·        can be thrown in a  child's eyes ·        subject to mold,  mushroom growth ·        can harbor foreign  objects, e.g., sharp objects, broken glass, debris ·        spreads easily outside  contained area ·        subject to theft by  neighbors for potting plants and use in gardening poured in place rubber ·        material not displaced  during play disadvantages ·        subject to vandalism  (high repair and replacement costs) ·        possible high surface  temperatures during sunny conditions ·        difficult to repair ·        poured in place surfaces  are susceptible to wear, cracking, peeling and fading over time.
·        mold and fungus can grow  in-between tiles on the underside.
surfaces require very little maintenance over time and are easy to clean · debris such as broken glass and other sharp objects which can cause injury are not as easily hidden in the surfaces · animals and insects are not attracted to the surface materials · mold and fungus growth is not an issue · cooler surface temperatures · costs less than poured in place (pip) disadvantages · the area under the surface usually requires preparation.
·        surface may require  professional installation ·        may curl and cause  tripping if not installed correctly rubber mulch ·        will not freeze ·        ada approved #6 rubber  mulch ·        recycled rubber mulch  does not generally need to be replaced or renewed each year.
·        rubber mulch tends to be  cleaner and less likely than other loose fill materials to produce dirty  clothing, hands and shoes during active play.
·        surfaces require very  little maintenance over time and are easy to clean.
·        if mulch is not  carefully cleaned it may contain pieces of wire that are dangerous to children.
october 3, 2011 pros and cons of playground surfacing materials by tom peeples cpsi, npcai (reprinted with permission from npcai –  www.playground-contractors.org) there are many loose fill playground surfacing materials in use today, such  as pea stone (pea gravel), sand, rubber mulch and engineered wood fiber (ewf).
· both require continuous/high maintenance to maintain "fluffed" condition and appropriate depth.
recycled rubber mulch may need to be raked periodically to maintain appropriate depths in high-traffic areas · colors on recycled rubber mulch may fade over time.
contact the manufacturer or supplier for  details.
playground surfacing and playground  injuries pp 71-88 in sports surfaces (eds.
· if the mulch pieces are too small, they could present a choking hazard.
disadvantages ·        the area under the  surface usually requires stringent requirements for base preparation.
· possible high surface temperatures during sunny conditions · difficult to repair · poured in place surfaces are susceptible to wear, cracking, peeling and fading over time.
· debris such as broken glass and sharp objects, which can cause injury, are not easily hidden in these surfaces.
many manufacturers  claim that rubber mulch can last approximately 50 years without needing  replacement.
·        surfaces require very  little maintenance over time and are easy to clean ·        debris such as broken  glass and other sharp objects which can cause injury are not as easily hidden  in the surfaces ·        animals and insects are  not attracted to the surface materials ·        mold and fungus growth  is not an issue ·        cooler surface  temperatures ·        costs less than poured  in place (pip) disadvantages ·        the area under the  surface usually requires preparation.
#1 american society for testing and materials, (astm): f 1292 –  04, f 1951 – 99: http://www.astm.org/ astm store:  http://webstore.ansi.org/default.aspx 2.
tiles note: the cost of a tile system generally falls between poured in place (pip) at the higher end and engineered wood fiber (ewf) at the lower end of the cost scale.
#7 picture “tile" playground surface: http://www.mansionathletics.com/play-core-single-24c24-rubber-tile-playground-surfacing-17927.html 8.
#6 picture "rubber mulch" playground surface:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/rubber_mulch 7.
#7 picture “tile" playground surface:  http://www.mansionathletics.com/play-core-single-24c24-rubber-tile-playground-surfacing-17927.html 8.
the ada requires that newly constructed and altered state and local government facilities, places of public accommodation and commercial facilities be readily accessible to, and usable by, individuals with disabilities.
what type of surfaces are going to provide the best value equation over the long term?
#8 injury and death investigated associated with playground equipment,  2001-2008, craig w. o'brian, division of hazard analysis, directorate, directorate of  epidemiology, us consumer product safety commission, 4330 e. west hwy., bethesda, md  20814, october 2009 9.
b.m. nigg, g.k. cole, d.j.  stefanyshyn) calgary, university of calgary (peeples, of peeples playground safety consulting, arvada, co, can be  contacted atplaygroundsafety@live.comor (720) 351-7309.)
nonflammable · not ideal for microbial growth · attractive appearance disadvantages · neither sand nor gravel is considered an (ada) accessible playground surfacing.
· displacement of materials is not an issue, so the protective ability of these surfaces remains consistent even in high-traffic areas.
#3 picture "engineered wood fiber" playground surface: http://www.zeager.com 4.
surface maintenance schedules note: this table shows typical maintenance frequencies.
although both tile and pip are generally made with the same types  of raw materials, the cost savings are realized in production efficiencies,  lower installation cost as well as longevity of the pre-manufactured product.
#8 it is important to note that the cpsc has also identified that 79 percent of all playground related injuries come from falls, and of that, 68 percent of those injuries come from falls to the playground surface.
the americans with disabilities act (ada) is a comprehensive civil rights law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability.
#8 it is important to note that the cpsc has also identified that 79 percent  of all playground related injuries come from falls, and of that, 68 percent of  those injuries come from falls to the playground surface.
#9 playground surfacing in playground injuries, jennifer a himmelsbach,  ms and martyn r. shorten, phd biomechanica, llc, portland, oregon, usa  himmelsbach, - j.a. and shorten m.r. (2003)
artificial turf playground surfacing advantages · means of containment are sometimes not necessary · surfaces are wheelchair accessible and easy to walk on · displacement of materials is not an issue, so the protective ability of these surfaces remains consistent even in high-traffic areas ·
astm f 1951 is the standard specification for determination of  accessibility of surface systems under and around playground equipment.
surfaces require very little maintenance over time and are easy to clean.
#1 · will the surfaces manufacturer and installer provide guarantees that the surface meets the requirements of astm f 1292-04 and f 1951-99 standards at the time of its installations completion?
advantages · no means of containment is usually necessary.
·        surfaces are wheelchair  accessible and easy to walk on.
b.m. nigg, g.k. cole, d.j. stefanyshyn) calgary, university of calgary (peeples, of peeples playground safety consulting, arvada, co, can be contacted atplaygroundsafety@live.comor (720) 351-7309.)
#9 surfacing is one of the most, if not the most, important components of your playground.
·        while some rubber mulch  is made from recycled tires, other mulch is a manufactured product.
· rubber tiles may curl and cause tripping if not installed correctly.
#3 picture "engineered wood fiber" playground surface:  http://www.zeager.com 4.
does the surface comply with astm f 1951-99?
when choosing the proper playground surface for your specific needs in order to ensure that the surfacing product you choose exceeds in the critical performance categories, the following questions should be a part of your product inquiry: · will the surface comply with current ada standards?
the area under the surface usually requires stringent requirements for base preparation.
astm f 1951 is the standard specification for determination of accessibility of surface systems under and around playground equipment.
#4 picture "poured in place" playground surface:  http://www.surfaceamerica.com 5.
· depth may be reduced by wind · can be thrown in a child's eyes · subject to mold, mushroom growth · can harbor foreign objects, e.g., sharp objects, broken glass, debris · spreads easily outside contained area · subject to theft by neighbors for potting plants and use in gardening poured in place rubber advantages · low maintenance · easy to clean · consistent shock absorbency · material not displaced during play disadvantages · initial cost very high · subject to vandalism (high repair and replacement costs)
the latest requirement for accessibility was published in the document  "ada standards for accessible design" dated 2009 and is found in title iii  which applies to playgrounds.
the americans with disabilities act (ada) is a comprehensive civil rights  law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability.
· debris such as broken glass, nails and other sharp objects which can cause injury can be easily hidden in loose-fill materials.
astm f 1292-04 is the standard specification for impact attenuation of surfacing materials within the use zone of playground equipment.
#2 a & #2 be pictures "sand and gravel" playground surfaces: www.caughtuinaphoto.printroom.com 3.
typical maintenance frequencies organic loose fill     organic loose fill     organic loose fill (sand/gravel)               (mulch/would/chips)wood fiber ewf) rack and level daily-weekly                  daily-weekly                daily-weekly replace
·        what is the  surface’s expected lifecycle, what is its warrantee and what will be  required to guarantee that the surface continues to meet the standards?
·        debris such as broken  glass, nails and other sharp objects which can cause injury can be easily  hidden in loose-fill materials.
#2 a & #2 be pictures "sand and gravel" playground  surfaces: www.caughtuinaphoto.printroom.com 3.
thus, when selecting surfacing, take the time necessary to do the research required for selecting the type of service that is going to provide you with the best equation for safety and value over the long term.
this specification applies to all types of materials that can be used under and around play equipment.
check with recycled rubber mulch suppliers for any guarantees or  warranties that may be available.
· mold and fungus growth is not an issue.
·        both require  continuous/high maintenance to maintain "fluffed" condition and  appropriate depth.
#8 injury and death investigated associated with playground equipment, 2001-2008, craig w. o'brian, division of hazard analysis, directorate, directorate of epidemiology, us consumer product safety commission, 4330 e. west hwy., bethesda, md 20814, october 2009 9.
many manufacturers claim that rubber mulch can last approximately 50 years without needing replacement.
astm f 1292-04 is the standard specification for impact attenuation of  surfacing materials within the use zone of playground equipment.
although both tile and pip are generally made with the same types of raw materials, the cost savings are realized in production efficiencies, lower installation cost as well as longevity of the pre-manufactured product.
· what is the surface’s expected lifecycle, what is its warrantee and what will be required to guarantee that the surface continues to meet the standards?
this  specification establishes minimum performance requirements for the impact  attenuation of playground surfacing materials installed within the use zone of  playground equipment.
tiles note: the cost of a tile system generally falls between poured in place  (pip) at the higher end and engineered wood fiber (ewf) at the lower end of the  cost scale.
· animals and insects are not attracted to the surface materials.
there are also unitary playground surfacing materials commonly being used such as rubber tiles, poured in place rubber (pip) and artificial turf.
quick drying · non-staining/non-abrasive · will not freeze · ada approved #6 rubber mulch · recycled rubber mulch does not generally need to be replaced or renewed each year.
#1 ·        will the surfaces  manufacturer and installer provide guarantees that the surface meets the  requirements of astm f 1292-04 and f 1951-99 standards at the time of its  installations completion?
an employee from children's playstructures  & recreation prepares surfacing material for a playground.
cushioning potential can be reduced by compaction, environmental conditions, use over time and displacement of materials · spreads outside of contained area · can harbor foreign matter, e.g., broken glass, debris, sharp objects, etc. · can be blown or thrown in the children's eyes · sand attracts animals—defecation of feces · requires periodic renewal or replacement · overtime may combine with other loose fill materials which may reduce its impact attenuation · requires a method of containment · requires good drainage material underneath · may be susceptible to weed growth engineered wood fiber (ewf) not to be confused with wood chips advantages · low initial cost · ease of installation · good drainage · less abrasive · less attractive to animals vs. sand · attractive appearance · readily available · less finger breaks vs. unitary rubber disadvantages #3 (ewf) · holds moisture · can combine with dirt and other loose surfacing materials such as sand and gravel which will reduce its impact attenuation · decomposes over time · depth reduced from use (kick-out)
·        does the surface comply  with astm f 1951-99?
manufactured products may be more susceptible to bacteria or fungus.
pros and cons of some of the more common types of playground surfacing  materials in use today are listed below: sand and pea gravel organic loose fill material examples: sand and pea gravel advantages ·        not ideal for microbial  growth ·        attractive appearance disadvantages ·        neither sand nor gravel  is considered an (ada) accessible playground surfacing.
#1 american society for testing and materials, (astm): f 1292 – 04, f 1951 – 99: http://www.astm.org/ astm store: http://webstore.ansi.org/default.aspx 2.
#1 ·        does the surface comply  with astm f 1292-04?
·        animals and insects are  not attracted to the surface materials.
· continuous maintenance is required to maintain proper depth and to remove debris.
the ada requires  that newly constructed and altered state and local government facilities,  places of public accommodation and commercial facilities be readily accessible  to, and usable by, individuals with disabilities.
·        continuous maintenance  is required to maintain proper depth and to remove debris.
·        rubber tiles may curl  and cause tripping if not installed correctly.
· surfaces are wheelchair accessible and easy to walk on.
users should  determine their own frequency for each playground based on use levels and  operating environment.
· rubber mulch tends to be cleaner and less likely than other loose fill materials to produce dirty clothing, hands and shoes during active play.
there are also unitary playground surfacing materials commonly being used such  as rubber tiles, poured in place rubber (pip) and artificial turf.
till when in compacted    mulch-yearly                usually not condition-replace  as       hardwood-usually         required required to maintain       not required proper depth top off 1-3 yrs more  in             1-3  yrs more in             1-3 yrs more in frequently high              frequently high              frequently high use  playground             use  playground              use playground typical maintenance frequencies rubber matting           poured-in-place           artificial turf and tiles                      rubber rake & level not  required                   not required                   may need raking when becomes  matted down replace replace damaged         repair as                       repair as tiles as  required           necessary                      necessary top off not required                  not required                  not required the u.s. consumer product safety commission (cpsc) has identified that each  year in the united states, more than 200,000 children 14 years of age and  younger are injured seriously enough to be seen in emergency room, i.e., every  1.6 minutes someone is taken to an emergency room concerning a playground  injury.
· surfaces may require professional installation.
check with recycled rubber mulch suppliers for any guarantees or warranties that may be available.
when choosing the proper playground surface for your specific needs in  order to ensure that the surfacing product you choose exceeds in the critical  performance categories, the following questions should be a part of your  product inquiry: ·        will the surface comply  with current ada standards?
thus, when selecting surfacing, take the time necessary to do the  research required for selecting the type of service that is going to provide  you with the best equation for safety and value over the long term.
recreational facilities, including play areas, are among the facilities required to comply with the ada.
animals and insects are not attracted to rubber mulch · will not rot or mold and fungus growth is not an issue disadvantages · some recycled varieties may leach chemicals (some toxic) which are harmful to plants ·
· surface may require professional installation · may curl and cause tripping if not installed correctly rubber mulch advantages · not toxic · stays in place ·
contact the manufacturer or supplier for details.
#1 · does the surface comply with astm f 1292-04?
while some rubber mulch is made from recycled tires, other mulch is a manufactured product.
if mulch is not carefully cleaned it may contain pieces of wire that are dangerous to children.
playground surfacing and playground injuries pp 71-88 in sports surfaces (eds.
·        animals and insects are  not attracted to rubber mulch ·        will not rot or mold and  fungus growth is not an issue disadvantages ·        some recycled varieties  may leach chemicals (some toxic) which are harmful to plants ·        recycled rubber mulch  may need to be raked periodically to maintain appropriate depths in  high-traffic areas ·        colors on recycled  rubber mulch may fade over time.
·        displacement of  materials is not an issue, so the protective ability of these surfaces remains  consistent even in high-traffic areas.
·        mold and fungus growth  is not an issue.
advantages ·        no means of containment  is usually necessary.
· limitation in free-flowing graphic design potential.
·        if the mulch pieces are  too small, they could present a choking hazard.
the latest requirement for accessibility was published in the document "ada standards for accessible design" dated 2009 and is found in title iii which applies to playgrounds.
this  specification establishes minimum characteristics for those factors that  determine accessibility.
this specification applies to all types of materials  that can be used under and around play equipment.
·        what type of surfaces  are going to provide the best value equation over the long term?
·        debris such as broken  glass and sharp objects, which can cause injury, are not easily hidden in these  surfaces.
#9 surfacing is one of the most, if not the most, important components of your  playground.
pros and cons of some of the more common types of playground surfacing materials in use today are listed below: sand and pea gravel organic loose fill material examples: sand and pea gravel advantages · low initial cost · ease of installation ·
· mold and fungus can grow in-between tiles on the underside.
#4 picture "poured in place" playground surface: http://www.surfaceamerica.com 5.
#5 picture "artificial turf" playground surface: http://www.xgrass.com 6.