it works great for play areas and can also be used for mulching gardens and plant beds.
cedar has a pleasant smell and is a natural insect repellent.
idaho cedar idaho cedar is a fibrous mulch made from  shredded cedar bark.
harvest mulch (red, rose, gold, & brown) harvest mulch is made from recycled construction material such as pallets, 2x4’s, ect.
redwood mulch redwood mulch, a shredded fibrous bark material is a deep reddish/brown color.
spruce mulch spruce mulch is a shredded bark product 1-1/2” to 2” in size.
playground mulch playground mulch is a 3/4” minus chipped pine product, blond in color.
because it is dyed, the color will last longer than that of natural mulches.
mini bark pebbles mini bark pebble mulch is also known as 3/8” pathway mulch.
this product mats down to create a  blanket that is very wind tolerant and attractive.
supreme is a mix of bark and shredded wood.
bark chipped tree bark (commonly pine) brown in  color, ranges in size from 2” to 3” (large bark) 1” to 2” (medium bark) 1/2” to 1” (small bark) supreme mulch supreme mulch ranges in size from  1” to 2” in diameter and is brown in color.
mini bark pebbles mini bark pebble mulch is also  known as 3/8” pathway mulch.
western red cedar western red cedar mulch is a  fibrous mulch made from shredded cedar bark.
this product mats down to create a blanket that is very wind tolerant and attractive.
mulch, tree bark & rubber mulch mulch & bark mulches cover and cool soil, minimize evaporation, reduce weed growth and  slow erosion.
similar to the western red cedar, idaho cedar with its golden/brown color and slightly finer texture makes it an attractive and economical alternative.
pictures may not represent true color and size.
deco shred deco shred mulch ranges in size from  2” to 3” in diameter and is brown in color.
has a pleasant smell and is a natural insect repellent.
mulched planting beds and tree rings are an ideal attractive replacement for turf or rock areas.
it is an excellent choice for flowerbeds and vegetable gardens.
redwood mulch redwood mulch, a shredded fibrous bark  material is a deep reddish/brown color.
this shredded, and fibrous cedar product has a medium to dark brown color (resembling gorilla hair).
spruce mulch spruce mulch is a shredded bark product  1-1/2” to 2” in size.
similar to the western red cedar, idaho cedar with its  golden/brown color and slightly finer texture makes it an attractive and  economical alternative.
it is an excellent choice for flowerbeds and  vegetable gardens.
cedar has a pleasant smell and is a natural insect  repellent.
with it’s fine texture it retains soil moisture, retards weed growth and enhances the soil as it breaks down.
playground mulch playground mulch is a 3/4”  minus chipped pine product, blond in color.
mulched planting beds and tree rings are an ideal attractive  replacement for turf or rock areas.
supreme is a mix of  bark and shredded wood.
this product mats down to create a blanket that is more wind resistant than most other mulches.
harvest mulch (red, rose, gold, & brown) harvest  mulch is made from recycled construction material such as pallets, 2x4’s,  ect.
similar to the supreme  mulch it is also a mix of bark and shredded wood.
with it’s fine texture it retains soil moisture,  retards weed growth and enhances the soil as it breaks down.
this product mats down to create a blanket that is more wind resistant  than most other mulches.
to assist you in calculating your landscaping material, use our : material calculator or bring a diagram of your area with measurements to our sales staff.
it is similar to deco shred in appearance and texture.
washington cedar (gorilla hair)
it has an attractive golden/reddish color.
because it is dyed, the color will last  longer than that of natural mulches.
it has an attractive  golden/reddish color.
summer hours mon-sat: 7am-6pm sun: 9am-5pm mulch & bark mulches cover and cool soil, minimize evaporation, reduce weed growth and slow erosion.
and is dyed with a non-toxic dye.
similar to the supreme mulch it is also a mix of bark and shredded wood.
idaho cedar idaho cedar is a fibrous mulch made from shredded cedar bark.
western red cedar western red cedar mulch is a fibrous mulch made from shredded cedar bark.
it works great for play areas and  can also be used for mulching gardens and plant beds.
deco shred deco shred mulch ranges in size from 2” to 3” in diameter and is brown in color.
washington cedar (gorilla hair) this shredded, and  fibrous cedar product has a medium to dark brown color (resembling gorilla  hair).
it is similar to deco shred in appearance and  texture.
it is reddish-brown in color and is an economical choice for mulching.
always look at material in person before ordering.
bark chipped tree bark (commonly pine) brown in color, ranges in size from 2” to 3” (large bark) 1” to 2” (medium bark) 1/2” to 1” (small bark) supreme mulch supreme mulch ranges in size from 1” to 2” in diameter and is brown in color.