you are in: mid-atlantic encompassing most of virginia, maryland, eastern pennsylvania, delaware,  new jersey and new york city and long island, cool winters and exceptionally  humid summers are characteristic of this region.
learn morehow-to videos watch the latest from over 200 how-to videos from all of our expert gardening resources.
from monterey county to the state border and from san francisco to san jose and sacramento to lake tahoe, the climate of northern california is widely varied.
cold winters, hot summers, and low rainfall challenge gardeners of the central great plains.
an expert get professional answers to your lawn and garden questions within 24 hours.
long, hot, and humid summers  and temperate winters characterize this region.
my region we’ve recognized your region as: great lakes not your region?
this is a true subtropical gardening region with long, hot, rainy summers and dry, mild winters.
when mulch is spread out in a 2-4-inch layer on top of a  garden bed, it will protect against erosion, help prevent pests from invading  and conserve moisture, saving you time and money spent on repairs to your  garden later.
learn moreplant library browse our library and use your plant tags to receive even more details about your planting projects.
the overall yearly temperatures vary only 40 degrees from winter to summer.
the mid-south has mild winters and hot, humid summers.
the desert southwest region has mild winters, blazing hot summers, and low humidity.
the southern coast covers coastal regions of texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama and the panhandle of florida.
sandy soil, tidal marshes and a climate influenced by the gulf of mexico affect gardeners in the southern coast region.
southern california includes the los angeles metropolitan area south to san diego.
this region is a mostly hot, dry climate, with a dry summer and a (comparatively) rainy winter.
by selecting no region, you are choosing to receive our national content.
learn more get professional answers to your lawn and garden questions within 24 hours.
switch the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio,  michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
cold  winters, hot summers, and low rainfall challenge gardeners of the central great  plains.
high altitudes, snow, cold winters, and hot summers  characterize this region.
areas of this region near the atlantic are more temperate and warmer in the winter.
short summers and long winters characterize alaska gardening.
you are in: northeast the northeast region includes the new england states and eastern upstate  new york.
the  pacific ocean provides stable temperatures with an average difference of only  30 degrees between winter and summer highs.
you are in: northern california from monterey county to the state border and from san francisco to san jose  and sacramento to lake tahoe, the climate of northern california is widely  varied.
more there are no polls available right now.
gardening advice for the rocky mountain region covers eastern washington and eastern oregon, idaho, montana, wyoming, western colorado, utah, and northern nevada.
gardeners  living in chicago, indianapolis, evansville, milwaukee, madison, columbus,  cleveland, and springfield will find information for success with gardening and  lawn care.
gardening buying guides
ft. brown mulchmargo garden products sku# 133614 $2.97 2 cu.
when mulch is spread out in a 2-4-inch layer on top of a garden bed, it will protect against erosion, help prevent pests from invading and conserve moisture, saving you time and money spent on repairs to your garden later.
the northeast region includes the new england states and eastern upstate new york.
you are in: alaska the alaska region includes the entire state of alaska.
learn more watch the latest from over 200 how-to videos from all of our expert  gardening resources.
this region extends from the deserts of southwestern california through las  vegas and reno, nevada, through arizona, new mexico, and the western texas  cities of midland and lubbock.
for more tips on fending off weeds, check outeasy weed management for your flower beds.
mild winters and hot, humid summers combined with sandy soil present challenges for garden and lawn care.
areas of the state near the water have more moderate climates than interior areas.
you are in: great lakes the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio,  michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
it's available in many forms, from shredded wood and bark nuggets to rubber and stone.
once chosen, you will receive gardening articles, advice and information both nationally and specific to your location.
the northeast has long, cold winters and warm, humid summers.
the panhandle area of oklahoma is also included in this region.
for more tips on fending off weeds,  check outeasy weed management for your flower beds.
you are in: central great plains from denver, colorado, west to eastern missouri, the central great plains  region includes eastern colorado, nebraska, iowa, missouri, and kansas.
my monthly to-do list regional gardening map please select your region on the map.
you are in: deep south eastern texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, georgia, and south carolina  combine to form the deep south gardening region.
encompassing most of virginia, maryland, eastern pennsylvania, delaware, new jersey and new york city and long island, cool winters and exceptionally humid summers are characteristic of this region.
mulch in various forms can also be used tocreate a soft path or an affordable patio area, help keep weeds at bay and finish the area  under trees where most plants can't grow.
the northern great plains region includes south dakota, north dakota, and minnesota.
you are in: mid-south the mid-south region stretches from oklahoma through arkansas, tennessee,  kentucky, and most of north carolina.
select no region you are in: pacific northwest
one of the most beneficial and affordable treatments for your garden is mulch.
mulch in various forms can also be used tocreate a soft path or an affordable patio area, help keep weeds at bay and finish the area under trees where most plants can't grow.
learn more plant library browse our library and use your plant tags to receive even more details  about your planting projects.
rocky mountains gardening advice for the rocky mountain region covers eastern washington  and eastern oregon, idaho, montana, wyoming, western colorado, utah, and  northern nevada.
you are in: central florida central florida includes orlando, the tampa bay area, sarasota and west to  the cape canaveral area.
this region includes the coastal areas of washington and oregon.
the panhandle area of oklahoma is also included  in this region.
central florida is flat with an almost subtropical  climate.
shop now shop nowtop 1 yd brown mulchsku# 130807 $38.95 27 cu.
ask fellow garden club members to help you identify your mystery plants.
the southern florida region includes fort meyers, naples, miami, fort lauderdale and the florida keys.
hawaii gardeners in honolulu and other cities have similar challenges to gardeners in more rural areas of the hawaiian island.
choosing the right mulch made easy send  to a friend x close one of the most beneficial and affordable treatments for your garden is  mulch.
you are in: hawaii hawaii gardeners in honolulu and other cities have similar challenges to  gardeners in more rural areas of the hawaiian island.
gardeners in bismark, fargo, grand forks, rapid city, and minneapolis are used to cold, windy winters and warm, dry summers.
the mid-south region stretches from oklahoma through arkansas, tennessee, kentucky, and most of north carolina.
read my monthly to-do list please select your region on the map.
the pacific ocean provides stable temperatures with an average difference of only 30 degrees between winter and summer highs.
by selecting no region, you are choosing to receive  our national content.
rainy winters and clear, dry summers in this area mean that plants grow year-round.
you are in: desert southwest
gardeners in bismark, fargo, grand forks, rapid city, and  minneapolis are used to cold, windy winters and warm, dry summers.
learn moreplant care guides boost your plant knowledge with over 100 easy-to-use guides to our most popular plants.
learn more boost your plant knowledge with over 100 easy-to-use guides to our most  popular plants.
the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio, michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
rainy winters and clear, dry  summers in this area mean that plants grow year-round.
major metropolitan areas of this region include denver, kansas city, st. louis, des moines, and lincoln.
often described as "mediterranean" in nature, native as well  as plants from around the world thrive in northern california gardens.
this region is a mostly hot, dry climate, with a dry summer and a  (comparatively) rainy winter.
coastal  areas are slightly warmer than the interior cities.
long, hot, and humid summers and temperate winters characterize this region.
sandy soil, tidal marshes and a climate  influenced by the gulf of mexico affect gardeners in the southern coast region.
you are in: southern california southern california includes the los angeles metropolitan area south to san  diego.
major metropolitan areas of this region include denver, kansas city,  st. louis, des moines, and lincoln.
winters are mild and dry.
red mulchsku# 131704 $38.95 1 yd black mulchsku# 131833 $38.95 1 yd cypress mulchsku# 131899 $43.95 2.0 cu.
often described as "mediterranean" in nature, native as well as plants from around the world thrive in northern california gardens.
the alaska region includes the entire state of alaska.
nature scapes advance brown mulchscotts sku# 246246 $4.97
from denver, colorado, west to eastern missouri, the central great plains region includes eastern colorado, nebraska, iowa, missouri, and kansas.
you are in: southern coast the southern coast covers coastal regions of texas, louisiana, mississippi,  alabama and the panhandle of florida.
central florida is flat with an almost subtropical climate.
areas of this region near the  atlantic are more temperate and warmer in the winter.
mild winters and hot, humid summers  combined with sandy soil present challenges for garden and lawn care.
once chosen, you  will receive gardening articles, advice and information both nationally and  specific to your location.
this is a true subtropical gardening region  with long, hot, rainy summers and dry, mild winters.
short summers and  long winters characterize alaska gardening.
the wind, salt from the  ocean, and volcanic soil are all challenges for hawaiian gardeners.
you are in: carolina coast the carolina coast includes the outer banks of north carolina, south to  wilmington, myrtle beach and charleston.
this region extends from the deserts of southwestern california through las vegas and reno, nevada, through arizona, new mexico, and the western texas cities of midland and lubbock.
join now >forgot your password?
it's available in many forms, from shredded wood and bark nuggets to  rubber and stone.
the mid-south has mild winters and hot,  humid summers.
learn more the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio, michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
coastal areas are slightly warmer than the interior cities.
central florida includes orlando, the tampa bay area, sarasota and west to the cape canaveral area.
the southern florida region includes fort meyers, naples, miami, fort  lauderdale and the florida keys.
the overall yearly temperatures vary only 40 degrees from winter to  summer.
eastern texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, georgia, and south carolina combine to form the deep south gardening region.
summers are hot, humid, and rainy.
areas of the state near the water  have more moderate climates than interior areas.
the desert southwest region has mild winters, blazing hot  summers, and low humidity.
you are in: northern great plains the northern great plains region includes south dakota, north dakota, and  minnesota.
high altitudes, snow, cold winters, and hot summers characterize this region.
the wind, salt from the ocean, and volcanic soil are all challenges for hawaiian gardeners.
you are in: southern florida
the carolina coast includes the outer banks of north carolina, south to wilmington, myrtle beach and charleston.
gardeners living in chicago, indianapolis, evansville, milwaukee, madison, columbus, cleveland, and springfield will find information for success with gardening and lawn care.