in 2008 an estimated 400 to  500 wood utilization research projects were implemented by 150 to 200 federal,  state and private entities.
title: novel uses of wheat by-products publication :
abstract: small-scale gasification plants that generate electrical energy from forest health thinnings may have the potential to deliver substantial amounts of electricity to the national grid.
markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2008-2009; chapter 8 publication : fpamr; forest products annual market review 2008-2009; 2009 author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard l.; lombard, bernard; parik, thomas year: 2009 view pdf »
also, the rate of moisture variation at each specified time and location must be known or correctly estimated.
the concept of sustainable development does imply limits–not absolute limits but limitations imposed by the present state of technology and social organization on environmental resources and by the ability of the biosphere to absorb the effects of human activities.
as part of that, it describes changes in industry operating parameters such as wood use and yield, employee productivity, adhesives usage, and energy consumption.
in: proceedings of the international wheat quality conference; 2001 may 20-24; manhattan, ks.
1990 author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1990 view pdf » view publication information » category: conference proceedings file size: 581 kb(s) abstract: the wise use of the world′s forest resources to satisfy present and future needs of an ever-increasing world population is ultimately the goal of all resource management activities.
33 pages author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted) year: 2007 view pdf »
32-35 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1991 view pdf »
abstract: in 2002, the usda forest service completed the fifth nationwide assessment of timber resource demand and supply, as mandated periodically by the resources planning act (rpa) (2).
following a 2- week diffusion period, boron in bc treatments also met or exceeded awpa standards in most cases.
title: flexural properties of structural lumber products after  long-term exposure to 150° f and 75% relative humidity publication : proc, 35th intl particleboard/composite materials symp, washington  state univ, pullman, wa 2001 author(s) green, evans view pdf » view publication information  »
title: criterion 6, indicator 32: exports as a share of wood and wood products production and imports as a share of wood and wood products production publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, madison, wisconsin, fpl-rn-0318, 2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca; skog; kenneth e.
the concept involves conversion of wood sugars via fermentation to fuel ethanol or other chemicals and the use of remaining solid wood material in the pulping process.
this confusion casts some doubt on the validity of the 1.15 repetitive member factor permitted in astm d 245 and astm d 1990.
the objective in this study was to  investigate the accumulated mould growth on 13 different wood substrates with 3  surface coating systems by identifying the factors that contribute to the  variation and to predict future performance.
abstract: trend data through  2006 are provided on the value and volume of wood and wood products production  for the united states to aid in assessing sustainability of socioeconomic  benefits of forests.
category: journal articles file size: 136 kb kb(s)
date posted: 05/19/10
title: review of alternative measures of softwood sawtimber prices in the united states publication: research paper fpl-rp-629.
[proceedings of the 12th international drying symposium ids2000 : 28-31 august 2000 : noordwijkerhout, the netherlands.
category: journal articles file size: 649 kb(s)
this procedure is also needed for reporting annual harvest statistics and forecasts to the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and the food and agriculture organization (fao).
economic welfare, as computed by wood products producer gains minus timber seller losses, would increase under uneven-aged thinning but decline under even-aged thinning.
modeling data estimated  biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 428 kg per m3 and 139 kg per m3 , respectively.
net changes in all forest-related land, including  non-forest land converted to forest and forests converted to non-forest, are  being reported here.
keywords: ; production; trade; prices; forest products date posted: 06/26/09
solid wood is used extensively  in various manufactured products, and a large share of manufactured products is  shipped on wooden pallets.
keywords: carbon stocks, aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, deadwood, litter date posted: 11/25/11
153-168; 2011 author(s) verrill, steve p.; kretschmann, david e.; herian, victoria l.; wiemann, michael c.; alden, harry a. year: 2011 view pdf »
this reuse can hold down the need to harvest wood to meet u.s. consumption needs.
this assessment will assist the governors individually and collectively as they develop bioenergy policies.
115-124 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1991 view pdf »
keywords: production, sustainability, consumption
a year ago the answer was relatively easy: let the good times roll!
7th annual statiscial analysis of  the north american hardwood marketplace, memphis, tn: h.e. (gene) parker.
category: journal articles file size: 109 kb kb(s)
because of the research community’s diversity, the exact magnitude of  investment in wood utilization research is subject for much conjecture.
if merchantable timber were sold separately, biomass from forest health thinnings on timberland in 15 western states could potentially provide from 2.3 to 14.3 billion kwh of electricity to the national grid.
canada is projected to remain the principal source of u.s. pulp and paper imports, which are projected to increase.
such conversions depend on many factors; three of the most important of these are log length, diameter, and taper.
historical data were derived from various sources, including government agencies and industry trade associations.
u.s. billion-ton update: biomass for a bioenergy and bioproducts industry.
category: journal articles file size: 398 kb kb(s)
title: recycling and long-range timber outlook: background research report 1993
data are provided through the end  of the year 2008 with estimates for 2009 and forecasts for 2010.
abstract: a global rebound of pulp, paper and paperboard markets began soon after the global financial crisis in 2008-2009.
abstract: average annual incomes for forest management and protection includes salaries for full-time permanent employees of the u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, which have increased from a median of $41,300 in 1992 to $48,200 in 2000, to $50,500 in 2006 (all in 2005$).
abstract: approximately 375 douglas-fir and ponderosa pine logs, 3 to 6 inches in diameter, were tested in third-point bending and in compression parallel to the grain.
such large offsets would require substantial trade-offs, such as lower agricultural production and non-carbon ecosystem services from forests.
in  2006, about 39 percent of all solid wood products consumed in the united states  and 28 percent of all solid wood products consumed in canada were used for new  residential construction (adair 2008, fao 2008, mckeever 2009).
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2005-2009
total consumption has been increasing faster than domestic harvest as net imports of wood and paper products have increased.
coated heartwood as wood type was less susceptible to mould growth than coated mixed wood and coated sapwood.
title: life-cycle inventory of manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern united states publication:
buildings with five or more stories are normally severely restricted by building code from being wood framed.
in most ″regions″ the calculated time  coefficient value for the regression equation was positive, indicating a  40-year trend toward increase in scheffer index value.
built-in warnings and error messages help reduce input errors and inform users when and why their results might not be believable.
items highlighted are trends in manufacturing and new plant costs, industry manufacturing capacity, and location.
however,less is likely available due to  localized environmental and forest cover type constraints, and land owner  willingness to harvest timber.
keywords: life cycle inventory, lci, hardwood lumber, southeast, corrim, manufacturing, environmental impacts
in the u.s., most timber is measured in terms of board feet.
title: adding biofuel/bioproduct capacity to existing u.s. mills part 1: options publication : tappi journal techlink, paper360, april 2008, pp.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and propspects, 2006-2010
in addition to cash flows and basic financial measures, lamlum provides physical product flows with respect to both wood inputs and wood product outputs.
title: wood supply and demand publication:
less integrated mills grew slower.
for all wood species, average solution uptake was consistently greater with the dot solution than with the bc or cca solution.
10 p. author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1996 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: climate change, fire, disturbance, environmental monitoring, national forest inventory (nfi), assessments, remote sensing
part ii of this paper estimates the market impact if biomass is supplied from treatments on federal land.
here we examine the two major sources of waste wood from roundwood in the united states- woody forest residues and primary timber processing mill residues.
in particular, for smaller log diameters, the undercount of board foot volume by us log scales can rise sharply.
market developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log trade, wood-based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, and forest product prices.
available timber is smaller in diameter and lower in quality than in the past; and previously undesirable species are now being used.
keywords: microfibril angle estimation, bias, variance approach, cell rotation, cell tilt, cell cross-section, x-ray diffraction date posted: 06/06/11
hardwood resource ownership is increasingly diverse, and investment in hardwood resource productivity is fairly limited.
category: techlines abstract: the timber resource in the united states is changing.
this report examines low-rise nonresidential buildings of four or fewer stories only, because buildings with five or more stories are normally severely restricted by building code from being wood framed.
keywords: assessment, biomass, fuel reduction, inventory title: gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory on hardwood sawmills in the northeastern region of the united states publication: bergman, richard d. gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory on hardwood sawmills in the northeastern region of the united states.
extensive research over the last 20 properties of wood from either live or dead trees.
the region most severely impacted by closures was the u.s. west, which accounted for over half of all the capacity lost.
mills grew according to gibrat's law, and post-1970 mills grew faster than pre-1971 mills.
category: journal articles file size: 1,044 kb(s)
title: the decline and fall of type ii error rates publication: research paper fpl-rp-628.
a major use of the data is tracking industry production and consumption trends with time.
outside the unece region, china is  rapidly gaining ground as the second largest producer and consumer of paper and  paperboard worldwide.
ninety-three research organizations were initially identified for consideration by the review, 40 of which were chosen as case examples (located in 23 countries)and subsequently described in substantial detail.
abstract: biomass gasification is an approach to producing energy and/or biofuels that could be integrated into existing forest product production facilities, particularly at pulp mills.
geneva, switzerland : united nations publications, 2000: pages 113-130 author(s) spelter, henry year: 2000 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 639 kb kb(s)
abstract: the coefficent of variation (cov) of a distribution with mean and variance 2 is defined as the noise to signal ratio or .
unrestricted fasom projections confirm that added investment could lead to substantially larger timber harvest volumes and lower prices than those projected in the base/restricted cases.
title: life-cycle inventory of hardwood lumber manufacturing in the southeastern united states publication :
abstract: this paper identifies timberland areas in 12 western states where thinning treatments (1) are judged to be needed to reduce fire hazard and (2) may 'pay for themselves' at a scale to make investment in forest product processing a realistic option.
keywords: cramer conditions, quadratic mean differentiability, likelihood ratio, wald tests, rao tests, asymptotics, confidence intervals, mathematical statistics, equations, quadratic differentials, statistical hypothesis testing, asymptotic efficiences, statistics, efficient likelihood estimators, cramer conditions, newton estimators, coefficients of variation, statistical analysis, asymptotic relative efficiency
keywords: bioenergy, biomass, builders joinery, carbon, cardboard, carpentry, certification, certified forest products, climate change, china, construction, consumption, engineered wood products, ewp, exports, fiberboard, fibreboard, forest products markets, forestry industry, forestry statistics, fuelwood, furniture, housing market, imports, lumber, market analysis, mdf, osb, paperboard, particle board, particleboard, plywood, production, pulp and paper industry, pulplogs, pulpwood, redd, roundwood, sawlogs, sawn hardwood, sawn softwood, sawnwood, sustainable forestry, timber, tropical timber, wood energy, wood fuels, wood industry, wood pellets, wood products, wood-based panels, woodpulp
many opportunities for reducing carbon emissions are identified along with unintended consequences of proposed policies.
keywords: silviscan; microfibril angle; bias; cell cross-section date posted:
the recent economic downturn (the so called asian decline) caused a number of significant bripple effectsc throughout the pulp and paper sector that are linked to the global cycle of supply and demand.
the united states remains the world's largest producer and consumer of pulp, paper and paperboard.
abstract: the goal of this study was to gain an understanding of the environmental impact for softwood lumber production through a gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory (lci) of softwood sawmills in the northeastern and north central united states (ne/nc).
title: use of wood energy in  the united states -- an opportunity publication: biomass 12  (1987) 27-36; 1987 author(s) koning, john w. jr.; skog, kenneth  e.
both area and carbon density of these forestlands have increased since 1990, the first year estimates are required.
most real prices were constant or increased somewhat during the two decades after world war il.
seattle, wa : corrim, 2009.
results indicate that the diffusion coefficient increases with increasing moisture content below the fiber saturation point, which defines the upper limit applied by the diffusion theory.
as such, the model can be used to estimate the economic effect, on revenues and costs, of technological changes or changes in prices.
government policy measures enacted to counter economic recessions often include funding to improve energy independence from fossil fuels.
one such market is that of wood posts in highway applications.
vancouver, british columbia, canada [cd-rom].
subsidies aimed at improving the environment  are part of what is termed the green new deal.
2-5 author(s) ince view  pdf » view publication information »
the bioenergy assessment team was formed to examine the potential  for future development and to create a comprehensive framework to assess  environmental, technical and socioeconomic impacts associated with national,  state and regional bioenergy and biomass management policies.
dissolution/nmr methods therefore potentially lend themselves well to chemometrics methods once the issues of dealing with multivariate analyses on 2d nmr data have been addressed.
year: 1987 view  pdf » view publication information »
these programs prepare plywood mill data for a linear programming (lp) model that, in turn, calculates the optimum mix of products to make, given a set of technologies and market prices.
by contrast, 2008 data from the western wood products assn.
forest carbon stocks in forests supplying wood to the industry were found to be stable or increasing.
in addition, the report summarizes the recent history and current status of woodpulp production capacity in the united states.
keywords: hardwoods, economic aspects, pulping, pulpwood, marketing, supply and demand, chips
because of the high decay resistance of yel- (fig. 1) (15).
softwood sawmills in the united states and canada.
5 p. author(s) howard, james l. year: 2002 view pdf »
the very nature of the subject makes review and evaluation difficult.
market developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood and hardwood log trade, pulpwood, wood-based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, and forest product prices.
static and dynamic deflection load test data were obtained using a special test train.
abstract: this paper reviews demand and supply trends for hardwood fiber in the united states.
this report from the forest products laboratory analyzes recovery data and methods.
keywords: pulpwood industry, forecasting, wood-pulp industry, hardwoods, market surveys, supply and demand, statistics, pulpwood, economic aspects, marketing, prices, united states title: use and production of solid sawn timbers in the united states publication: forest products journal.
abstract: because of the large percentage of juvenile wood in small-diameter southern pine, this material has lower strength properties compared with the historic published values in the astm standard d2555.
we report analytic calculations and simulations that suggest that the order of such adjustments should be reversed, that is, given the manner in which allowable properties are currently calculated, as the coefficient of variation of the strength distribution of individual elements increases, the upward repetitive member adjustments (if any) of assemblies constructed from these elements should decrease.
wood products used in new  residential construction u. s. and canada, with comparisons to 1997 and 2003.
the recovered wood utilization rate for wood pallets alone has increased from 2% in 1993 to 34% in 2000 and 38% in 2006.
based on underlying population growth, the demand for home building is expected to rebound but somewhat slowly until the overhang of unoccupied homes built in the former building surge is absorbed.
during its session scheduled for 12-16 october 2009, the unece timber committee  will hold a policy forum entitled 'the forest sector in the green economy'.
for this study, we chose in situ polymerization using the monomer 1,6-hexanediol dimethacrylate to enhance bending strength and stiffness.
title: an improved method for measuring the volume of large wooden  objects publication: forest prod.
abstract: the cellulosic feedstocks (see chapter 2) needed to  produce 20 billion gallons per year (bgy) of second-generation and other  renewable fuels can come from a wide variety of cropland and forestland  sources, including imports.
however, solar lumber kilns are not effective for large  portions of the calendar year in northern climates (due to cold winter  temperatures).
journal articles file size: 95 kb kb(s)
author(s) ince, peter j.; durbak, irene.
title: the hardwood chip market in 2004:
83-100 author(s) spelter view pdf » view publication information »
wood furniture industry  investments were $837 and $873 million for 1997 and 2002, respectively.
abstract: solid wood timber products provide important raw materials to the  construction, manufacturing, and shipping sectors of the u.s. economy.
for small  operations, there is a large amount of information available on solar kiln  design and operation.
category: research notes file size: 1.1 mb kb(s)
chargeout! is illustrated using representative data from a logging skidder; however, the methodology could be adapted to find charge-out rates or rates of return for any piece of capital equipment.
as such, compare can be useful to those who have only basic familiarity with investment analysis of wood and bark energy systems.
2009 june 15-18; oslo, norway: oslo, norway:  congress-conference as, wwww.congrex.no.
this figure does not include small portable or part-time operations.
abstract: this report presents information on trends in production, trade, consumption, and prices of forest product in the united states.
category: journal articles file size: 179 kb(s)
therefore, the challenge is finding a method that maintains polymer loading inside the wood structure during the curing process.
keywords: employment; forestry;  forest industry; forest recreation
since 1997 much of the industry forest land has been sold to timber management organizations and real estate investment trusts, so the share of stumpage revenues going to industry land owners has probably declined.
residual value (rv) estimates tended to vary from these at any given time.
market  developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log  trade, wood-based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, forest product  prices, and housing starts.
determining machine and capital equipment charge-out rates using discounted cash-flow analysis publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-171.
abstract: in recent years, we have received hundreds of requests for small scale lumber dry kiln plans from woodworking hobbyists.
title: recent developments in veneer peeling confront quality variables publication: panel world, may 1991, pp.
title: design and objectives of ftm-west model publication: in: fuels management-how to measure success: conference proceedings; 28-30 march 2006; portland, or; rocky mountain research station proceedings; rmrs-p-41 author(s) ince, spelter year: 2006 view pdf » view publication information »
ince, peter j. year: 1977 view pdf » view publication information »
j. volume 35, number 1,  33-35.
year-to-year variation in index values was found to be larger than year-to-year variation in most other weather parameters.
title: capacity, production, and manufacturing of woodbased panels in north america publication: gen. tech.
global warming potential was about  3 and 5 times greater, respectively.
view publication information » category: conference proceedings file size: 300 kb(s)
title: jmfa2-a graphically interactive java program that fits microfibril angle x-ray diffraction data publication: research paper fpl-rp-635.
the test results indicate that the glulam chord performed better than the older sawn stringer chord, even when a helper stringer was added.
the amount of as and cu leached was influenced by soil properties.
vol. 40, no. 12 (dec. 1999).:33-44 : ill. author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1999 view pdf »
hardwood log volume conversion to planed dry lumber of 43.7% was estimated.
in addition, each lead administrator was asked to provide advice about structural, managerial, and performance conditions that are considered necessary if a forest products research and development organization is to accomplish its mission.
results indicate biofuels could potentially provide between 5 and 10 percent of projected transportation fuel demand in the region with fuel price between $2.40 and $3.00 per gasoline gallon equivalence (gge) excluding local distribution costs and taxes.
abstract: the use of wood for energy -- including the burning of solid wood and black liquor from pulping -- has been growing at a rate significantly greater than that for all other uses such as lumber, pulp, or particleboard.
this new system of harvest estimation and index development is termed the harvest estimation system.
parameters in estimating  equations are determined from fuelwood use data for individual households from  a 1980-81 nationwide survey of 5,506 households.
despite the substantial yearly variation, regression  equations, with time (year) as the independent variable could be fit to the  scheffer index data.
all three concerns are  associated with potential biases in mfa estimates.
keywords: softwood timber prices, residual value, stumpage, delivered logs, lumber manufacturing costs
the cumulative effect of policy initiatives on biomass competition are discussed in the context of an emerging lake states bioeconomy.
year: 1993 view pdf »
financial support to improve the cost-competitiveness of wood energy with fossil fuels will be instrumental to sustaining growth in the sector.
in most ″regions″ the calculated time coefficient value for the regression equation was positive, indicating a 40-year trend toward increase in scheffer index value.
over the past 20 years, osb has largely taken over the sheathing portion of the market for structural panels.
abstract: a statistical analysis was performed that  identified time trends in the scheffer index value for 167 locations in the  conterminous united states over the period 1969-2008.
much of this material is indeed waste, but increasingly large shares are becoming valuable resources.
category: conference proceedings file size: 125 kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 332  kb(s)
keywords: forest products, forest products research, forest products institutes
publication: wood products used in residential repair and remodeling 1997.
as trees photosynthesize and  grow, carbon is removed from the atmosphere and stored in living tree biomass.
author(s) olsson, o.; hillring, b.; hartkamp, r.; skog, k.; spelter,  h.; ahuilar, f.; mabee, w.; gaston, c.; wahl, a. year:
geneva timber and forest study paper 27, pp 71-84; chapter8 author(s) ince, peter; akim, eduard; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas;  tolmatsova, anastasia year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
journal articles file size: 121 kb(s)
author(s) hatfield, cherilyn year: 2005 view pdf »
the current state of the u.s. economy is described.
only the  1-minute dip treatment showed a significant increase in both bending stiffness  and strength, with a weight gain of 11.9 percent.
therefore, to more realistically represent non-respondents, i applied the 68% factor to their capacities, modified by whatever information was available about downtime at specific mills during 2008.
category: journal articles file size: 693 kb(s)
volumes and harvest costs from two treatments on the 14 million acres of eligible federal lands are used as inputs to the fuel treatment market model for u.s. west (ftm-west) discussed in these proceedings.
primary mill data were collected per consortium on research for  renewable industrial materials (corrim) research guidelines.
abstract: it has been argued that repetitive member allowable  property adjustments should be larger for high-variability materials than for  low-variability materials.
[blacksburg, va.] : virginia polytechnic institute and state university, 2002: pages 157-182.
keywords: forests; sustainability; criteria and indicators; montreal process; forest managment; forest products industry; recreation; captial investment date posted: 12/16/10
publication: 2009 cofe conference: environmentally sound forest operations 32nd
keywords: wood products consumption, new residential construction, north american housing market, housing characteristics
title: a method countries can use to estimate changes in carbon stored in harvested wood products and the uncertainty of such estimates publication: environmental management.
38, no. 3 (july 2006): pages 439-449.
title: development of a  biorefinery optimized biofuel supply curve for the western united states publication: biomass and bioenergy, 34 (2010) 1597-1607.
title: repetitive member  factors for the allowable properties of wood products publication : us forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper  fpl-rp-657, 2010 author(s) verrill; steve p.; kretschmann;  david e.
category: research papers file size: 1,531 kb(s)
title: forest biomass and wood waste resources publication: chapter 3 in usdoe 2011.
globalization has accelerated structural change in the u.s. forest sector, favored survival of larger and more capital-intensive enterprises, and altered historical patterns of resource use.
category: journal articles title: resource potential of wood-based wastes in the united states publication : proc 2d biomass conference of the americas: energy, environment, agriculture, and industry; 1995 august 21-24; portland, or author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1995 view pdf »
abstract: the tamm/napap/atlas/areachange(tnaa) system and the forest and agriculture sector optimization model (fasom) are two large-scale forestry sector modeling systems that have been employed to analyze the u.s. forest resource situation.
forest resource economic: past, present, and future: proceedings of the 1988 southern forest economics workshop; 1988 may 4-6; orlando, fl. gainesville, fl: university of florida: 155-161 author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1988 view pdf » view publication information »
north american log markets, in contrast, function on different principles: in one principle, a profit allowance for the wood processor plays a role in timber pricing, whereas in the other it is a byproduct of the give-and-take of arms length market negotiations.
a rough estimate of the recycling rate (utilization rate) of post-consumer wood and paper into burning with energy generation is 15% to 20% for the period 1990 to 2006.
keywords: life-cycle inventory, hardwood lumber, southeastern us, lci, corrim, gate-to-gate, green building, manufacturing date posted: 01/20/12
increases in the annual amounts of carbon removed from the atmosphere and stored in forest products offset about half of the total value chain emissions.
category: journal articles file size: 189 kb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 47 kb kb(s)
abstract: certain issues in recent softwood lumber trade negotiations have centered on the method for converting estimates of timber volumes reported in cubic meters to board feet.
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis,  forest policy, consumption, production, imports, exports, forestry industry,  forestry trade, forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of  independent states, climate change, housing market, construction, timber, wood  industry, pulp and paper industry, wood fuels, certification, wood products,  tropical timber, forestry trade, sustainable forestry, sawnwood, sawn softwood,  hardwood, lumber, wood-based panels, particle board, fiberboard, fibreboard,  osb, mdf, plywood, paperboard, cardboard, woodpulp, pulpwood, sawlogs,  pulplogs, roundwood, industrial roundwood, value-added, wood energy, bioenergy,  biomass, fuelwood, certified forest products and carbon.
the tests were conducted with the sponsorship and cooperation of the association of american railroads to determine the vertical live load distribution characteristics of the superstructure.
keywords: technology transfer, wood utilization  research, knowledge diffusion, technology transfer strategies title: wood utilization research and product development capacity  in the united states: a review publication: staff paper series  number 207 : wood utilization resaerch and product development capacity in the  united states: a reviwe author(s) ellefson, p.v.; kilgore,  m.a.; skog, k.e. and risbrudt, c.d. year: 2010 view  pdf » view publication information »
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory; 1989: 12 pages author(s) spelter, henry year: 1989 view pdf » view publication information »
a major use of the data is tracking industry production and consumption trends over time.
abstract: carbon is continuously cycled among harvested wood products (hwp) in use, hwp in solid waste disposal sites and between forest ecosystems and the atmosphere as a result of biological processes in forests (e.g., photosynthesis, respiration, growth, mortality, decomposition, and disturbances such as fires or pest outbreaks) and anthropogenic activities (e.g., harvesting, thinning, clearing, and replanting).
category: general technical reports file size: 2020 kb(s)
abstract: small, rural forested communities have the economic need to develop a wood products industry to replace the loss of large sawmills and maintain forest health.
one of the major shifts occurring in the wood using industry over the last 2 years is that both production and consumption of roundwood per capita have been increasing.
the paper describes the evolution of overall capacities, effective capacity utilization, and manufacturing costs.
category: research papers file size: 3.1 mb kb(s)
keywords: timber supply, forest sector, forest resource assessment, plantation area
conceptually, research utilization can be viewed from multiple perspectives, including the haphazard diffusion of knowledge in response to vague and imprecise demands for information, scanning of multiple information sources by individuals and organizations searching for useful scientific knowledge, engagement of third parties to organize research results and communicate them to potential users, and ongoing and active collaboration between researchers and potential users of research.
abstract: this article documents cradle-to-gate life-cycle inventories for softwood lumber, hardwood lumber, and solid-strip hardwood flooring manufacturing from the inland northwest and the northeast - north central regions of the us.
publication: fpl-gtr-64, september 1989 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1989 view pdf »
economic prospects for the industry are clouded by overcapacity because of weakness in demand caused by a cyclical downturn in housing.
increasing volumes of the recovered paper are exported to china and other asian countries -5 million tons from europe and over 9 million tons from north america to china in 2006.
mills with their own fee timber also tended to operate at higher levels than those dependent on marketpurchases.
abstract: paper  and paperboard market conditions this decade have been less than spectacular,  thus affecting all industry segments, including recovered fiber utilization.
abstract: production capacities of all woodpulp mills in the united states are identified by location, ownership, and process type.
category: general technical reports file size: 277 kb kb(s)
in 2006, about 39 percent of all solid wood products consumed in the united states and 28 percent of all solid wood products consumed in canada were used for new residential construction (adair 2008, fao 2008, mckeever 2009).
journal articles file size: 258 kb kb(s)
the model solves sequentially the annual equilibria in wood markets from 1997 to 2004 and projects annual equilibria from 2005 to 2020 using detailed assumptions about future thinning programs and market trends.
cost data published by the american plywood association (apa) show moderating rates of increase by 1983.
reusing building materials has a distinct advantage over using newly manufactured materials because these reclaimed materials avoid greenhouse gas emissions associated with new (virgin) material manufacturing.
the data were collected from industry trade associations and government agencies.
publication: fpl-rn-313, june 2009 author(s) james l. howard; rebecca westby year: 2009 view pdf »
hemisphere : united states : where to cut?
abstract: transparent and credible environmental labeling of productsis vital for a sustainable future.
abstract: urban tree and woody yard residues are an important component of the municipal solid waste (msw) stream in the united states.
category: journal articles file size: 54 kb kb(s)
keywords: wood pellets; demand and supply; production capacity
forest resources also have alternative values in society because they produce other important services such as recreational, spiritual, environmental, or aesthetic services.
for example, with relatively abundant supplies of wood fiber in the east, there would be little likelihood of expansion of pulp or osb capacity in the west to use large volumes of small-diameter timber.
the moisture content at time of test was about 14 percent.
j., vol. 46, no. 7-8, july-aug. 1996, pp.29-36 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1996 view pdf »
agricultural experiment station) ;
export  share of production, over this same period, initially increased from 5% in 1965  to 16% in 1991 then decreased to 10% in 2006.
abstract: this paper explores the physical and economic potential to substitute anaerobically digested bovine biofiber (adbf) for wood in the making of particleboard.
50, no. 5 (may 2000).:p.
in three of the ten ″regions″, the time trend was moreover found to be statistically significant.
p. author(s) parker, nathan; tittmann, peter; hart, quinn;  lay, mui; cunningham, joshua; jenkins, bryan; nelson, richard; skog, ken;  milbrandt, anelia; gray, ed; schmidt, anneliese year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information »
recent objectives to increase the use of renewable fuels  have raised policy questions, with respect to the sustainability of managing  our forests as well as the impacts of how best to use wood from our forests.
title: pulp  and paper demand deteriorates as global economic crisis takes hold: markets for  paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2008-2009; chapter 8 publication : fpamr; forest products annual market review 2008-2009; 2009 author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard l.; lombard, bernard; parik,  thomas year: 2009 view pdf » view  publication information »
a year ago (mid-year 2008) economic conditions indicated markets and prices were peaking amid a slowing economy, rising input costs, and erosion of profits.
availability and pricing of timber and logs can be impacted by the positive or negative factors affecting the pulpwood and chip supply chain.
general technical reports file size: 190 kb kb(s)
machine rate models cannot be configured to replicate  chargeout!'s calculations.
within that limitation, however, it allows a wide range of options to be incorporated so as to customize the program to a variety of situations.
this increase is due largely to increased softwood lumber import share, which increased from 15% in 1965 to 38% in 2006.
however, analysis also suggests that forest sector markets could  be disrupted by expansion in wood energy if much higher levels of wood energy  consumption occur, or if projected recovery in housing demand and wood product  output does not occur, or if more restrictive constraints or higher costs are  imposed on wood residue utilization.
in: increasing feedstock production for biofuels.
abstract: the hardwood chip market is an important element ofwood fiber raw  material supply for the pulp and paper industry and other pulp-based products  such as fiberboard.
apa-- the engineered wood association, tacoma, wa.
data are provided through the end of the year 2009 with estimates for 2010 and forecasts for 2011.
the share of nonstructural panels used for construction fell from 68% to 43%, while increasing in manufacturing and other end uses.
the fiber structure is hollow and laminated,  with molecular layers and an integrated matrix.
abstract: we identify confusion in the literature about the definition and calculation of repetitive member factors.
norfolk with a combined floor area of nearly 17.3 million ft2.
abstract: quantities of paper and wood recovered for recycling in the united states were estimated for 1994, based on production and end-use data.
title: wood  products used in new residential construction u.s. and canada, with comparisons  to 1995, 1998 and 2003 publication: adair, craig; mckeever,  david b. 2009.
new york, geneva : unece/fao, 2002.
keywords: quercus rubra, wood moisture, moisture content, diffusion, algorithms, equations title: an inverse moisture diffusion algorithm for the determination of diffusion
abstract: this study compares prices from various timber market reports and an estimate of timber value derived from product-selling prices and manufacturing costs.
the structural 'fingerprint' of the cell wall produced by 2d13c-1h correlative nmr experiments is potentially unmatched by any other spectroscopy.
pieces (2 by 4s) ripped from pressed panels of edge-glued (edge-glued-and-rip [egar]) boards sawn from small ponderosa pine (pinus ponderosa) logs were evaluated for warp reduction.
finding new, simple, and inexpensive ways of increasing these strength properties would increase the use of this material for residential construction.
however the machine rate method, which is the costing methodology most frequently used, dates back to 1942.
abstract: finding the environmental impact of building materials is becoming  increasingly more important because of public environmental awareness.
gathering products in the forest can be dangerous, and there are reports in the media of people becoming lost or injured every year.
declining housing demand caused a decrease  in real prices for lumber and plywood be tween 1979 and 1980.
abstract: in  2008, the countries of the unece region accounted for about 55% of the world's  production and consumption of paper and paperboard, and they produce nearly  three fourths of the world's woodpulp, used to make paper and paperboard.
abstract: usda forest service capital investment in management infrastructure was $501 and $390 million (2005$) for 2005 and 2007, respectively.
in comparison, urban waste wood in the msw stream and the construction and demolition (c&d) of buildings and structures generated 63 million metric tons of waste wood, with 27 million metric tons remaining unused and deemed available for recovery.
[east lansing, mi] : michigan agricultural experiment station, 2006.
their organizational structures are seemingly scrambled with forest product research subunits located within larger parent organizations (with broad multisector research responsibilities) and specialized services to a single major group of clients.
keywords: asymptotic relative efficiency; experimental design; hodges-lehmann efficiency; linear models; mills' ratio; minimum detectable difference; noncentral f; normal tail; pitman efficiency; power; sample size.
wood energy will be an important topic during the forum.
the differences between  chargeout!
ill. author(s) spelter, henry.
title: modeling integrated biomass gasification business concepts publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research  paper, fpl-rp-660, 2011 author(s) peter j. ince; edward m.  (ted) bilek; mark a. dietenberger year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
parameters in estimating equations are determined from fuelwood use data for individual households from a 1980-81 nationwide survey of 5,506 households.
title: u.s. forest products annual  market review and propspects, 2006-2010 publication: usda  forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-rn-0315 author(s)
85-94; 2008 author(s) ince, peter j.;; akim, eduard l.; lombard, bernard year: 2008 view pdf »
over this same period, energy-related manufacturing emissions decreased by almost 9% even though forest products output increased by approximately 15%.
2-5 author(s) ince year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: pulp and paper markets in the unece region were influenced by higher energy prices and demand growth in asia in 2005 and 2006.
manhattan, ks: grain industry alliance. 2003.
title: adding biofuel/bioproduct capacity to existing u.s. mills part 2:
bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: sawmill industry, capacity utilization,ownership class, household formations date posted: 09/22/09
because mechanical thinning is costly, developing markets for removed wood as fuel for community energy applications is one way to support the economics of forest management while saving money for communities.
title: an outlook for sustainable forest bioenergy production in the lake states publication: energy policy 37(2009):5687-5693 author(s) dennis r. becker; kenneth skog; allison hellman; kathleen e. halvorsen; terry mace year: 2009 view pdf »
in one-third of these buildings, structural wood products were used in one or more major structural building applications, utilizing an estimated 11.6 million board feet of lumber, 0.4 million ft2 (3/8-in. basis) of structural panels, and 0.1 million ft2 (3/8-in. basis) of fiberboard.
likewise, the net roundwood harvest overseas associated with our net imports may decrease and remain stable through 2050.
keywords: bioenergy, forest biomass supply, sustainability,  review
cost analysis; decision support date posted: 08/19/09
spatial information  including feedstock resources, existing and potential refinery locations and a  transportation network model is provided to a mixed integer-linear optimization  model that determines the optimal locations, technology types and sizes of  biorefineries to satisfy a maximum profit objective function applied across the  biofuel supply and demand chain from site of feedstock production to the  product fuel terminal.
the challenge in the lumber dispute then is to devise a system of pricing in canada that is more transparent in regard to the underlying valuation of timber.
the u.s. pulp and paper sector exhibits fairly steady production and growth trends, but its economic fortunes have become intertwined with the bglobal cyclec of supply and demand.
1-16; 2010 author(s) ryan, michael g.; harmon, mark e.; birdsey, richard a.;  giardina, christian p.; heath, linda s.; houghton, richard a.; jackson, robert  b.; mckinley, duncan c.; morrison, james f.; murray, brian c.; pataki, diane  e.; skog, kenneth e.
p.40-46 author(s) bergman, richard d. year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information »
journal articles file size: 2760 kb(s)
lamlum can also be used to aid in payroll and employment planning.
category: journal articles file size: 798 kb(s)
in 2001 these lands provided $95 million of revenue (2005$) mostly from industrial timber harvest or 0.4% of the u.s. total 1997 stumpage revenue of $22 billion (2005$).
they occupy 48% of the commercial forestland, hold 63% of the region's softwood growing stock, and contribute 48% of its net annual growth.
abstract: several analyses have shown that fire hazard is a concern for substantial areas of forestland, shrubland, grassland, and range in the western united states.
conference proceedings file size: 665 kb(s)
for a particleboard operation, the opportunity for fiber diversification and the incorporation of post-industrial waste in the process offer strategic advantages.
empirical evidence suggests that various types of programs can promote technology transfer (venture capital, angel investors, business incubators, extension services, tax incentives, and in-house entites), the fundamental effectiveness of which depends on research results that are scientifically valid and consistent with the information needs of potential users.
keywords: forest products, canada, united states, statistics, timber, prices, timber, valuation, forest products industry, economic aspects, stumpage prices, timber sales, logs, mensuration, foreign trade regulation
currently, this wood the basal area of yellow-cedar is dead on is primarily used for firewood.
material was bonded at high moisture content (mc) to simulate lumber freshly sawn from water-saturated logs and examine potentia1 mc effects on wood-woodbonding.
conference proceedings file size: 581  kb(s)
title: dehumidification drying for small woodworking firms and hobbyists building your own lumber dry kiln with local building materials publication: uw ext.
the model is both automated and flexible.
tree size directly influences market value and harvest cost per unit volume of wood; log size influences product yield, production capacity, and processing costs at sawmills and plywood mills.
however the machine rate method, which is the costing methodology most  frequently used, dates back to 1942.
view pdf » view publication information »
estimate outputs are based on inputs from established models such as timber cut (tcut) and historical wood products production data collected and compiled by the forest inventory and analysis (fia) program and the u.s. forest service forest products laboratory.
processing the propellers at a lower equilibrium moisture content would minimize shrinkage during long-term storage.
biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 187 and 65.1  kg/m3, respectively, were estimated.
many possible composite products can be made using wheat fibers including structural (using thermosetting resins) and nonstructural (using either a thermosetting or thermoplastic resin) materials, geotextiles and molded products (using fiber mats prepared by physical entanglement, nonwoven needling, or thermoplastic fiber-melt matrix technologies), sorbents and filters (for removing pollutants from contaminated air, water, and/or soil), packaging, and in products in combination of other resources.
category: research papers file size: 934 kb(s)
resources derive value from their utility in producing goods or services, but utility varies among different fiber resources and utility varies as technology and product demands shift over time.
one way to lower costs is to reduce loss because of warp on lumber sawn from these small logs.
author(s) skog, k. view pdf »  view publication information »
building materials are often evaluated not only on the basis of mean strength but also on relative variability.
total projected demand of 5.7 million dry tonnes, based on current and announced industry capacity, exceeds estimates of biomass availability, which suggests that anticipated growth in the forest-based bio economy may be constrained.
title: hampton sets pace for third year : sawmill in willamina fights off challengers for highest producer publication: timber processing.
192-201;2011 author(s) bergman, richard; taylor, adam year: 2011 view pdf »
the model is also presented as a working computer program.
abstract: at times in history, there have been concerns that demand for wood (timber) would be greater than the ability to supply it, but that concern has recently dissipated.
salary of full-time permanent employees in state forestry agencies in 1998, for entry level foresters, ranged from $48,000 for the pacific coast, $39,000 in the north, $35,000 for the rocky mountains, and $28,000 for the south (all in 2005$).
a cubic meter of  planed dry hardwood lumber stores 1.17 mg co2 equivalents as a final product.
title: substitution publication: timber processing; march 1998, p 36-42 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1998 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles title: taking inventory of woody residuals publication : biocycle.
analysis model were linked to project future market scenarios for pulpwood supply from agricultural short-rotation woody crops in the united states.
category: research papers file size: 4.4 mb kb(s)
supplementary statistical tables may be found on the market information service website within the unece timber committee and fao european forestry commission website at www.unece.org/timber.
title: estimating woody biomass supply from thinning treatments to reduce fire hazard in the u.s. west (please note : the fte tool referenced in this publication is no longer available.)
abstract: transfer of technologies produced by research is critical  to innovation within all organizations.
category: journal articles file size: 462 kb kb(s)
journal  articles file size: 300 kb(s)
included are many, and varied repair and remodeling activities and projects, some of which require substantial amounts of wood products, some of which do not.
the program should not be confused with a linear program-based optimization model.
you may re-sort the listing by: title, category, date posted -or- publication year.
there are a number of factors driving these market changes including economic conditions domestically and internationally.
category: journal articles file size: 509 kb(s)
using extensions of methods suggested by the ipcc and a software model called woodcarb ii in microsoft excel, this paper presents estimates of the u.s. hwp contribution to annual greenhouse gas removals in the agriculture, forestry, land use, and land use change sector.
title: u.s. forest  products annual market review and prospects, 1999-2000 publication : fpl-rn-0278 12/00
category: journal articles file size: 377 kb kb(s)
the largest 200 of these, ranked mostly according to 2002 production, are displayed in the table on the ensuing pages.
abstract: part i of this paper identifies timberland areas in 12 western states where thinning treatments are judged to be needed to reduce fire hazard and may 'pay for themselves'' at a scale to make investment in forest product processing a realistic option.
title: bf into cubic meters publication: timber processing.
combining announcements of closures and curtailments with mill capacities enables the creation of accurate forward-looking assessments of lumber supply 1 to 2 months into the future.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory: 18 pages author(s) verrill, steve p.; herian, victoria l.; spelter, henry n. year: 2004 view pdf »
abstract: in 2008, the countries of the unece region accounted for about 55% of the world's production and consumption of paper and paperboard, and they produce nearly three fourths of the world's woodpulp, used to make paper and paperboard.
results indicate that expansion in wood energy consumption across the range of scenarios may have little impact on u.s. forest sector markets because most of the expansion can be supplied by logging residues that are presently not being utilized and also mill residues that will increase in supply with projected expansion in wood product output in the decades ahead.
title: long range fiber supply and demand in north america publication :
author(s) alig, ralph j.; adams, darius m.; mccarl, bruce a.; ince, peter j. year: 2000 view pdf »
data updating  previous studies are shown for sawlog stumpage, delivered sawlogs, and lumber;  pulpwood stumpage, delivered pulpwood, and woodpulp; and delivered veneer logs  and plywood.
category: journal articles file size: 181 kb kb(s)
keywords: timber, wood, supply, demand, real prices date  posted: 02/07/11
originally developed to model the north american pulp and paper industry, fpl-pelps follows its predecessors in allowing the modeling of any appropriate sector to predict consumption, production and capacity by technology, and trade within or among several regions or countries.
(2001) author(s) alig, ralph ; adams, darius ; mills, john ; haynes, richard ; ince, peter ; moulton, robert.
the fiber structure is hollow and laminated, with molecular layers and an integrated matrix.
view excel - datasets » view publication information »
view excel lsy 3.01 » view publication information »
keywords: pulp, paper, paperboard, market trends, europe, north america date posted: 11/20/09
this includes, for example,  building infrastructure to produce and use carbon-neutral woodbased fuels.
increasing fossil fuel costs provide incentive for lower-cost wood-based fuels.
the wood pellet industry and use of wood pellets as energy are in their relative infancy in north america and the recent growth of both has been fueled by increases in the cost of fossil energy.
keywords: softwood sawmill capacity, lumber, market review
p. author(s) spelter, henry year: 1990 view pdf » view publication information »
category: journal articles file size: 63 kb kb(s)
33 pages author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted); hunt, john f. year: 2006 view pdf »
title: the decline and fall of type ii error rates publication:
the research reported here helps quantify an important segment of the wood products industry in the u.s. economy.
nilsson et al (1999)) have questioned the adequacy of southern timber supplies to meet projected demands, which are projected to increase by about 25 percent over the next two decades.
category: general technical reports file size: 529 kb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 218 kb kb(s)
in north america trends show a continued strong performance for the wood-based panel sector in 1999 reaching 55.6 million m3.
results indicate biofuels could  potentially provide between 5 and 10 percent of projected transportation fuel  demand in the region with fuel price between $2.40 and $3.00 per gasoline  gallon equivalence (gge) excluding local distribution costs and taxes.
the high rate of mortality appears wood from live cedar trees.
the issues  surrounding raw materials for this industry play an important role in affecting  timber and log purchases, logging contractors and sawmill operations throughout  the hardwood industry, particularly in the southern region.
category: research papers file size: 3,700 kb(s)
2008 author(s) cumming, anne buckelew; twardus, daniel b.; hoehn, robert; nowak, david j.; mielke, manfred; rideout, richard; butalla, helen; lebow, patricia year: 2008 view pdf »
keywords: dehumidificaiton drying, small woodworking, hobbyist title: small-scale lumber drying using wood gasification
bergman, richard d. year: 2007 view pdf »
author(s) mckeever, david b.; adair, craig; o'connor, jennifer year: 2005 view pdf »
the process models encompass biomass preparation, gasification,  heat recovery, and syngas cleanup, along with the options of converting syngas  to biofuel feedstocks via a fischer-tropsch gas-to-liquid (gtl) process, the  use of syngas or gtl tail gas for process heat energy, and the option of added  process energy equipment, including turbines and generators.
keywords: charge-out rate, break-even analysis, capital equipment costing, machine rate, depreciation, inflation, discounted cash-flow analysis, industrial equipment, costs, cash-flow analysis
material flow and energy type and use were identified  for hardwood sawmills in the northeastern united states.
production and consumption of pulp and paper declined in both the united states and canada in 2005, but the production decline was much greater for canada (-4.5%) than the united states (-0.8%).
title: wood products used in the construction of low-rise nonresidential buildings in the united states, 2008 publication : mckeever, david 2010.
this report provides the documentation for lamlum.
a full, detailed presentation of this analysis will take place during the special bridge session linking tappi's 2008 engineering, pulping and environmental conference with its 2008 international bioenergy and bioproducts conference being conducted as back-to-back events at the same venue in portland, or, aug. 24-27 and aug. 27-29, respectively.
this tool simulates treatments to reduce forest fire hazard to specific target levels and identifies the volume of biomass removed, harvesting costs, and estimated biomass revenue.
category: research papers file size: 1406 kb(s)
some of the data show this shift.
33-38; 2008 author(s) belin, tom; brown, craig; connor, eric; federick, jim; ince,  peter;katofsky, ryan; closset, gerard year: 2008 view  pdf » view publication information »
[2001]: pages 15-18 author(s) verrill, steve year: 2001 view pdf » view publication information »
laboratory tests indicated that replacement of one-half the wood in particleboard with adbf produced panels that compared favorably to the requirements for commercial particleboard performance (specified by ansi standard a208.1-1999).
a key finding is that projected future trends in u.s. consumption, production, and net trade in forest products are heavily influenced by assumptions about future expansion in u.s. and global wood energy demands.
doi:10.1016/j.biombioe.2010.06.007 author(s) parker, nathan;  tittmann, peter; hart, quinn; nellson, richard; skog, ken; schmidt, anneliese;  gray, edward; jenkins, bryan year: 2010 view pdf  » view publication information »
roadside price is the price a buyer pays for wood chips at a roadside in the forest, at a processing mill location in the case of mill residue, or at a landfill for urban wood wastes prior to any transport and preprocessing to the end-use location.
the vastly greater deterioration, as measured by weight loss, in mississippi compared to alaska (60 and 10 percent after 4 years, respectively) was attributed to warmer temperatures, a longer growing season, and perhaps the presence of termites.
journal articles file size: 75 kb kb(s)
consumption excluding fuelwood  increased steadily between 1965 and 2006, from 12.3 to 18.8 billion cubic feet.
wallingford, uk : cabi publishing, 2002:
existing process heat and power loads tend to favor integration at existing pulp mills.
title: gradual upturn underway in paper, paperboard and woodpulp markets
this assessment  will assist the governors individually and collectively as they develop  bioenergy policies.
keywords: pulpwood, wood fiber, supply, demand, projections title: wood -based panels- supply, trade and consumption
abstract: preliminary figures of wood-based panels consumption in europe show a small increase in 1999 to 52.1 million m3 a new record level.
other soft maples are boxelder (acer negundo) and big leaf maple (acer macrophyllum), but they are not commonly found as commercial items in the northeast and lake states.
the third concern is associated with the fact that the  variance approach was not designed to handle tilt in the fiber orientation.
keywords: bioenergy, biomass, builders  joinery, carbon, cardboard, carpentry, certification, certified forest  products, climate change, china, construction, consumption, engineered wood  products, ewp, exports, fiberboard, fibreboard, forest products markets,  forestry industry, forestry statistics, fuelwood, furniture, housing market,  imports, lumber, market analysis, mdf, osb, paperboard, particle board,  particleboard, plywood, production, pulp and paper industry, pulplogs,  pulpwood, redd, roundwood, sawlogs, sawn hardwood, sawn softwood, sawnwood,  sustainable forestry, timber, tropical timber, wood energy, wood fuels, wood  industry, wood pellets, wood products, wood-based panels, woodpulp
among our respondents they ranged from 17 to 107% with an average of 72% (figure 1).
journal  articles file size: 121 kb(s)
abstract: the purpose of this chapter is to describe the reasons for the development of ict and e-business systems in the paper and paperboard packaging industry and to discuss future scenarios that may serve to guide forest- sector research in this topical area.
abstract: the goal of this study  was to find the environmental impact of hardwood lumber production through a  gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory (lci) on hardwood sawmills in the northeast  and northcentral (ne/nc) united states.
this region encompassed northern new england, the northern portion of the great lakes region, the upper mississippi valley, northern minnesota, and the eastern part of north dakota.
abstract: the main factor influencing demand for panels in north america has  been the slowdown in economic growth owing to interest rate increases in the  united states in 2000.
title: computer model for economic study of unbleached kraft paperboard production
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2001-2004
these sawmills had a combined capacity of 189 million m3 (80 billion bf), employed about 99,000, produced about 172 million m3 (nominal, 73 billion bf) of lumber, and in the process consumed about 280 million m3 of wood.
exploiting the dispersion of 2d (and even 3d) nmr allows strikingly detailed structural analysis of the wall components without the need for isolation and fractionation.
abstract: the model chargeout! was developed to determine charge-out rates or rates of return for machines and capital equipment.
title: assessment of north america softwood sawmilling capacity publication: fpl rip-4851-001 author(s) spelter, h. year: 2005 view pdf »
view excel - worksheet » view publication information »
this year, however, that approach was unreliable because operating rates varied widely.
the functional form of the diffusion coefficient as well as the boundary conditions at the surfaces are not known a priori.
keywords: government policies, renewable energy, wood, energy markets
title: environmental impact of producing hardwood lumber using life-cycle inventory publication :
the u.s. forest products  module (usfpm) was created to enhance the modeling of the u.s. forest sector  within the global forest products model (gfpm), providing a more detailed  representation of u.s. regional timber supply and wood residue markets.
keywords: projections, united states, forest products, roundwood requirements, trade.
at a target price of $2.40/gge, forest biomass could supply an estimated 11 million oven dry tons per year, or about 9 percent of total feedstock supplied.
abstract: the lack of data about employment in a number of categories indicates that we do not have full understanding of employment associated with forestry.
category: journal articles file size: 511 kb kb(s)
title: using reclaimed  lumber and wood flooring in construction: measuring environmental impact using  life-cycle inventory analysis publication: proceedings of the  international convention of society of wood science and technology and author(s) bergman, richard d.; gu, hongmei; falk, robert h.; napier,  thomas r. year: 2010 view pdf » view  publication information »
abstract: land-use change and forestry is the major category featuring carbon  sequestration in the annual us greenhouse gas inventory, required by the united  nations framework convention on climate change.
only the 1-minute dip treatment showed a significant increase in both bending stiffness and strength, with a weight gain of 11.9 percent.
abstract: large amounts of woody residues and solid wood waste are generated annually in the united states from the extraction of timber from forests, from forestry cultural operations, in the conversion of forest land to nonforest uses, in the initial processing of roundwood timber into usable products, in the construction and demolition of buildings and structures, and in the manufacture, use, and disposal of solid wood products in the municipal solid waste stream (msw).
abstract: a resource assessment and biorefinery siting optimization model was developed and implemented to assess potential biofuel supply across the western united states from agricultural, forest, urban, and energy crop biomass.
the test spans measured approximately 4.1 m (13.5 ft) center-to-center of supports and included two closely bpackedc chords, each consisting of four timber stringers (one test span included an additional helper stringer added to one chord).
supplementary statistical tables may be found on the market  information service website within the unece timber committee and fao european  forestry commission website at www.unece.org/timber.
stated istinctions in biomass harvest guidelines and the propensity for  third-party forest certification will be critical in providing environmental  safeguards.
the procedure for estimating roundwood equivalent of roundwood products is to calculate the 'roundwood equivalent' of solid wood products using recovery factors estimated from mill studies over the years.
in this article, we review many recent research findings on carbon impacts across all stages of processing from cradle-to-grave, based on life cycle accounting, which is necessary to understand the carbon interactions across many different carbon pools.
europe produces slightly more paper and paperboard than north america but less woodpulp, with european producers relying more on recycled fibre than producers in north america.
in: abt, robert c., ed.
title: statistical analysis of influence of soil source on leaching of arsenic and copper from cca-c treated wood publication: wood and fiber science.
recent objectives to increase the use of renewable fuels have raised policy questions, with respect to the sustainability of managing our forests as well as the impacts of how best to use wood from our forests.
background tables provide supporting data.
and  north central united states publication: wood and fiber  science, 42(corrim special issue), 2010, pp.
category: journal articles file size: 630 kb(s)
at current avoided- cost electricity prices in oregon, it would not be economical to operate a small-scale (100-kw) biomax without a subsidy or tax credit, even if fuel were delivered to the plant at a forest landing at no cost.
to offset current net imports of forest products would require 14% more than current harvest be provided for domestic use by redirecting harvest used for exports or by increasing harvest.
abstract: there is increasing interest in preservative pressure-treatment of framing lumber to prevent attack by decay fungi and insects.
there are many different kiln designs including solar, dehumidification, direct or indirect fired, and vacuum kilns.
some calculations are clearly specified in the standard; in some cases the standard merely indicates a need to make an adjustment but does not specify how to do so.
title: wood energy markets, 2010-2011 chapter 9 publication: forest products annual market review, 2010-2011, united  nations geneva, 2011.
activities that contribute to helping forests adapt to the effects of climate change, and which also complement forest carbon storage strategies, would be prudent.
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information »
confidence bounds and hypothesis tests for normal distribution coefficients of variation.
keywords: small-diameter timber, small-diameter trees, small trees, wood post, guardrails title: procedures for developing allowable properties for a single species under astm d1990 and computer programs useful for the calculations publication : gen. tech.
pages 1555-1568 author(s) liu, jen y.; simpson, william t.; verrill, steve p. year: 2001 view pdf »
increasingly, research has evolved (often relying on computer-based models) to increase understanding of consumer demands, producer behavior, landowner behavior, and conditions of the timber resource.
abstract: this chapter provides estimates of forest biomass and wood waste  quantities, as well as roadside costs (i.e., supply curves) for each county in  the contiguous united states (see text box 3.1).
this paper highlights assumptions  and key findings related to the wood-fiber demand and supply outlook.
this paper summarizes capacity growth in various wood-based panels: southern pine plywood, oriented strandboard, medium density fiberboard, and particleboard.
category: journal articles file size: 239 kb(s)
abstract: as of december 31, 2000, there were 603 buildings at naval station (navsta)
the log scales currently in use to estimate lumber recovery from roundwood, however, were created in the 19th century according to sawmill technology, timber resource and lumber sizes used at the time.
in roundwood equivalents, imports of wood and paper products as a share of consumption increased from 13% to 30% between 1965 and 2005.
the program is most useful in estimating precisely the economic impact of changes in physical parameters of the process, changes in technology, or changes in related prices.
madison, wi : forest products society, c2008.
the first concern is associated with the approximation of the  variance of an x-ray intensity half-profile by a function of the mfa and the  natural variability of the mfa.
the northwest region accounted for over 70 percent of the timber volume and more than 85 percent of revenue, followed by the lake states at 13.5 percent of the timber volume and over 7 percent of revenue.
these data are intended for use by anyone associated with wood-using industries.
increasing the extent, frequency, and reliability of systems to monitor global  natural resources is one important aspect of meeting this goal.
journal  articles file size: 820 kb(s)
james l. howard; enrique quevedo; andrew kramp year: 2009 view pdf »
abstract: the construction of new single family, multifamily, and manufactured housing is an important market for wood products in both the united states and canada.
the values and volumes of  wood product exports and imports are important because of the increasing  importance of global markets in determining prices in domestic markets, the  sustainable use of domestic resources, and the profitability of domestic  industries.
in 2002, an estimated 240 million metric tons was generated during the extraction of timber from the nation's forests, from forestry cultural operations, in the conversion of forest land to nonforest uses, in the initial processing of roundwood timber into usable products, in the construction and demolition of buildings and structures, and in the manufacture, use, and disposal of solid wood products.
title: using reclaimed lumber and wood flooring in construction: measuring environmental impact using life-cycle inventory analysis publication: proceedings of the international convention of society of wood science and technology and author(s) bergman, richard d.; gu, hongmei; falk, robert h.; napier, thomas r. year: 2010 view pdf »
title: government policies increasingly promote renewable energy sources: wood  energy markets in the unece region, 2009-2010 publication: in:  forest products annual market review, 2009-2010.
big production numbers in 2005, such as those posted by the hampton affiliates sawmill in willamina, ore., may be tamed in 2006 publication: timber processing.
a survey of reported data on higher heating values for various species of wood and bark fuels is provided.
further, because this tool reflects the underlying physics more accurately than existing tools, we expect it to yield more accurate estimates of mfa.
107-110 author(s) klungness, john h.; evans, james w.
increasing the extent, frequency, and reliability of systems to monitor global natural resources is one important aspect of meeting this goal.
the european pulp and paper industry is deeply involved with the implementation of the lisbon agenda to improve the competitiveness of european industry, for instance, through the drafting of a strategic research agenda.
in  each subregion, usfpm models timber stumpage markets for four categories of  timber, including hardwood and softwood sawtimber and hardwood and softwood  non-sawtimber.
this paper reports the results in the development of historical and projected estimates of timber harvest.
collapse was noted in some specimens treated with heated bc and dot solutions.
other markets for solid sawn timbers are smaller than that for railroad ties, and timbers in these markets will also face competition from other materials.
buildings with five or more stories are normally severely restricted by  building code from being wood framed.
the intent of this paper is to take  stock of the conceptual underpinnings of technology transfer processes as they  relate to wood utilization research and to identify conditions that promote the  successful transfer of research results.
33-38; 2008 author(s) belin, tom; brown, craig; connor, eric; federick, jim; ince, peter;katofsky, ryan; closset, gerard year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information »
author(s) bergman, richard d. bowe, scott a. year: 2008 view pdf »
likewise, roof rafters and joists have been supplanted by less wood-intensive trusses.
author(s) ince view pdf » view publication  information »
flooring in  the eastern united states.
paper and paperboard tariffs were set to disappear by the year 2004 and are at zero according to gatt (uruguay round of 1994), but punitive tariffs and an array of non-tariff barriers still exist, sometimes arising from trade disputes with a scope wider than the sector itself.
investments in publically implemented projects were in the range of $110 to $120 million, while, by some estimates, investments in projects sponsored by private concerns exceeded $2.5 billion in the same year.
title: status and trends of u.s. pulpwood market publication :
after its primary use, a growing percentage of this paper and paperboard is recovered and recycled.
author(s) ince, peter j; mckeever, david b. year: 1995 view pdf » view publication information »
high global energy prices pushed up costs of production and prices for pulp, paper and paperboard, with price increases absorbed by relatively strong global market demands.
47 p. author(s) mckeever, david b. view pdf » view publication  information »
view excel - datasets »
in 2001 these lands provided $95  million of revenue (2005$) mostly from industrial timber harvest or 0.4% of the  u.s. total 1997 stumpage revenue of $22 billion (2005$).
this can result in asymmetric supply responses in weak markets, to the detriment of u.s. producers.
of the sawdust and shavings, 59% were used for boards, 25% for fuel, 7% for animal bedding, 4% for pellets, and about 5% were unused or unaccounted for.
the downturn was most severe for graphic papers and significant also for packaging paper and board, while tissue and sanitary paper markets were only modestly affected.
keywords: composites; wheat straw; bio fiber
we also describe stochastic simulation methods for financial risk assessment, and we present results of sensitivity analysis and stochastic simulation for investment in a biomass-to-liquid-fuel concept at an existing pulp mill, based on plausible but hypothetical process data and stochastic price projections.
flooring in the eastern united states.
an understanding of market factors can aid those involved in paper recycling as they look forward to 2003 and beyond.
category: journal articles file size: 377 kb(s)
properly designed and analyzed, they can reduce necessary sample sizes, increase statistical power, and reduce the lengths of confidence intervals.
keywords: softwood, sawlogs, metric conversion factors, average diameters
keywords: bioenergy, biomass, builders joinery, carbon, cardboard, carpentry,  certification, certified forest products, climate change, china, construction,  consumption, engineered wood products, ewp, exports, fiberboard, fibreboard,  forest products markets, forestry industry, forestry statistics, fuelwood,  furniture, housing market, imports, lumber, market analysis, mdf, osb,  paperboard, particle board, particleboard, plywood, production, pulp and paper  industry, pulplogs,pulpwood, redd, roundwood, sawlogs, sawn hardwood, sawn  softwood, sawnwood, sustainable forestry, timber, tropical timber, wood energy,  wood fuels, wood industry, wood pellets, wood products, wood-based panels,  woodpulp date posted: 10/23/11
conceptually, research utilization can  be viewed from multiple perspectives, including the haphazard diffusion of  knowledge in response to vague and imprecise demands for information, scanning  of multiple information sources by individuals and organizations searching for  useful scientific knowledge, engagement of third parties to organize research  results and communicate them to potential users, and ongoing and active  collaboration between researchers and potential users of research.
journal articles file size: 855 kb(s)
madison, wi: u.s. dept. of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory, 2003.
the results from this and several related studies indicate that heartwood from dead alaska yellow- cedar trees is suitable for many indoor and outdoor applications long after tree death, but wood from live or dead cedar trees does not perform particularly well in contact with soil.
it has continued and we are now seeing  more robust market conditions in 2010 and early 2011.
abstract: this  two-part analysis of the most feasible and effective urxwhv ior the pulp and  paper and forest products industry to add energy, biofuels and biobased  chemicals to wkhlu hxsting product streams was conducted by the american forest  & paper association's agenda 2020 technology alliance.
its forest products laboratory in madison, wisconsin does research to estimate the types and amounts generated, and what portion of those tonnages are available for recovery.
title: strategic and tactical fuel treatment evaluationtools publication :
abstract: the ftm-west ('fuel treatment market' model for u.s. west) is a dynamic partial market equilibrium model of regional softwood timber and wood product markets, designed to project future market impacts of expanded fuel treatment programs that remove trees to reduce fire hazard on forestlands in the u.s. west.
keywords: desorption, inverse method, moisture, wood
keywords: forest products; market modeling; wood energy scenarios date posted: 03/21/11
within the gfpm framework of global forest product markets and trade, usfpm models aggregate u.s. forest product demands and regional forest product production, timber harvest, and timber stumpage markets in three u.s. subregions:
european sawnwood exports to japan reached record levels in 2003.
plywood production was 20.1 billion square feet in 1985 before falling to 17.9 billion square feet in 1997.
title: government policies increasingly promote renewable energy sources: wood energy markets in the unece region, 2009-2010 publication: in: forest products annual market review, 2009-2010.
resources include land resources (plants, animals, and minerals), labor, capital, and entrepreneurship.
however, solar lumber kilns are not effective for large portions of the calendar year in northern climates (due to cold winter temperatures).
keywords: epd, environmental product declaration, environmental labeling, iso, lca, life cycle assessment, transparency, green-washing date posted: 09/23/11
james l. howard; david b. mckeever year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: structural panel industry capacity, oriented strandboard, plywood, employment, concentration ratios, resin use, wood use, historical evolution, end-use demand, panels, plywood industry
publication: proceedings of the 2000 society of american foresters national convention, washington, dc, november 16-20, 2000.
to obtain such large offsets in the united states would require a combination of afforesting up to one-third of cropland or pastureland, using the equivalent of about one-half of the gross annual forest growth for biomass energy, or implementing more intensive management to increase forest growth on one-third of forestland.
year: 2003 view pdf »
our study surveyed five engineered wood flooring manufacturers in the eastern us.
email you are here: fpl home / research / units / economics and statistics research / publications - listing publications - listing below are the 286 associated publications with this unit sorted by date-posted.
this chapter describes how assumptions about globalization and trade influenced model results, using examples of recent rpa timber assessments.
author(s) durbak, irene; skog, ken.
conference proceedings file size: 425 kb(s)
27 p. author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted); skog, kenneth e.; fried, jeremy; christensen, glenn year: 2005 view pdf »
author(s) bergman, richard; maker, timothy m. year: 2007 view pdf » view publication information » category: general technical reports file size: 917 kb kb(s) abstract: to reduce the risk of catastrophic fires, the usda forest service and its partners are developing practical, economic uses for forest thinnings from national forests and state and private lands in western states.
keywords: research projects, commercial products, testing, forest products, research, research institutes, directories, performance standards, review article, management, policies, programs, forest products laboratories, product testing
614-620 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1995 view pdf »
publication: research note fpl-rn-0302.
67-78 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2010 view  pdf » view publication information »
the stock change estimate has increased because it explicitly includes c in increasing net imports of wood and paper products.
recoverability is defined as total waste gen-erated, less amounts currently recovered, combusted or considered unusable.
abstract: carbon is continuously cycled among harvested wood products (hwp) in use,  hwp in solid waste disposal sites and between forest ecosystems and the  atmosphere as a result of biological processes in forests (e.g.,  photosynthesis, respiration, growth, mortality, decomposition, and disturbances  such as fires or pest outbreaks) and anthropogenic activities (e.g.,  harvesting, thinning, clearing, and replanting).
they are intended for use by forest land managers, forest industries, trade associations, forestry schools, renewable resource organizations, individuals in the major timber producing and consuming countries of the world, and the general public.
keywords: timber pricing, subsidy, elasticity of price transmission, forest products industry, economic aspects, canada, statistics, lumber trade, timber, valuation, prices, softwoods title: impact of changing solid wood products technology on timber values publication: economic & social development:
the analysis shows that while softwood plywood has reached maturity and is at present in a declining phase, particle board is still a mature product osb and mdf, on the contrary, are new products with rapid market penetration and are substituting other wood products.
keywords: production, sustainability,  consumption date posted: 05/02/11
on the basis of estimates of heavy wood energy use relative to other uses for wood, and estimates of continuing high costs for fossil fuels, we suggest here the feasibility of meeting the demand for fuelwood through small-scale cooperatives.
category: general technical reports file size: 590 kb kb(s)
abstract: corrupt pdf rendering keywords: uneven-aged, loblolly pine, hardwoods, south, silviculture, economics, linear programming, simulation, biometrics title: recycling of wood and paper products in the united states publication: gen. tech.
the short-rotation woody crop production causes reallocation of existing forest lands across forest species types and ownerships.
one way to lower costs is to reduce loss  because of warp on lumber sawn from these small logs.
abstract: this study summarizes the environmental performance of prefinished engineered wood flooring using life-cycle inventory (lci) analysis.
at optimum operating  condtions, a net cleaning due of $129/metric ton was obtained for a flat disc,  compared to a measured $l25/meuic ton for the indented disc.
finally we discuss lessons learned and points to consider when deciding the type of technology projection methods to use.
category: journal articles file size: 312 kb kb(s)
in the past decade, wood residues declined in supply while use of recycled paper increased rapidly.
the wood  supply and demand situation has changed because of market transitions, economic  downturns, and continued forest growth.
half of all the buildings and three-fourths of all wood buildings pre-date 1950.
title: lsy: documentation for a spreadsheet tool to evaluate log-sort yard economics publication : fpl-gtr-184, june 2009 author(s) e.m.
this has contributed to volatile pricing and narrow profit margins within the past 3 years, a condition aggravated by the dispute over canadian lumber imports.
however, in 2008 an estimated 400 to 500 wood utilization research projects were implemented by 150 to 200 federal, state and private entities.
increasing participation in forest-based recreation suggests increases in forest-based recreation jobs.
abstract: the purpose of this chapter is to discuss forestry implications of srwc based on an economic analysis.
extensive screenshots from the program are presented in this documentation.
up-front and annual costs are important, but overall profitability is not quite as sensitive to these costs as it is to the previously mentioned variables.
central and eastern european countries' exports of paper and paperboard grew more than in the other unece subregions, boosted by successful preparations for eu accession and investments in capacity by global pulp and paper industries.
keywords: reclaimed  building material, wood flooring, framing lumber, life-cycle inventory, lci,  life-cycle assessment, lca, reuse title: concerns about a variance approach to the x-ray diffractometric  estimation of microfibril angle in wood publication: usda  forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper fpl-rp-658, 2010 author(s) verrill; steve p.; kretschmann; david e.; herian;  victoria l.; wiemann; michael; alden; harry a. year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
view publication information » category: research notes file size: 568 kb(s)
the issue of economics is vital to the debate about fire management, and this paper presents market implications of two alternative silvicultural strategies, even-aged and uneven-aged thinning.
beyond general reasons for the development of ict and e-business systems, the chapter focuses on ict and e-business developments that are unique to the packaging industry, for instance, the ongoing development of 'active' or 'intelligent' packaging systems.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory: 13 pages author(s) verrill, steve year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information » category: research papers file size: 426 kb kb(s)
all three of these ″regions&prime were moist, with  annual precipitation exceeding 20 inches (≈ 510 mm).
although the surface-application approach used less monomer, the physical properties of the juvenile wood did not increase as expected.
they offer a wide range of services to clients yet have complex ownership and partnering arrangements.
salary of full-time permanent employees in state forestry agencies in  1998, for entry level foresters, ranged from $48,000 for the pacific coast,  $39,000 in the north, $35,000 for the rocky mountains, and $28,000 for the  south (all in 2005$).
although reviews of research investments such as  these have been made at various times in the past, there continues to be an  interest in how the research community might better organize and manage its  efforts to improve the use of research-produced technologies (national research  council 2002).
future growth in u.s. pulpwood demand is likely to be relatively subdued for the near term.
bethesda, md : society of american foresters, c2001: pages 513-514.
abstract: the conversion factor generally used to convert logs measured in board feet to cubic meters has traditionally been set at 4.53.
as a consequence, this species is one of the most abundant and widespread trees of eastern north america.
category: research papers file size: 1.2 mb kb(s)
a user of the computer program will provide data on physical parameters of the process and on prices of material inputs and outputs.
title: machine cost analysis using the traditional machine-rate method and chargeout!
view excel - macros worksheet »
this program does not seek an optimum solution from a range of alternatives, but only makes calculations based upon user-entered assumptions.
421-441; 2011 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
conference proceedings file size: 300  kb(s)
at a  target price of $2.40/gge, forest biomass could supply an estimated 11 million  oven dry tons per year, or about 9 percent of total feedstock supplied.
energy consumption of  608 mj of electricity and 5,800 mj of thermal energy per m3 were determined for  the manufacturing of planed dry hardwood lumber from incoming logs.
conference proceedings file size: 4715  kb(s)
the recession in manufacturing and downturn in paper and paperboard were linked to an exceptionally strong u.s. dollar, which attracted a flood of imported goods, limited growth in exports, and contributed to an exceptionally large u.s. trade deficit.
abstract: the u.s. has historically been a net importer of wood and paper products.
12 p. author(s) spelter, henry. year: 2002 view pdf »
this potentially rapid decline reemphasizes the importance of performing power calculations.
abstract: in this paper we raise three technical concerns about evans's 1999 appita journal 'variance approach' to estimating microfibril angle.
the results, as reinforced by the sensitivity analysis and risk assessment, suggest an investment may be attractive from a financial standpoint.
keywords: carbon sequestration, harvested wood products, estimation methods title: alternative projections of the impacts of private investment on southern forests: a comparison of two large-scale forest sector models of the united states.
a  full, detailed presentation of this analysis will take place during the special  bridge session linking tappi's 2008 engineering, pulping and environmental  conference with its 2008 international bioenergy and bioproducts conference  being conducted as back-to-back events at the same venue in portland, or, aug.  24-27 and aug. 27-29, respectively.
proc no. 7286 author(s) mckeever, david b.
assuming $36 per dry tonne at roadside, 4.1 million dry tonnes of forest  biomass could be available region-wide.
european producers of paper and paperboard set a new record for output, at 104 million m.t. in 2005, growing slowly by 0.4% from 2004.
keywords: composites, wheat straw, bio fiber
nearly  all new single-family houses and low-rise multifamily residential structures  are wood framed and sheathed.
chapter 4 publication: d.m. adams and r.w. haynes (eds.), resource and market projections for forest policy development, chapter 4. 2007 , pp.99-174.
life-cycle inventory of manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern united states.
abstract: although higher treatment pressures  have the potential to improve preservative penetration, higher pressures may  possibly result in greater reduction in mechanical properties.
title: novel uses of wheat by-products publication : in: proceedings of the international wheat quality conference; 2001  may 20-24; manhattan, ks.
wood products used in new residential construction u. s. and  canada, with comparisons to 1995, 1998, and 2003.
several  studies suggest that using these strategies could offset as much as 10-20% of  current u.s. fossil fuel emissions.
abstract: in february 2008, the western governors' association adopted  a policy reaffirming the governors' strong commitment to enhance and diversify  the region's transportation fuels portfolio.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory; 2009, 30 p. author(s) e.m. (ted) bilek; peter becker; tim mcabee; year: 2009 view pdf »
we take a cramer condition approach and make the conditions and their use explicit.
title: trends in economic scarcity of u.s. timber commodities publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, resource bulletin 11, fpl-rb-11 author(s) skog, ken; risbrudt, chris; year: 1982 view pdf »
two distinct models of timber valuation, and the core of america's complaint vis-à-vis canada is that, as a result, there is an asymmetry in the market where the two sides compete: on the one hand all producers have equal access under the same rules and standards to the u.s. lumber market, but at the timber supply level a different and exclusionary canadian lumber pricing model provides wood at rates that disadvantage u.s. competitors.
this report proposes a method of pricing timber based on rv calculations as one means to reduce the variability in lumber sawmilling profits.
much less cropland-derived feedstock would be needed if forest biomass and imports are used.
keywords: carbon sequestration, forest biomass,  forest carbon accounting
title: criterion 6, indicator 25: value and volume  of wood and wood products production, including primary and secondary processing publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory,  fpl-rn-0316, 2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca;  skog; kenneth e.
this could threaten to increase the price of wood for  those other uses', or it can stimulate us to seek more creative ways of using  untapped wood resources for fuel.
primary data collected for 2007 included annual production, energy consumption  and type, material inputs, emission data, product outputs, and other  coproducts.
but even under the more intensive investment scenarios, naturally regenerated forests would cover three-quarters of the future private timberland base and hardwoods would continue to dominate the inventory structure.
category: journal articles file size: 590 kb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 260 kb kb(s)
abstract: it has been argued that repetitive member allowable property adjustments should be larger for high-variability material than for low-variability material.
pulpwood  still has much higher value-added potential in production of wood pulp than in  production of biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol.
this study was undertaken to determine whether changing the geometry of a 152-mm-diameter disc surface from that of a flat surface to one having a concave indentation would improve the net cleaning due.
the concept of sustainable development does imply  limits–not absolute limits but limitations imposed by the present state  of technology and social organization on environmental resources and by the  ability of the biosphere to absorb the effects of human activities.
abstract: the hampton affiliates sawmill in willamina, ore. again tops the list for output by a single u.s. mill for 2005.
the impact of producing these biofuels on u.s.  agriculture and forestry will very much depend on the relative proportions of  cropland- and forestland-derived feedstocks and the extent to which imports are  used to meet the mandate.
85, no. 6 (june 2002):
our report explains these processes and examines the science behind mechanisms proposed for increasing the amount of carbon stored in forests and using wood to offset fossil fuel use.
abstract: a model of the u.s. forestry and agricultural sectors is used to simulate the consequences of growing short-rotation woody crops on agricultural lands as a fiber source for pulp and paper production.
keywords: forest residues, mill residues, municipal solid waste, construction and demolition waste, wood recycling
author(s) spelter, henry; alderman, matthew year: 2005 view pdf »
author(s) haynes, richard; adams, darius; alig, ralph; brooks, david; durbak, irene; howard, james; ince, peter; mckeever, david; mills, john; skog, ken; zhou, xiaoping.
year: 1999 view pdf »
one major use of these data is to track technological change over time.
availability and  pricing of timber and logs can be impacted by the positive or negative factors  affecting the pulpwood and chip supply chain.
thus, there were converging rates of growth in apparent consumption of paper and paperboard for europe, north america and the cis subregion.
title: evaluating warp of 2 by 4s sawn from panels produced through green gluing  dimension lumber from small ponderosa pine logs publication : forest prod.
these production facilities represented 18.7% of total annual production in 2007.
a forest service end-use survey publication: 1988.
module n university of washington,  seattle, wa. pp.
module d : life-cycle inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing  in the northeastern and north central united states by richard d. bergman and  scott a. bowe.
category: journal articles file size: 163 kb(s)
cumulative allocated  energy consumption for manufacturing 1.0 m3 planed dry lumber from 2.44 m3 of  incoming logs was 5.86 gj/m3 with 66% from wood fuel.
conference proceedings file size: 87 kb(s)
category: research notes file size: 2.0 mb kb(s)
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory.
strategic  assessment of bioenergy in the west: spatial analysis and supply curve  development.
the use of wood biomass as the primary energy source for manufacturing greatly reduced the environmental burdens by offsetting the demand for fossil fuels.
chargeout! is a capital costing model that overcomes these limitations.
title: environmental impact of producing hardwood lumber using life-cycle inventory publication : wood and fiber science.
woody biomass utilization : challenges and opportunities : june 26, 2006 : technical session proceedings.
the cash-flow model computes measures of financial performance for incremental investment in gasification business concepts, including net present value and internal rate of return.
total consumption has been  increasing faster than domestic harvest as net imports of wood and paper  products have increased.
on the positive side, treated lumber has created major opportunities for lumber use in outdoor applications.
journal articles file size: 70 kb kb(s)
no trend information is available on revenues to  various groups.
april/may 2011, pp.167-173; 2011 author(s) heath, linda s.; smith, james e.; skog, kenneth e.; nowak, david j.; woodall, christopher w. year: 2011 view pdf »
publication ; no. 7223:
publication: in: forest products annual market review 2009-2010,  pp.
abstract: mckay's chi-square approximation for the coefficient of variation is type  ii noncentral beta distributed and asymptotically normal with mean n - 1 and  variance smaller than 2(n - 1).
pulp & paper markets cope with high energy prices and growth in asia : markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2005-2006 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2006 view pdf »
year: 2002 view pdf »
author(s) olsson, o.; hillring, b.; hartkamp, r.; skog, k.; spelter, h.; ahuilar, f.; mabee, w.; gaston, c.; wahl, a. year: 2010 view pdf »
371-375; 2011 author(s) ince, peter j.; mckeever, david b. year: 2011 view pdf »
title: a synthesis of current  knowledge on forests and carbon storage in the united states publication : ecological applications, volume 21, number 6, 2011, pp.
therefore, as long as hardwood lumber and its carbon stay in products held in end uses, carbon stored will exceed fossil carbon emitted in manufacturing.
pages 6-13 author(s) ellefson, paul v.; kilgore, m.a.; skog, kenneth e.; risbrudt, christopher d. year: 2007 view pdf »
the 167 locations were segregated into ten climate groupings (termed  ″regions″) based on annual precipitation and number of fahrenheit  heating degree days.
author(s) ince, p. j. year: 2004 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: low-rise nonresidential building construction is an important market for lumber, structural wood panels, nonstructural wood panels, and engineered wood products in the united states.
97-109; 2009 author(s) hartkamp, dr. rens; hillring, dr. bengt; mabee, dr. warren; olsson, mr. olle; skog, dr. kenneth; spelter, mr. henry; vinterback, mr. johan; wahl, ms. antje year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
a linear regression was found to provide appropriate fit  when square-root transformations of scheffer index values were used as the  dependent variable, and error terms were fitted as being spatially dependent.
journal  articles file size: 1,132 kb(s)
abstract: timber products are vital in the construction, manufacturing, and shipping segments of the u.s. economy.
title: a synthesis of current knowledge on forests and carbon storage in the united states publication : ecological applications, volume 21, number 6, 2011, pp.
abstract: total consumption of wood and paper products and fuelwood in roundwood equivalents, increased between 1965 and 1988 from 13.2 to 18.9 billion cubic feet.
however, the spruce- pine-fir species group that is often used in framing construction can be difficult to penetrate with preservatives.
but in california, idaho, montana, oregon, and washington, timber sales have declined from an average of 8 billion board feet per year during 1960-1 990 to about 1.5 billion board feet since.
publication: research paper fpl-rp-611.
thus, the factors used to convert volumes from one system to another have become outdated.
lifecycle analysis is beyond the  scope of the study.
taking a quadratic mean differentiability approach rather than our crame´r condition approach, lehmann and romano [2005.
the review begins with an overview  chapter, followed by description of the macro-economic situation.
(ted) bilek year: 2009
because forest carbon loss contributes to increasing climate risk and  because climate changemay impede regeneration following disturbance, avoiding  deforestation and promoting regeneration after disturbance should receive high  priority as policy considerations.
abstract: structural and nonstructural panel products have constituted the fastest growing segment of the wood products industries over the past two decades.
the others make a variety of specialty products.
coated heartwood as wood  type was less susceptible to mould growth than coated mixed wood and coated  sapwood.
a key finding is that  projected future trends in u.s. consumption, production, and net trade in  forest products are heavily influenced by assumptions about future expansion in  u.s. and global wood energy demands.
per capita consumption excluding fuelwood, has been relatively stable, averaging 63 ft 3 per year.
this region encompassed northern new england, the  northern portion of the great lakes region, the upper mississippi valley,  northern minnesota, and the eastern part of north dakota.
title: veneered panels --a horn of planet, but who will blow it?; coping with plywood's cost-price squeeze publication: proceedings, pete, the sixth international panel and engineered wood technology conference and exposition; 1998 october 20-22; atlanta, ga author(s) spelter, henry; ince, peter year: 1998 view pdf » view publication information »
the productivity trend parallels trends in the recovered paper utilization rate.
oriented strandboard production increased from less than 3 billion square feet in 1985 to 10.5 billion square feet in 1997.
it is set to reach 6.2 million in 2009.
inventory on hardwood sawmills in the northeastern region of the united states publication: bergman, richard d. gate-to-gate life-cycle  inventory on hardwood sawmills in the northeastern region of the united states.
keywords: epd, environmental product declaration, environmental  labeling, iso, lca, life cycle assessment, transparency, green-washing date posted: 09/23/11
life-cycle impact  assessment is beyond the scope of the study.
for three american and canadian lumber- producing regions, the method produced projections of supply that were within 0.5 percent accuracy for a 7-month period encompassing june to december 2000.
the estimates included quantities  recovered for recycling into new paper and paperboard products, exports of  recov-ered paper, and quantities of paper and wood materials recovered and  recycled into other products, including cellulose insulation, molded pulp  products, fiberboard products, wooden pallets, animal bedding, mulch,  particleboard, hardboard, reclaimed lumber, flooring, roof systems, siding,  plastic lumber, and other composite products.
16-18 author(s) skog, kenneth e.
dennis may, pat miles, john vissage, ron mcroberts, greg liknes,wayne d. shepperd, dennis ferguson, william elliot, sue miller,steve reutebuch, jamie barbour, jeremy fried,bryce stokes,edward bilek, ken skog year: 2005 view pdf »
with oil prices rising in mid-2009, market demand for alternative  fuels, including wood, is growing.
continued expressions of interest in sustainable forest management by forest and paper associations (and by customers of paper and paperboard products) suggest that related public procurement policies for paper and paperboard might become more common in the future.
these are two major reasons why osb manufacturing costs are about 25% lower than those for plywood.
additional quantities of paper and wood that could be recovered annually were also estimated for 1993, based on maximum potential recovery from municipal solid waste, new construction and demolition debris, and primary timber processing.
title: wood products used in the construction of low-rise nonresidential buildings in the united states, 2003 publication : tacoma, wa : wood products council, 2005.
rapid expansion of chinese pulp and paper production capacity is having a huge impact on paper and paperboard markets, and on global competition for wood, recovered paper, and pulp.
title: criterion 6, indicator 30: value and volume in round wood equivalents of exports and imports of wood products publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-rn-0319, 2010 author(s) howard, james; westby, rebecca; skog, kenneth year: 2010 view pdf »
the initial method utilized acetylation of the wall to prepare  optimal samples for nmr, but more recently we avoid the acetylation step;  spectra from unacetylated walls have improved resolution of some components and  allow natural acetylation (of polysaccharides and lignins) to be readily  identified.
however, the greater demand for sawtimber, coupled with projected declines in timber harvest on national forests, will result in higher softwood sawtimber stumpage prices.
extensive  research over the last 20 properties of wood from either live or dead trees.
in 2006, about 28 percent of all solid wood products consumed in the united states and 31 percent of all solid wood products consumed in canada are used for residential repair and remodeling (adair 2008, fao 2008, mckeever 2009).
over the period 1950 to 2006, the lumber share of total solid wood products consumption decreased from 73% to 69%, while the structural panel share increased from 14% to 18%.
abstract: low-rise nonresidential building  construction is an important market for lumber, structural wood panels,  nonstructural wood panels, and engineered wood products in the united states.
madison, wi : forest products society ; marquette, mi : northern initiatives, [c2005]: pages 11-13 author(s) spelter, henry year: 2005 view pdf »
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2007 view pdf »
10th annual statistical analysis of the north american hardwood marketplace: 99-102.
2008 wisconsin street tree assessment 2002-2003.
title: plywood manufacturing cost trends, excluding wood, in western u.s. mills: 1975-1988 publication : gen. tech.
title: wood used in new residential construction in the united states:
the  decline of yellowflexural properties of wood from dead yellow-cedar snags is  little affected by how long cedar is believed to be primarily the rethe trees  have been dead.
keywords: -economics, wood products, growth, nonresidential buildings, maximum potential wood use scenario, international building code scenario, construction, solid-wood products-; building; wood construction; concrete; steel; solid wood; nonresidential; building code; economics; lumber; structural panels sections - mission - research emphasis areas - lumber production trends - team members - datasets - software publications - partnership profile forest service home | usda.gov | recreation.gov foia | accessibility statement | privacy policy | non-discrimination statement | information quality |firstgov | white house
because annual harvest data by state are not generally available for each year, the development of this indexing procedure based on national- and state-level primary product production data is needed to update u.s. annual timber harvest by state and region.
we then analyzed the information to assess the possibility of increasing the use of small-diameter timber in the highway application market.
abstract: this paper provides an overview of the north american (united states and canada) structural panel industry, which consists of softwood plywood and oriented strandboard (osb).
transportation impacts contributed  approximately 3%, and forestry and harvesting operations accounted for 3 - 7%.
the percentage of wood-burning  households in a county is estimated and multiplied by estimated average wood  consumed per wood-burning household in that county to produce an estimate of  total county fuelwood use.
using a green-gluing  process, standard 38 by 89-mm (nominal 2 by 4-in.)
3-25; 2011 author(s) skog, k. e.;  stanturf, j. a. year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
annual meeting of the  council on forest engineering lake tahoe june 15-18, 2009 author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted) view pdf  » view publication information »
the manufacturing stage consumed the greatest  amount of energy representing 90 - 92% of the total.
some resources have competing multiple uses and alternative values in society.
title: criterion 6, indicator 34: value of capital investment  and annual expenditure in forest management, wood and non-wood product  industries, forest-based environmental services, recreation, and tourism publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory,  fpl-rn-0320, 2010 author(s) skog, kenneth; bergstrom, john;  hill; elizabeth, cordell; ken year: 2010 view pdf  » view publication information »
keywords: production, timber products consumption, softwood lumber, hardwood lumber, structural panels, softwood plywood, oriented strandboard, engineered lumber, housing, nonresidential construction, manufacturing, furniture, shipping, wooden containers, pallets title: wood products used by u.s. furniture, fixtures and architectural woodwork manufacturers
the secretariat thanks dr. spelter for his contribution.
50 p author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
category: journal articles file size: 1.2 mb kb(s)
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture,forest service, forest products laboratory.
keywords: bioenergy, biomass, builders joinery, carbon, cardboard, carpentry, certification, certified forest products, climate change, china, construction, consumption, engineered wood products, ewp, exports, fiberboard, fibreboard, forest products markets, forestry industry, forestry statistics, fuelwood, furniture, housing market, imports, lumber, market analysis, mdf, osb, paperboard, particle board, particleboard, plywood, production, pulp and paper industry, pulplogs,pulpwood, redd, roundwood, sawlogs, sawn hardwood, sawn softwood, sawnwood, sustainable forestry, timber, tropical timber, wood energy, wood fuels, wood industry, wood pellets, wood products, wood-based panels, woodpulp date posted: 10/23/11
on the other hand, 25 new mills brought on-line have offset 4.9 million m3 of lost production potential.
date  posted: 03/20/10
category: research notes file size: 658 kb(s)
7 p. 2009 author(s) adair, craig;  mckeever david b. year: 2009 view pdf »  view publication information »
it also has a high  aspect ratio, high strength-to-weight ratio, and has good insulation properties  (sound, electrical, and thermal).
furniture design and manufacturing.
year: 2010 view pdf »  view publication information »
using primary mill data gathered from manufacturers in the eastern united states and applying the methods found in consortium for research on renewable industrial materials (corrim) research guidelines and international organization of standardization (iso) standard for conducting life-cycle assessments, the environmental impacts in making engineered wood flooring were estimated.
since 1987 through 2006, per capita consumption has declined to 68 ft3 per year.
machine-rate models cannot be configured to calculate cash flows, allow for uneven costs or machine hours, incorporate loans that have a different life than the expected machine life, or perform an after-tax analysis.
given osb's higher profitability, most of the investment in the sector has been directed into that branch.
journal articles file size: 199 kb kb(s)
this marks the fourth consecutive year that hampton's willamina mill has won the 'national title.'
keywords: small scale lumber drying, gasification, biomax date posted: 07/15/10
417-423 author(s) rowell, spelter
p. author(s) spelter, henry year: 1996 view pdf » view publication information »
in: forest products annual market review 2009-2010, pp. 85-97; 2010 author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard, lombard, bernard year: 2010 view pdf »
data are provided through the end of the year 2008 with estimates for 2009 and forecasts for 2010.
the analysis also considered projected growth and expansion of forest plantations, such as pine plantations in the south, the market potential for agricultural fiber crops, and projected pulpwood demand for wood panel products such as oriented strandboard.
trends in wages for the pulp and paper industry have been  increasing at the same pace as wages for all manufacturing while the trend in  wages for solidwood industries has not kept pace.
diameter at breast height.
title: wood used in residential repair and remodeling  u.s. and canada with comparisons to 1997 and 2003.
keywords: volume, timber prices, red maple, economic aspects, maple, utilization, market surveys, supply and demand, lumber, prices, acer saccharinum, acer rubrum, silver maple
chip mills are stand-alone  facilities that convert pulpwood roundwood into chips for shipment to pulp  mills; they are usually located remote from pulp mills.
currently, 89% of net annual sequestration is in the  forest ecosystem, and the balance is net carbon addition to harvested wood  products.
pub-fr-396; 2007 author(s) bowe, scott; molzahn, patrick; bond, brian; bergman,  richard; mace, terry; hubbard, steve year: 2007 view  pdf » view publication information »
50 p author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2010 view pdf »
private capital investment in forest recreation  infrastructure and by businesses providing recreation equipment was $1.03  billion for structures and $442 million for equipment in 2006.
net welfare results are the same over a range of different subsidy and administrative fee assumptions.
journal  articles file size: 229 kb(s)
category: research papers file size: 2090 kb(s)
keywords: timber, forest products, production, trade, consumption, price title: venval : a plywood mill cost accounting program publication : gen. tech.
contact information forest products laboratory one gifford pinchot drive madison, wi 53726 phone: (608) 231-9200 fax: (608) 231-9592
1 author(s) skog, kenneth e.
abstract: a water displacement  specific gravity procedure, previously developed at the forest products  laboratory, was modified and used to measure the volume of solid wood in  pallets.
for small operations, there is a large amount of information available on solar kiln design and operation.
harvest of pulpwood on forest land is the single largest source of wood fiber, followed by recycled paper and wood residues.
year: 1989 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: forest residues, mill residues, municipal solid wood waste, construction and demolition wood waste, wood recycling
however, great potential exists for expanding the use of wood building products into nonresidential building.
view publication information »
keywords: wood product, paper products, import share, export share, consumption, productionper capita consumption, per capita harvest date posted: 08/02/10
although designed for the forest industry, the methodology is readily transferable to other sectors.
abstract: this report provides general and statistical information on forests products markets in terms of production, trade, consumption, and prices, as well as specifics describing the current state of the u.s. economy.
author(s) verrill, steve; herian, victoria l.; green, david w.
category: journal articles file size: 29 kb kb(s)
new york : united nations, 2000: pages 24-37 author(s) ince, peter j.
several studies suggest that using these strategies could offset as much as 10-20% of current u.s. fossil fuel emissions.
the data present current and historical information on the production, trade, consumption, and prices of timber products in the united states.
these more complex models have also extended options for policy analysis using approaches such as scenario planning to help decision makers gauge uncertainty.
category: journal articles file size: 579 kb kb(s)
people were looking for an inexpensive and simple kiln design that could cost effectively dry as little as a few hundred board feet of lumber or as much as several thousand board feet of lumber each year.
category: general technical reports file  size: 309 kb(s)
data are provided through the end of the year 2009 with estimates for 2010 and  forecasts for 2011.
title: paper,  paperboard and wood pulp markets, 2010-2011 chapter 8 publication : forest products annual market review, 2010-2011, united nations geneva,  2011.
dordrecht : springer, c2006.
abstract: consumption of wood fiber in pulp, paper and paperboard increased in the united states over the past century and is projected to increase well into the next century at a decelerating rate of growth.
of 18 million acres of forest land on indian reservations in the u.s., 5.7 million acres are commercial timberland.
author(s) skog, kenneth; haynes, richard w.
prices have increased more rapidly since the economic recession ending in 1961.
these results indicate that reclaimed  framing lumber and wood flooring have a significantly lower environmental  impact than their two virgin alternatives.
the values and volumes of wood product exports and imports are important because of the increasing importance of global markets in determining prices in domestic markets, the sustainable use of domestic resources, and the profitability of domestic industries.
such a systematic reduction in size in the log population affects volume conversions from cubic units to board feet, which makes traditional rule of thumb conversion factors antiquated.
these national harvest levels were estimated by working backwards from u.s. national timber products production data using lumber recovery factors to derive the roundwood equivalent of harvest.
compare provides complete guidelines for economic analysis of wood and bark energy systems.
the cumulative effect of policy initiatives on biomass competition  are discussed in the context of an emerging lake states bioeconomy.
we evaluated the economic feasibility of two sizes of biomax, a generator manufactured by the community power corporation of littleton, colorado.
keywords: forest products;  market modeling; wood energy scenarios date  posted: 03/21/11
the bioenergy assessment team was formed to xamine the potential for future development and to create a comprehensive framework to assess environmental, technical and socioeconomic impacts associated ith national, state and regional bioenergy and biomass management policies.
title: life cycle impacts of forest management and wood utilization on carbon mitigation: known and unknowns publication: carbon management (2011)
title: forest biomass sustainability and availability publication:
results indicate markets would use more material from uneven-aged thinnings than from even-aged thinnings and reductions in conventional harvest and timber prices would be greater for a program of uneven-aged thinnings.
category: general technical reports file size: 62 kb kb(s)
category: research notes file size: 70 kb kb(s)
export share of production, over this same period, initially increased from 5% in 1965 to 16% in 1991 then decreased to 10% in 2006.
publication: unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2003-2004.
we raise these three concerns so that other researchers interested  in understanding, implementing, or extending the variance approach or in  comparing the approach to other methods of estimating mfa will be aware of them.
increases  in the annual amounts of carbon removed from the atmosphere and stored in  forest products offset about half of the total value chain emissions.
keywords: small-diameter, plantation-grown, southern pine, polymerization, acrylic
abstract: net cleaning value is the economic value added to the wastepaper pulp by  removing the contaminants, corrected for the fiber lost tothe rejects, minus  the cost of the energy consumed in the separation process.
journal  articles file size: 210 kb(s)
a linear regression was found to provide appropriate fit when square-root transformations of scheffer index values were used as the dependent variable, and error terms were fitted as being spatially dependent.
u.s. demand for products is likely to continue to increase with increasing population and gross domestic product (gdp).
a generalized linear mixed model was fit to the data with the analysis showing that coating and exposure time both had highly significant influences on mould growth.
title: disc separation: the effect of disc geometry publication : tappi journal, august 1987.
keywords: waste wood, recycling, solid wastes, wood residues
keywords: surface coating, modified wood, mould growth, field test, generalized linear mixed model, aspen, larch, norway spruce, scots pine date posted: 12/14/11 title: forest land remaining forest land and methodology for estimating net carbon stock changes in forest publication: in: inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emissions and sinks: 1990-2009.
author(s) skog, k. view pdf » view publication information »
complex rounds out the top three.
category: journal articles file size: 127 kb kb(s)
the objective of this study was to develop recovered paper supply functions for the five principal grades of recovered paper by focusing on the effects of the spot and contract markets in establishing domestic prices for recovered paper.
keywords: pulpwood, hardwood, chips, supply, demand, market trends
category: not  classified file size: 318 kb(s)
abstract: a greenhouse gas and carbon accounting profile was developed for the u.s.  forest products industry value chain for 1990 and 2004-2005 by examining net  atmospheric fluxes of co2and other green housegases (ghgs)using a variety of  methods and data sources.
category: journal articles file size: 147 kb kb(s)
abstract: the united states has become progressively more reliant on  imports to meet consumption needs.
dennis may, pat miles, john vissage, ron mcroberts, greg  liknes,wayne d. shepperd, dennis ferguson, william elliot, sue miller,steve  reutebuch, jamie barbour, jeremy fried,bryce stokes,edward bilek, ken skog year: 2005 view pdf » view publication  information »
category: journal articles file size: 984 kb(s)
different plant fibers have different physical properties that influence their utility in pulping and papermaking.
declining housing demand caused a decrease in real prices for lumber and plywood be tween 1979 and 1980.
keywords: wood recycling, paper recycling, recovery rate, utilization rate, recycling rate date posted: 01/10/11
title: adding biofuel/bioproduct  capacity to existing u.s. mills part 1: options publication : tappi journal techlink, paper360, april 2008, pp.
in a subsequent paper we will provide k values that are appropriate for small sample sizes.
journal articles file size: 403 kb(s)
the second concern is associated with the  approximation of the natural variability of the mfa by a function of the mfa.
keywords: technology transfer, wood utilization research, knowledge diffusion, technology transfer strategies title: wood utilization research and product development capacity in the united states: a review publication: staff paper series number 207 : wood utilization resaerch and product development capacity in the united states: a reviwe author(s) ellefson, p.v.; kilgore, m.a.; skog, k.e. and risbrudt, c.d. year: 2010 view pdf »
a generalized linear mixed model  was fit to the data with the analysis showing that coating and exposure time  both had highly significant influences on mould growth.
prior to pulping (vpp) is a novel biorefining concept for pulp mills that  includes hydrolysis extraction of hemicellulose wood sugars and acetic acid  from pulpwood prior to pulping.
title: wood energy markets, 2010-2011 chapter 9 publication: forest products annual market review, 2010-2011, united nations geneva, 2011.
41-47 author(s) howard, james l. year: 1997 view pdf »
keywords: hardwoods, united states, pulpwood, economic aspects, marketing, supply and demand, wood chips, chips, pulping
the major categories of solid sawn timbers researched were railroad ties, timber bridges, and other transportation structures.
research report from the michig author(s) spelter, henry year: 2006 view pdf »
however, in the medium and long term, the forests in the unece region can support greater harvests to satisfy the growing need for paper and wood products, as well as wood energy.
this estimate represents a net increase in carbon, including effects of growth, harvests, or other disturbances of forest ecosystems, as well as carbon stored in harvested wood products.
title: resource potential of solid wood waste in the united states publication:
fort collins, co: u.s. department of agriculture, forest  service rocky mountain research station.
the energy saved from the reduced speed requirement for the indented disc was more than offset by an increase in fiber loss, from 5.9% for the flat disc to 9.9% for the indented disc.
the national forests represent a major potential source of wood fiber in the west.
keywords: conversion factors, inventory, marketing title: current and projected wood energy publication: biologue, april/may, 1989.
results show large potential market impacts from expanded thinning on federal lands, but impacts vary by silvicultural regime due to differences in size-class distributions of trees available under different thinning regimes.
the focus is on where findings are robust and where uncertainties may be large enough to question key assumptions that impact carbon in the forest and its many uses.
the tables presented in this report are from information collected from industry trade associations and government agencies.
however, if the non- random nature of the predictor sort is not taken into account, problems can occur.
1985 author(s) mckeever, david b.; burns, marvin;  thomas, jerome year: 1985 view pdf » view  publication information »
7 p. 2009 author(s) adair, craig; mckeever david b. year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
because of increased paper recycling and increased processing efficiency, the consumption per capita in roundwood equivalent has decreased since about 1987 from 83 ft3 to 72 ft3 per capita.
nmr is one of the preeminent structural  tools, but obtaining high-resolution solution-state spectra has typically  required fractionation and isolation of components of interest.
keywords: green gluing, ponderosa pine, logs,  warp, dimensional lumber
market developments are described  for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log trade, wood-based panels, paper  and paperboard, fuelwood, forest product prices, and housing starts.
we used weight-averaged material and energy production data to estimate the environmental impact of the two reclaimed materials.
as trees die and otherwise deposit litter and debris on the forest floor, c is released to the atmosphere or transferred to the soil by organisms that facilitate decomposition.
title: forest products research and development organizations in a worldwide setting : a review of structure, governance, and measures of performance publication: st. paul, mn : dept. of forestry, college of natural resources and agricultural experiment station, university of minnesota, 2006.
keywords: carbon sequestration, measurement, carbon dioxide, environmental aspects, greenhouse gases, greenhouse effect, logging, wood products, forest products, carbon cycle
category: journal articles file size: 655 kb(s)
module l : life-cycle inventory of hardwood lumber manufacturing in the southeastern united states by richard d. bergman and scott a. bowe.
title: use of wood energy in the united states -- an opportunity publication: biomass 12 (1987) 27-36; 1987 author(s) koning, john w. jr.; skog, kenneth e.
abstract: furniture, fixtures and millwork manufacturers (chart-furniture  industry groupings) are an important wood-using segment of u.s. manufacturing.
projections for the year 2005 are also presented.
conversion factors for coastal and interior washington were estimated at 6.76 and 5.93, respectively, up from 4.0 to 4.5 in the 1970s.
policy initiatives that can affect domestic markets  and international trade in wood products are also discussed in some detail.
keywords: life cycle inventory, lci, hardwood lumber, northeast, corrim, manufacturing, environmental impacts
use of recycled paper is projected to increase more steadily in the future with slower growth in paper recovery for recycling.
title: status and trends of u.s. pulpwood market publication : in: globas change and forestry, chapter 8, isbn: 978-1-60876-262-0; 2009 author(s) ince, peter j. view pdf » view publication information »
title: pulp and paper demand deteriorates as global economic crisis takes hold:
linear programming finds the best solutions for a given set of circumstances.
this can result in asymmetric supply responses in weak markets to the detriment of u.s. producers.
thus, utilization options for wood years has shown the following: from dead  cedar snags can be broadened to higher value uses consistent with those for !
this report discusses in detail how to develop allowable properties under the standard in a manner that is consistent with current practice.
title: criterion 6, indicator 30:  value and volume in round wood equivalents of exports and imports of wood  products publication: usda forest service, forest products  laboratory, fpl-rn-0319, 2010 author(s) howard, james; westby,  rebecca; skog, kenneth year: 2010 view pdf  » view publication information »
the region with the  most compelling increase in index value was the moist region with in excess of  7000 heating degree days.
showing wood products as green building materials is vital for the long-term productivity of the wood building industry.
keywords: linear models, hypothesis testing, singular value decomposition, power calculations title: sawmill profile : new forest products lab report defines the makeup of north america's softwood sawmill industry publication: timber processing.
higher production levels, mostly of particle board contributed to this increase, but overall consumption remains well below 1992 levels.
global trends included a shift of growth in paper and paperboard production from north america to europe and asia over the past decade.
these data are intended for use by anyone associated with the wood using industry.
total per capita consumption increased between 1965 and  1987, from 68 to 83 ft3 per year.
abstract: with green building concepts becoming widespread in the construction field, building practices and materials are being examined for their environmental impact.
the objective is to illustrate nationwide shifts in demand and supply and show how the hardwood pulpwood market reacts to those shifts at a regional level.
[syracuse, ny] : state university of new york, college of environmental science and forestry, 2000: pages 57-67 author(s) moiseyev, alexander n.; torre ugarte, daniel g. de la; ince, peter j. year: 2000 view pdf »
14,16-18 author(s) ince view pdf  » view publication information »
category: research notes file size: 99 kb kb(s)
keywords: wood chips, darby, montana, forest residue, school campus wood heating system, ffs, fuels for schools, biomass energy industries, case studies, public schools, heating, ventilation, forest management, forest policy
treatments analyzed would treat 7.2 to 18.0 million acres, including 0.8 to 1.2 million acres of wildland urban interface area, and would provide 169 to 640 million oven-dry tons of woody biomass (e.g., main stem, tops, and limbs).
the assessment included long-range projections of pulp, paper, and  paperboard production, consumption, and trade, with regional analysis of  wood-fiber use, paper recovery for recycling, and projections of pulpwood  demand and supply.
title: the u.s. pulp and paper model publication:
the percentage of wood-burning households in a county is estimated and multiplied by estimated average wood consumed per wood-burning household in that county to produce an estimate of total county fuelwood use.
the weyerhaeuser co. sawmill at cottage grove, ore. placed second with 340 mmbf (it was third in last year's list) and the simpson dimension sawmill in tacoma, wash. rounded out the top three with 330 mmbf.
abstract: the objective of this paper is to determine the kiln conditions necessary to avoid interior enzymatic oxidative discoloration in soft maple.
abstract: will the national forests become a more reliable supplier of timber again in conjunction with the national fire plan?
if value of shipments continues to decline, this would decrease  revenues to forest landowners and employees.
areas were identified where either torching or crowning is likely during wildfires when wind speeds are below 25 mph.
abstract: as the world emerges from the economic and financial crisis  of 2008-2009, demand for energy is rising, as well as the costs.
abstract: this report describes the current status of wood and paper recycling in the united states and predicts the production and market consequences of increased recycling.
u.s. paper and paperboard production declined from 1999 to 2001, with total production 8% lower in 2001 than the historical peak in 1999.
on the basis of estimates of heavy wood  energy use relative to other uses for wood, and estimates of continuing high  costs for fossil fuels, we suggest here the feasibility of meeting the demand  for fuelwood through small-scale cooperatives.
with recent methods for dissolution of, admittedly, finely divided plant cell wall material, the wall can now be studied by solution-state nmr.
in: fire social science research-selected highlights, usda fs, pacific northwest research station, general technical report, pnw-gtr-736; december 2007 author(s) slog, kenneth; year: 2007 view pdf » view publication information » category: conference proceedings file size: 311 kb(s)
paper and paperboard consumption in central and eastern europe was boosted by stronger regional economic growth in 2003, but the region also experienced a large increase in imports.
12  p. 2009 author(s) adair, craig; mckeever, david b. year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information  »
keywords: international trade, trade impacts, roundwood equivalent volume, timber harvests.
r. d. perlack and b.j. stokes (leads), ornl/tm-2011/224.
for research conducted by private concerns, scientists and engineers approached 8,000 in number.
however, in 2008 an estimated 400 to 500 wood utilization research projects  were implemented by 150 to 200 federal, state and private entities.
author(s) howard, james l. year: 2005 view pdf »
in roundwood equivalents, imports of wood  and paper products as a share of consumption increased from 13% to 30% between  1965 and 2005.
transportation research record ; 1696.:p.
this potentially rapid decline re-emphasizes the importance of performing power calculations.
accordingly, we concentrate on areas where wood removed during fire hazard reduction treatments has the potential to support a forest products infrastructure.
abstract: for many countries, international trade is a significant factor in commercial use of forests.
machine rate models cannot be configured to replicate chargeout!'s calculations.
77 (2007): pages 1371-1376.
category: research papers file size: 1,023 kb kb(s)
abstract: public and private research focused  on wood utilization and product development in the united states is an  important source of innovation required for sustaining the worldwide  competitive position of the wood-based industry.
title: conversion of board foot scaled logs to cubic meters in washington state, 1970-1998
abstract: in economics, primary inputs or factors of production define the term resources.'
this sessment will assist the governors  individually and collectively as they develop bioenergy policies.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 85 kb kb(s)
abstract: a procedure for estimating effective heating value of wood or bark fuels at various moisture contents is explained; the general aspects of the procedure have been used for decades.
the report focuses on national statistics, but includes some data for individual states and regions and for canada.
keywords: life cycle inventory, engineered wood flooring, lci, carbon, prefinished date posted: 11/16/11
lamlum incorporates discounted cash flow analysis to determine under what conditions a laminated lumber plant might be profitable.
this is due in part to lower competitiveness with respect to production and import of products from other countries.
market developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log trade, wood- based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, and forest product prices.
category: general technical reports file size: 1.6 mb kb(s)
large amounts of solid wood timber products are  also used in the construction of new nonresidential buildings, and in the  upkeep and improvement of existing structures.
title: recent economic downturn and pulpwood markets publication :
the strategic assessment of  bioenergy developmentin the west represents a major step in fulfilling that  commitment and expands upon earlier work through wga's clean and diversified  energy initiative and the ransportation fuels initiative.
this technique provides a benchmark that can be used in conjunction with the forest inventory and analysis survey approach, which helps ensure the accuracy of both methods.
mckeever, david year: 2006 view pdf »
title: anaerobically digested bovine biofiber as a source of fiber for particleboard manufacturing: an eocnomic analysis publication: bioresources 3(4), 1256-1266; 2008 author(s) spelter, winandy, zauche year: 2008 view pdf »
category: research papers file size: 2580 kb(s)
2002 author(s) green, mcdonald, hennon,  evans, stevens year: 2002 view pdf » view  publication information »
this species and silver maple (acer saccharinum) are often called 'soft maples' to distinguish them from the higher density sugar and black maples that are commonly referred to as 'hard maples'.
the import share for  other products was stable from 1965 to 1990, but has since increased.
the effectiveness of activities could be diluted by negative leakage effects and increasing disturbance regimes.
in each chapter, production, trade and consumption are analysed and relevant material on specific markets is included.
general technical reports file size: 349 kb kb(s)
a hardwood log volume conversion of 43.7% to planed dry lumber was found.
therefore, as long as hardwood lumber and its carbon stay  in products held in end uses, carbon stored will exceed fossil carbon emitted  in manufacturing.
taking a quadratic mean differentiability approach, lehmann and romano have outlined proofs of similar results.
usfpm thus  models all forms of wood biomass feedstock that could be used potentially for  future energy production in the united states, including fuelwood harvest,  other roundwood, mill residues, agricultural srwc, and logging residues.
this study examined softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and north central us using life-cycle inventory methods.
the project life was for 20 years, and a desired discount rate of 8.0% was specified for determining the before tax net present value.
this paper describes a generic modeling system for evaluating integrated biomass gasification business concepts over a range of production scales and process options, including process models and a discounted cash-flow model, all of which are contained in a microsoft® (redmond, washington) office excel workbook (available from the authors).
injury rates for the  non-timber forest products sectors have not been assessed.
journal  articles file size: 1,089 kb(s)
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy,  consumption, production, imports, exports, forestry industry, forestry trade,  forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent states,  climate change, housing market, construction, timber, wood industry, pulp and  paper industry, wood fuels, certification, wood products, tropical timber,  forestry trade, sustainable forestry, sawnwood, sawn softwood, hardwood,  lumber, wood-based panels, particle board, fiberboard, fibreboard, osb, mdf,  plywood, paperboard, cardboard, woodpulp, pulpwood, sawlogs, pulplogs,  roundwood, industrial roundwood, value-added, wood energy, bioenergy, biomass,  fuelwood, certified forest products and carbon.
sustainable development im-plies not consuming more resources today than we can replace tomorrow, but sustainable forest man-agement implies more than merely a non-declining supply of timber.
good correlations were found between the modulus of elasticity (moe) in static bending and those obtained by transverse vibration.
adbf is most similar in size to, thus most likely to be substitutable for, sawdust and shavings.
in this respect, especially noteworthy among foreign organizations engaged in forest products research are the many ways in which they identify themselves (such as institutes, laboratories, centers); long history of sustained involvement in forest products research; movement from public to private ownership (whole or in part); blurry distinction between public and private sector responsibility for research; public sponsorship, yet private operation and management; wide range of services made available to clients; complex ownership and partnering arrangements; seemingly scrambled organizational structures; extensive use of subsidiaries and joint ventures; forest product research subunits located within larger parent organizations (with broad multi- sector research responsibilities); specialized services to a single major group of clients; intense desire to meet the needs of clients; synthesis of existing information as an important service; fees charged for services provided; strategic interest in clients located throughout the world; engaged in educational and degree-granting activities; multiple sources of income and revenue; diverse standards for measuring performance; adept response to broad economic-social changes; multiple location of physical facilities; and differing degrees of publicly available information describing mission and operation of organizations.
further, upgrades to existing sawmills have added 31 million m3 of capacity.
good practice guidance for land use, land-use change and forestry [electronic resource].
acetylated pine as wood substrate and aspen as wood species had lower  resistance to mould growth than the other wood substrates and wood species,  respectively.
our study  surveyed five engineered wood flooring manufacturers in the eastern us.
yet, despite these challenges, the u.s. lumber industry grew (capacity-wise) by a respectable average of 2% pes year over the past decade.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 173 kb(s)
keywords: fuel treatments, market impacts, size-class distribution, economics
detailed information and projections are presented for the year 2004.
because of higher fuel oil prices, total fuel cost savings increased to $61,500 in the 2004-2005 heating season.
journal articles file size: 270 kb(s)
keywords: forest biorefinery model; economic feasibility; biomass gasification; biofuels date posted: 10/17/11
category: general technical reports file size: 1.0 mb kb(s)
soil properties and wood characteristicscan affectleaching of woad preservatives, but these effects are not well understood.
category: research notes file size: 894 kb(s)
almost 900 plots were established in wisconsin's urban areas.
total pulpwood demand for wood pulp, wood panel  products, and export has potential to increase in the u.s. south but only  gradually in the decades ahead, while likely to remain flat or declining in  other u.s. regions.
the intent was to obtain a better understanding of how such organizations are structured, administered and their performance judged.
assuming $36 per dry tonne at roadside, 4.1 million dry tonnes of forest biomass could be available region-wide.
this study showed how the material flowed through the various unit processes beginning at the deconstruction site and ending at a storage facility.
category: journal articles file size: 1617 kb(s)
keywords: wood-based panels, panel consumption, panel supply, panel trade
so did more specialized mills and more so if they produced mostly paper.
conference proceedings file size: 739 kb(s) abstract: to assess availability and sustainable use of forest biomass for the united states, we suggest accepting the “brundtland report” (1) view of sustainable development.
keywords: biomass, species, moisture content, estimation, fuel value, wood as fuel, bark as fuel, heat recovery
individual stringers within a chord did not always share the load equally.
average log diameters vary by region and have declined in the western united states due to the growing scarcity of large diameter, old-growth trees.
title: projected wood energy impact on u.s. forest wood resources publication: proceedings of 1st biomass conference of the americas: energy, environment, agriculture, and industry; 1993 august 30-september 2; burlington, vt.
this paper  reviews past and present demand estimates in the united states for forest  resources, the methods used to develop these demand estimates, and their  associated statistical reliability.
increasing  fossil fuel costs provide incentive for lower-cost wood-based fuels.
the procedure for estimating roundwood equivalent of products provides a simple technique for estimating the major portion of national timber harvest levels that is less expensive than conducting surveys and can be done on an annual basis.
the napap model was based on pelps and adapted to describe paper and paperboard product demand, pulpwood and recovered paper supply, and production capacity and technology, with spatially dynamic market equilibria.
thus, the market situation is illustrated using an economic rationale, and trends are projected under assumptions about future shifts in demand and supply.
title: u.s. wood fiber demand and supply outlook: the 5th rpa timber assessment publication:
to prepare an example estimate of annual harvest amount for the 12 selected western states, we assume acres needing treatment are divided into two parts of equal area.
u.s. roundwood harvest to meet domestic and export demands is projected to increase from 18.0 to 22.4 billion cubic feet (24%) over the next 50 years (less than one-third the annual rate of the past 44 years).
title: paying for hazardous fuel treatments with revenue from removed biomass (please note : the fte tool referenced in this publication is no longer available.)
title: chapter 8;  pulp and paper markets peaking amid slowing economy, rising input costs, and  erosion of profits: markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2007-2008 publication: unece/fao forest products annual market review,  2007-2008, pp.
such an approach can improve forestry practices and can avoid unduly increasing the cost of wood for other end uses.
title: demand for engineered wood products publication: techlines author(s) mckeever, david b.
module c :  life-cycle inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and  north central united states by richard d. bergman and scott a. bowe.
keywords: afforestation; avoided deforestation; carbon emission  offsets; carbon storage and sequestration; disturbance risk; greenhouse gas  mitigation; intensive silviculture; substitution; urban forestry; wood biomass  energy; wood products.
our report explains these processes and  examines the science behind mechanisms proposed for increasing the amount of  carbon stored in forests and using wood to offset fossil fuel use.
j. 60(5):447-452; 2010 author(s) lebow, patricia; lebow, stan; nelson, william year: 2010 view pdf »
canadian j forest research, vol. 25, 1995, pp.
prodigious expansion in wood energy demands could cause significant escalation in real u.s. timber prices, but on the other hand, real u.s. timber stumpage prices are not projected to increase without fairly substantial increases in wood energy consumption.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2007-2011
abstract: this article  documents cradle-to-gate life-cycle inventories for softwood lumber, hardwood  lumber, and solid-strip hardwood flooring manufacturing from the inland  northwest and the northeast - north central regions of the us.
results suggest that timber markets could economically utilize substantial volumes of wood from hypothetical treatment programs, even without any subsidy.
category: journal articles file size: 272 kb kb(s)
i found that use of machine rate methods can lead to either over or under-estimates of machine owning and operating costs, depending on the machine rate model used.
42 pages author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1984 view pdf » view publication information »
title: development of a biorefinery optimized biofuel supply curve for the western united states publication: biomass and bioenergy, 34 (2010) 1597-1607.
keywords: timber, wood, supply, demand, real prices date posted: 02/07/11
however, draft projections from the usda forest service rpa timber assessment indicate net imports may slowly decrease and level off after 2010 and remain level through 2050.
keywords: wood utilization, research capacity, united states date posted: 11/08/11
most real prices were constant or increased somewhat during the  two decades after world war il.
daniel toth year: 2009 view pdf »
the united states remains the world's largest producer and  consumer of pulp, paper and paperboard.
title: how to estimate recoverable heat energy in wood or bark fuels publication: gen. tech.
although u.s. pulp production and exports increased in 2004, the hardwood pulp market began to show signs of saturation in the second half of the year, as hardwood market pulp prices peaked around mid-year.
the organization and administration of forest products and related research organizations in the united states can benefit from the experiences of similar organizations located beyond the nation's boundaries.
category: journal articles file size: 53 kb kb(s)
to evaluate the extent of shrinkage, seven sugar maple (acer saccharum) veneer propellers were dried from 11% to 3% moisture content in a controlled environment of 150°f (65°c) for 3 days.
abstract: demand for woody feedstock is increasing, motivated by public  policies that have set ambitious targets for renewable energy: for instance,  the eu′s aim of meeting 20% of its overall energy requirement from  renewable sources by 2020 and, to a certain extent, the renewable portfolio  standards in canada and the us.
title: global sustainable timber supply and demand publication: in: sustainable development in the forest products industry, chapter 2 global
title: u.s. forest products module: a technical document supporting the forest  service 2010 rpa assessment publication: usda forest service,  forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-662, 2011 author(s) peter j. ince; andrew d. kramp; kenneth e. skog; henry n. spelter;  david n. wear year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
thus, scientists, engineers, and portfolio managers are interested in obtaining confidence intervals on population covs and in testing for the equality of covs.
on average, 65 percent of low-cedar, dead snags may remain standing for 100 years or more.
keywords: lumber, forest products industries, sawnwood, prediction, market intelligence, supply balance title: emerging nonwood building materials in residential construction publication: for.
title: potential growth of wood products use in low-rise nonresidential buildings publication:
title: strategic and tactical fuel treatment evaluationtools publication : in: fire social science research-selected highlights, usda fs,  pacific northwest research station, general technical report, pnw-gtr-736;  december 2007 author(s) slog, kenneth; view pdf » view publication information »
recent data show the greatest amount of growth taking place in the oriented strandboard sector.
category: journal articles file size: 296 kb(s)
a turnaround in the economy was widely anticipated and appeared to be underway in the first half of 2002, but the downturn has already had a fairly profound impact, particularly in terms of expectations for growth in the pulp and paper sector, and also for pulpwood markets of the south.
title: evaluating shrinkage of wood propellers in a high-temperature environment publication : research note fpl-rn-0309.
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 78 kb kb(s)
solid wood is also used to produce, package, and transport manufactured products.
mdf was up 10.7% to 7.14 million m3 and osb increased by 43% to just under 1 million m3.
injury rates for the non-timber forest products sectors have not been assessed.
for hardwood lumber, the export share has continued to increase, and for pulp the share increased then levelled off after the mid 1990s.
but these features provide a means of predictable and programmable disposal not easily achieved with other resources.
title: chapter 8; paper and pulp output continues to climb in europe and russia, but falls in north america: markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2006-2007 publication :
greater computational power available since the mid 1970s has allowed the evolution of bioeconomic models that combine economic and resource models.
the challenge in the lumber dispute, then, is to devise a system of pricing in canada that is more transparent regarding the underlying valuation of timber.
memphis, tenn. : hardwood market report, 2005: p. 84-87.
category: journal articles file size: 203 kb kb(s)
in 2003, about 23.3 million m3 (26.3 billion ft2) of structural panels were used for sheathing and exterior siding in these markets.
abstract: overstocked small-diameter softwood timber in western us forests has created a serious forest health and fire hazard, and the costs of removing this material are high.
for the remainder, capacities usually serve as a good proxy because most mills strive to operate near their limits in good years.
the resulting confidence bounds have coverages that approach the nominal values faster than bounds based on maximum likelihood estimation.
a rough estimate of the  recycling rate (utilization rate) of post-consumer wood and paper into burning  with energy generation is 15% to 20% for the period 1990 to 2006.
title: modelling mould growth on  coated modified and unmodified wood substrates exposed outdoors publication: wood sci technol (2010) 44:315-333; 2010 author(s) gobakken, lone ross; lebow, patricia k. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
many workers receive fewer benefits or lower wages, or experience worse working conditions than they would in the formal economy.
all  three concerns are associated with potential biases in microfibril angle  estimates.
[denver, co] : western governors association, 2008.
results from this life-cycle inventory showed that cumulative energy consumed in producing virgin compared to reclaimed framing lumber and wood flooring was about 11 and 13 times greater, respectively.
a year ago  (mid-year 2008)
p. author(s) spelter, henry year: 2002 view pdf »
publication: in: technical session proceedings, wood biomass utilization: challenges and opportunities, june 26, 2006 author(s) skog, ince, spelter, kramp, barbour year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles
title: how woody residuals are recycled in the united states publication:
by 2050, this requirement increases to 36% of roundwood harvest.
since 1988, it has been about 20 billion  cubic feet per year.
when industry statistics from the confederation of european paper industries (cepi) or other sources are used, the text indicates the different basis.
pulpwood still has much higher value-added potential in production of wood pulp than in production of biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol.
keywords: green gluing, ponderosa pine, logs, warp, dimensional lumber
annual meeting of the council on forest engineering lake tahoe june 15-18, 2009 author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted) year: 2009 view pdf »
abstract: the lake states region of minnesota, wisconsin and michigan offers significant potential for bioenergy production.
they were also older.
sometimes these policies raise  competition for readily available wood supply.
life cycle environmental performance of renewable materials in the context of building construction.
author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1997 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: the goal of this study was to gain an understanding of the  environmental impact for softwood lumber production through a gate-to-gate  life-cycle inventory (lci) of softwood sawmills in the northeastern and north  central united states (ne/nc).
abstract: as in other industries, the fortunes of the u.s. pulp and paper industry are now closely tied to the global economy.
title: material variability and repetitive member factors for the  allowable properties of engineered wood products publication : journal of testing and evaluation, vol. 37, no. 6, pp.
keywords: forest products, prices, marketing, western u.s., timber supply, forest biomass, fire management, wildfires, fire prevention, fire control, fuel reduction, wildfire prevention, forest thinning, economic aspects, forest management, market surveys, forest fires, fuel treatment market model, fire hazard, thinnings, fuel treatment, market welfare
2011 author(s) skog, k.; lebow, p.; dykstra, d.; miles, p.; stokes, b.j.; perlack, r.d.;  buford, m.; barbour, j.; mckeever, d. year: 2011 view  pdf » view publication information »
this study examined hardwood lumber manufacturing using life-cycle inventory methodology.
abstract: globalization of the sawn softwood sector continues as we ride the crest of the wave, characterized by generally positive markets worldwide.
title: flexural properties of structural lumber products after long-term exposure to 150° f and 75% relative humidity publication : proc, 35th intl particleboard/composite materials symp, washington state univ, pullman, wa 2001 author(s) green, evans year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information »
so,  in roundwood equivalents, wood and paper products consumption has been  increasing at roughly the pace of population.
information was gathered using a survey of department of transportation engineers from across the united states.
the bridge was originally constructed with douglas-fir larch solid sawn stringers but was rehabilitated on several occasions to allow comparisons to be made with respect to different rehabilitation options, including the use of a helper stringer and the use of glued laminated timber (glulam) stringers.
with few local exceptions, rainfall across the south was below normal through the summer and fall (according to region-wide precipitation data from noaa), yielding fairly normalweather conditions for timberharvesting.
category: journal articles file size: 8404 kb(s)
material flow and energy use were identified for hardwood sawmills in northeastern us.
year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
title: a synthesis of the science on forest and carbon for u.s. forests publication: in: issues in ecology, spring 2010, report number 13; pp.
the method uses data on hwp production and trade from several decades and tracks annual additions to pools of hwp in use, removals from use, additions to solid waste disposal sites (swds), and decay from swds.
category: research notes file size: 804 kb(s)
publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-42.
keywords: life cycle inventory, lci,  hardwood lumber, northeast, corrim, manufacturing, environmental impacts
this research will help develop a standard laboratory method for soil-contact leaching of metals from cca and other copper-based preservative systems.
keywords: cca-c, depletion, leaching, soil, wood preservatives, statistical analysis, chromium, copper, arsenic, soil pollution, soil chemistry, x-ray spectroscopy, southern yellow pine, treated wood, environmental aspects, chromated copper arsenate
abstract: this report presents statistical information on production, trade, consumption, and prices of forest products in the united states.
after determining the lower range of density, modulus of rupture (mor), and modulus of elasticity (moe) of juvenile wood from small southern pine logs, southern pine specimens were polymerized using both a vacuum-impregnation and a surface-application approach.
ninety-three research organizations were initially identified for review, 40 of which were selected for in-depth examination (located in 23 countries) (table 1).
since its inception, osb product recovery (yield) has also improved by about 15%.
keywords: pulpwood, wood fiber, supply, demand, projections title: wood -based panels- supply, trade and consumption publication: ece/fao forest products annual market review, 2000-2001  pp.
keywords: log scales, volume, conversion factors
a series of studies conducted at the usda forest service, forest products laboratory (fpl), examined the materials, chemical mechanisms, and process implications and has developed both practical and theoretical solutions for controlling strength effects during treatment and processing and for minimizing strength loss in-service.
keywords: break-even analysis, wood gasification, small diameter timber, forest health treatment, economic evaluation
but for some categories, employment has been declining - especially for wood furniture manufacturing, and to a lesser degree for the pulp and paper industries.
life cycle  environmental performance of renewable materials in the context of building  construction.
sometimes these policies raise competition for readily available wood supply.
journal articles file size: 248 kb(s)
the model- estimated optimal acreage varies from 1.5 to 2.8 million acres, less than 1 percent of cultivated u.s. cropland and less than 1 percent of u.s. existing timberland.
newtown square, pa: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, northeastern area state and private forestry. 23p.
the process models encompass biomass preparation, gasification, heat recovery, and syngas cleanup, along with the options of converting syngas to biofuel feedstocks via a fischer-tropsch gas-to-liquid (gtl) process, the use of syngas or gtl tail gas for process heat energy, and the option of added process energy equipment, including turbines and generators.
year: 1997 view pdf »
prior to pulping (vpp) is a novel biorefining concept for pulp mills that includes hydrolysis extraction of hemicellulose wood sugars and acetic acid from pulpwood prior to pulping.
journal articles file size: 666 kb kb(s)
title: criterion 6, indicator 34: value of capital investment and annual expenditure in forest management, wood and non-wood product industries, forest-based environmental services, recreation, and tourism publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-rn-0320, 2010 author(s) skog, kenneth; bergstrom, john; hill; elizabeth, cordell; ken year: 2010 view pdf »
by installing a wood heating system in the public schools in darby, montana, the fuels for schools program is demonstrating the potential of putting low quality wood residues to practical use in a rural forest based community.
the spike in oil prices in 2011 has provided a further rationale for choosing wood rather than fossil fuels.
the effects of increasing recovery after the mid 1990s were felt primarily in offsetting harvest in other countries and not in the united states.
abstract: the hardwood chip market is an important element ofwood fiber raw material supply for the pulp and paper industry and other pulp-based products such as fiberboard.
abstract: this paper compares the so-called exact approach for obtaining confidence intervals on normal distribution coefficients of variation to approximate methods.
title: u.s. timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics 1965 to 2005 publication: research paper fpl-rp-637.
abstract: the goal of this study was to gain an understanding of the environmental impact of hardwood lumber production through a gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory (lci) of hardwood sawmills in the southeastern united states (se).
title: evaluating warp of 2 by 4s sawn from panels produced through green gluing dimension lumber from small ponderosa pine logs publication : forest prod.
this market has become much more important in recent years as housing stocks have grown larger and older, and as homeowner incomes have risen.
abstract: this report provides an index method that can be used to update recent estimates of timber harvest by state to a common current year and to make 5-year projections.
additional chapters  discuss markets for wood energy, certified forest products, value-added wood  products, forest carbon and tropical timber.
harvest of pulpwood on forest land is projected to remain the dominant source of u.s. fiber supply through the first half of the next century.
in 2005 in north america, output of paper and paperboard decreased by 1.5% to 101.1 million m.t. from 2004, although prices continued to increase in 2005 and the first half of 2006.
287-291; 2005 author(s) verrill, steve; durst, mark year: 2005 view pdf  » view publication information »
the current use is primarily animal bedding, and prices appear to be greater than those paid by particleboard plants for sawdust and planer shavings but less than for chips.
title: modeling and evaluating competitive markets for agricultural short-rotation wood fiber crops publication: fpl rip-4851-003 author(s) ince, p. year: 2005 view pdf »
75 p. author(s) howard, james l. year: 1997 view pdf »
in: proceedings of the 19th world congress; 1990 august 5-11; montreal, canada.
employment dropped to about 93,000 people, down from 99,000 in 2005 and 115,000 in 1995.
abstract: the number of larger, permanent softwood lumber mills in the united states and canada has shrunk from 1,311 in 1995 to 990 as of june 2007.
in a wood-framed building, building materials reclaimed during deconstructing (dismantling) may include framing lumber and wood flooring.
abstract: the use of wood for energy --  including the burning of solid wood and black liquor from pulping -- has been  growing at a rate significantly greater than that for all other uses such as  lumber, pulp, or particleboard.
title: the hardwood chip market in 2005 publication : hardwood market report : 9th annual statistical analysis of the north american hardwood marketplace.
category: research papers file size: 801 kb kb(s)
: western wood products association, economic services dept., [2001?]: pages 9-12.
year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 134 kb kb(s)
the effectiveness of activities  could be diluted by negative leakage effects and increasing disturbance  regimes.
the resulting revenues from these activities could presumably subsidize treatment for other locations.
in addition to these market forces, government policies to promote renewable energy continue to promote wood for energy.
the report focuses on national statistics but includes some data for individual states and regions and for canada.
category: journal articles title: treatability of spf framing lumber with cca and borate preservatives publication: wood and fiber science.
title: plywood niche narrows but producter still have ample opportunities publication: 1997.
keywords: biofuel; supply assessment; resource; supply chain; gis; optimization title: effect of treatment pressure on treatment quality and bending properties of red pine lumber publication: forest prod.
large volumes of chips  are also produced and utilized on site at pulp mills but do not enter into the  chip market.
in the 2006 average income for a person employed in the forest recreation and tourism private sector is estimated to be $23,517, approximately 9% less than the average american.
journal  articles file size: 855 kb(s)
if the cost of providing wood products from the united  states is high relative to other countries or alternative materials, this would  limit increase in the level of u.s. harvest and the value that contributes to  forest management, employment, and wages.
title: greenhouse gas  and carbon profile of the u.s. forest products industry value chain publication: environ.
geneva timber and forest study paper 27, pp 85-97; chapter 9 author(s) aguilar, francisco; gaston, christopher; hartkamp, rens; mabee, warren; skog, kenneth year: 2011 view pdf »
category: research notes file size: 659 kb(s)
you may re-sort the listing by: title,  category,   date posted  -or- publication year.
this report defines sustainability in relation to  satisfying human needs though sustainable development:humanity has the  ability to make development sustainable–to ensure that it meets the needs  of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet  their own needs.
mill location was uncorrelated with growth, but location mattered indirectly by facilitating or hindering mills with growth-conducive characteristics.
50 p. author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2009 view  pdf » view publication information »
keywords: economic model, linear programming, spatial equilibrium, international trade, price, demand, supply, capacity, technology, recycling, industry, pulp and paper, solid wood.
title: ftm-west : fuel treatment market model for u.s. west (please note :
keywords: preservative treatment, pressure level, mechanical properties, treatment quality, red pine, pinus resinosa
75-79 2004 author(s) ince year: 2004 view pdf »
comparison of the tnaa base case and an investment restricted scenario from fasom, both of which reflect a continuation of recent behavioral tendencies by nonindustrial private owners, suggests that southern private timberlands have considerable biological and economic potential for intensified forest management.
author(s) ince, peter j.; lombard, bernard; akim, eduard year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information »
capacity utilization was just 90%.
author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2000 view pdf »
the discounts appear to reflect lower quality offerings and more restrictive harvest regulations that increase harvest costs.
p.40-46 author(s) bergman, richard d. view pdf  » view publication information »
this paper describes a  generic modeling system for evaluating integrated biomass gasification business  concepts over a range of production scales and process options, including  process models and a discounted cash-flow model, all of which are contained in  a microsoft® (redmond, washington) office excel workbook (available from  the authors).
57 pages author(s) verrill, steve p.; johnson, richard a. year: 2007 view pdf »
total per capita consumption increased between 1965 and 1987, from 68 to 83 ft3 per year.
a life-cycle inventory approach was applied to track the energy consumption and emissions associated with reclaiming materials.
" - visuals - search in fpl more from @fswoodlab on twitter hide
additionally, the operational systems necessary to effect the treatments as well as potential erosion impacts, utilization opportunities and market implications were examined.
employee productivity was near 2,125 m3 (900,000 bf) per worker per year for dimension and stud mills but about half that for board, timber, and specialty mills.
use estimates are then compared to forest inventory  data to identify potential problem/benefit areas.
journal articles file size: 542 kb(s)
title: plymap : a computer simulation model of the rotary peeled softwood plywood manufacturing process
keywords: bioenergy, forest biomass supply, projections, county level  estimates title: technology transfer and  knowledge utilization: a review of systems and organizations relevant to wood  utilization research and product development in the united states.
this article focuses on one type of  ecolabeling referred to as environmental product declarations (epds) that  provide environmental impact information based on life cycle assessment (lca)  data.
j. volume 35, number 1, 33-35.
the paper contrasts projections of private forest investment from the tnaa and fasom models, focusing on the southern united states.
abstract: the traditional method of measuring log volume in north america is the board foot log scale, which uses simple assumptions about how much of a log's volume is recoverable.
this paper presents  results of a deconstruction industry survey following consortium for research  on renewable industrial materials research guidelines.
if value of shipments continues to decline, this would decrease revenues to forest landowners and employees.
however, in the medium and long  term, the forests in the unece region can support greater harvests to satisfy  the growing need for paper and wood products, as well as wood energy.
title: forest  biomass and wood waste resources publication: chapter 3 in  usdoe 2011.
abstract: the ability of forest products research programs to contribute to a nation's well-being requires that research organizations be well organized, effectively managed, and held to high standards of performance.
category: conference proceedings file size: 665 kb(s)
title: life-cycle inventory of  manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern united states publication: bergman, r; bowe, scott. 2011.
analysis  of treatment areas and potential removals is included.
title: inventories of woody residues and solid wood waste in the united states, 2002
publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-140.
118-125; 2010 author(s) lebow, patricia k.; carll, charles g. year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
category: conference proceedings file size: 87 kb(s)
wood products industries capital investments decreased from $3.4 to $2.2 billion between 1997 and 2003 but increased to $3.5 billion in 2006 (2005$).
keywords: pulp and paper industry, economic analysis, supply balance, timber trade, market prices
investments  in publically implemented projects were in the range of $110 to $120 million,  while, by some estimates, investments in projects sponsored by private concerns  exceeded $2.5 billion in the same year.
market developments are described for timber products, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, and forest products prices.
wood products used in new residential construction u. s. and canada, with comparisons to 1997 and 2003.
abstract: the north american lumber market is integrated and, under normal conditions, provides unhindered access to all suppliers.
the outlook for sawn softwood markets in 2004 is being impacted by the interplay of lower housing demand, increased roundwood supplies and a weaker us dollar.
abstract: the countries of the unece region consume over 55% of the  world’s paper and paperboard and consume over 70% of the world’s pulp  in order make to that paper.
sixty to 70% of acres to be treated are in california, idaho, and montana.
bethesda, md : society of american foresters, c2002: pages 464-465.
abstract: although timber production has grown steadily over the last decade, information about the use of timbers and the corresponding resource remains in short supply.
abstract: the ipcc guidelines (ipcc 1997) provide an outline of how harvested wood could be treated in national greenhouse gas (ghg) inventories.
keywords: fuelwood, household heating, survey, consumption model date posted: 11/15/10
p. author(s) verrill, steve; durst, mark year: 2005 view pdf »
included are the construction of entirely new buildings, major additions to, or in conjunction with, existing buildings, and alterations and renovations to existing buildings.
keywords: pulpwood; wood fiber; supply; demand; projections title: u.s. wood fiber demand and supply outlook: the 5th rpa timber assessment publication: usda forest service
author(s) ralph, john; lu, fachuang; kim, hoon; ress, dino; yelle, daniel j.; hammel, kenneth e.; ralph, sally a.; nanayakkara, bernadette; wagner, armid; akiyama, takuya; schatz, paul f.; mansfield, shawn d.; terashima, noritsugu; boerjan, wout; sundberg, bjorn; h year: 2009 view pdf »
publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0326, 2011 author(s) james l. howard; david b. mckeever year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information » category: research notes file size: 659 kb(s)
in: youngs, r.l., coordinator.
the contribution has declined under the production and atmospheric flow approaches since 1990 and has increased under the stock change approach.
in this  article, we review many recent research findings on carbon impacts across all  stages of processing from cradle-to-grave, based on life cycle accounting,  which is necessary to understand the carbon interactions across many different  carbon pools.
keywords: scribner scaling, diameter, length, taper, truncated cone, smoothing, calibration title: evaluation of silvicultural treatments and biomass use for reducing fire hazard in western states (please note : the fte tool referenced in this publication is no longer available.)
under the second system, the opposite of these benchmarks prevails.
users are expected to enter their own data to evaluate the feasibility of specific projects.
the review begins with an overview chapter, followed by description of the macro-economic situation.
keywords: wisconsin street tree, na-fr-02-08, national forest health monitoring program, tree assessment, tree size, ground cover, plot density, air quality, land use, tree species
construction and repair and remodeling of homes each accounted for about 35% of total lumber consumption in 2006.
currently, only 8% of total constructed nonresidential area is wood.
part ii of this paper uses volumes and harvest costs from two treatments on the 14 million acres of eligible federal lands as inputs to the fuel treatment market model for the u.s. west to determine market impacts.
category: not classified file size: 3,161 kb(s)
slow changes in heartwood chemistry following tree death probably explain these differences for alaska yellow-
abstract: a reference source is provided for estimating the amount of heat energy that may be recovered using wood or bark fuel in typical furnace and boiler or hot air combustion heat recovery systems.
title: an estimation of opportunity cost for sustainable ecosystems publication: proceedings of the xi world forestry congress, 13-22 october 1997, anatalya, pp.
this conclusion, however, should be viewed as a working hypothesis that must continue to be examined and tested periodically in the future as new data, new insights, and new market trends emerge.
keywords: wood pulp, supply balance title: effects of size and age on the survival and growth of pulp and paper mills publication: journal of forest economics.
publication: environ.
keywords: fuelwood, household heating, survey, consumption model date posted: 11/15/10
in 1983, 155*5 m mg of wood were used for energy.
it can be  adapted readily to measure the wood content of any large, irregularly shaped  wooden object and, as such, is useful for researchers and wood products  manufacturers.
lamlum is structured so that users may easily perform a sensitivity analysis on revenues and key costs without going into the detailed assumptions.
publication: gen. tech.
because of the high  decay resistance of yel- (fig. 1) (15).
publication: research paper fpl-rp-634.
abstract: this study explains and determines  fuelwood consumption at the county level based on county economic and  demographic conditions, and identifies u.s. counties where potential fuelwood  use problems and benefits are greatest.
although russian paper and paperboard exports greatly exceed imports in tonnage, the trade balance in product value continued to deteriorate in 2003, with increasing higher valued imports.
the paper and paperboard packaging industry encompasses producers of primary paper and paperboard packaging materials (paper and paperboard mills) plus secondary producers who convert paper or paperboard into packaging products, such as corrugated containers, boxes, sacks, or other forms of paper or paperboard packaging.
exports are, in some cases, a significant source of value for regional and national economies.
for lumber strength applications, this leads to 'allowable properties' that are too low.
a  smaller coefficient for mould coverage in the beginning of the exposure period  gave the panels with one of the coating systems, bap, a delay in mould growth,  and the extrapolated values for years 6-12 indicate a longer aesthetic service  life than panels with the two other coating systems.
newtown square, pa: u.s. department of agriculture, forest  service, northeastern area state and private forestry. 23p.
title: u.s. timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics 1965-2002 publication: fpl-rp-615 december 2003 author(s) howard, james year: 2003 view pdf »
the concept involves conversion of wood sugars  via fermentation to fuel ethanol or other chemicals and the use of remaining  solid wood material in the pulping process.
keywords: wood products consumption, alterations, improvements, repair, remodeling, north american housing market date posted: 04/05/10
when harvested, the material competes with pulpwood from traditional forests.
machine rate models cannot calculate a costing rate that will provide a specified rate of return.
55, no. 3 ; ece/tim/bul/2002/3: pages [139]-166.
the  main objective of this study was to explore the potential of using producer  (wood) gas to fire a hot water boiler for a small dry kiln capable of drying  both softwood and hardwood lumber.
the current depressed status of the u.s. pulpwood market presents a near-term policy challenge in forest management, whether to provide incentives to sustain or expand pulpwood supply in current times of lean demand growth when there may be much larger foreseeable needs, but only in the long run.
chargeout!'s calculated rate will provide a user-specified rate of return.
title: criterion 6 indicator 28:
in: mcwilliams, will; moisen, gretchen; czaplewski, ray, comps.
material flow and energy type and use were identified for hardwood sawmills in the northeastern united states.
outside the unece region, china is rapidly gaining ground as the second largest producer and consumer of paper and paperboard worldwide.
abstract: a pilot study to assess  the structure, function, and health of wisconsin's street trees was initiated  in 2002.
keywords: afforestation; avoided deforestation; carbon emission offsets; carbon storage and sequestration; disturbance risk; greenhouse gas mitigation; intensive silviculture; substitution; urban forestry; wood biomass energy; wood products.
title: epd-environmental product  declarations for wood products-an application of life cycle information about  forest products publication: forest products journal, volume.
additional chapters discuss markets for wood energy, certified forest products, value-added wood products, forest carbon and tropical timber.
abstract: mould growth on coated wood is today a genuine challenge for house owners.
year: 2001 view pdf » view publication information »
title: monitoring changing demands on global natural resources publication: in: lund, h. gyde; preto, giovanni, coordinators.
proceedings of the  international conference and workshop; 1989 september 24-30; venice, italy.
323-333 : ill. author(s) wipf, terry j.; ritter, michael a.; wood, douglas l. year: 2000 view pdf »
keywords: production, trade, prices, markets, forest products, consumption
north american log markets, in contrast, function on different principles: in one principle, a profit allowance for the wood processor plays a role in timber pricing, whereas in the other it is a byproduct of the give-and-take of arm's length market negotiations.
the average for dimension mills was 266 bf/m3 (7.5 bf/ft3).
for example, cepi raised its recycling target to 66% in 2010.
the removal of large trees by uneven-aged thinning may be reduced by supplementary treatments to increase torching index rather than thinning to reach a high crowning index.
sustainable development im-plies not consuming more resources today than we can  replace tomorrow, but sustainable forest man-agement implies more than merely a  non-declining supply of timber.
title: a strategic assessment of forest biomass and fuel reduction treatments in western states publication: rmrs-gtr-149 author(s) bob rummer, jeff prestemon,
51, nos. 7/8 (july/aug. 2001).:p.
an implication is that even-aged thinning regimes on federal lands in the u.s. west are less economical and therefore will be less effective.
keywords: repetitive members; assembly; reliability; redundancy; load sharing; composite action; residual capacity date posted: 10/20/10
conference proceedings file size: 284 kb(s)
67-78 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: sawmills--industrial capacity, lumber trade--industrial capacity
this study determined environmental impacts of manufacturing hardwood lumber in the southeastern us using the life-cycle inventory method.
title: criterion 6, indicator 37: average wage rates, annual average income, and annual injury rates in major forest employment categories publication : usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0323, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; alexander; susan; bergstrom; john; cordell; ken; hill; elizabeth; howard; james; westby; rebecca year: 2011 view pdf »
keywords: strategic assessment, bioenergy, biomass resource assessment, supply analysis title: strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west spatial analysis and supply curve development final report publication : parker, nathan ; tittman, peter ; hart, quinn, et al. 2008.
one such strategy is evident in  the increased emphasis on the contributions of the pulp and paper industry to  the green economy.
keywords: wood waste utilization, wood waste recycling, statistics, logging residues, recycling
417-423 author(s) rowell, spelter view pdf » view publication information »
we report analytic calculations and simulations that suggest that the order of such adjustments should be reversed.
the analysis points to a future of adequacy in domestic wood-fiber resources, not impending scarcity.
abstract: environmental impacts associated with the building industry have become of increasing importance.
abstract: average annual incomes for forest  management and protection includes salaries for full-time permanent employees  of the u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, which have increased  from a median of $41,300 in 1992 to $48,200 in 2000, to $50,500 in 2006 (all in  2005$).
furthermore, evidence suggests preference toward programs that are appropriately organized and governed, suitably led and creatively administered, and periodically evaluated in accordance with clear standards of success.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2004-2008
abstract: this report documents a simulation model of the plywood manufacturing process.
recycling: a tappi press anthology of published papers, said abubaakr,ph.d., editor, tappi press 1997, pp.
view publication information » category: research papers file size: 3.13 mb kb(s)
therefore, these results apply primarily to mills with mixed sanded and sheathing capabilities.
managing forest ecosystems ; v. 11: isbn: 1402043058: 9781402043055:
in: proceedings of the southern forest economics workshop on environmental concerns, government regulations, new technology and their impact on southern forestry; february 20-22; washington, dc.
category: not classified file size: 318 kb(s)
although national trends are dealt with for the most part, some information is given for regions, states, and canada.
10 (2000): pages 363-372 author(s) ince, peter j.; spelter, henry; skog, kenneth; kramp, andrew; dykstra, dennis p. year: 2008 view pdf »
average boron penetration with dot was also greater than that for any bc solution.
in the 2006 average income for a person  employed in the forest recreation and tourism private sector is estimated to be  $23,517, approximately 9% less than the average american.
title: solid wood timber products consumption in major end uses in the  united states, 1950-2009; a technical document supporting the forest service  2010 rpa assessment publication: usda forest service, forest  products laboratory, fpl-gtr-199, 2011 author(s) mckeever;  david b.; howard; james l. year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
the new millennium saw the lowest volumes offered since the great depression at less than 700 million board feet.
title: predictor sort sampling and one-sided confidence bounds on quantiles publication : proceedings, 2001 american statistical association annual meeting, physical sciences and engineering section, 2001 august 5-9, atlanta, ga.
the objective is to combine two or more materials in such a way that a synergism between the components results in a new material that is much better than the individual components.
this paper introduces a costing methodology and applies it to a piece of capital equipment.
because of diminishing old growth, large diameter trees, the average conversion factor has risen, as illustrated in this analysis of washington state sawmill data over the period 1970-1998.
further attrition of capacity is likely, as profitability is unlikely to return until a combination of recovering demand and contracting supply due to further capacity attrition equalize in the market.
category: journal articles file size: 42 kb kb(s)
pulpwood stumpage values are projected to increase in the united states, based on supply and demand analysis, gradually improving economic opportunities for growing hardwood short-rotation woody crops on agricultural land.
pages 56-72 author(s) skog, kenneth e.
keywords: wood recycling, paper recycling, recovery rate, utilization  rate, recycling rate date posted: 01/10/11
abstract: a  resource assessment and biorefinery siting optimization model was developed and  implemented to assess potential biofuel supply across the western united states  from agricultural, forest, urban, and energy crop biomass.
april/may 2011, pp.167-173; 2011 author(s) heath, linda s.; smith, james e.; skog, kenneth e.;  nowak, david j.; woodall, christopher w. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
category: research papers file size: 1.4 mb kb(s)
keywords: softwood sawmill capacity; sawmill employment; wood end-use markets; market review; lumber demand and supply date posted: 10/06/09 title: roseburg repeat publication: timber processing, july/august, pp.
based on our tabulated capacity of 43.7 billion feet, that means the industry utilized 80% of its potential.
united nations economic  commission for europe (unece) and food and agriculture organization of the  united nations (fao).
publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-gtr-199, 2011 author(s) mckeever; david b.; howard; james l. year: 2011 view pdf »
in: rocky mountain research station publication; rmrs-p-41 author(s) skog, barbour year: 2006 view pdf »
forest resources have value in producing a range of different wood products, not just pulp and paper products.
keywords: techline, echline, plywood, oriented strandboard, osb, laminated veneer lumber, lvl, i-joist, glulam title: fuel treatment evaluator 3.0 (please note :
this study is a follow-up to the  corrim report module g-life-cycle inventory of solid strip hardwood
category: journal articles file size: 326 kb(s)
the differences between the results calculated by the machine rate methods occur because of different implicit assumptions used within the models' formulas.
in addition, this article describes the process of  developing epds from lca data in conjunction with product category rules and  the status and future needs of epds in the u.s. forest products industry.
longer term influences include the ongoing mountain pine beetle (dendroctonus ponderosae) epidemic in british columbia that threatens to cut timber supplies over the next 5 to 10 years and the 2006 softwood lumber agreement affecting the terms under which lumber is imported from canada into the united states.
p. author(s) parker, nathan; tittmann, peter; hart, quinn; lay, mui; cunningham, joshua; jenkins, bryan; nelson, richard; skog, ken; milbrandt, anelia; gray, ed; schmidt, anneliese year: 2008 view pdf »
wood buildings, on average, were about 40% smaller than their nonwood counterparts.
abstract: prompted by continuing concern that timber-based commodities are  becoming increasingly scarce, this paper presents information on changes in  real prices (prices deflated by the general producer price index) of timber  commodities as potential indicators of economic scarcity.
more recently, lumber use in floor joists has been shrinking due to replacement by wood i-joists, while in the girder, beam and header segment, lvl has been taking large shares.
category: general technical reports file size: 3.3 mb kb(s)
view publication information » category: research papers
chargeout!, a recently introduced  discounted cash flow methodology is compared with seven machine rate methods  using data representing a skidder.
title: north american pulp & paper model (napap) :
and the machine rate models occur largely because of the inability  of the machine rate models to properly incorporate the time value of money.
north, south, and west.
[moscow, id] : university of idaho, c2004: 12 pages author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 2004 view pdf »
this pattern is due to initial increases and subsequent declines in export share for softwood lumber, softwood plywood, and paper and paperboard.
several types of avoided emissions were considered separately and were collectively found to be notable relative to net emissions.
empirical  evidence suggests that various types of programs can promote technology  transfer (venture capital, angel investors, business incubators, extension  services, tax incentives, and in-house entites), the fundamental effectiveness  of which depends on research results that are scientifically valid and  consistent with the information needs of potential users.
abstract: small,  rural forested communities have the economic need to develop a wood products  industry to replace the loss of large sawmills and maintain forest health.
they were selected in order to: (a) provide a sampling of organizations operating in various countries worldwide, (b) enable review of publicly and privately sponsored organizations, and (c) permit access to a diversity of organizational structures and administrative procedures.
abstract: the u.s. economy entered a period of slow growth in 2000, tilting toward economic recession in 2001, the first broad economic downturn in a decade.
the analysis also considered projected growth and expansion of forest  plantations, such as pine plantations in the south, the market potential for  agricultural fiber crops, and projected pulpwood demand for wood panel products  such as oriented strandboard.
the greater drop in canadian capacity can be deduced from a number of factors including the imposition of tariffs of up to 15% on exports to the u.s. and the strengthening of the canadian dollar.
abstract: the finite difference approximation is applied to estimate the moisture-dependent diffusion coefficient by utilizing test data of isothermal moisture desorption in northern red oak (quercus rubra).
in 2006, they produced 171 million (nominal) m3 (72.3 × 109 board feet) of lumber, and in the process, generated approximately 0.56 oven-dried metric tons of chips and 0.23 tons of saw-dust and shavings for every 2.36 m3 (1,000 board feet) of lumber produced.
many possible composite products can be made  using wheat fibers including structural (using thermosetting resins) and  nonstructural (using either a thermosetting or thermoplastic resin) materials,  geotextiles and molded products (using fiber mats prepared by physical  entanglement, nonwoven needling, or thermoplastic fiber-melt matrix  technologies), sorbents and filters (for removing pollutants from contaminated  air, water, and/or soil), packaging, and in products in combination of other  resources.
keywords: pseudotsuga menziesii, larix, bridges, structural timbers, railways, rail transport, laminated wood, loads, performance testing, quality standards, texas, stringers title: executive summary.
category: journal articles file size: 1038 kb(s)
thus, utilization options for wood years has shown the following: from dead cedar snags can be broadened to higher value uses consistent with those for !
abstract: forests play an important role in the u.s. and global carbon cycle, and carbon sequestered by u.s. forest growth and harvested wood products currently offsets 12-19% of u.s. fossil fuel emissions.
this report examines low-rise nonresidential buildings of four or fewer stories only.
journal articles file size: 440 kb(s)
these estimates are based on published waste generation rates and recoverability, measures of economic activity, and trends in virgin wood use in specific markets.
view publication information » category: research notes file size: 804 kb(s)
keywords: production, sustainability, consumption date posted: 05/02/11
abstract: north american log markets function on different principles -- a profit allowance for the wood processor plays a role in timber pricing in canada, while in the united states, it is a byproduct of the give and take of arm's-length market negotiations.
each type of waste wood differs in recyclability.
abstract: the western governors' association assessment of biofuels potential in  western states estimated the location and capacity of biofuels plants that  could potentially be built for selected gasoline prices in 2015 using a mixed  integer programming model.
this trend was associated with generally slower growth in  u.s. industrial production and displacement of growth in print media  advertising expenditures by electronic media.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 183 kb(s)
abstract: several spans of a 60-year-old open-deck timber railroad bridge on the southern pacific railroad line (now the union pacific) in southwest texas were field tested.
publication: staff paper series number 208.
whether this is a subsidy in the sense of conferring a direct financial contribution by the government or merely a different pricing mechanism is beclouded by the dearth of market-based transactions.
abstract: mould growth on coated wood is today a genuine challenge for house  owners.
abstract: this paper describes the current state of the u.s. economy and provides  general and statistical information on forest products markets in terms of  production, trade, consumption, and prices.
after additional screens are applied, 24 million acres are deemed eligible for treatment (14 million acres on federal lands).
the tables presented in this report contain information collected from industry trade associations and government agencies.
abstract: this study summarizes  the environmental performance of prefinished engineered wood flooring using  life-cycle inventory (lci) analysis.
the model included information on forest biomass  supply curves by county (developed using forest service fia data), agricultural  biomass supply curves, transportation networks, and capital and operating costs  of selected conversion technologies.
keywords: globalization, structural change, forest sector, sustainability, sustainable forestry, economic aspects, forest management, forestry, rpa assessment
abstract: the united states has a century of experience with the development of models that describe markets for forest products and trends in resource conditions.
the resulting system of finite difference equations defines an inverse problem, whose solution may be sensitive to small changes of input data.
this report examines low-rise nonresidential buildings of four or fewer stories  only.
abstract: this report presents annual data but is published every 2 years.
this conclusion, however, should be viewed as a working hypothesis  that must continue to be examined and tested periodically in the future as new  data, new insights, and new market trends emerge.
24-28 author(s) belin, tom; brown, craig; connor, eric; federick, jim; ince, peter; katofsky,  ryan; closset, gerard year: 2008 view pdf  » view publication information »
a transition to cubic would improve domestic log market transparency by reducing the worst inequities of board foot scales and making regional comparisons easier, and would create a level playing field internationally.
title: if the u.s. had canada's stumpage system publication: u.s.-canada forest products trade : a bilateral technical symposium.
the intent was to obtain a better understanding of how such organizations are structured and administered and their performance judged.
most steeply sloped acres would generate operating deficits.
category: journal articles file size: 220 kb(s)
sixty to seventy percent of the area to be treated is in california, idaho, and montana.
title: solid wood timber products consumption in major end uses in the united states, 1950-2009; a technical document supporting the forest service 2010 rpa assessment
new residential  construction continues to be the leading market for solid softwood products in  the united states and second only to residential repair and remodeling in  canada.
southern yellow pine sapwood served as a control.
this article provides a concise  overview of this change as it relates to the united states, looking at  nationwide trends in the pulp and paper sector and the solid wood and composite  wood product sectors (lumber and wood panels) and also nationwide trends in  timber growth, timber removals, and real prices for timber.
about 55 percent of biomass would be from main stem of trees =7 inches d.b.h.
such an approach can improve  forestry practices and can avoid unduly increasing the cost of wood for other  end uses.
techlines abstract: fuel treatment evaluator (fte) 3.0 is a web-based tool that allows users to simulate uneven-aged and even-aged silvicultural treatments on timberland in 12 western states.
longer-term economic issues and implications for pulpwood markets are discussed in this paper.
author(s) ince, peter j.; durbak, irene year: 2005 view pdf »
the structural 'fingerprint' of the cell wall produced by 2d13c-1h  correlative nmr experiments is potentially unmatched by any other spectroscopy.
the issues surrounding raw materials for this industry play an important role in affecting timber and log purchases, logging contractors and sawmill operations throughout the hardwood industry, particularly in the southern region.
keywords: biofuels; biomass gasification; economic  deasibility; forest biorefinery model
the forest service forest inventory and analysis (fia) program makes estimates of harvest for each state in differing years.
a method is suggested for estimating additions to carbon stored in harvested wood products (hwp) wood products, the factor used to convert products to carbon, and the proportion of solidwood and paper in swds.
most plants are small, relying on sawmill residues for fiber and thus are limited to 100,000 tonnes or less per year.
title: deterioration of wood from live and dead alaska yellow-cedar in contact with soil publication: forest products journal.
some might consider part of  these properties as problems, such as biodegradable and combustible.
abstract: this paper describes an approach to modeling u.s. forest sector market and trade impacts of expansion in domestic wood energy consumption under hypothetical future u.s. wood biomass energy policy scenarios.
(the software to solve a linear program is not provided and must be obtained separately.)
success or failure in producing these products depends on many factors including codes and standards, economies of scale, availability of resources, energy and labor costs, resource handing, collecting and shipping, and overcoming historical biases.
the results showed some significant physical  property increases for the fully impregnated material that used a large amount  of monomer.
weyerhaeuser's cottage grove, ore.
the long-time leader, the simpson complex in shelton, wash., was estimated to have fallen to fourth due in part to downtime taken in the course of the year.
title: wood-based panels : supply, trade and consumption publication: ece/fao forest products annual market review, 1999-2000.
this reuse can hold down the need to harvest  wood to meet u.s. consumption needs.
the business case agenda 2020 analysis explores financial issues publication : paper360°, june/july 2008, pp.
these are used in the united states to provide the basis for forecasting future resource and market trends and to inform policy analysis.
state forestry program expenditures for 1998, 2002, and 2004 were $2.0 to $2.2 billion (2005$).
the distinction between public and private sector responsibility for research is blurry with these organizations, as often they have public sponsorship, yet private operation and management.
based on analysis of existing market shares of other materials, it is theoretically possible that structural panel consumption could be increased by about 40% over current levels.
a primary  conclusion is that projected growth in u.s. wood-fiber demand appears at  present to be economically sustainable for decades to come, taking into account  ongoing shifts in product markets, international trade, and production  technology, along with improvements in forest productivity.
the import share for other products was stable from 1965 to 1990, but has since increased.
keywords: value prior to pulping, thermomechanical pulp, vpp,
david b. mckeever year: 2009 view pdf »
in british columbia to 16 cm (6.2 in.)
category: journal articles file size: 381 kb(s)
title: concerns about a variance approach to x-ray diffractometric estimation of microfibril angle in wood publication: wood and fiber science, volume 43, number 2, 2011, pp.
the main objective of this study was to explore the potential of using producer (wood) gas to fire a hot water boiler for a small dry kiln capable of drying both softwood and hardwood lumber.
stated istinctions in biomass harvest guidelines and the propensity for third-party forest certification will be critical in providing environmental safeguards.
keywords: growth, pulp, paper, paperboard, econometrics, location, capacity, exit-life cycle, survival, paper industry, forecasting, wood-pulp industry, supply and demand, market surveys, paperboard industry, economic aspects, paper mills, pulp mills, econometric models
based on historical trends, it is possible that higher north american prices for sawn softwood could still prevail through the first quarter of 2005, followed by a return to more normal pricing.
on the supply side, hardwood timber inventories are large but timber growth rates are relatively low (compared with softwoods).
ftm-west was designed to account for structural complexities in marketing and utilization that arise from unconventional size distributions of trees and logs removed in fuel treatment operations as compared with conventional timber supply in the west.
417-423 author(s) rowell;
author(s) ince year: 2002 view pdf »
abstract: this chapter describes the development and structure of the napap model and compares it to other forest sector models.
title: modelling mould growth on coated modified and unmodified wood substrates exposed outdoors publication: wood sci technol (2010) 44:315-333; 2010 author(s) gobakken, lone ross; lebow, patricia k. year: 2011 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 26 kb kb(s)
date  posted: 01/27/12
category: general  technical reports file size: 1,150 kb(s)
50 p. author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe,  scott a. year: 2008 view pdf » view  publication information »
journal  articles file size: 76 kb(s)
keywords: scheffer index, variation, trend, climate index
keywords: small-diameter, plantation-grown, southern pine, polymerization, acrylic monomer title: wisconsin street tree assessment 2002-2003 publication: cumming, anne buckelew; twardus, daniel b.; hoehn, robert; nowak, david j.; mielke, manfred; rideout, richard; butalla, helen; lebow, patricia.
forest  inventory and analysis (fia) symposium 2008; 2008 october 21-23; park city, ut.
year: 1987 view pdf » view publication  information »
38(5) 28-31 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1997 view pdf »
forest recreation capital investment by the forest  service was $461 and $405 million for 2008 and 2009, respectively, and by the  national park service was $386 and $474 million for 2006 and 2008,  respectively.
this study examined softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern  and north central us using life-cycle inventory methods.
another long-run demand-side influence is expansion of hardwood fiber use at oriented strandboard mills.
category: journal articles file size: 303 kb(s)
journal articles file size: 820 kb(s)
category: research notes file size: 359 kb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 157 kb(s)
title: epd-environmental product declarations for wood products-an application of life cycle information about forest products publication: forest products journal, volume.
environmentally sound wooden facades with long service lives and acceptable appearance are desired.
category: journal articles file size: 818 kb(s)
all the projected increase in roundwood harvest comes from non-sawtimber, most from non-industrial land, and most from the south.
abstract: for general linear modules with normally distributed random errors, the probability of a type ii error decreases exponentially as a function of sample size.
forest inventory and analysis (fia) symposium 2008; 2008 october 21-23; park city, ut.
the use of wood biomass as the primary  energy source for manufacturing greatly reduced the environmental burdens by  offsetting the demand for fossil fuels.
category: research papers
total and per capita consumption of wood and  wood products in round wood equivalents publication: usda  forest service, forest products laboratory, madison, wisconsin, fpl-rn-0317,  2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca; skog; kenneth  e. year:
the analysis points  to a future of adequacy in domestic wood-fiber resources, not impending  scarcity.
cost contingency factors allow major cost categories to be changed independently of the sensitivity analysis.
we found many opportunities for ways this market could be expanded, but we also found challenges to increasing this market.
iufro world series ; vol. 18.
costs for sanded-plywood mills declined by 12 to 17 percent between 1983 and 1988, while sheathing costs declined by 8 to 9 percent.
53-55 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1998 view pdf »
these mills represented 17.6 million m3 of capacity, nearly 12% of the 1995 industry total.
currently, 89% of net annual sequestration is in the forest ecosystem, and the balance is net carbon addition to harvested wood products.
title: bioeconomic and market models publication:
keywords: pulp and paper products; market outlook; production and demand shifts; trade title: criterion 6, indicator 40: distribution of revenues derived from forest management publication : usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0325, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; howard; james; westby; rebecca year: 2011 view pdf »
abstract: building products have come under increased scrutiny because of environmental impacts from their manufacture.
material flow, energy type, and energy use were identified for these sawmills.
estimates are required.
of this 628  million ft3, 70 percent was lumber, 17 percent particleboard and medium density  fiberboard, 9 percent plywood and veneer, 3 percent insulation board, and 1  percent hardboard.
abstract: solid wood timber products provide important raw materials to the construction, manufacturing, and shipping sectors of the u.s. economy.
in the near future, consumption of pulpwood in the emerging cellulosic biofuel industry is likely to remain a small fraction of total u.s. pulpwood supply and demand, although long-range future wood use for biofuel could be potentially quite large, depending on future oil prices and technological developments.
whereas chargeout! can be sufficiently constrained to approximately replicate a machine-rate calculation, doing so sacrifices much of chargeout!'s power and flexibility.
in recent years, new technologies that improve productivity and reduce costs have become available.
both area and  carbon density of these forestlands have increased since 1990, the first year
17 p. author(s) spelter, henry year: 1994 view pdf »
287-291; 2005 author(s) verrill, steve; durst, mark year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: a vintage year for sawmilling 2008 was not.
modeling data estimated biogenic and fossil co2 emissions at 623  and 1050 kg/m3, respectively, and volatile organic compounds at 1.04 kg/m3.
primary data were collected and then weight-averaged on a per-unit basis of 1.0 m3, of planed dry lumber (600 oven-dry kg/m3) to find material flows and energy use.
publication: information technology and the forest sector.
(july/aug. 2004): page 67 author(s) spelter, henry year: 2004 view pdf » view publication information »
category: research notes keywords: dehumidification, dry kiln, small, matc, drying, operation, dh, cost
there has been a  decline in jobs in the u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, but jobs  in state forestry agencies are steady to increasing.
category: journal articles file size: 161 kb kb(s)
increasing participation  in forest-based recreation suggests increases in forest-based recreation jobs.
it discusses drivers of economic globalization and related structural changes in us forest product markets, including currency exchange rates and differences in manufacturing costs that have contributed to the displacement of global manufacturing capacity.
keywords: forest products, recycling, markets, trends
market developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log trade, wood-based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, forest product prices, and housing starts.
title: fiber resources publication : encyclopedia of forest sciences : volume two.
higher paper and paperboard exports from the eu/efta subregion to non-unece countries, and a 16% increase in net exports in 2003, propelled expansion of output.
in response, broadscale management strategies, such as the national fire plan, established actions to reduce the threat of undesirable fire.
bethesda, md: american society for photogrammetry and remote sensing; 1990: 1022-1035.
category: general technical reports file size: 967 kb(s)
title: the decline and  fall of type ii error rates publication: the american  statician, november 2005, vol. 59, no. 4, pp.
abstract: usda forest service analysis finds 104 million tons of woody residuals available for recovery in the u.s., with wood in msw and c&d debris streams comprising 28 million tons.
bethesda, md : society of american foresters, c2002: pages 270-283.
they consumed 628 million cubic feet (ft3) of wood products, or 35 percent of  all wood products used in manufacturing in 1977, according to the latest  industry-wide survey (table 1) (mckeever and martens, 1983).
with the exception of shipments to china and other countries in asia, excluding japan, total canadian pulp, paper and paperboard product shipments to all major destinations declined.
title: woody biomass supply from thinnings to reduce fire hazard in the u.s. west and its potential impact on regional wood markets (please note : the fte tool referenced in this publication is no longer available.)
keywords: -silviculture, timber, forests, uneven-aged stands, even-aged stands, fire hazard, biomass volume, woody biomass, treatment options, web-based tool -; biomass; harvesting costs; biomass revenue; fuel treatment evaluator; forest fire hazard treatments
abstract: in the context of other recent years, 2006 turned out to be a relatively normal year for the u.s. hardwood chip market in terms of factors that influence supply and demand; such as prevailing weather conditions, energy price trends, and pulp and paper production.
publication: timber processing.
author(s) spelter, henry; kozak, robert; burdin, nikolai year: 2004 view pdf »
the program was designed to simulate the processing of plywood within a relatively simplified mill design.
title: concerns about a variance approach to x-ray diffractometric  estimation of microfibril angle in wood publication: wood and  fiber science, volume 43, number 2, 2011, pp.
this is due in part to lower competitiveness with respect to  production and import of products from other countries.
the  results of the study reported here indicate that the these sites (12).
this paper provides an overview of the methods and results from analysis of the concept as a hypothetical business investment at a pulp and paper mill equipped for making thermomechanical pulp (tmp).
forests and forest products in the united states sequestered more than -790 million metric tn of co2 equivalent in 2008, on 253 million ha of forestland.
abstract: net cleaning value is the economic value added to the wastepaper pulp by removing the contaminants, corrected for the fiber lost tothe rejects, minus the cost of the energy consumed in the separation process.
exposure to the global cycle has increased for the u.s. in recent decades with increased levels of u.s. product exports.
publication: ece/fao forest products annual market review, 2000-2001 pp.
title: chapter 8 rebound from steep drop in demand amid simmering  global trade issues: markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2009-2010
category: journal articles file size: 479 kb(s)
total energy consumption  for softwood lumber manufacturing was about one-half of that required for  hardwood lumber and hardwood flooring.
keywords: energy, computer software, economic analysis, bark, cash flow analysis, investments, computer programs, compare (computer program), fuelwood, economic aspects
publication: european cost e31 conference : management of recovered wood recycling bioenergy and other options : proceedings, 22-24 april 2004, thessaloniki.
fort collins, co: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service rocky mountain research station.
title: wood foundation cost study in the u.s. gulf coast region publication: fpl rip-4851-005 author(s) usda-fs forest products laboratory; bianco, marie t.;mckeever, david; year: 2008 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 2388 kb(s)
other critical variables having a large effect on the overall profitability include the trade price of sequestered carbon, the carbon sequestration rate, and the hurdle rate (the minimum required rate of return on investment) used.
this report defines sustainability in relation to satisfying human needs though sustainable development:humanity has the ability to make development sustainable–to ensure that it meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
major sources of solid waste wood gener- ated in the u.s. that are analyzed by the forest products laboratory include munici-pal solid waste (msw), construction and de-molition debris, primary timber processing mill residues, and logging residues.
generally, more cu leaching occurred from specimens in soil contact compared to specimens in water, suggesting that ground-contact leaching studies of the new copper-rich systems should employ soil-based methods for realistic depletion measurements.
overall economic growth has slowed, but sectors differ: housing and related manufacturing sectors have held up relatively well while general manufacturing has fallen into a recession.
special report (michigan state university.
keywords: globalization, structural change , forest sect or, trade, competitiveness
keywords: lumber trade, united states, canada, economic aspects, forest products industry, statatistics, softwoods, prices, stumpage prices
nmr is one of the preeminent structural tools, but obtaining high-resolution solution-state spectra has typically required fractionation and isolation of components of interest.
in a wood-framed building, building  materials reclaimed during deconstructing (dismantling) may include framing  lumber and wood flooring.
this study examined hardwood lumber manufacturing using life-cycle  inventory methodology.
118-125; 2010 author(s) lebow, patricia k.; carll, charles g. year: 2010 view pdf »
primary data were collected and then  weight-averaged on a per-unit basis of 1.0 m3, of planed dry lumber (600  oven-dry kg/m3) to find material flows and energy use.
it would appear that in the recent past there has been a shift in the types of jobs that forests support.
pages 23-30 author(s) hennon, paul; woodward, bessie; lebow, patricia year: 2007 view pdf »
the tests showed that drying as soon as  possible after harvest at temperatures below 42 °c will greatly reduce  drying discoloration in soft maple.
according to the  intergovern-mental panel on climate change, global deforestation is a major  contributor to global atmospheric car-bon emissionsand greenhouse gases, while  forest growth is a major factor in removals of carbon dioxide from the  atmosphere, and thus forest management and forest growth count among the  largest available offsets of atmospheric carbon emissions (nabuurs et al.,  2007) conomical industrial timber utilization is a vital element in sustaining  forests and avoiding large-scale deforestation, not by avoiding timber harvest  but by making forestry more economical and sustainable.
wood and paper products are referred to as harvested wood products (hwp).
structural panels share in construction remained about the same over the period 1950 to 2006, decreased in packaging and shipping (5% to 2%), and increased in the 'other' end-use category.
keywords: mills, mill-work, statistics, sawmills, industrial capacity, forest products industry, economic aspects, softwoods title: outlook for u.s. paper and paperboard sector and wood fiber supply in north america
by contrast, most canadian pellets are shipped overseas.
abstract: this study explains and determines fuelwood consumption at the county level based on county economic and demographic conditions, and identifies u.s. counties where potential fuelwood use problems and benefits are greatest.
category: research notes file size: 1349 kb(s)
amsterdam, the netherlands : elsevier, 2000].:9 p. :
bergman, richard; ross, robert j. year: 2008 view pdf »
st. paul, mn: university of minnesota, department of forest resources. 88 pg.
journal articles file size: 112 kb kb(s)
in part i, a web-based tool -fuel treatment evaluator 3.0 -was used to select high fire hazard timberland plots from the forest service forest inventory and analysis program database and provide results of simulated thinning treatments.
areas for treatment were selected by the criterion where either torching or crowning is likely during wildfires when wind speeds are below 25 mph.
author(s) ralph, john; lu, fachuang; kim, hoon; ress, dino; yelle,  daniel j.; hammel, kenneth e.; ralph, sally a.; nanayakkara, bernadette;  wagner, armid; akiyama, takuya; schatz, paul f.; mansfield, shawn d.;  terashima, noritsugu; boerjan, wout; sundberg, bjorn; h year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
vienna, austria : iufro, c2005.
keywords: life-cycle inventory, softwood lumber, lci, green material, corrim, environmental
table 1 summarizes the findings of each of the sources of solid waste wood.
65-68 author(s) mckeever, david b.
we examine the evidence for carbon benefits, environmental  and monetary costs, risks and trade-offs for a variety of activities in three  general strategies: (1) land use change to increase forest area (afforestation)  and avoid deforestation; (2) carbon management in existing forests; and (3) the  use of wood as biomass energy, in place of other building materials, or in wood  products for carbon storage.
abstract: the construction of new single family,  multifamily, and manufactured housing is an important market for wood products  in both the united states and canada.
keywords: strategic assessment, bioenergy, spatial analysis, supply curve title: the distribution of mckay's approximation for the coefficient of variation publication : statistics & probability letters 78 (2008) 10 - 14 ; 2008 author(s) forkman, verrill year: 2008 view pdf »
the procedure is inexpensive, efficient, and accurate.
2007 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 316 kb(s)
title: global cycle changes the rules for u.s. pulp and paper publication: american papermaker.
this article provides a concise overview of this change as it relates to the united states, looking at nationwide trends in the pulp and paper sector and the solid wood and composite wood product sectors (lumber and wood panels) and also nationwide trends in timber growth, timber removals, and real prices for timber.
category: conference proceedings file size: 86 kb(s)
alternatively, given a negotiated charge-out rate, the model produces net present values and real and nominal rates of return before tax and financing, before tax, and after tax.
materials and energy consumed during manufacture of building materials such as lumber affect a building’s environmental performance.
publication: 2004, the year at a glance : hardwood market report's 8th annual statistical analysis of the north american hardwood marketplace.
management and harvesting of softwoods in the northeast-north central regions required a greater amount of energy attributable to higherintensity management scenarios.
a life-cycle inventory  approach was applied to track the energy consumption and emissions associated  with reclaiming materials.
title: conceptual and empirical themes regarding the design of technology transfer programs: a review of wood utilization research in the united states publication : international journal of forestry research, volume 2011, article id 516135, 16 pages; 2011 author(s) ellefson,paul v.; kilgore, michael a.; skog, kenneth e.; risbrudt, christopher d. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 655 kb(s)
increasing wood fuel use, a carbon-neutral process, would decrease the environmental impact of hardwood lumber manufacturing and increase its use as a green building material.
we have developed asymptotic theory that yields the correct k value in the y - ks approach to obtaining a confidence bound.
abstract: a decline and mortality  problem is affecting yellow-cedar trees on more than a half-million acres in  southeast alaskahalf-million acres in southeast alaska.
title: projecting technological change - chapter 15 publication:
for this study, we chose in situ polymerization using the monomer  1,6-hexanediol dimethacrylate to enhance bending strength and stiffness.
total projected demand of 5.7 million dry  tonnes, based on current and announced industry capacity, exceeds estimates of  biomass availability, which suggests that anticipated growth in the  forest-based bio economy may be constrained.
in particular, standard one-sided lower confidence bounds on quantiles of a normal distribution are overly conservative in a predictor sort situation.
fewer qualified loggers can mean that available timber and/or log sales are restricted or delayed by the harvesting process.
p. author(s) spelter, henry; alderman, matthew year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information »
therefore, the challenge is finding a method that maintains polymer loading  inside the wood structure during the curing process.
hot-melt adhesive contaminant was removed from a  simulated pulp furnish composedof corrugated fiberboard.
467-474 author(s) howard, james l.
to obtain such large offsets in the united  states would require a combination of afforesting up to one-third of cropland  or pastureland, using the equivalent of about one-half of the gross annual  forest growth for biomass energy, or implementing more intensive management to  increase forest growth on one-third of forestland.
sheathing mills were not included in this analysis.
title: estimated annual timber products consumption in major end uses in the united states, 1950-2006 publication: fpl-gtr-181, july 2009 author(s)
title: harvested wood products : basis for future methodological development publication :
davis, ca : university of california, davis, 2008.
author(s) lebow, patricia k.; spelter, henry; ince, peter j. year: 2003 view pdf »
dissolution/nmr methods therefore potentially lend themselves well to  chemometrics methods once the issues of dealing with multivariate analyses on  2d nmr data have been addressed.
an analysis was made of historical and projected trends in u.s. consumption and trade in terms of the roundwood volume required to make products consumed and traded.
category: not classified file size: 2,174 kb(s)
life-cycle analysis is beyond the scope of the study.
category: journal articles title: comparing in-place costs of wood and masonry foundations publication: forest prod.
keywords: wood-based panels, wood products, wood supply
to adapt to the competition, plywood manufacturing has evolved toward more industrial uses and higher grades of panels where its appearance and properties give it an edge that offsets its higher costs.
abstract: forests play an  important role in the u.s. and global carbon cycle, and carbon sequestered by  u.s. forest growth and harvested wood products currently offsets 12-19% of u.s.  fossil fuel emissions.
hardwood log volume  conversion to planed dry lumber of 43.7% was estimated.
one of the major uses of this data series is tracking technological change over time.
view zip - datasets »
title: defining the rift : u.s. economist examines the consequences of the differences in u.s. and canadian stumpage valuations publication: timber processing.
title: pulp capacity in the united states, 2000.
title: life cycle inventory of manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in eastern us with comparison to solid strip wood flooring publication: wood and fiber science, volume 43, number 4, 2011, pp.
keywords: production, trade, prices
biofuels and bioenergy represent emerging demands for wood biomass, and potential future demands for pulpwood, but sustained higher oil prices or further technical advances plus new capital investments will be needed before biofuels create strong competing demands for pulpwood.
443-445 author(s) spelter year: 2005 view pdf »
title: projections of shifts in us forest products produced, imported, and exported and sources of roundwood and other fiber used to make them.
title: timber utilization trends and opportunities for tribal timber publication: proc 13th annual national indian timber symposium; pp.
publication: the ninth international conference on inorganic-bonded composite materials conference, october 10-13, 2004 ...
the volume of roundwood used to make products, the weight produced, and the value of u.s. shipments have been stable to declining in recent years.
overall, however, each major producing region gained capacity when all changes are accounted for.
title: estimates of paper and wood recovery for recycling and potential for additional recovery in the united states publication : woodfiber-plastic composites, proceedings no. 7293.
abstract: for  general linear modules with normally distributed random errors, the probability  of a type ii error decreases exponentially as a function of sample size.
9 pages author(s) howard, james l. year: 2006 view pdf » view publication information » category: research notes file size: 581 kb kb(s)
further, wood substrate was significant, but comparatively less than coating and exposure time.
abstract: in this paper, we take a preliminary look at techniques for comparing sorts that yield grades of lumber.
to meet the 2022 target, upwards of 240 million dry tons of feedstock would be needed from u.s. croplands if no forest-sourced biomass or imported biofuels are used.
keywords: short-rotation forestry, usa, forest economics, economic analysis
given an optimistic overall market outlook, model results indicate potential for expansion of total wood harvest in the west if fuel treatment programs will permit significantly expanded wood supply from forest thinning, in which case fuel treatment programs could partially displace timber harvest from conventional supply sources (mainly state and private forestlands), reduce timber prices, and offset regional timber revenues, while expanding regional forest product output.
this is illustrated by the top u.s. producer, the hampton affiliates sawmill in willamina, ore.
the  business case agenda 2020 analysis explores financial issues publication : paper360°, june/july 2008, pp.
businesses and consumers who are not familiar with life cycle analysis  can use lca-based epds for comparison between competing products, much like  using nutritional labels.
moreover, they do so inconsistently, complicating the comparisons of volumes obtained by different board foot rules as well as by the cubic rules used internationally.
on the supply side, major  capacity additions to osb weighed on markets for structural panel while  increases in particle board capacities caused an oversupply in non-structural  panels.
usfpm was designed specifically for the 2010 rpa forest assessment, but it is being used also in other applications.
depletion of cu and as from cca-treated woad appears to be differentially related to various soil properties as well as to initial as and cu retention in the wood.
a set of formulas of a type commonly used by combustion technologists is also provided for estimating combustion system heat losses and net recoverable heat energy per pound of fuel as-fired, based on fuel higher heating value, moisture content, and excess air stack gas temperature, and ambient temperature assumptions.
furthermore, evidence  suggests preference toward programs that are appropriately organized and  governed, suitably led and creatively administered, and periodically evaluated  in accordance with clear standards of success.
there has been general support for the benefits of sustainably managing forests  for carbon mitigation as expressed by the intergovernmental panel on climate  change in 2007.
title: pulpwood supply and demand : development in the south, little growth elsewhere.
forest products  society.
title: supporting rural wood industry through timber utilization research publication: fpl-rp-506, october 1991; forest products laboratory research paper author(s) skog, kenneth year: 1991 view pdf » view publication information » category: research papers
softwood sawmillls in the united states and canada publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-659, october 2009 author(s) henry spelter; david mckeever;
strategic assessment of bioenergy in the west: spatial analysis and supply curve development.
also, advances in plantation systems or biotechnology can yield faster-growing trees or more desirable trees for pulping, which can affect the market value of fiber resources.
pages 40-48 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information »
annual wood products consumption is dependent on many factors, including the number of new units started, the size of units started, architectural characteristics, and consumer preferences.
category: general technical reports file size: 846 kb kb(s)
keywords: power, sample size, linear models, experimental design, noncentral f, normal tail, mills' ratio, asymptotic relative efficiency, hodges-lehmann efficiency, pitman efficiency, minimum detectable difference
the canadian capacity went from 88.2 million m3 to 71.6 million m3, a loss of 19%, while the u.s. capacity dropped from 102.6 million m3 to 94.8 million m3, a loss of 8%.
activities  that contribute to helping forests adapt to the effects of climate change, and  which also complement forest carbon storage strategies, would be prudent.
forests and forest products in the united states  sequestered more than -790 million metric tn of co2 equivalent in 2008, on 253  million ha of forestland.
keywords: wood utilization, research capacity, united states date posted: 11/08/11
keywords: forest products, marketing, economic aspects, forest products industry, statistics, supply and demand, consumption, forecasting, market surveys, softwoods, globalization title: rolling your own : linear model hypothesis testing and power calculations via the singular value decomposition publication :
15-28; 2010 author(s) puettmann, maureen e.; bergman, richard; hubbard, steve; johnson, leonard; lippke, bruce; oneil, elaine; wagner, francis g. year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: plywood manufacturing costs have increased over the years with inflation.
quebec, canada: canadian iufro world congress organizing committee; 1990: 428-432 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1990 view pdf » view publication information »
year: 2000 view pdf »
title: criterion 6, indicator 36:  employment in the forest sector publication: usda forest  service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0322, 2011 author(s) skog, ken; howard, james; westby, rebecca; alexander, susan  m.; bergstrom, john; cordell, ken; hill, elizabeth year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
category: research papers file size: 6.2 mb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 171 kb(s)
2010 author(s) bergman, richard d.; simpson, william t.; turk, christopher year: 2010 view pdf »
revenues to landowners from stumpage sales in 1997 were $22 billion (2005$) of which 5% went to national forests, 6% went to other public lands, 33% went to industry land owners, and 56% went to other private landowners.
the assessment area covers forests on both public and private ownerships in the region and describes all standing tree volume including stems, limbs, and tops.
biofuels and bioenergy represent emerging demands for wood  biomass, and potential future demands for pulpwood, but sustained higher oil  prices or further technical advances plus new capital investments will be  needed before biofuels create strong competing demands for pulpwood.
in the northeast it is found commonly with white pine and northern hardwoods on moderately moist, sandy loam soils.
bilateral trade flows between the usa and canada for all wood products, were modeled within the timber assessment projection system, with currency exchange rate assumptions among key elements influencing projected trade.
in a few instances where neither production nor indications of downtime were available, capacity was used to compile the listing.
the model provides a capability to analyze and project how much harvestable wood the markets can absorb from thinning programs over time and the regional timber price and timber harvest impacts of expanded thinning under various assumptions about fuel treatment program subsidy or administrative costs, variations in thinning regime, or alternative projections of future product demands across the spectrum of products ranging from wood fuel to lumber, plywood, and wood fiber products.
national academy press, 2000.
the wood supply and demand situation has changed because of market transitions, economic downturns, and continued forest growth.
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: silviscan; microfibril angle; bias; cell cross-section date posted: 10/22/10
if it is not possible to count pre-contract year carbon, then it may not be economically worthwhile to enter the program unless it is extended.
the second concern is associated with the approximation of the natural variability of the microfibril angle by a function of the icrofibril angle.
author(s) bergman, richard; ibach, rebecca e.; lapasha, constatine; denig, joseph year: 2009 view pdf »
this level of consumption, the highest ever reached in the united states, resulted in a rapid and sustained increase in the cost of timber and a shift from solid-sawn to engineered wood products.
japanese sawn softwood consumption increased in 2003 for the first time since 1995 because of short-term increases in housing starts:
abstract: a  global rebound of pulp, paper and paperboard markets began soon after the  global financial crisis in 2008-2009.
abstract: the north american pulp and paper (napap) model and usda polysys agricultural policy
the bioenergy assessment team was formed to examine the potential for future development and to create a comprehensive framework to assess environmental, technical and socioeconomic impacts associated with national, state and regional bioenergy and biomass management policies.
because ∼60% of the carbon lost through deforestation and  harvesting from 1700 to 1935 has not yet been recovered and because some  strategies store carbon in forest products or use biomass energy, the  biological potential for forest sector carbon mitigation is large.
bergman, r; bowe, scott. 2011.
modeling data estimated biogenic and fossil co2 emissions at 623 and 1050 kg/m3, respectively, and volatile organic compounds at 1.04 kg/m3.
corvallis or : western dry kiln association, 2005.
publication : adair, craig; mckeever, david b. 2009.
a resulting loss of qualified loggers can have a long term impact on overall timber and log supply.
wood furniture industry investments were $837 and $873 million for 1997 and 2002, respectively.
abstract: congratulations again to hampton affiliates and especially its lumber operation in willamina, ore. for being the top lumber producer in the u.s. in 2003.
some might consider part of these properties as problems, such as biodegradable and combustible.
category: research notes file size: 586 kb kb(s)
although reviews of research investments such as these have been made at various times in the past, there continues to be an interest in how the research community might better organize and manage its efforts to improve the use of research-produced technologies (national research council 2002).
important developments in europe included the launching of the eu emissions trading scheme, which was followed by substantial increases in electrical energy prices.
thessaloniki : university studio press, 2004: pages 307-316.
for the two wood propellers encased in polyethylene bags, moisture loss was slowed during the course of the experiment by roughly 46%.
category: research papers file size: 614 kb kb(s)
the effects of forest management, harvesting, and processing wood in the united states would be shifted to forests and industries in other countries.
abstract: as the world emerges from the economic and financial crisis of 2008-2009, demand for energy is rising, as well as the costs.
corrim phase ii final report.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 229 kb(s)
the current state of the united states economy is described.
2010 view pdf » view publication  information »
since 1987 through 2006, per capita  consumption has declined to 68 ft3 per year.
title: minor shake up : markets were soft, but the big mills still packed some production punch
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory. 8 pages author(s) howard, james l.; westby, rebecca year: 2007 view pdf »
but for some categories, employment has been declining - especially  for wood furniture manufacturing, and to a lesser degree for the pulp and paper  industries.
title: if america had canada's stumpage system publication : forest science.
using primary mill data gathered from  manufacturers in the eastern united states and applying the methods found in  consortium for research on renewable industrial materials (corrim) research  guidelines and international organization of standardization (iso) standard for  conducting life-cycle assessments, the environmental impacts in making  engineered wood flooring were estimated.
in the united states, the end of most wood is not lumber or pulp and paper but feed for energy.
improved throughput (in principle, toward 50  samples per day) seems possible.
title: structural wood products in onshore buildings at naval station norfolk, 2000.
date posted: 05/19/10
in the south, two primary sources of timber price information are forest2market (f2m) and timber mart-south (tms).
publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-rn-0315 author(s) james l. howard; david b. mckeever year: 2010 view pdf »
this pattern is due to initial  increases and subsequent declines in export share for softwood lumber, softwood  plywood, and paper and paperboard.
year: 2001 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 636 kb(s)
timber harvesting and processing generated nearly 178 million metric tons of woody residues in 2002, with 86 million metric tons being unused and deemed available for recovery.
keywords: pulp and paper model, technology forecasting, pulpwood markets, paper recycling
29 pages author(s) skog, kenneth e.; barbour, r. james; abt, karen l.; bilek, e.m. (ted); burch, frank; fight, roger d.; hugget, robert j.; miles, patrick d.; reinhardt, elizabeth d.; shepperd, wayne d. year: 2006 view pdf » view publication information »
as trees photosynthesize and grow, carbon is removed from the atmosphere and stored in living tree biomass.
in: proceedings of the 10th international iufro division 5, wood drying conference, august 26-30, 2007, orono, maine, usa.
category: journal articles file size: 254 kb kb(s)
the major end-use markets for these commodities and market share trends are described as they evolved over time.
category: journal articles file size: 288 kb kb(s)
total energy consumption for softwood lumber manufacturing was about one-half of that required for hardwood lumber and hardwood flooring.
up in the north/down in the south
paper products  industries investments declined from $10.2 to $5.3 billion between 1997 and  2004 but increased to $7.4 billion in 2006 (2005$).
attaining projected demand will likely require a combination of higher cost feed stocks,integration of energy and non-energy uses, and careful managementto meet environmental constraints.
keywords: production; trade; prices; forest products date posted: 05/17/10 title: a strategic  assessment of biofuels development in the western states publication : in: mcwilliams, will; moisen, gretchen; czaplewski, ray, comps.
the results showed some significant physical property increases for the fully impregnated material that used a large amount of monomer.
keywords: forest products industries, production, timber trade, consumption, prices title: u.s. timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics, 1963-1994 publication: gen. tech.
ecolabeling shows information on the environmental performance of products,processes, and services.
keywords: economics, industry, paper, pulp, timber.
this  definition indicates that sustainability needs to account for (1) human needs,  current and future, (2) limitations in meeting these needs based on  technological capabilities, social organzation, and environmental resources,  and (3) the ability of the biosphere to absorb the effects of human activities.
existing process heat and power loads  tend to favor integration at existing pulp mills.
they help in identifying sources to process, and markets for services that help foresters clear and pro-cess the downed woody debris that otherwise poses a significant fire threat.
keywords: life-cycle inventory, hardwood  lumber, southeastern us, lci, corrim, gate-to-gate, green building,  manufacturing date posted: 01/20/12
material flow, energy  type, and energy use were identified for these sawmills.
these computer programs can be run over the world wide web, or fortran versions of the programs can be downloaded, compiled, and run on a user's computer.
manufacturing in the northeast and north central united states publication: lippke, bruce, jim wilson, leonard johnson, maureen  puettmann.
31-38 author(s) bilek,e.m.; houtman, carl; ince, peter year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
title: hampton at willamina is #1 : seneca, weyerhaeuser mills follow publication: timber processing.
33, number 6, july/august 2008; pp.
each strategy also has trade-offs, risks, and uncertainties  including possible leakage, permanence, disturbances, and climate change  effects.
its purpose is to enable a user to make quick estimates of the economic impact of a particular process change within a mill.
people were looking for  an inexpensive and simple kiln design that could cost effectively dry as little  as a few hundred board feet of lumber or as much as several thousand board feet  of lumber each year.
four machine-rate models are compared and a common data set representative of logging skidders' costs is used to illustrate the differences between chargeout!
the cost of wood fiber used in these processes has been rising.
there is also increasing interest in using agricultural fibers for panels, either to complement or to replace wood.
publication: proceedings of the 2001 society of american foresters national convention, denver, colorado, september 13-17, 2001.
abstract: red maple (acer rubrum) is a medium-sized tree 15 to 20 meters (50 to 65 feet) high and 30 to 60 centimeters (12 to 24 inches) in diameter with a generally fairly clear trunk.
abstract: strategic identification and local placement of fuel treatments are significant regional and local forest management problems addressed by two tools developed by forest service research and development.
title: evaluation and field load testing of timber railroad bridge publication: fifth international bridge engineering conference.
unfinished solid strip  flooring cumulative energy consumption was only 6.50 gj/m3 with 65% from  biomass, roughly half that of unfinished engineered wood flooring.
further, wood substrate  was significant, but comparatively less than coating and exposure time.
utility of industrial resources also depends on profitability, or availability of resources at competitive market prices.
conference proceedings title: capacity, production, and manufacture of woodbased panels in the united states and canada publication: gen. tech.
this report contains a mathematical description of the system, including its extensions from previous versions, and a detailed user's guide with an application of fpl-pelps.
conference proceedings file size: 86 kb(s)
similarly, in outdoor decking, there is increasing competition from woodfiber-plastic composites.
year: 2006 view pdf »
abstract: we outline the steps that would permit a statistician to produce special purpose linear model routines through the use of high quality public domain numerical analysis software.
one of the major technology shifts occurring in the wood using industry is the substitution of oriented strandboard for plywood in the structural panel sector.
success or failure in producing these products depends on many  factors including codes and standards, economies of scale, availability of  resources, energy and labor costs, resource handing, collecting and shipping,  and overcoming historical biases.
abstract: transfer of technologies produced by research is critical to innovation within all organizations.
in 2006, about 28 percent of all  solid wood products consumed in the united states and 31 percent of all solid  wood products consumed in canada are used for residential repair and remodeling  (adair 2008, fao 2008, mckeever 2009).
abstract: in 2002, the usda forest service  completed the fifth nationwide assessment of timber resource demand and supply,  as mandated periodically by the resources planning act (rpa) (2).
keywords: solution-state nmr, unfractionated plant cell walls date posted: 10/11/10
abstract: the repair and  remodeling of residential units in both the united states and canada is an  important market for wood products.
keywords: sawnwood, timbers, lumber, forest products industries, wood utilization, productivity, railways, bridges title: using kinetic models to predict thermal degradation of fire-retardant-treated plywood roof sheathing publication: proceedings of the 31st north american thermal analysis society conference, sept. 22-24, 2003, albuquerque, nm.
keywords: wood recovery, recycling, paper
author(s) ince, p. j. year: 1993 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: a spreadsheet-based computer program called lamlum was created to analyze the economics of value- added laminated lumber manufacturing facilities.
total and per capita consumption of wood and wood products in round wood equivalents publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, madison, wisconsin, fpl-rn-0317, 2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca; skog; kenneth e.
in: mcgraw-hill yearbook of science & technology, 2011 pp.
the demand for wood railroad ties has grown with the railroad industry, and there is no reason to think that this demand will not continue to grow for many decades to come.
this combination of events upset the existing balance of market forces as supply increased faster than demand.
five chapters are based on annual country-supplied statistics, describing: wood raw materials, sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, wood-based panels, and paper, paperboard and woodpulp.
these organizations have an intense desire to meet the needs of clients, and feature the following: synthesis of existing information as an important service; fees charged for services provided; strategic interest in clients located throughout the world; educational and degree-granting activities; multiple sources of income and revenue; diverse tandards for measuring performance; adept response to broad economic-social changes; multiple location of physical facilities; and differing degrees of publicly available information describing mission and operation of organizations.
category: journal articles file size: 126 kb kb(s)
keywords: lumber, softwood plywood, osb, fiberboard, military construction, nonresidential construction, u.s.navy, navsta norfolk.
softwood harvest is projected to increase notably with increasing area and management intensity for plantations in the south, and we project higher softwood harvest than we did in 1993.
market demands for fiber products and supplies of fiber resources vary over time, and thus the market value and utility of fiber resources are variable over time.
category: journal articles file size: 496 kb kb(s)
cumulative allocated energy consumption for prefinished engineered wood flooring was 23.0 gj/m3 with 40% coming from coal.
most of the increase occurred between 1965 and 1988.
abstract: compare is a fortran computer program resulting from a study to develop methods for comparative economic analysis of alternatives in industrial wood and bark energy systems.
abstract: industrial timber use has provided timber revenue that has helped make timber supply and demand more sustainable in the leading timber producing regions of the world.
in 2008 an estimated 400 to 500 wood utilization research projects were implemented by 150 to 200 federal, state and private entities.
title: the hardwood chip market in 2004 : up in the north/down in the south :
category: journal articles file size: 172 kb(s)
title: profile 2005 : softwood sawmills in the united states and canada publication: research paper fpl-rp-630.
title: projections of the u.s. timber supply and demand situation to 2050 : draft findings from the usda forest service 2000 rpa timber assessment.
year: 2000 view pdf » view publication information »
category: conference proceedings
there is low demand for this material because it has low value.
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy,  consumption, productikon, imports, exports forestry industry, forestry trade,  forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent states, date posted: 08/23/10
almost all pulp and paper fiber resources are plant materials obtained from trees or agricultural crops.
life-cycle impact assessment was beyond the scope of  this study.
abstract: building products have come under increased scrutiny because of  environmental impacts from their manufacture.
1990 author(s) mckeever, david b. view pdf » view publication information »
these market trends related to pulpwood use trends which are discussed in preceding chapters in the context of overall trends in wood raw material use.
proceedings of the 2001 society of american foresters national convention, denver, colorado, september 13-17, 2001.
abstract: noted forest products industry researcher and writer says the conversion factor traditionally used to convert logs measured in board feet to cubic meters has risen.
title: optimum drying temperature to prevent oxidative stain in soft maple publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-661, 2011 author(s) michael c. wiemann; mark knaebe; scott a. bowe year: 2011 view pdf »
keywords: timber production; comsumption; price statistics; softwood plywood; osb title: using the weibull distribution to estimate lumber properties publication: fpl rip-4724-001 author(s) evans, j. year: 2005 view pdf »
a highly specific and detailed model of the process is presented.
keywords: discounted cash flow analysis, chargeout!, charge-out,  machine rate, date posted: 10/06/10
madison, wi : u.s. dept. of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory, 2003. 8 pages.
we examine the evidence for carbon benefits, environmental and monetary costs, risks and trade-offs for a variety of activities in three general strategies: (1) land use change to increase forest area (afforestation) and avoid deforestation; (2) carbon management in existing forests; and (3) the use of wood as biomass energy, in place of other building materials, or in wood products for carbon storage.
keywords: kinetic models, thermal degradation, fire-retardant-treated plywood, roof sheathing
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory, 2004.
keywords: biofuels; biomass gasification; economic deasibility; forest biorefinery model
in the context of increased paper recycling, the production of lumber and structural wood panels is projected to increase.
abstract: this review on research on life cycle carbon accounting examines the  complexities in accounting for carbon emissions given the many different ways  that wood is used.
contaminant removal was slightly higher for the indented disc keywords: adhesives, angular velocity, impurities, kraft pulps, power, recycling, rotating discs, rotational velocity, separation, stock preparation, velocity measurment date posted: 01/04/12
results  from this life-cycle inventory showed that cumulative energy consumed in  producing virgin compared to reclaimed framing lumber and wood flooring was  about 11 and 13 times greater, respectively.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory; 1984.
category: research notes file size: 832 kb(s)
category: research papers file size: 1070 kb(s)
the bridge superstructure was generally in satisfactory condition, with some stringer horizontal splitting noted over the bents.
category: journal articles file size: 390 kb(s)
the adequacy of these estimates to meet informational needs of resource managers and the implications for forest managment are evaluated.
the development and use of three types of technology projection methods are explained: (1) decomposition of technology into several processes and projection of future mixes of processes to make exogenous projections of technology change for harvesting costs and for solidwood products recovery and processing costs in tamm; (2) activity analysis that uses alternate technologies capable of changing fiber input mixes to make endogenous projections of technology change for pulp, paper, and paperboard production in napap; and (3) innovation diffusion modeling to endogenously project the change in wood-use rates in major end uses such as housing in tamm.
title: novel uses of wheat by-products publication : in: proceedings of the international wheat quality conference; 2001
abstract: public and private research focused on wood utilization and product  development in the united states is an important source of innovation required  for sustaining the worldwide competitive position of the wood-based industry.
abstract: this report documents a package of computer programs called venval.
as sizes available to sawmills have declined, the ratios between scaled and actual volumes have changed.
category: journal articles file size: 215 kb kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 921 kb(s)
for the surface-application  approach, monomer moving to the wood surface during polymerization reduced  their effectiveness in increasing mor and moe to the expected levels.
investments in publically implemented projects were  in the range of $110 to $120 million, while, by some estimates, investments in  projects sponsored by private concerns exceeded $2.5 billion in the same year  (ellefson and others 2010).
keywords: timber harvest index, forest products, fia, fpl date posted: not available
abstract: annual paper and paperboard output climbed by 2.2% in the eu/efta subregion in 2003, a record year for european papermakers, while the subregion's woodpulp output climbed by 2.8%.
has increased to 3.0 million m3 in 1999.
category: journal articles file size: 206 kb kb(s)
1-16; 2010 author(s) ryan, michael g.; harmon, mark e.; birdsey, richard a.; giardina, christian p.; heath, linda s.; houghton, richard a.; jackson, robert b.; mckinley, duncan c.; morrison, james f.; murray, brian c.; pataki, diane e.; skog, kenneth e.
publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-662, 2011
author(s) lebow, patricia; ziobro, richard; sites, linda; schultz, tor; pettry, david; nicholas, darrel; lebow, stan; kamdem, pascal; fox, roger; crawford, douglas year: 2006 view pdf »
keywords: forests; sustainability; criteria and indicators; montreal process;  forest managment; forest products industry; recreation; captial investment date posted: 12/16/10
wood building products are also used extensively in the construction of nonresidential buildings and in the upkeep and improvement of existing structures.
keywords: biofuels, biomass research, cellulosic-based ethanol
abstract: this indicator shows the trend in recovering wood and paper for reuse in products in the united states.
publication: mckeever, david b. wood products used by u.s. furniture, fixtures and architectural woodwork manufacturers.
in verrill and johnson [2007.
title: life-cycle inventory of  manufacturing hardwood lumber in southeastern us publication : wood and fiber science, volume 44, number 1, 2012, pp.
during the 1990's markets and prices for recovered materials have fluctuated widely.
keywords: cost effectiveness, volume, cubic content, fuel treatment evaluator, forest biomass, west, fire management, fire ecology, forest thinning, market surveys, forest products, economic aspects, forest fires, fire prevention, fuel reduction, wildfire prevention, wildfires, timber prices, prices, thinnings, fire hazard
(july 2003): pages 31-35.
title: global  sustainable timber supply and demand publication: in:  sustainable development in the forest products industry, chapter 2 global  sustainable timber supply and demand; pp.
the decline of yellowflexural properties of wood from dead yellow-cedar snags is little affected by how long cedar is believed to be primarily the rethe trees have been dead.
abstract: at times in history,  there have been concerns that demand for wood (timber) would be greater than  the ability to supply it, but that concern has recently dissipated.
author(s) skog, kenneth e.; ince, peter j.; spelter, henry; kramp, andi; barbour, r. james.
results suggest that pulpwood supply from fast- growing hybrid poplars and cottonwoods will become marginally economical but fairly limited in the next several decades.
next it  includes an analysis of government and industry policies affecting forest  products markets.
policy initiatives that can impact domestic markets and international trade in wood products are also discussed in some detail.
hayama, kanagama, japan : published by the institute for global environmetnal strategies (iges) for the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), c2003: [16] author(s) skog, kenneth e.
detailed information and projections for the year 2003 are presented.
if pulpwood is not in demand or is impacted by negative price circumstances, logging contractors may not be able to operate.
understanding  and monitoring both the supply of and demand for natural resources are  essential in meeting our objectives as world resource managers.
category: journal articles file size: 151 kb(s)
14,16-18 author(s) ince year: 2003 view pdf »
gulf coast hurricanes and rising energy prices drove hardwood chip and pulpwood markets in 2005, but weather was not a driving factor in 2006, and energy prices were subsiding by the second half of the year.
3-25; 2011 author(s) skog, k. e.; stanturf, j. a. year: 2011 view pdf »
title: criterion 6, indicator 25: value and volume of wood and wood products production, including primary and secondary processing publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-rn-0316, 2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca; skog; kenneth e. year: 2010 view pdf »
chapter 13; pp.. 419-447 author(s) ince, peter j.; buongiorno, joseph year: 2007 view pdf »
the present  study evaluated the effect of treatment pressure on the treatment quality and  mechanical properties of red pine (pinus resinosa ait.) lumber.
title: life-cycle inventory of hardwood lumber manufacturing in the northeast and north central united states publication: lippke, bruce, jim wilson, leonard johnson, maureen puettmann.
abstract: the deterioration of heartwood from live and dead alaska yellow-cedar trees was evaluated by exposing ministakes in soils at field sites in alaska and mississippi for 2 and 4 year intervals.
the eastern european countries and russia continue to re-define the global marketplace for sawn softwood, as foreign investments in these regions all along the forestry supply chain ramp up their ability to compete worldwide.
in 2003, 1,324 million board feet of lumber, 56 million bf of glulam timber, 2,293 million square feet, 3/8-in.
category: journal articles file size: 1720 kb(s)
1902-1924;  2011 author(s) mckinley, duncan c.; ryan, michael g.; birdsey,  richard a.; giardina, christian p.; harmon, mark e.; heath, linda s.; houghton,  richard a.; jackson, robert b.; morrison, james f.; murray, brian c.; pataki,  diane e.; skog, kenneth e. year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
the data show that growth in capacity over the past 8 years has exceeded growth in demand, leaving the industry with excess capacity of at least 3%.
keywords: production, timber  products consumption, softwood lumber, hardwood lumber, structural panels,  softwood plywood, oriented strandboard, engineered lumber, housing,  nonresidential construction, manufacturing, furniture, shipping, wooden  containers, pallets title: wood products used by  u.s. furniture, fixtures and architectural woodwork manufacturers publication: mckeever, david b. wood products used by u.s. furniture,  fixtures and architectural woodwork manufacturers.
primary mill data were collected per consortium on research for renewable industrial materials (corrim) research guidelines.
keywords: lumber trade, united states, statistics, housing, economic aspects, lumber, prices, forest products industry, timber, economic forecasting, lumber trade
the third concern is associated with the fact that the variance approach was not designed to handle tilt in the fiber orientation.
prices have increased more rapidly since the  economic recession ending in 1961.
journal articles file size: 1,089 kb(s)
your browser does not support iframes.
lifecycle analysis is beyond the scope of the study.
2010 view pdf » view publication information »
the objective in this study was to investigate the accumulated mould growth on 13 different wood substrates with 3 surface coating systems by identifying the factors that contribute to the variation and to predict future performance.
(dec. 2005): pages 30-31, 33-34, 36, 38.
the mountain pine beetle epidemic that rages in british columbia, canada continues, with approximately 4.8 million hectares of forestland currently infested and government policies regarding harvesting approaches being enacted as rapidly as possible.
in an analysis to show actual costs for a school, we found a payback period of 9.8 years based on 2004-2005 heating fuel values.
title: wood products used in the construction of low-rise  nonresidential buildings in the united states, 2008
as with the development of paper recycling, anticipating forestry implications of agricultural srwc will depend in part on anticipating market conditions and economic impacts of technological developments.
abstract: it has been argued that repetitive member allowable property adjustments should be larger for high-variability materials than for low-variability materials.
according to the intergovern-mental panel on climate change, global deforestation is a major contributor to global atmospheric car-bon emissionsand greenhouse gases, while forest growth is a major factor in removals of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and thus forest management and forest growth count among the largest available offsets of atmospheric carbon emissions (nabuurs et al., 2007) conomical industrial timber utilization is a vital element in sustaining forests and avoiding large-scale deforestation, not by avoiding timber harvest but by making forestry more economical and sustainable.
title: a synthesis of the  science on forest and carbon for u.s. forests publication: in:  issues in ecology, spring 2010, report number 13; pp.
category: research in progress file size: 259 kb(s)
abstract: transparent and  credible environmental labeling of productsis vital for a sustainable future.
category: research papers file size: 951 kb(s)
doi:10.1016/j.biombioe.2010.06.007 author(s) parker, nathan; tittmann, peter; hart, quinn; nellson, richard; skog, ken; schmidt, anneliese; gray, edward; jenkins, bryan year: 2010 view pdf »
analysis of treatment areas and potential removals is included.
this estimate represents a net increase in carbon,  including effects of growth, harvests, or other disturbances of forest  ecosystems, as well as carbon stored in harvested wood products.
j. 60(5):447-452;  2010 author(s) lebow, patricia; lebow, stan; nelson, william year: 2010 view pdf » view publication  information »
businesses in the nontimber forest products (ntfp) industry are  generally small, exceptions exist, but most employ less than 10 people.
abstract: the  north american pulp and paper industry has experienced challenges and changes  much like other business sectors, which have a direct bearing on its marketing  policies and the raw material supply chain of pulpwood and chips.
policy  initiatives that can affect domestic markets and international trade in wood  products are also discussed in some detail.
the net impact of these trends was a contraction of growth in u.s. pulpwood demand and generally declining real prices for pulpwood since the late 1990s.
conference proceedings file size: 311  kb(s)
much less cropland-derived feedstock  would be needed if forest biomass and imports are used.
the projected effects of expansion in u.s. and global wood energy consumption are to dampen growth in forest product consumption (because of price impacts on demands) but also to provide greater comparative advantages and enhanced net exports for u.s. producers of forest products (because of price impacts on foreign producers).
usfpm models regional timber harvest and transport activities as the conversion of timber stumpage supplies into delivered timber product outputs (sawlogs/veneer logs, pulpwood/composite timber, other industrial roundwood, and fuelwood) plus logging residues.
the initial method utilized acetylation of the wall to prepare optimal samples for nmr, but more recently we avoid the acetylation step; spectra from unacetylated walls have improved resolution of some components and allow natural acetylation (of polysaccharides and lignins) to be readily identified.
abstract: for normally distributed populations, we obtain confidence bounds on a ratio of two coefficients of variation, provide a test for the equality of k coefficients of variation, and provide confidence bounds on a coefficient of variation shared by k populations.
three drying chambers were designed and constructed to control temperature and relative humidity of maple test samples.
category: research papers file size: 1.6 mb kb(s)
the adequacy of these estimates to meet  informational needs of resource managers and the implications for forest  managment are evaluated.
if it were possible to sell merchantable logs (removed as part of forest health treatments) for an average of $175/thousand board feet, most acres on gentle slopes in southern oregon would provide net operating surpluses.
abstract: detailed structural studies on the plant cell  wall have traditionally been difficult.
osb and mdf have continued their expansion.
title: wood products used in new residential construction u.s. and canada, with comparisons to 1995, 1998 and 2003 publication: adair, craig; mckeever, david b. 2009.
abstract: unbleached kraft paperboard is produced from wood fiber in an industrial papermaking process.
the cycle of forest growth, death, and regeneration and  the use of wood removed from the forest complicate efforts to understand and  measure forest carbon pools and flows.
and the machine rate models occur largely because of the inability of the machine rate models to properly incorporate the time value of money.
we focus on two- and three-category sorts, but our results could be readily extended.
these two sources generated a combined total of nearly 178 million metric tons of woody residues in 2002, with 86 million metric tons being unused and deemed available for recovery.
p. author(s) evans, james w.; kretschmann, david e.; herian, victoria l.; green, david w.
keywords: carbon stocks, aboveground  biomass, belowground biomass, deadwood, litter date  posted: 11/25/11
the tests showed that drying as soon as possible after harvest at temperatures below 42 °c will greatly reduce drying discoloration in soft maple.
currently, about 24 percent of all lumber, 23 percent of all structural panels, 15 percent of all nonstructural panels, and lesser amounts of engineered wood products consumed in the united states are used for residential repair and remodeling.
title: forest products research and development organizations in a worldwide setting: a review of structure, governance, and measures of performance of organizations outside the united states publication : general technical report fpl-gtr-172.
nps concessions provided $ $21.6 million for facility  improvements in 2006.
abstract: this paper presents ftm-west, a partial market equilibrium model designed to project future wood market impacts of significantly expanded fuel treatment programs that could remove trees to reduce fire hazard on forestlands in the u.s. west.
keywords: assembly, reliability, redundancy, allowable property
the manufacturing stage consumed the greatest amount of energy representing 90 - 92% of the total.
abstract: forestry operations require ever more use of expensive capital equipment.
the reliance on sawmill residues led to imbalances between supply and demand for fiber as the sawmilling sector retrenched in the 2008-2009 recession.
abstract: using  forests to mitigate climate change has gained much interest in science and  policy discussions.
many opportunities for reducing carbon emissions are  identified along with unintended consequences of proposed policies.
forest products society.
we also estimate amounts of biomass removed and costs of removal.
keywords: softwood sawmill capacity, softwood lumber production, residues, chips, sawdust, shavings, employment, softwood, inventories, canada, united states, statistics, forest products industry, timber, sawmills
values of 355 mj of electricity and 2730 mj of processed energy per cubic meter were determined for manufacturing planed dry softwood lumber burning mostly green wood residues onsite for energy.
some require substantial  amounts of wood products, some none at all.
abstract: a spreadsheet-based model, lsy (log-sort yard cash flow analysis), has been constructed to aid in the pre-feasibility and financial feasibility analysis of log-sort yards.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 1999-2002
in 1983, 155*5 m mg of wood  were used for energy.
furniture design and  manufacturing.
abstract: for softwood lumber producers 2006 was an 'interesting' year, but mostly in the chinese proverbial sense of the word.
financial support to improve the  cost-competitiveness of wood energy with fossil fuels will be instrumental to  sustaining growth in the sector.
however, their newton step estimator results actually rely on unstated assumptions about cramer conditions.
versions of cval are available both with and without macros.
category: journal articles file size: 314 kb(s)
the major sources of waste wood are timber harvesting and processing residues, which include woody forest residues and primary timber processing mill residues, and urban wood waste, which includes construction and demolition (c&d) waste and municipal solid waste (msw).
the consumption of products per capita also increased over the last 2 years.
seattle,  wa : corrim, 2008.
keywords: timber products consumption, wood  use, construction, housing, new residential construction, repair, remodeling,  upkeep, improvements, expenditures, nonresidential construction, manufacturing,  furniture, shipping, wooden containers, pallets.
this article focuses on one type of ecolabeling referred to as environmental product declarations (epds) that provide environmental impact information based on life cycle assessment (lca) data.
abstract: about 160 fewer softwood sawmills are operating in the united states and canada than were 8 years ago.
publication: proceedings of southern forest economics workgroup (sofew): forestry, economics and environment, 2005 april 18-20, baton rouge, la. baton rouge, la : louisiana state university, 2006: pages 275-291.
extensive built-in annotation in the spreadsheet provides guidance and help.
the first concern is associated with the approximation of the variance of an x-ray intensity halfprofile by a function of the microfibril angle and the natural variability of the microfibril angle.
(july/aug. 2003): pages 68-71.
5, no. 10 (oct. 2007):
tables and graphs provided throughout the text present summary  information.
category: journal articles file size: 592 kb kb(s)
the lead administrator of each organization was given an opportunity to review the draft narrative describing the organization.
results point to expanded pulpwood markets, particularly for softwoods in the us south, but to limited expansion of pulpwood markets elsewhere in the united states.
abstract: wheat straw is renewable, widely distributed, available  locally, moldable, anisotropic, hydroscopic, recyclable, versatile,  non-abrasive, porous, viscoelastic, easily available in many forms,  biodegradable, combustible, compostible, and reactive.
urban tree and woody yard residues are typically suited for low value products such as mulch, while national forest timber is suited for high value solid wood and pulp products.
title: modeling future u.s. forest sector market and trade impacts of expansion in wood energy consumption publication: journal of forest economics 17 (2011) 142-156; 2011 author(s) ince, peter j; kramp, andrew d.; skog, kenneth e.; yoo, do-il; sample v araric year: 2011 view pdf »
publication: 2009 cofe  conference: environmentally sound forest operations 32nd
abstract: paper and paperboard market conditions this decade have been less than spectacular, thus affecting all industry segments, including recovered fiber utilization.
publication: hardwood market report.
category: general technical reports file size: 4.0 mb kb(s)
this includes, for example, building infrastructure to produce and use carbon-neutral woodbased fuels.
category: journal articles file size: 137 kb kb(s)
material was bonded at high moisture content (mc) to simulate lumber freshly  sawn from water-saturated logs and examine potentia1 mc effects on  wood-woodbonding.
publication : in: hardwood market report lumber news letter; pp.
the method is consistent with ipcc guidance for estimating emissions from swds.
category: general technical reports file size: 2.8 mb kb(s)
however, there are many integrated carbon pools involved, which  have led to conflicting implications for best practices and policy.
the use of a benefit cost ratio as a ranking criterion is analyzed and explained in an appendix to this report.
keywords: carbon sequestration; carbon valuation; carbon contracts; carbon credits; exchange forestry offset (xfo) contracts; chicago climate exchange (ccx); decision support; discounted cash flow analysis title: estimating effective heating value of wood or bark fuels at various moisture contents publication : general technical report fpl-gtr-13.
- home - research - research emphasis areas - - science making a difference - 2011 research highlights - 2010 research highlights - mission & strategic plan - advanced composites - advanced structures - forest biorefinery - nanotechnology - woody biomass utilization - research centers - - advanced housing research center - center for forest mycology research - center for wood anatomy research - facilities & equipment - - centennial research facility - analytical chemistry and microscopy laboratory - fire test lab - pilot plant - research and laboratory units - - analytical chemistry and microscopy laboratory - durability and wood protection - engineering mechanics and remote sensing laboratory - engineering properties of wood, wood based materials and structures - - - economics and statistics research - engineered composites sciences - fiber and chemical sciences research - institute for microbial and biochemical technology - paper test laboratory - performance enhanced biopolymers - technology marketing unit - information - grants - 2012
in this paper we present an improved empirical method for performing cubic volume to board foot conversions.
consumption of paper and paperboard in the russian federation increased by 12.1% in 2003, while production increased by 6.2%.
the present study evaluated the effect of treatment pressure on the treatment quality and mechanical properties of red pine (pinus resinosa ait.) lumber.
proceedings, 19th iufro world congress, division 5; 1990 august 5-11; montreal, canada.
memphis, tenn. : hardwood market report, 2005: pages 75-79 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: in recent years, we have received hundreds of requests for small  scale lumber dry kiln plans from woodworking hobbyists.
abstract: the softwood lumber industry in the united states and canada consists of about 1,067 sawmills.
abstract: from a starting universe of approximately 1,300 canadian and american sawmills, 149 were permanently closed between 1996 and 2003.
abstract: this  paper describes an approach to modeling u.s. forest sector market and trade  impacts of expansion in domestic wood energy consumption under hypothetical  future u.s. wood biomass energy policy scenarios.
usfpm was designed specifically for the 2010 rpa forest assessment,  but it is being used also in other applications.
spelter view pdf » view publication information »
page 79 author(s) spelter, henry year: 2005 view pdf »
keywords: bioenergy, forest biomass supply, projections, county level estimates title: technology transfer and knowledge utilization: a review of systems and organizations relevant to wood utilization research and product development in the united states.
category: research notes file size: 824 kb(s)
per capita consumption  excluding fuelwood, has been relatively stable, averaging 63 ft 3 per year.
288-298 author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1990 view pdf » view publication information »
an  understanding of market factors can aid those involved in paper recycling as  they look forward to 2003 and beyond.
monomer title: wisconsin street tree assessment  2002-2003 publication: cumming, anne buckelew; twardus, daniel  b.; hoehn, robert; nowak, david j.; mielke, manfred; rideout, richard; butalla,  helen; lebow, patricia. 2008 wisconsin street tree assessment 2002-2003.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 171 kb kb(s)
22-24 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1992 view pdf » view publication information »
title: fuelwood use in u.s. counties publication: research report 486 february 1989, natural resources, from the michigan state university agricultural experiment station east lansing; 1989 author(s) skog, kenneth e.; manthy, robert s. year: 1989 view pdf »
153-168; 2011 author(s) verrill, steve p.; kretschmann, david e.; herian, victoria l.; wiemann,  michael c.; alden, harry a. year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
it is meant to be referred to concurrently with this documentation and is available for downloading at no cost from the forest products laboratory.s website at: http://www.fpl.fs.fed.us/documnts/fplgtr/fpl_gtr184/lsy3.01.xls.
it would appear that in the recent past there has been a shift in the types of  jobs that forests support.
sustainable timber supply and demand; pp.
abstract: this two-part analysis of the most feasible and effective urxwhv ior the  pulp and paper and forest products industry to add energy, biofuels and  biobased chemicals to wkhlu hxsting product streams was conducted by the  american forest & paper association's agenda 2020 technology alliance.
title: investigation of shift in decay hazard (scheffer) index values over the period 1969-2008 in the conterminous united states publication:
much of this material is indeed waste, but large, increasing shares are now becoming valuable resources.
title: environmental impact of manufacturing softwood lumber in northeastern
abstract: the north american pulp and paper industry has experienced challenges and changes much like other business sectors, which have a direct bearing on its marketing policies and the raw material supply chain of pulpwood and chips.
during 1998, approximately 505 million cubic meters of roundwood was required to produce the wood and fiber products consumed in the united states.
the typically more heterogeneous mixture of tree species found in a naturally regenerated forest may have less intrinsic value in pulping or papermaking because of less uniformity or less desirable fiber characteristics, but may have utility in any case because of lower cost.
title: factors influencing the supply and demand of occ publication :
abstract: this chapter provides estimates of forest biomass and wood waste quantities, as well as roadside costs (i.e., supply curves) for each county in the contiguous united states (see text box 3.1).
chip mills are stand-alone facilities that convert pulpwood roundwood into chips for shipment to pulp mills; they are usually located remote from pulp mills.
the information presented here was prepared for the united nations economic commission in june 1994.
the relationships among these different scaling systems vary systematically with log diameter, as well as length, taper, defects, and measurement and utilization conventions.
atlanta, ga: tappi press; 1993:37-43.
keywords: life-cycle inventory, cradle-to-gate, lci,  wood products, corrim, energy, emissions,environmental impact, carbon,  geographical regions.
for these three united states supply regions, recovered paper supply consists of two elements namely, 'long-term contract' and 'spot market' supply which are estimated with two separate equations.
abstract: biomass gasification is an approach to producing energy and/or  biofuels that could be integrated into existing forest product production  facilities, particularly at pulp mills.
it has continued and we are now seeing more robust market conditions in 2010 and early 2011.
keywords: lumber trade, softwood lumber, trade dispute, pricing date posted: 04/27/09
author(s) ince, peter; kallioranta, sanna; vlosky, richard year: 2005
keywords: plywood, cost accounting, linear programming, mill scheduling
living yellow-cedar trees are sometimes infected with 'black sult of naturally induced forest decline stain,' which remains in the trees after they die.
the results suggest that the rate of paper recycling will rapidly rise in the 1990s, mainly as a result of the competitive evolution of fiber markets and papermaking technologies.
this chapter presents an analytic framework and market outlook for agricultural srwc as wood fibre crops in the usa and considers some potential implications for forestry.
keywords: lumber grading; correlation estimation; comparing sorting procedures; classification date posted: 07/21/09
one chord was made up of glulam timber and the other was made up of solid sawn timber.
only a few mills in british columbia and germany are in this volume range.
keywords: technology transfer, wood utilization research, knowledge diffusion, technology transfer strategies title: managed forest carbon estimates for the us greenhouse gas inventory, 1990-2008
market scenarios were projected by ftm-west for two hypothetical fuel treatment regimes that yield wood with divergent size class distributions, evaluated at two hypothetical levels of administrative cost or government subsidy.
title: predictor sort sampling and confidence bounds on quantiles i asymptotic theory publication: fpl-rp-623, august 2004;
category: journal articles title: plywood manufacturing cost trends, excluding wood, in western u.s. mills: 1975-1988
primary mill data was collected per corrim research guidelines (corrim 2001).
roadside price is the price a  buyer pays for wood chips at a roadside in the forest, at a processing mill  location in the case of mill residue, or at a landfill for urban wood wastes  prior to any transport and preprocessing to the end-use location.
since 1997 much of the industry forest land has been sold  to timber management organizations and real estate investment trusts, so the  share of stumpage revenues going to industry land owners has probably declined.
title: where to cut, where to run : prospects for u.s. south softwood timber supplies and prices publication : 1999 world wood summit : session three : issues in the western
most canadian domestic pulpwood supply is projected to remain wood residues, as canadian lumber production and residue output are projected to increase in the future.
category: journal articles file size: 332 kb(s)
techlines author(s) skog, kenneth year: 2006 view pdf » view publication information »
this could threaten to increase the price of wood for those other uses', or it can stimulate us to seek more creative ways of using untapped wood resources for fuel.
one effect of this exposure in recent years is increased market volatility associated with trade-related adjustments in export demands and capacity utilization.
this underestimates the true recovery potential and leads to difficulties in comparing volumes measured with the traditional board foot system and those measured with the cubic scaling systems used in most of the world.
we describe the national greenhouse gas inventory and present the sources of our data and methods and the most recent results.
a primary conclusion is that projected growth in u.s. wood-fiber demand appears at present to be economically sustainable for decades to come, taking into account ongoing shifts in product markets, international trade, and production technology, along with improvements in forest productivity.
title: life-cycle  inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and north  central united states publication: lippke, bruce, jim wilson,  leonard johnson, maureen puettmann. 2009.
abstract: sawlogs in the united states, whether scaled on the ground or cruised on the stump, have traditionally been measured in terms of their lumber yield.
under the first system, markets are characterized by high elasticities of price transmission and, at times of market weakness, by low elasticities of product supply.
major ghg emission sources include direct and indirect (from purchased electricity generation) emissions from manufacturing and methane emissions from landfilled products.
ill. author(s) liu, jen y.; simpson, william t.; verrill, steve p. year: 2000 view pdf »
so, in roundwood equivalents, wood and paper products consumption has been increasing at roughly the pace of population.
we also examine the tradeoffs, costs, and benefits associated with each mechanism and explain how forest carbon is measured.
during its session scheduled for 12-16 october 2009, the unece timber committee will hold a policy forum entitled 'the forest sector in the green economy'.
abstract: x-ray diffraction techniques have the potential to decrease the time required to determine microfibril angles dramatically.
in each subregion, usfpm models timber stumpage markets for four categories of timber, including hardwood and softwood sawtimber and hardwood and softwood non-sawtimber.
geneva timber and forest study paper 27, pp 71-84; chapter8 author(s) ince, peter; akim, eduard; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas; tolmatsova, anastasia year: 2011 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 2,077 kb(s)
these mills had a combined capacity of 190.2 million m3 (80.6 × 109 board feet), slightly down from the 2005 value.
ecolabeling shows information on the environmental performance of  products,processes, and services.
title: chapter 8; paper and pulp  output continues to climb in europe and russia, but falls in north america:  markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2006-2007 publication : in: forest products annual market review, 2006-2007; geneva timber and  forest study paper 22; 2007 author(s) akim, eduard; ince, peter  j.; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas year: 2007 view  pdf » view publication information »
title: confidence bounds and hypothesis tests for normal distribution coefficients of variation publication: communications in statistics-theory and methods, 36: 2187-2206, 2007 author(s) verrill, johnson year:
abstract: the hardwood chip market gained some stability in the first half of 2004 with a modest upturn in hardwood pulp production and as timber supply emerged from the dampening clouds of unusually wet weather that prevailed throughout the eastern united states in 2003.
abstract: this report provides documentation and user information for fpl-pelps, a personal computer price endogenous linear programming system for economic modeling.
title: dehumidification drying for  small woodworking firms and hobbyists building your own lumber dry kiln with  local building materials publication: uw ext.
all three of these ″regions&prime were moist, with annual precipitation exceeding 20 inches (≈ 510 mm).
category: general technical reports file size: 72 kb kb(s)
nonstructural panel share remained unchanged.
abstract: detailed structural studies on the plant cell wall have traditionally been difficult.
for the surface-application approach, monomer moving to the wood surface during polymerization reduced their effectiveness in increasing mor and moe to the expected levels.
uncertainty in the use (service) life of solidwood products has a limited effect because an error offsets changes in products in use and in swds.
the economic question hinges on the opportunity costs of alternative uses for adbf.
37-42 : ill. author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1999 view pdf »
9 pages author(s) howard, james l. year: 2004 view pdf »
reusing building  materials has a distinct advantage over using newly manufactured materials  because these reclaimed materials avoid greenhouse gas emissions associated  with new (virgin) material manufacturing.
much of china's rapid growth is based on recycled fibre  and imported pulp.
it can be adapted readily to measure the wood content of any large, irregularly shaped wooden object and, as such, is useful for researchers and wood products manufacturers.
to keep wood costs as low as possible, a growing share of the new production is being channeled into regions where panel manufacturing has been low or nonexistent and where underutilized timber supplies are still available.
title: machine cost analysis using the traditional  machine-rate method and chargeout!
we raise these three  concerns so that other researchers interested in understanding, implementing,  or extending the variance approach or in comparing the approach to other  methods of estimating mfa will be aware of them.
wood products used in new residential construction u. s. and canada, with comparisons to 1995, 1998, and 2003.
keywords: life-cycle inventory, sawing, drying, energy generation, planing
keywords: hazardous fuel reduction, simulation, fia data, biomass utilization, harvesting costs, western states title: fpl-pelps : a price endogenous linear programming system for economic modeling, supplement to pelps iii, version 1.1.
category: techlines abstract: today, concrete and steel are the predominant nonresidential building framing types.
this article deals with the factors that affect the translation of traditional board foot log volumes to cubic volume and weight equivalents.
keywords: strategic assessment, bioenergy,  biomass resource assessment, supply analysis title: strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west spatial  analysis and supply curve development final report publication : parker, nathan ; tittman, peter ; hart, quinn, et al. 2008.
we also describe stochastic simulation methods for financial risk  assessment, and we present results of sensitivity analysis and stochastic  simulation for investment in a biomass-to-liquid-fuel concept at an existing  pulp mill, based on plausible but hypothetical process data and stochastic  price projections.
keywords: carbon sequestration, forest biomass, forest carbon accounting
the amount of carbon stored in hardwood lumber exceeds fossil carbon emissions by a factor of nine.
the  strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west represents a major  step in fulfilling that commitment and expands upon earlier work through wga's  clean and diversified energy initiative and the transportation fuels  initiative.
machine rate models cannot  calculate a costing rate that will provide a specified rate of return.
38 p. author(s) skog, k.; rummer, r.; barbour, j.; nelson, r. year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information  »
publication: geneva timber and forest discussion papers : recycling, energy and market interactions.
adjusting for heating degree days (hdd) for the respective heating seasons, the corresponding seasonal fuel costs in $/thousand ft2/hdd were reduced from 0.068 in 2002-2003 to 0.040, and to 0.040 in the 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 heating seasons, respectively.
results indicate the market is recovering from a major structural shift in demand, a downturn over the past decade driven by economic globalization, and also by increased paper recycling since the 1980s.
we describe how the model predicts paper and paperboard product demands and trade flows over time, concurrently with regional capacity changes and corresponding shifts in process technology based on tobins q theory of capital investment.
national forest  programs expenditures decreased from $3.0 to $2.7 billion between 2004 and 2007  and wildfire management expenditures increased from $1.7 to $2.1 billion  (2005$).
keywords: climate change, fire, disturbance, environmental monitoring,  national forest inventory (nfi), assessments, remote sensing
journal  articles file size: 2050 kb(s)
the cyclical nature of structural panel demand combined with the tug and pull between plywood and osb capacities have led to considerable cyclical volatility in prices and profits.
title: confidence bounds for normal and lognormal distribution coefficients of variation
the effects of increasing recovery after the mid 1990s were felt  primarily in offsetting harvest in other countries and not in the united  states.
keywords: economics, technology, unbleached kraft, paperboard, process, computer model
83-100 author(s) spelter year: 2001 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 369 kb(s)
title: sawmill closures, openings, and net capacity changes in the softwood lumber sector, 1996-2003 [electronic resource] publication: (research paper fpl-rp ; 603).
category: journal articles file size: 346 kb(s)
abstract: the productivity of u.s. wood and paper product output in terms of wood input is computed and displayed in graphs.
in: proceedings of the 106 annual meeting of the american wood protection association, hyatt regency riverfront, savannah, georgia may 23-25, 2010, volume 106, pp.
the very nature of the subject makes review and evaluation  difficult.
injury rates in forest  products industries have been declining at the same pace as for all  manufacturing.
exploiting the  dispersion of 2d (and even 3d) nmr allows strikingly detailed structural  analysis of the wall components without the need for isolation and  fractionation.
category: journal articles file size: 403 kb kb(s)
golden, co: national renewable energy laboratory; 1993: 18-32.
the results, as reinforced by the sensitivity analysis and  risk assessment, suggest an investment may be attractive from a financial  standpoint.
title: an improved method for measuring the volume of large wooden objects publication: forest prod.
abstract: global trends in pulp, paper, and paperboard have deeply affected u.s. pulpwood markets since the late 1990s.
emission data produced  through modeling estimated total biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production  of 424 and 131 kg/m3, respectively, considering all impacts.
financial managers treat coefficients of variation as measures of risk to return.
keywords: biofuel; supply assessment;  resource; supply chain; gis; optimization title: effect of treatment pressure on treatment quality and bending properties  of red pine lumber publication: forest prod.
this article provides highlights of the data collected.
the properties of wheat fibers can also be modified through  physical and chemical technologies to improve performance of the final  composite.
weather also again became an issue in the third quarter with the late summer arrival of hurricane season in the south.
strong underlying demand for housing, supported by demographic growth among young adults and generational low interest rates, are strong positives for the industry's prospects.
abstract: u.s. softwood lumber production was 35.2 billion bf in 2007, off u13% from its 2005 high, according to western wood products assn.
keywords: energy, fuelwood, forestry, chipping,  economics.
in the 1960s and 1970s, consumption averaged about 70 ft3 per capita.
abstract: between 2006 and the end of 2009, the production capacity of the softwood lumber sector covered by this report in the united states and canada has shrunk from 190.8 million m3 (nominal) to 166.4 million m3.
a role for forests & forestry professionals: proceedings of the 1987 society of american foresters national convention; 1987 october 18-21; minneapolis, mn.
keywords: strategic assessment, bioenergy, spatial analysis, supply  curve title: the distribution of mckay's  approximation for the coefficient of variation publication : statistics & probability letters 78 (2008) 10 - 14 ; 2008 author(s) forkman, verrill view  pdf » view publication information »
for half the acres, an uneven-aged treatment would be applied if at least 300 ft3 of merchantable wood is removed; for the other half, an even-aged treatment would be applied if at least 300 ft3 of merchantable wood is removed.
general technical reports file size: 991 kb(s)
publication: solulions for people, processes and paper.
you are here: fpl home  /  research  /   units  /  economics and statistics research  / publications  - listing publications - listing below are the 286 associated publications with this unit sorted by  date-posted.
conference  proceedings file size: 772 kb(s)
pulping conference proceedings; 1993 november 1-3; atlanta, ga. atlanta, ga: tappi press; 1993: 381-389.
as a heat source publication : small-scale lumber drying using wood gasification as a heat source.
year: 2010 view pdf » view  publication information »
the projected increases in production over the next 2 years are likely to exceed projected growth in demand, leading to an oversupply, at least temporarily.
based on discounted cash-flow analysis, chargeout! provides more accurate financial outputs than traditional single-period models.
the second concern is associated with the approximation of the natural variability of the mfa by a function of the mfa.
pages s65-s73 author(s) skog, kenneth e.; pingoud, kim; smith, james e.
economic conditions indicated markets and prices were peaking  amid a slowing economy, rising input costs, and erosion of profits.
steel and concrete are the major materials used by the bridge industry.
this paper highlights assumptions and key  findings related to the wood-fiber demand and supply outlook.
such large offsets would  require substantial trade-offs, such as lower agricultural production and  non-carbon ecosystem services from forests.
keywords: assessment, biomass, fuel reduction,  inventory title: gate-to-gate life-cycle
private capital investment in forest recreation infrastructure and by businesses providing recreation equipment was $1.03 billion for structures and $442 million for equipment in 2006.
category: journal articles file size: 93 kb kb(s)
lippke, bruce, jim wilson, leonard johnson, maureen puettmann. 2009.
i found that use of machine rate methods can  lead to either over or under-estimates of machine owning and operating costs,  depending on the machine rate model used.
view publication information » category: research notes file size: 1658 kb(s)
the assessment included long-range projections of pulp, paper, and paperboard production, consumption, and trade, with regional analysis of wood-fiber use, paper recovery for recycling, and projections of pulpwood demand and supply.
where the actual production statistic was not released, it was estimated by subtracting from capacity any lost volume due to downtime.
the outlook has many forest management implications.
d.m. adams and r. w. haynes (eds.), resource and market projections for forest author(s) skog, kenneth e. year: 2007 view pdf »
keywords: forest fires, fire prevention, fire control, fire management, forest products, statistics, economic aspects, supply and demand, national forests
keywords: recovered paper, spot, contract, hypothesis, supply.
two supply functions were estimated for each grade in each of three u.s. supply regions - north, south, and west.
journal articles file size: 4,071 kb(s)
the intent of this paper is to take stock of the conceptual underpinnings of technology transfer processes as they relate to wood utilization research and to identify conditions that promote the successful transfer of research results.
it does not include carbon in harvested trees that are left at harvest sites.
abstract: the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) provides guidelines for countries to report greenhouse gas removals by sinks and emissions from sources.
publication : adair, craig; mckeever, david b. 2009.
this definition indicates that sustainability needs to account for (1) human needs, current and future, (2) limitations in meeting these needs based on technological capabilities, social organzation, and environmental resources, and (3) the ability of the biosphere to absorb the effects of human activities.
sawn softwood markets in 2003-2004 publication: forest products annual market review, 2003-2004, chapter 5, un-ece timber bulletin, vol.
abstract: although higher treatment pressures have the potential to improve preservative penetration, higher pressures may possibly result in greater reduction in mechanical properties.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 1720 kb(s)
usepa  #430-r-11-005.
publication : mckeever, david 2010.
publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-36.
usfpm also adds more complete  product detail in u.s. regions, by differentiating hardwood lumber and softwood  lumber, osb structural panels and industrial particleboard, and hardwood and  softwood plywood.
keywords: timber supply, timber demand, projections.
module n university of washington, seattle, wa. pp.
in the united states, the end of most wood is  not lumber or pulp and paper but feed for energy.
uneven-aged and even-aged silvicultural treatments analyzed would treat 7.2 to 18.0 million of the 24 million acres, including 0.8 to 1.2 million acres of wildland-urban interface area, and provide 169 to 640 million ovendry tons of woody biomass.
and that's not even to mention the increasing inroads made by imports.
author(s) peter j. ince; andrew d. kramp; kenneth e. skog; henry n. spelter; david n. wear year: 2011 view pdf »
the u.s. forest products module (usfpm) was created to enhance the modeling of the u.s. forest sector within the global forest products model (gfpm), providing a more detailed representation of u.s. regional timber supply and wood residue markets.
much of china's rapid growth is based on recycled fibre and imported pulp.
however, anticipation and accurate evaluation of all benefits and costs appears to present significant challenges, as revealed in the history of public forest policy in the united states.
this supply could become significant under certain scenarios, such as reduced hardwood pulpwood supply from natural forests or limited future expansion in paper recycling.
increasing wood fuel use, a carbon-neutral process, would lower the environmental impact of hardwood lumber manufacturing and increase its use as a green building material.
in 2006, an estimated 6.8 billion ft3 (187.5 million m3) of solid wood products were consumed in the united states, down slightly from 2005 but more than twice the consumption in 1950.
this paper reports a statistical analysis of the effects of soil and wood properties on leaching of arsenic (as) and copper (cu) from southern yellow pine sapwood treated with chromated copper arsenate (cca-c).
conference proceedings file size: 1,881 kb(s)
title: estimates of paper and wood recovery for recycling and potential for  additional recovery in the united states publication : woodfiber-plastic composites, proceedings no. 7293.
our results suggest that if a forest landing is located near an existing power line, distributed energy generation is an option that may be worth considering.
in: increasing feedstock  production for biofuels.
understanding and monitoring both the supply of and demand for natural resources are essential in meeting our objectives as world resource managers.
waste wood from lesser sources and from catastrophic natural events that may be disposed of outside of the normal waste streams are not examined here.
title: confidence bounds and hypothesis tests for normal distribution coefficients of variation publication: research paper fpl-rp-638.
keywords: laminated lumber, discounted cash flow analysis, project analysis, break- even analysis, financial analysis, profitability analysis, spreadsheet program, laminated wood, economic aspects, computer simulation, economic analysis, engineered wood industry
journal articles file size: 522 kb(s)
the bents were in reasonably good condition, but chord bearing was uneven on bent caps.
nps concessions provided $ $21.6 million for facility improvements in 2006.
volume of roundwood harvest has increased in the south but declined in other regions although value of shipments for wood and paper products (excluding furniture) has declined in all regions.
title: trends affecting the domestic recovered paper industry publication: resource recycling, january 2003, pp.
apa-- the engineered wood  association, tacoma, wa.
keywords: technological change, efficiency, forest product processing date posted: 06/18/09
the data from these analyses are very useful to wood recycling enterprises.
keywords: fuel treatment, evaluation tools, fuel treatment  evaluator, fte, myftp
abstract: minimizing wood shrinkage is a priority for many wood products in use, particularly engineered products manufactured to close tolerances, such as wood propellers for unmanned surveillance aircraft used in military operations.
keywords: inventory, hardwood sawmills, northeastern region, united states title: strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west publication: biomass resource assessment and supply analysis for the wga region.
wood products  industries capital investments decreased from $3.4 to $2.2 billion between 1997  and 2003 but increased to $3.5 billion in 2006 (2005$).
springer, new york] have outlined proofs of similar results.
in addition, this article describes the process of developing epds from lca data in conjunction with product category rules and the status and future needs of epds in the u.s. forest products industry.
its current spurt is even greater, growing from 1.1 million metric tonnes in 2003 to 4.2 million 2008.
85-97; 2010 author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard,  lombard, bernard year: 2010 view pdf » view  publication information »
the volume of roundwood used to make products, the weight  produced, and the value of u.s. shipments have been stable to declining in  recent years.
the fte tool referenced in this publication is no longer available.)
this chapter also reports unece/fao statistics for pulp, paper and paperboard organized into the sub-regions of cis, eu/efta, other europe and north america.
journal articles file size: 2050 kb(s)
[s.l. : s.n., 2004]: pages 53-60 author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas year: 2004 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 124 kb kb(s)
title: reporting timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics and trends publication: fpl rip-4851-002 author(s) howard, james; year: 2009 view pdf »
fpl is in the initial stages of developing a business incubator for emerging or fledgling advanced wood technology business ventures.
abstract: this report provides general and statistical information on forest products markets in terms of production, trade, consumption, and prices.
2011 author(s) skog, k.; lebow, p.; dykstra, d.; miles, p.; stokes, b.j.; perlack, r.d.; buford, m.; barbour, j.; mckeever, d. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
title: chapter 8; pulp and paper markets peaking amid slowing economy, rising input costs, and erosion of profits: markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2007-2008
imports may either supplement or be  a substitute for production from domestic sources.
date posted: 04/05/10
environmental impacts were measured based on emissions to air and water, solid waste, energy consumption, and resource use.
the model takes into account variability in tree and log size, as well as economic effects of variable size class on harvest costs, log value, product recovery and mill capacity.
author(s) ince, peter j.; kramp, andrew; spelter, henry; skog, ken; dykstra, dennis year: 2006 view pdf »
71-84; 2012 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2012 view pdf » view publication information »
we also  examine the tradeoffs, costs, and benefits associated with each mechanism and  explain how forest carbon is measured.
category: journal articles title: an examination of knife pitch settings for rotary peeling publication: panel world, july 1991, pp.
as trees die and otherwise deposit litter and debris on the forest floor, c is  released to the atmosphere or transferred to the soil by organisms that  facilitate decomposition.
abstract: the repair and remodeling of residential units in both the united states and canada is an important market for wood products.
sheathing had been lost long ago to panels.
abstract: because of a combination of circumstances, there is an overabundance of small-diameter timber available in the united states.
these losses are attributable to three unprofitable years of sawmilling caused by the contraction in construction.
keywords: coefficient of variation, signal to noise ratio, risk to return ratio, one-step newton estimators, newton's method, n-consistent estimators, efficient likelihood estimators, cramer conditions, quadratic mean differentiability, likelihood ratio test, wald test, rao test, asymptotics, confidence internals, newton-raphson method
title: continued growth expected for wood energy despite turbulence of the economic crisis: wood energy markets, 2008-2009 publication : unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2008-2009; pp.
keywords: production; trade; prices; forest products date posted: 05/17/10
madison, wi: forest products society: 17-28.
available budgets are insufficient to pay for vegetative management on all acres where fire threat is considered unacceptable.
recent trends contrasted with the 1972-74 experience, a period that shares many commonalities with the present, support this view.
materials from each of these two sources have distinctly different properties and, in general, are not interchangeable.
heating fuel costs were reduced from $0.63 per ft2 per year (last full oil heating season) to $0.36 and $0.35 per ft2 per year for the 2003-04 and 2004-05 heating seasons.
in total, urban tree and woody yard residues form a resource about as large or larger than the current timber harvest from national forests.
the share of lumber used for construction increased from 50% to 67% but remained the same or declined in other end-use areas.
keywords: discounted cash flow analysis, chargeout!, charge-out, machine rate, date posted: 10/06/10
abstract: the ability of forest products research and development organizations to contribute to a nation's well-being requires that they be well organized, effectively managed, and held to high standards of performance.
solid wood is used extensively in various manufactured products, and a large share of manufactured products is shipped on wooden pallets.
author(s) ince view pdf » view  publication information »
title: trends in economic scarcity  of u.s. timber commodities publication: usda forest service,  forest products laboratory, resource bulletin 11, fpl-rb-11 author(s) skog, ken; risbrudt, chris; year: 1982 view pdf  » view publication information »
about 55 percent of biomass would be from the main stem of trees greater than or equal to 7 in.
in the 1960s and 1970s, consumption averaged 65 ft3 per capita.
annual paper and paperboard output in north america receded by 1.2% in 2003, but output climbed in the second half of the year and the first half of 2004.
15-28; 2010 author(s) puettmann, maureen e.; bergman,  richard; hubbard, steve; johnson, leonard; lippke, bruce; oneil, elaine;  wagner, francis g. year: 2010 view pdf »  view publication information »
forests as a whole provide vital ecosystem services, as important atmospheric carbon sinks for example.
abstract: demand for woody feedstock is increasing, motivated by public policies that have set ambitious targets for renewable energy: for instance, the eu′s aim of meeting 20% of its overall energy requirement from renewable sources by 2020 and, to a certain extent, the renewable portfolio standards in canada and the us.
in: chapter 1 in sustainable production of fuels, chemicals, and fibers from forest biomass, acs symposium series, volume 1067.
data are provided through the end of the year 2008 with forecasts through 2009.
in three of the ten  ″regions″, the time trend was moreover found to be statistically  significant.
results indicate that expansion in wood energy  consumption across the range of scenarios may have little impact on u.s. forest  sector markets because most of the expansion can be supplied by logging  residues that are presently not being utilized and also mill residues that will  increase in supply with projected expansion in wood product output in the  decades ahead.
as average log size has declined in north america due to the replacement of virgin wood by plantation-grown timber, the discrepancies have become larger.
abstract: mckay's chi-square approximation for the coefficient of variation is type ii noncentral beta distributed and asymptotically normal with mean n - 1 and variance smaller than 2(n - 1).
journal articles file size: 229 kb(s)
the energy saved  from the reduced speed requirement for the indented disc was more than offset  by an increase in fiber loss, from 5.9% for the flat disc to 9.9% for the  indented disc.
category: research notes file size: 499 kb(s)
keywords: tolerance bounds, asymptotics
the  first concern is associated with the approximation of the variance of an x-ray  intensity halfprofile by a function of the microfibril angle and the natural  variability of the microfibril angle.
the strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west represents a major step in fulfilling that commitment and expands upon earlier work through wga's clean and diversified energy initiative and the transportation fuels initiative.
author(s) smith, brett r.; rice, robert w.; ince, peter j. year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information »
author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 1985 view pdf »
295-320 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1989 view pdf »
keywords: surface coating, modified wood, mould  growth, field test, generalized linear mixed model, aspen, larch, norway  spruce, scots pine date posted: 12/14/11 title: forest land remaining forest land and methodology for  estimating net carbon stock changes in forest publication: in:  inventory of u.s. greenhouse gas emissions and sinks: 1990-2009.
category: journal articles file size: 309 kb(s)
title: chapter 8 rebound from steep drop in demand amid simmering global trade issues: markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2009-2010
acetylated pine as wood substrate and aspen as wood species had lower resistance to mould growth than the other wood substrates and wood species, respectively.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 436 kb kb(s)
uneven-aged and even-aged silvicultural treatments analyzed would treat 7.2 to 18.0 million of the 24 million acres, including 0.8 to 1.2 million acres of wildland-urban interface area, and provide 169 to 640 million oven dry tons of woody biomass.
in: globas change and forestry, chapter 8, isbn: 978-1-60876-262-0; 2009 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2009 view pdf »
85-94; 2008 author(s) ince, peter j.;; akim,  eduard l.; lombard, bernard year: 2008 view pdf  » view publication information »
logging  industry investments were $0.9 billion in 1997 (2005$).
author(s) jackson, gerry.; howard, james.; hammett, a. l. year: 2001 view pdf »
in a separate study, exchange rate assumptions were found to be important determinants of major us trade flows as projected by gfpm, particularly for manufactured commodities such as pulp and paper.
pieces (2 by 4s) ripped from  pressed panels of edge-glued (edge-glued-and-rip [egar]) boards sawn from small  ponderosa pine (pinus ponderosa) logs were evaluated for warp reduction.
depends on whether new home prices are included or not.
title: wood residual quantities in the united states publication : biocycle journal of composting & recycling, january 1998 , vol.
category: journal articles file size: 74 kb kb(s)
here we make our cramer condition assumptions and their use explicit.
softwood plywood capacity peaked in 1989 at around 24 million m3 (27 billion ft2) and has since dropped to 16 million m3 (18 billion ft2).
national forest programs expenditures decreased from $3.0 to $2.7 billion between 2004 and 2007 and wildfire management expenditures increased from $1.7 to $2.1 billion (2005$).
in: proceedings of the 55th western dry kiln association [held in] reno, nv.
chargeout! can do all of these.
detailed information and projections for the year 2002 are presented.
abstract: the cellulosic feedstocks (see chapter 2) needed to produce 20 billion gallons per year (bgy) of second-generation and other renewable fuels can come from a wide variety of cropland and forestland sources, including imports.
keywords: pulpwood, hardwood chips, market trends title: flexural properties of salvaged  deadyellow-cedar from southeast alaska publication: forest  prod.
title: sequestration of carbon in harvested wood products for the united states publication: forest products journal.
journal  articles file size: 2196 kb(s)
in addition, usfpm models potential future supplies of  agricultural short-rotation woody crops (srwc) for energy and fiber, along with  wood residue byproducts of sawmills and plywood mills, and the utilization of  those materials in production of pulp, wood panels, and energy.
abstract: using sustainable building materials is gaining a significant presence in the united states therefore proving sustainability claims are becoming increasingly more important.
journal  articles file size: 4,071 kb(s)
usfpm models regional timber harvest and transport activities as  the conversion of timber stumpage supplies into delivered timber product  outputs (sawlogs/veneer logs, pulpwood/composite timber, other industrial  roundwood, and fuelwood) plus logging residues.
marketing strategies  evolved as pulp and paper producers of the unece region were faced with dual  challenges of limited growth, or decline, in european and north american  consumption and expanded global competition.
this increase is due largely to increased softwood lumber import  share, which increased from 15% in 1965 to 38% in 2006.
geneva, switzerland : unece/fao, 2005: pages 73-81.
wood products used in the construction of low-rise  nonresidential buildings in the united states, 2008.
title: market impacts of hypothetical fuel treatment thinning programs on federal lands in the western united states publication: forest policy and economics.
may  20-24; manhattan, ks.
abstract: global pulp, paper and paperboard markets improved in 2004 and 2005, as indicated by generally higher prices for most pulp, paper and paperboard products in comparison with 2003.
keywords: housing, repairing, maintenance, reconditioning, structural timbers, markets, economic analysis, expenditure, remodeling
keywords: machine; charge-out rate; break-even analysys; capital equipment costing; machine rate; depreciation; inflation; discounted cash flow analysis title: compare : a method for analyzing investment alternatives in industrial wood and bark energy systems
many calculations in the standard are difficult and errors are easily made, particularly when using a spreadsheet; this report introduces a set of computer programs that perform some of the difficult calculations, thereby reducing the potential for errors.
although national statistics are dealt with for the most part, some statistics are given for regions, states, and canada.
usda forest products laboratory research paper fpl-rp-638], we use this result to establish that estimators based on newton steps from [square root]n- consistent estimators may be used in place of efficient solutions of the likelihood equations in likelihood ratio, wald, and rao tests.
author(s) haynes, richard; adams, darius; ince, peter; mills, john; alig, ralph year: 2006 view pdf »
author(s) skog, k. year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 2388 kb(s)
title: evaluation of a value prior to  pulping-thermomechanical pulp business concept: part 2 publication : tappi journal, may 2011, pp.
title: status and trends : profile of structural panels in the united states and canada publication: research note fpl-rp-636.
category: journal articles file size: 151  kb(s)
norcross, ga : tappi press, 2005: 35 pages.
our general finding is that it is critical in managed forest projects to determine whether carbon accumulated prior to entering the contract can be counted.
abstract: this paper describes the current state of the u.s.  economy and provides general and statistical information on forest products  markets in terms of production, trade, consumption, and prices.
to meet the 2022 target, upwards of 240 million dry  tons of feedstock would be needed from u.s. croplands if no forest-sourced  biomass or imported biofuels are used.
we found that many strategies can increase forest sector carbon mitigation above the current 162-256 tg c/yr, and that many strategies have co-benefits such as biodiversity, water, and economic opportunities.
copper penetration was much lower than boron penetration and did not meet awpa standards in any species.
values of 355 mj of  electricity and 2730 mj of processed energy per cubic meter were determined for  manufacturing planed dry softwood lumber burning mostly green wood residues  onsite for energy.
author(s) ince, peter j;  mckeever, david b. year: 1995 view pdf »  view publication information »
the impact of producing these biofuels on u.s. agriculture and forestry will very much depend on the relative proportions of cropland- and forestland-derived feedstocks and the extent to which imports are used to meet the mandate.
abstract: the main factor influencing demand for panels in north america has been the slowdown in economic growth owing to interest rate increases in the united states in 2000.
but most mills survived beyond that, thus growth was not necessary for survival, but characteristic of the early phase of the mill life cycle.
dept. of forest resources) ; 187: [4], 187 pages author(s) ellefson, paul v.; kilgore, michael a.; skog, kenneth e.; risbrudt, christopher d. year: 2006 view pdf »
title: capacity changes in u.s. particleboard, southern pine plywood, and oriented strandboard industries publication :
keywords: forest products; prices; production; trade date posted: 09/07/11
title: evaluating physical property changes for small-diameter, plantation-grown southern pine after in situ polymerization of an acrylic monomer publication: forest prod.
several hypotheses are explored regarding the market consequences of ict developments for primary paper or paperboard producers, leading to a set of speculative future scenarios.
europe produces slightly more paper and paperboard than north america but less  woodpulp, with european producers relying more on recycled fibre than producers  in north america.
forest recreation capital investment by the forest service was $461 and $405 million for 2008 and 2009, respectively, and by the national park service was $386 and $474 million for 2006 and 2008, respectively.
bethesda, md : society of american foresters, c2001: pages 451-453.
total pulpwood demand for wood pulp, wood panel products, and export has potential to increase in the u.s. south but only gradually in the decades ahead, while likely to remain flat or declining in other u.s. regions.
we provide web links to sample fortran implementations of this methodology for the case in which the strength predictor and strength have a bivariate normal distribution and the load distribution is also normally distributed.
abstract: the growth of pulp and paper mills in the us from 1970 to 2000 depended mostly on size and age.
announcements of production intentions are an important piece of market intelligence that can help guide assessments of demand-supply in a volatile market environment.
u.s. demand for  products is likely to continue to increase with increasing population and gross  domestic product (gdp).
category: journal articles file size: 520 kb(s)
investing over $600 million annually, the 40 organizations employed 7,000 to 7,500 scientists and supporting staff.
keywords: repetitive members; assembly; reliability; redundancy; load sharing;  composite action; residual capacity date  posted: 10/20/10
abstract: the wise use of the world′s forest  resources to satisfy present and future needs of an ever-increasing world  population is ultimately the goal of all resource management activities.
transportation impacts contributed approximately 3%, and forestry and harvesting operations accounted for 3 - 7%.
this study showed how the material flowed through  the various unit processes beginning at the deconstruction site and ending at a  storage facility.
title: u.s. forest products module: a technical document supporting the forest service 2010 rpa assessment
of the chips, 95% were used for pulp and the contribution of this product stream to sawmill economics was approximately $2.1 billion (109)
in addition to a series of technical publications, fpl research contributed to the development of four new astm/ansi performance-based qualification standards to address performance issues as well as two new american wood preservers' association (awpa) standards to address treatment processing and strength-effect limits.
of the approximately 1,140 mills, about 470 characterize their output as dimension lumber, accounting for 67% of capacity; 136 list studs as their primary output, representing 16% of the industry's volume; and 139 are primarily board mills, making up a little over 5%.
category: journal articles file size: 183 kb(s)
some require substantial amounts of wood products, some none at all.
62 pages author(s) ince, peter; schuler, albert; spelter, henry; luppold, william year:
title: an outlook for sustainable forest bioenergy production in  the lake states publication: energy policy 37(2009):5687-5693 author(s) dennis r. becker; kenneth skog; allison hellman;  kathleen e. halvorsen; terry mace year: 2009 view pdf  » view publication information »
ftm-west provides a tool to evaluate future market scenarios for large-scale fuel treatment programs with various thinning regimes that may have varying costs and yield wood with divergent size class distributions.
the program does not derive capital costs or fixed costs.
the focus is on where findings are robust and where uncertainties  may be large enough to question key assumptions that impact carbon in the  forest and its many uses.
washington, d.c.: 7-12 to 7-20; a-254 to a-278.
hot-melt adhesive contaminant was removed from a simulated pulp furnish composedof corrugated fiberboard.
[baton rouge : school of forestry, wildlife, and fisherie author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1999 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 175 kb kb(s) abstract: the concept of land expectation value developed by martin faustmann may serve as a paradigm for outcome-based performance measures in public forest management if the concept of forest equity value is broadened to include social and environmental benefits and costs, and sustainability.
hazardous fuels - woody biomass utilization grant program - publications, presentations, datasets - - recently posted - by topic - of general interest - research in progress - software - presentations - datasets - news - - fpl in the news - fpl news - news releases - newsline - media contacts - nepa project - people & places - - station leadership - research scientist directory - employees directory - directions to fpl - national forest service library - - fpl library - events - - calendar of events - conferences - fpl celebrates national forest products week - about us - - fast facts - who we are - tours - additional assistance - - frequently asked questions - contact us - partnerships - partnerships - - working with us - fpl business incubator - fpl's technology marketing unit - current partnership profiles with research units - coalition for advanced wood structures - consortium for research on renewable industrial materials - national center for wood transport structures - patents & licensing - technology transfer agreements - - "to expedite the discovery and application of new science, the forest products laboratory must now, more than ever, expand its partnerships with industry.
category: research papers file size: 1627 kb(s)
policy initiatives that can affect domestic markets and international trade in wood products are also discussed in some detail.
this tool simulates treatments to reduce forest fire hazard to specific levels and identifies the volume of biomass re-moved, harvesting costs, and estimated biomass value (revenue).
title: use of indexing to update u.s. annual timber harvest by state publication: fpl-rp-653, february 2009 author(s)
keywords: ict, paperboard, packaging, e-business systems, paper
author(s) ellefson, paul v.; kilgore, michael a.; skog, kenneth e.; risbrudt, christopher d. year: 2007 view pdf »
bethesda, md: american society for photogrammetry and remote sensing; 1990:  1022-1035.
the outlook seems relatively bright for railroad ties.
the gfpm was used recently to project international forest sector developments conditional on the 2000 rpa timber assessment.
other regions fared better, with the u.s. south and eastern canada losing the least, the u.s. north and british columbia taking somewhat higher losses.
this study determined environmental  impacts of manufacturing hardwood lumber in the southeastern us using the  life-cycle inventory method.
p-105, 4 p., limited availability.
mechanization is frequently necessary to perform cost-effective and safe operations.
these resources encompass plant materials harvested directly from the land (wood, straw, bamboo, etc.), plant material byproducts or residuals from other manufacturing processes (wood chips from sawmills, bagasse fiber from sugarcane processing, cotton linter, etc.), and fibers recovered from recycled paper or paperboard.
keywords: forest products; prices;  production; trade date posted: 09/07/11
keywords: pinus, forest products industries, softwoods, sawnwood, supply balance, market prices, stumpage value, forest inventories, growth rates, southern states of usa
the wood-fired heating system installed in darby schools replaced three separate oil-fired systems and saved the school district $24,500 of total fuel costs for the 2003-2004 year.
keywords: forest products--united states, forestry efficiency--united states, wood products, wood utilization, industrial applications, roundwood, productivity title: operation and cost of a small dehumidification dry kiln publication: fpl-rn-0310, october 2008 author(s) bergman year: 2008 view pdf »
abstract: industrial timber  use has provided timber revenue that has helped make timber supply and demand  more sustainable in the leading timber producing regions of the world.
abstract: a practical method for tracking the effect of curtailment announcements on lumber supply is described and tested.
increasing wood fuel use, a carbon-neutral process, would  decrease the environmental impact of hardwood lumber manufacturing and increase  its value as a green building material.
of 18 million acres of forest land on indian reservations in the u.s., 5.7  million acres are commercial timberland.
recommendations are also made for future monitoring of resource demands.
abstract: large amounts of woody residues and wood waste are generated annually in the united states.
china continues to be a growing source of global demand for wood fibre, including recovered paper, which china imports in large volumes from the unece region.
category: research notes file size: 345 kb kb(s)
keywords: wood product, paper products, import share, export share, consumption,  productionper capita consumption, per capita harvest date  posted: 08/02/10
keywords: measuring, wood, inexpensive, pallets date posted: 07/29/11
keywords: asymptotic relative efficiency;  experimental design; hodges-lehmann efficiency; linear models; mills' ratio;  minimum detectable difference; noncentral f; normal tail; pitman efficiency;  power; sample size.
keywords: solution-state nmr,  unfractionated plant cell walls date posted: 10/11/10
there are many different kiln designs including solar,  dehumidification, direct or indirect fired, and vacuum kilns.
softwood pulpwood harvest on forest land is projected to increase as u.s. softwood residue supplies decline.
five chapters are based on annual country-supplied  statistics, describing: wood raw materials, sawn softwood, sawn hardwood,  wood-based panels, and paper, paperboard and woodpulp.
the strategic assessment of bioenergy developmentin the west represents a major step in fulfilling that commitment and expands upon earlier work through wga's clean and diversified energy initiative and the ransportation fuels initiative.
abstract: for general linear models with normally distributed random errors, the probability of a type ii error decreases exponentially as a function of sample size.
keywords: wood fuels, barks fuels, moisture content, heating value
in particular, sustainable management of forests for products produces substantially different impacts than a focus on a single stand or on specific carbon pools with each contributing to different policy implications.
abstract: the goal of this study was to find the environmental impact of hardwood lumber production through a gate-to-gate life-cycle inventory (lci) on hardwood sawmills in the northeast and northcentral (ne/nc) united states.
view publication information » category: conference proceedings file size: 4715 kb(s)
title: profile 2001: softwood sawmills in the united states and canada publication : fpl-rp-594, march 2001 ; forest products laboratory research paper author(s) spelter, henry; mckeever, tim year: 2001 view pdf »
1-9; 2009 author(s) verrill, steve; kretschmann, david e.; year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: the united states has become progressively more reliant on imports to meet consumption needs.
2007 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2007 view pdf »
keywords: production; sustainability; comsumption
can be sufficiently constrained so as to more-or-less  replicate a machine rate calculation, doing so sacrifices much of chargeout!'s  power and flexibility.
for example, tree size directly influences market value and harvest cost per unit volume of wood, whereas log size influences product yield, production capacity, and processing costs at sawmills and plywood mills.
category: journal articles file size: 513 kb kb(s)
two hubs, coated with aluminum oxide paint, showed dimensional changes similar to those observed for uncoated hubs.
with recent  methods for dissolution of, admittedly, finely divided plant cell wall  material, the wall can now be studied by solution-state nmr.
forest sector research needs are identified in relation to those market scenarios, including the need for 1) economic models to evaluate market impacts of ict and e-business developments and 2) research on how to identify and take full advantage of ict and e-business applications in the context of competitive corporate strategies.
author(s) skog, k. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: bioenergy; bioeconomy; lake states title: chapter 6 cellulosic-based ethanol and the contribution from agriculture and forestry publication:
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2001-2005.
view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 1.5 mb kb(s)
category: journal articles title: forest products research and development organizations : organization, governance, and measures of performance in a worldwide setting publication: forest products journal.
ma thesis, university of wisconsin-madison, c2007.
current and potential  recovery estimates indicate that wood and wood fiber recycling technology could  exploit a large resource base if efficient technology is developed to fully  utilize this resource.
the wood products council.
category: journal articles file size: 882 kb kb(s)
title: lamlum : a tool for evaluating the financial feasibility of laminated lumber plants publication: gen. tech.
category: not classified file size: 226 kb(s)
attaining projected demand will  likely require a combination of higher cost feed stocks,integration of energy  and non-energy uses, and careful managementto meet environmental constraints.
policies to encourage programs or projects that influence forest carbon sequestration and offset fossil fuel emissions should also consider major items such as leakage, the cyclical nature of forest growth and regrowth, and the extensive demand for and movement of forest products globally, and other greenhouse gas effects, such as methane and nitrous oxide emissions, and recognize other environmental benefits of forests, such as biodiversity, nutrient management, and watershed protection.
(apr. 2005): pages 24, 26.
productivity as measured by output capacity per employee is about four times higher in an osb plant than in a plywood mill.
machine rate models cannot be configured to calculate cash flows, allow for uneven costs or machine hours, incorporate loans that have a different life than the expected machine life, incorporate financing, or perform an after tax analysis.
title: estimation of u.s.timber harvest using roundwood equivalents publication: in: usda fs, washington office general technical report; wo-gtr-70; 2005 author(s)
life-cycle impact assessment is beyond the scope of the study.
for hardwood lumber, the export share has  continued to increase, and for pulp the share increased then levelled off after  the mid 1990s.
journal articles file size: 76 kb(s)
abstract: the u.s. forest  products module (usfpm) is a partial market equilibrium model of the u.s.  forest sector that operates within the global forest products model (gfpm) to  provide long-range timber market projections in relation to global economic  scenarios.
keywords: real prices, natural resources, economic demand, stumpage, sawlogs,  pulpwood, veneer logs, plywood, lumber date  posted: 02/09/10
abstract: approximately 720 sawmills produce most of the softwood lumber in the u.s.
because forest carbon loss contributes to increasing climate risk and because climate changemay impede regeneration following disturbance, avoiding deforestation and promoting regeneration after disturbance should receive high priority as policy considerations.
journal articles file size: 300 kb(s)
title: greenhouse gas and carbon profile of the u.s. forest products industry value chain
journal articles file size: 210 kb(s)
large volumes of chips are also produced and utilized on site at pulp mills but do not enter into the chip market.
this market has become much more important in recent years as the nationas housing stock has grown larger, its average age has increased, and homeowner incomes have risen.
in 2005 these sawmills had a combined capacity of 189 million m3 (80 × 109 bf).
values of 608 mj of electricity and 5,800 mj of thermal energy per m3 were determined for the manufacturing of planed dry hardwood lumber burning mostly green wood residues on-site for energy.
lowering energy consumption would be of  great benefit to the mills, and thus society, in reducing the environmental  burden, especially in sawing and drying.
recommendations are also made for future monitoring of  resource demands.
author(s) spelter, henry; ince, peter year:
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy, consumption, productikon, imports, exports forestry industry, forestry trade, forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent states, date posted: 08/23/10
in an industry strongly driven to produce, we were apprehensive that firms would be more shy than usual about divulging their 2008 activities.
title: hampton mill maintains title : top twelve producer mills are in northwest publication: timber processing.
uncertainty is postulated in the form of probability density functions for 14 variables, using monte carlo simulation.
wheat fibers can be combined with other  resources such as plastics, glass, metals, and synthetics.
publication : gen. tech.
many and varied repair and remodeling  activities and projects are undertaken annually.
in 1990 and 2005, respectively, although the difference between these net transfers may not be statistically significant.
wood pulp consumption in the united states was also offset by increased paper recycling since the late 1980s.
publication: journal of forestry.
if consumption continues to increase faster than domestic harvest, then an increasing proportion of the environmental and economic effects of our consumption will be felt in forests in other countries that export products to the u.s. keywords: roundwood consumption, roundwood harvest,per capita consumption, per capita harvest
interpretation of chargeout!'s results requires some knowledge of discounted cash-flow analysis.
abstract: for the forestry and  logging, wood products, paper products, and wood furniture industries, in 2002,  of a total $72.5 billion (2005$) in wages, profits and taxes, 80% went to  wages, 18% to profits and 2% to taxes; 43% was provided by paper products  industries, 35% by wood products industries, 17% by wood furniture industries  and 5% by forestry and logging.
for  research conducted by private concerns, scientists and engineers approached  8,000 in number.
marketing policies and the raw material supply chain of pulpwood and chips are being affected.
keywords: wood fiber supply, pulp and paper industry, forest resources
keywords: environmental impact, hardwood lumber, life-cycle inventory, corrim, lci, green material, product life cycle, environmental aspects, energy conservation, forest products, sustainable forestry, biomass utilization, building materials, environmental engineering, buildings, renewable natural resources, hardwoods, lumber, sawmills, wood waste, renewable energy sources, energy industries, energy consumption, biomass energy, wood waste as fuel, fuelwood, juvenile wood, green technology, wood as fuel
keywords: paperboard industry, statistics, wood-pulp industry, paper industry, economic aspects, market surveys, commerce
average sawlog diameters over the same period were estimated to have declined from 56 to 29 cm for coastal washington and from 41 to 25 cm for interior washington.
this range is 17 to 25 percent of c removals by forests, or would offset 42 percent to 61 percent of residential natural gas c emissions in 2005.
keywords: wood, propeller, shrinkage, sugar maple, veneer, equilibrium moisture content, emc title: industrial wood productivity in the united states, 1900-1998 publication: (research note fpl ; rn-0272):14 p. :
n-consistent estimators; cramér conditions; ef?cient likelihood estimators; likelihood ratio test; newtons method; one-step newton estimators; quadratic mean differentiability; rao test; risk toreturn ratio; signal tonoise ratio; wald test.
coefficient publication: drying technology.
overall, the 200 mills for which we had both 2005 and 2006 data showed a drop in production of almost 6%.
category: journal articles file size: 194 kb kb(s)
madison, wi : u.s. dept. of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory, 2003.
module l : life-cycle  inventory of hardwood lumber manufacturing in the southeastern united states by  richard d. bergman and scott a. bowe.
we describe the national  greenhouse gas inventory and present the sources of our data and methods and  the most recent results.
keywords: sustainable forest management, sustained mitigation benefit,  carbon pools, ecosystem services, global carbon cycle,substitution, life cycle  accounting, attributional lci,global warming potential, consequential lci,  carbon offsets, date posted: 06/10/11
the region with the most compelling increase in index value was the moist region with in excess of 7000 heating degree days.
consumption per capita in roundwood equivalent has decreased during the past 15 years from 80 ft3 per capita to 67 ft3 per capita in 2002.
abstract: astm d1990, 'establishing allowable properties for visually graded dimension lumber from in-grade tests of full-size specimens,' is the consensus standard used to make submissions of allowable properties for many u.s., canadian, and foreign species to the board of review of the american lumber standards committee.
hybrid poplar, a short-rotation woody crop, annually produces 4 to 7 dry tons per acre of hardwood pulpwood over a 6- to 10-year rotation.
good correlations were also found between modulus ofrupture (mor) and moe.
the utilization rate of our top 200 u.s. producers for 2007 was at a similar 83% while among all our respondents it was 82%.
abstract: predictor sort experiments attempt to make use of the correlation between a predictor that can be measured prior to the start of an experiment and the response variable that we are investigating.
gathering products  in the forest can be dangerous, and there are reports in the media of people  becoming lost or injured every year.
burning green wood residues on-site generate the most energy.
we found that many strategies can increase forest  sector carbon mitigation above the current 162-256 tg c/yr, and that many  strategies have co-benefits such as biodiversity, water, and economic  opportunities.
category: general technical reports file size: 803 kb(s)
after  determining the lower range of density, modulus of rupture (mor), and modulus  of elasticity (moe) of juvenile wood from small southern pine logs, southern  pine specimens were polymerized using both a vacuum-impregnation and a  surface-application approach.
category: journal articles file size: 472 kb(s)
no trend information is available on revenues to various groups.
category: journal articles file size: 45 kb kb(s)
a full, detailed  presentation of this analysis will take place during the special bridge session  linking tappi's 2008 engineering, pulping and environmental conference with its  2008 international bioenergy and bioproducts conference being conducted as  back-to-back events at the same venue in portland, or, aug. 24-27 and aug.  27-29, respectively.
many  workers receive fewer benefits or lower wages, or experience worse working  conditions than they would in the formal economy.
the northwest region  accounted for over 70 percent of the timber volume and more than 85 percent of  revenue, followed by the lake states at 13.5 percent of the timber volume and  over 7 percent of revenue.
this paper highlights assumptions and key findings related to the wood-fiber demand and supply outlook.
alexandria, va : american statistical association, 2002.
7/8 (july/aug. 2001).:p.
our study followed the life cycle  inventory approach for prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern us  and compared the results with those of solid strip wood flooring.
the current  depressed status of the u.s. pulpwood market presents a near-term policy  challenge in forest management, whether to provide incentives to sustain or  expand pulpwood supply in current times of lean demand growth when there may be  much larger foreseeable needs, but only in the long run.
24-28 author(s) belin, tom; brown, craig; connor, eric; federick, jim; ince, peter; katofsky, ryan; closset, gerard year: 2008 view pdf »
keywords: energy, fuelwood, forestry, chipping, economics.
keywords: coef?cient of  variation; mckay's approximation; noncentral beta distribution date posted: 11/02/09
abstract: this report details the procedure used to estimate the roundwood products portion of u.s. annual timber harvest levels by using roundwood quivalents.
the wood from alaska yellow-cedar trees dead 26 years did not differ in deterioration from the wood from live cedar trees, but wood from cedar trees dead 81 years experienced an intermediate deterioration between these classes and the pine controls.
although all calculations can be done in the version without macros, the macros version has buttons and automations that make the calculations convenient.
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy, consumption, production, imports, exports,forestry industry, forestry trade, forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent states,climate change, housing market, construction, timber, wood industry, pulp and paper industry, wood fuels, certification,wood products, tropical timber, forestry trade, sustainable forestry, sawnwood, sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, lumber,wood-based panels, particle board, particleboard, fiberboard, fibreboard, osb, mdf, plywood, paperboard, cardboard,woodpulp, pulpwood, sawlogs, pulplogs, roundwood, industrial roundwood, wood energy, bioenergy, biomass, fuelwood,certified forest products, furniture, builders joinery, carpentry, wood profiles, engineered wood products, ewp, redd and carbon.
2008 author(s) cumming, anne buckelew; twardus, daniel b.; hoehn, robert;  nowak, david j.; mielke, manfred; rideout, richard; butalla, helen; lebow,  patricia year: 2008 view pdf » view  publication information »
if the cost of providing wood products from the united states is high relative to other countries or alternative materials, this would limit increase in the level of u.s. harvest and the value that contributes to forest management, employment, and wages.
a biomax wood gasifier, a hot water boiler,  and dry kiln were integrated as parts of a whole lumber drying system for a  field test in southwestern united states.
future growth in u.s. pulpwood demand is likely to be relatively  subdued for the near term.
abstract: this assessment characterizes, at a regional scale, forest biomass that can potentially be removed to implement the fuel reduction and ecosystem restoration objectives of the national fire plan for the western united states.
abstract: forestry  operations require ever more use of expensive capital equipment.
for each state, each of several components of harvest is updated to the current year.
abstract: wheat straw is renewable, widely distributed, available locally, moldable, anisotropic, hydroscopic, recyclable, versatile, non-abrasive, porous, viscoelastic, easily available in many forms, biodegradable, combustible, compostible, and reactive.
provided with widely accepted principles of administration and organizational design, the lead administrators of the case-example organizations willingly provided advice about structural, managerial and performance conditions that are necessary if a forest products research enterprise is to effectively accomplish its mission.
keywords: reclaimed building material, wood flooring, framing lumber, life-cycle inventory, lci, life-cycle assessment, lca, reuse title: concerns about a variance approach to the x-ray diffractometric estimation of microfibril angle in wood publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper fpl-rp-658, 2010 author(s) verrill; steve p.; kretschmann; david e.; herian; victoria l.; wiemann; michael; alden; harry a. year: 2010 view pdf »
keywords: life-cycle  inventory, softwood lumber, lci, green material, corrim, environmental
tacoma, wash. : apa, the engineered wood association, c1999.:p.
about 55% of biomass would be from sawlogs.
keywords: microfibril angle, x-ray diffraction, java, interactive graphics, mechanical properties of wood, forest monitoring, wood quality, computer simulation title: material variability and repetitive member allowable property adjustments in forest products engineering publication: research paper fpl-rp-649.
seattle, wa : corrim, 2010.
a species independent relationship was established between ultimate compression stress parallel to the grain and mor.
title: engineered wood products: a response to the changing timber resource publication : report, no. 123, november: p 5, 15.
the purpose of this report is to begin to identify locations in the west where fire hazard reduction treatments have a potential to 'pay for themselves' at a scale and over a long enough time to make investment in additional forest product processing infrastructure a realistic option.
pages 177-188 author(s) ince, peter j.; moiseyev, alexander n. year: 2002 view pdf » view publication information »
accurate and precise life-cycle inventory data on wood products are needed to meet this demand.
abstract: this report provides general and statistical information on forests products markets in terms of production, trade, consumption, and prices.
the test data contain moisture distributions at discrete locations across the thickness of specimens, which coincides with the radial direction of northern red oak, and at specified times.
abstract: this documentation is meant to accompany cval, a downloadable spreadsheet tool.
title: modeling future u.s. forest sector  market and trade impacts of expansion in wood energy consumption publication: journal of forest economics 17 (2011) 142-156; 2011 author(s) ince, peter j; kramp, andrew d.; skog, kenneth e.; yoo,  do-il; sample v araric year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
the results of the study reported here indicate that the these sites (12).
general technical reports file size: 231 kb kb(s)
title: hcho emissions debate invites scrutiny of lab tests, economics publication: panel world, march 1992, pp.
keywords: manufacturing, end use demand, wood products consumption, furniture & fixtures, lumber, structural panels, nonstructural panels
category: research papers file size: 494 kb(s)
however, a natural forest will likely have high value to society in terms of ecological or aesthetic amenities.
the use of plywood for sheathing in walls is now rare, somewhat higher in roofs, and highest in flooring.
abstract: a method is suggested for estimating additions to carbon stored in harvested wood products (hwp) and for evaluating uncertainty.
the current status and trends of the u.s. pulpwood market contrast sharply to decades prior to the 1990s, when growth in u.s. pulpwood demand was more robust.
category: resource bulletins file size: 678 kb(s)
title: optimum drying temperature to prevent oxidative stain in soft maple publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory,  research paper, fpl-rp-661, 2011 author(s) michael c. wiemann;  mark knaebe; scott a. bowe year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
global natural resource monitoring and assessments:
category: research notes file size: 1658 kb(s)
scenarios were analyzed with usfpm/gfpm ranging from a baseline 48% increase to a 173% increase in annual u.s. consumption of wood for energy from 2006 to 2030, while consumption of fuelwood in other countries was assumed to increase by around 65% in aggregate.
title: evaluating physical property changes for small-diameter, plantation-grown  southern pine after in situ polymerization of an acrylic monomer publication: forest prod.
57(13): 10, 12, 14, 16, 18; 1985.
keywords: bioenergy, forest biomass supply, sustainability, review
category: general technical reports file size: 398 kb kb(s)
price volatility and sensitivity of profits to the global cycle are related to capital intensity and competitiveness in the pulp and paper sector.
keywords: forest products industry, statistics, sawmills, mills, mill-work
keywords: dehumidificaiton drying, small  woodworking, hobbyist title: small-scale lumber  drying using wood gasification
conference proceedings file size: 772 kb(s)
title: comparative in-place costs of wood and steel framing publication: fpl-rp-334, 1979; forest products laboratory research paper author(s) spelter, henry year: 1979 view pdf »
31-38 author(s) bilek,e.m.;  houtman, carl; ince, peter year: 2011 view pdf  » view publication information »
421-441; 2011 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2011 view pdf »
lamlum may be downloaded from the usda forest service, forest products laboratory, website (www.fpl.fs.fed.us/documnts/fplgtr/fpl_gtr165/fpl_gtr165.html).
keywords: life-cycle inventory, cradle-to-gate, lci, wood products, corrim, energy, emissions,environmental impact, carbon, geographical regions.
bethesda, md: society of american foresters; 1988: 297-299 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1988 view pdf »
wheat fibers can be combined with other resources such as plastics, glass, metals, and synthetics.
emission data produced from modeling estimated biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 428 kg per m3 and 139 kg per m3, respectively.
this report describes the structure of usfpm in detail and presents some examples of results and conclusions about future trends in wood energy demands and u.s. timber markets based on usfpm and gfpm projections.
the first concern is associated with the approximation of the variance of an x-ray intensity half-profile by a function of the mfa and the natural variability of the mfa.
author(s) ince, peter j.; akim, eduard; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas year: 2005
category: journal articles file size: 642 kb kb(s)
low interest rates, however, are threatened by rising inflation, the measurement of which
in: forest products annual market review, 2006-2007; geneva timber and forest study paper 22; 2007 author(s) akim, eduard; ince, peter j.; lombard, bernard; parik, tomas year: 2007 view pdf » view publication information »
title: wood used in residential repair and remodeling u.s. and canada with comparisons to 1997 and 2003.
the study found that the machine-rate methodologies were not standardized and the methodologies had differences in accounting for ownership, other fixed costs, and variable operating costs.
title: forecasting technological change in softwood lumber processing publication: proceedings, 23d annual pacific northwest regional economic conference; 1989 april 26-28; corvallis, or.
keywords: commerce, paperboard industry, statistics, market surveys, supply and demand, paper industry, economic aspects, wood-pulp industry, commerce title: pulpwood and timber trends: outlook to 2000 and beyond publication : 1993
title: criterion 6, indicator 33:  recovery or recycling of forest products as a percentage of total forest  products consumption publication: usda forest service, forest  products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0321, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; howard; james; westby; rebecca year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: the countries of the unece region consume over 55% of the worlds paper and paperboard and consume over 70% of the worlds pulp in order make to that paper.
abstract: this assessment  characterizes, at a regional scale, forest biomass that can potentially be  removed to implement the fuel reduction and ecosystem restoration objectives of  the national fire plan for the western united states.
year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
102, no. 4 (june 2004):
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2006 view pdf »
38 p. author(s) skog, k.; rummer, r.; barbour, j.; nelson, r. year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: employment; forestry; forest industry; forest recreation
laboratory techniques are often compared on the basis of their covs.
keywords: value prior to pulping, thermomechanical pulp,  vpp,
category: general technical reports file size: 1.3 mb kb(s)
especially noteworthy about the organizations are the many ways in which they identify themselves (such as institutes, laboratories, centers); their long history of sustained involvement in forest products research; and their movement from public to private ownership (whole or in part).
finding new, simple, and inexpensive ways of increasing these strength  properties would increase the use of this material for residential  construction.
keywords: log rules, conversion factors, board feet, cubic volume.
abstract: finding the environmental impact of building materials is becoming increasingly more important because of public environmental awareness.
this combination of events upset the existing balance of market forces  as supply increased faster than demand.
title: fuelwood use in u.s. counties publication: research report 486 february 1989, natural  resources, from the michigan state university agricultural experiment station  east lansing; 1989 author(s) skog, kenneth e.; manthy, robert s. year: 1989 view pdf » view publication  information »
wood products used in the construction of low-rise nonresidential buildings in the united states, 2008.
category: journal articles file size: 386 kb kb(s)
these results indicate that reclaimed framing lumber and wood flooring have a significantly lower environmental impact than their two virgin alternatives.
with oil prices rising in mid-2009, market demand for alternative fuels, including wood, is growing.
volume 2, issue 3, 303-333; 2011 author(s) lippke,bruce; oneil, elaine; harrison, rob; skog,  kenneth; gustavsson, leif; sathre, roger year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
based on announced plans, growth will accelerate in the next 2 years.
title: continued growth expected for wood energy despite turbulence  of the economic crisis: wood energy markets, 2008-2009 publication : unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2008-2009; pp.
title: statistical framework for comparing lumber sorting procedures publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-651, july 2009 author(s) steve verrill; richard a. johnson; james w. evans year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
net changes in all forest-related land, including non-forest land converted to forest and forests converted to non-forest, are being reported here.
it also examines changes in the manufacturing costs and the emerging supply-demand balance through 1997.
[murray hill, n.j.] : the society, 2003: [10] pages author(s) lebow, patricia; winandy, jerrold e.; lebow, patricia k. year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 243 kb kb(s)
testing statistical hypotheses, third ed.
on average, 65 percent of low-cedar,  dead snags may remain standing for 100 years or more.
50 p. author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2008 view pdf »
we examine the sustainability of regional  forest biomass use in the context of existing thermal heating, electricity,and  biofuels production,projected resource needs over the next decade including  existing forest product market demand, and impacts on price and feasibility.
overall  net transfers to the atmosphere totaled 91.8 and 103.5 tgco2-eq.
for example, cepi raised  its recycling target to 66% in 2010.
primary mill data were collected per consortium  on research for renewable industrial material (corrim) research guidelines  (corrim 2001).
keywords: microfibril angle estimation, bias, variance approach, cell rotation,  cell tilt, cell cross-section, x-ray diffraction date  posted: 06/06/11
keywords: harvest, roundwood equivalents, industrial roundwood, production title: if america had canadas stumpage system publication : forest science 52 (4) 2006 pp.
immediately after treatment, boron penetration with dot exceeded 10 mm in at least 80% of specimens, indicating that the treatment could meet american wood preservers' association (awpa, 2003) penetration standards.
abstract: the north american pulp and paper industry continues to experience challenges and changes much like most other business sectors of the hardwood industry.
injury rates in forest products industries have been declining at the same pace as for all manufacturing.
37, no. 4 (2005): pages 605-614.
energy consumption of 608 mj of electricity and 5,800 mj of thermal energy per m3 were determined for the manufacturing of planed dry hardwood lumber from incoming logs.
category: research papers file size: 718 kb kb(s)
keywords: assembly, reliability, redundancy date  posted: 09/07/10
title: riding the crest of the wave :
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2004 view pdf »
18-19; 2008 author(s) spelter year:
to experienced administrators, conditions necessary for a  successful research enterprise focused on wood utilization and product  development include clarity in purpose and well-defined client groups,  effective governing boards and advisory committees, visionary and enthusiastic  administrators, talented and risk taking scientists, satisfied research clients  and customers, and research contributions that add to the scientific foundation  considered necessary to enhance the efficient use of wood.
this rate has been stable despite continuing increase in the recovery rate of paper in the 1990s though 2006 to 51% because increases in recovery after the mid 1990s have been exported.
category: research in progress file size: 271 kb(s)
next it includes an analysis of government and industry policies affecting forest products markets.
proceedings of the 2000 society of american foresters national convention, washington, dc, november 16-20, 2000.
publication: fpl-rp-595, april 2001; forest products laboratory research paper author(s) howard, james l. year: 2001 view pdf »
additionally, the  operational systems necessary to effect the treatments as well as potential  erosion impacts, utilization opportunities and market implications were  examined.
for example, selected species of trees grown in monoculture (single-species) plantations may have high intrinsic value in pulping or papermaking because of uniformity in fiber quality or desirable fiber characteristics, but cultivating trees in plantations can be more expensive than relying on natural regeneration of trees in a forest.
its 486 mmbf not only outdid some 660 other significant us. sawmills, but also its own production of 473 million in 2004.
web-based computer programs are described for calculating confidence intervals on coefficients of variation for normally and lognormally distributed data.
results showed 5 to 20 times more shrinkage for the thickness of the propeller hub and the hub face perpendicular to the propeller blades (across the grain), respectively, compared with the hub face parallel to the blades (along the grain).
such facilities manufacture laminations, typically from lower grades of structural lumber, then glue these laminations together to make various types of higher value laminated lumber products.
81, no. 12 (1999).:p.
abstract: for the forestry and logging, wood products, paper products, and wood furniture industries, in 2002, of a total $72.5 billion (2005$) in wages, profits and taxes, 80% went to wages, 18% to profits and 2% to taxes; 43% was provided by paper products industries, 35% by wood products industries, 17% by wood furniture industries and 5% by forestry and logging.
using a green-gluing process, standard 38 by 89-mm (nominal 2 by 4-in.)
29-41; 2010 author(s) ince, peter j. view pdf » view  publication information »
title: monitoring  changing demands on global natural resources publication: in:  lund, h. gyde; preto, giovanni, coordinators.
title: converting among log scaling methods : scriber, international, and doyle versus cubic publication: journal of forestry.
publication: fpl-rp-534, october 1994; forest products laboratory research paper author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1994 view pdf »
keywords: softwood sawmill capacity, employment, average log size, lumber recovery factor, market review
abstract: the objective of this paper is to determine the kiln conditions necessary  to avoid interior enzymatic oxidative discoloration in soft maple.
under this scenario, treatment of 0.5 million acres/year would generate 14.6 million oven-dry tons of biomass per year or about 29% of the current level of roundwood removals for the selected states.
as a heat source publication : small-scale lumber drying using wood gasification as a heat source.
particle board is the main panel in europe with over 67% of total consumption.
abstract: the u.s. forest products module (usfpm) is a partial market equilibrium model of the u.s. forest sector that operates within the global forest products model (gfpm) to provide long-range timber market projections in relation to global economic scenarios.
category: research in progress file size: 333 kb(s)
abstract: a water displacement specific gravity procedure, previously developed at the forest products laboratory, was modified and used to measure the volume of solid wood in pallets.
in: hardwood market report lumber news letter; pp.
the u.s. department of agriculture forest service conducts a variety of analyses to estimate the quantity of woody residuals in the united states.
oak ridge national laboratory, oak ridge, tn.
keywords: pulp and paper, wood fiber markets, technology, pulpwood
192-201;2011 author(s) bergman, richard;  taylor, adam year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
abstract: trend data through 2006 are provided on the value and volume of wood and wood products production for the united states to aid in assessing sustainability of socioeconomic benefits of forests.
view excel - worksheet »
on the supply side, major capacity additions to osb weighed on markets for structural panel while increases in particle board capacities caused an oversupply in non-structural panels.
increasing volumes of the recovered paper  are exported to china and other asian countries -5 million tons from europe and  over 9 million tons from north america to china in 2006.
title: disc separation: the effect of disc geometry publication : tappi journal, august 1987.
(july/aug. 2006): pages 64-65.
abstract: because of the large percentage of  juvenile wood in small-diameter southern pine, this material has lower strength  properties compared with the historic published values in the astm standard  d2555.
year: 2004 view pdf »
keywords: pulpwood; wood fiber; supply; demand; projections title: u.s. wood fiber demand and supply outlook: the 5th rpa timber  assessment publication: usda forest service 5th rpa timber  assessment.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2002-2006
we used weight-averaged material and energy production data  to estimate the environmental impact of the two reclaimed materials.
the issues surrounding supply for pulpwood and chips have a broad reach in affecting timber and log purchases, logging contractors and sawmill operations throughout the hardwood industry, particularly in the southern region.
2007 author(s) bergman, r.d.; bowe, s.a. year: 2007 view pdf »
title: conceptual and  empirical themes regarding the design of technology transfer programs: a review  of wood utilization research in the united states publication : international journal of forestry research, volume 2011, article id  516135, 16 pages; 2011 author(s) ellefson,paul v.; kilgore,  michael a.; skog, kenneth e.; risbrudt, christopher d. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
average saw log size varied from 42 cm (16.6 in.)
for each mill, production capacity is reported for the year 2000 by process type; total mill capacities are also reported for 1961, 1965, 1979, 1974, and 1983.
burning  green wood residues on-site generate the most energy.
subsidies aimed at improving the environment are part of what is termed the green new deal.
chargeout! produces a break-even charge-out rate that will return any specified after-tax real rate of return over the economic life of the capital equipment.
the consumption and export of paper and paperboard are also projected to grow, but imports are projected to generally decline.
in 2005, the contribution to removals was 30 tg (million metric tons) c (carbon) and 31 tg c for the production and atmospheric flow approaches, respectively, and 44 tg c for the stock change approach.
author(s) spelter, henry year: 2003 view pdf »
a united states government ban on cca-treated sawnwood in residential applications goes into effect in 2004, leaving wood preservers to seek alternative wood preserving solutions.
abstract: while the economic crisis in late 2008 and early 2009 reduced the demand  for energy, as evidenced by a steep decline in the price of oil, government  policies to promote renewable energy sources have kept the wood energy market  strong.
title: investigation of shift in decay hazard  (scheffer) index values over the period 1969-2008 in the conterminous united  states publication: in: proceedings of the 106 annual meeting  of the american wood protection association, hyatt regency riverfront,  savannah, georgia may 23-25, 2010, volume 106, pp.
title: life cycle inventory of  manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in eastern us with  comparison to solid strip wood flooring publication: wood and  fiber science, volume 43, number 4, 2011, pp.
but, among our sample, board mills tended to do a little better than those tied mainly to framing/construction lumber, as did mills focused on treated wood, a market with stronger links to the more stable remodelling sector.
estimates are made through the end of the year 2007.
keywords: supply and demand, market surveys, united states, wooden-frame buildings, wooden buildings, forest products, statistics, economic analysis, wood construction, wood utilization
journal articles file size: 1,132 kb(s)
keywords: greenhouse gas, value chain
a monte-carlo simulation used to assess the effect of uncertainty in inputs suggests the 90 percent confidence interval for removal contribution estimates under the three approaches is within -23% to +19%.
(wwpa) implied a 68% u.s. utilization rate.
another shift occurring during 2005 is increased emphasis on wood energy use, which has shown wide fluctuations over the last decade into 2005.
lowering energy consumption would be of great benefit to the mills, and thus society, in reducing the environmental burden, especially in sawing and drying.
and the machine-rate methods.
primary mill data were collected per consortium on research for renewable industrial material (corrim) research guidelines (corrim 2001).
a number of new mills have been built to process chipped roundwood and have capacities three to four times as large.
wood pulp consumption in the  united states was also offset by increased paper recycling since the late  1980s.
journal  articles file size: 248 kb(s)
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory: [7] p. ; 27 cm.
st. paul, mn: university  of minnesota, department of forest resources. 88 pg.
united states production of structural panels totaled 28.5 billion square feet in 1997.
paper products industries investments declined from $10.2 to $5.3 billion between 1997 and 2004 but increased to $7.4 billion in 2006 (2005$).
category: research notes file size: 768 kb(s)
prodigious expansion  in wood energy demands could cause significant escalation in real u.s. timber  prices, but on the other hand, real u.s. timber stumpage prices are not  projected to increase without fairly substantial increases in wood energy  consumption.
however, according to the european panel federation (epf), real consumption taking into account particle board stock changes, was higher due to the recovery of markets in the second half of 1999.
title: high-resolution  solution-state nmr of unfractionated plant cell walls publication : in: proceedings of 15th international symposium on wood, fiber and  pulping chemistry.
abstract: global pulp, paper and board markets experienced an abrupt transition over the past year.
the method provides a starting point for meeting the aims of the ipcc good practice guidance.
75-79 2004 author(s) ince view pdf  » view publication information »
the success of many logging contractors depends on pulpwood markets.
category: journal articles file size: 381  kb(s)
date posted: 03/20/10
current and potential recovery estimates indicate that wood and wood fiber recycling technology could exploit a large resource base if efficient technology is developed to fully utilize this resource.
we indicate how these approaches would have to be modified for other predictor, strength, and load distributions.
abstract: this chapter explains recent trends in european, north american and russian paper and paperboard markets, along with trends in woodpulp and fibre markets.
this study was  undertaken to determine whether changing the geometry of a 152-mm-diameter disc  surface from that of a flat surface to one having a concave indentation would  improve the net cleaning due.
loss of cu and as was measured using x-ray fluorescence and correlated with various physical and chemical soil properties.
some relatively expensive nonplant fibers derived from mineral resources are also used in papermaking (e.g., synthetic plastic fibers) but very small quantities and only in some specialized paper or paperboard products.
marketing strategies evolved as pulp and paper producers of the unece region were faced with dual challenges of limited growth, or decline, in european and north american consumption and expanded global competition.
the paper recycling rate (utilization rate in producing new paper) increased from 22% to 38% between 1970 and 1996, but then stabilized at 37% to 38% between 1996 and 2006.
we considered thinning treatments designed to result in either evenaged or uneven-aged stand conditions.
title: trends affecting the domestic recovered paper industry publication: resource recycling, january 2003, pp.
author(s) ince, p. j. year: 1979 view pdf »
abstract: this long-range outlook derives from analysis of pulp and paper markets and pulpwood demands for wood panels.
this  report describes the structure of usfpm in detail and presents some examples of  results and conclusions about future trends in wood energy demands and u.s.  timber markets based on usfpm and gfpm projections.
abstract: the goal of this study was to gain an understanding of  the environmental impact of hardwood lumber production through a gate-to-gate  life-cycle inventory (lci) of hardwood sawmills in the southeastern united  states (se).
fasom, a spatial intertemporal optimization model, directly incorporates decisions on management investment and land use options relative to agricultural alternatives as endogenous model elements.
per capita consumption in 2004 increased to 71 ft3 per capita before increasing further in 2005 to 72 ft3 per capita.
these trends in supply, along with projected contributions from the north and west, imply u.s. consumption needs could be met without increasing net product imports and would not increase softwood timber prices over the next 50 years.
the contribution estimates were validated by adjusting the half-life of products in use in order to match independent estimates of carbon in housing in 2001 and annual wood and paper discards to solid-waste disposal sites (swds) during 1990 to 2001.
a softwood log mass conversion of 42.1% to planed dry lumber was found.
usfpm also adds more complete product detail in u.s. regions, by differentiating hardwood lumber and softwood lumber, osb structural panels and industrial particleboard, and hardwood and softwood plywood.
abstract: the unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2009-2010 provides general and statistical information on forest products markets and related policies in the un economic commission for europe region (europe, north america and the commonwealth of independent states).
in  particular, sustainable management of forests for products produces  substantially different impacts than a focus on a single stand or on specific  carbon pools with each contributing to different policy implications.
keywords: pulp, paper, paperboard, market trends, europe, north america date posted: 11/20/09 title: a strategic  assessment of forest biomass and fuel reduction treatments in western states publication: rmrs-gtr-149 author(s) bob rummer,  jeff prestemon,
year: 1998 view pdf » view publication information »
this was 50% faster than population growth and about two-thirds the growth rate of gdp.
conference proceedings file size: 739 kb(s) abstract: to assess  availability and sustainable use of forest biomass for the united states, we  suggest accepting the “brundtland report” (1) view of  sustainable development.
module d : life-cycle inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and north central united states by richard d. bergman and scott a. bowe.
category: not  classified file size: 2,174 kb(s)
abstract: overstocked small-diameter softwood timber in western us  forests has created a serious forest health and fire hazard, and the costs of  removing this material are high.
category: techlines abstract: the fuel treatment evaluator (fte) 3.0 is a web-based tool that simulates uneven-aged and even-aged silvicultural treatments on timberland in 12 western states.
volume 2, issue 3, 303-333; 2011 author(s) lippke,bruce; oneil, elaine; harrison, rob; skog, kenneth; gustavsson, leif; sathre, roger year: 2011 view pdf »
despite the substantial yearly variation, regression equations, with time (year) as the independent variable could be fit to the scheffer index data.
category: journal articles file size: 603 kb(s)
the corresponding number of mills slumped from 1,025 to 875 over the same time and from 1,322 recorded in 1995.
category: journal articles file size: 278 kb kb(s)
author(s) ince, p. j. year: 1993 view pdf »
keywords: wood fibers, pulping, fiber resources
if consumption continues to increase faster than  domestic harvest, then an increasing proportion of the environmental and  economic effects of our consumption will be felt in forests in other countries  that export products to the u.s. keywords: roundwood  consumption, roundwood harvest,per capita consumption, per capita harvest
2010, 44, 3999-4005; 2010 author(s) heath, linda s.; maltby, van; miner, reid; skog, kenneth e.;  smith, james e.; unwin, jay; upton, brad year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
plant and equipment, raw materials, wages, administration costs, and working capital are linked to provide cash flow tables and summary financial measures for profitability analysis.
given a tax credit, a 1,000-kw system could be operated profitably.
one of the major shifts occurring recently in the wood using industry is that both production and consumption of roundwood per capita have declined even though consumption of products per capita is increasing - due to increased paper recycling, increased imports, and increased processing efficiency.
the cycle of forest growth, death, and regeneration and the use of wood removed from the forest complicate efforts to understand and measure forest carbon pools and flows.
[statistical computing & statistical graphics newsletter].
keywords: sustainable development, timber harvest, and global deforestation.
publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-116):iv, 76 p. :
but these  features provide a means of predictable and programmable disposal not easily  achieved with other resources.
of this 628 million ft3, 70 percent was lumber, 17 percent particleboard and medium density fiberboard, 9 percent plywood and veneer, 3 percent insulation board, and 1 percent hardboard.
category: journal articles file size: 120 kb(s)
this study quantified the energy impact of reusing these two wood materials in new construction or remodeling.
u.s. billion-ton update: biomass for a bioenergy and bioproducts  industry.
ince, peter j. year: 1983 view pdf » view publication information »
pulpwood and chip supply issues also have a direct bearing on sawmill operations, not only due to the log availability but because the consistent sale and pricing of hardwood residue chips can be an integral part of their business.
abstract: party on or last hurrah?
if these trends continue, we will become increasingly dependent on forests outside the united states-making us less self-sufficient-in providing benefits from use of wood and paper.
in: proceedings of 15th international symposium on wood, fiber and pulping chemistry. 2009 june 15-18; oslo, norway: oslo, norway: congress-conference as, wwww.congrex.no.
abstract: a greenhouse gas and carbon accounting profile was developed for the u.s. forest products industry value chain for 1990 and 2004-2005 by examining net atmospheric fluxes of co2and other green housegases (ghgs)using a variety of methods and data sources.
publication: proceedings of the 2005 tappi engineering, environmental and pulping conference, 2005 august, philadelphia, pa.
abstract: total consumption of wood and paper  products and fuelwood in roundwood equivalents, increased between 1965 and 1988  from 13.2 to 18.9 billion cubic feet.
keywords: production, trade, prices, forest products, markets
dr. henry spelter from the usda, forest products laboratory has contributed to this chapter by analyzing trends for the different panel products in north america using as a frame of reference the concept of life cycle.
keywords: assembly, reliability, redundancy date posted: 09/07/10
following is a discussion of some engineered wood products along with a table showing the types (size and species) of timber used to produce these products.
year: 1987 view pdf » view publication information »
projections are based on are regional market model called ftmwest (fuel treatment market modelwest), which uses the method of price-endogenous linear programming to project annual market equilibria for softwood timber and wood products in the western united states from1997 to 2020.
abstract: we make use of cramer conditions together with the well-known local quadratic convergence of newton's method to establish the asymptotic closeness of k-step newton estimators to efficient likelihood estimators.
in 2004, they employed about 99,000 people and produced 172 million m3 (nominal) (73.0 × 109 bf) of lumber.
keywords: production; sustainability; consumption date posted: 05/16/11
title: modeling integrated biomass gasification business concepts publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper, fpl-rp-660, 2011 author(s) peter j. ince; edward m. (ted) bilek; mark a. dietenberger year: 2011 view pdf »
abstract: more than 160 million tons of waste wood were generated last year.
29-41; 2010 author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2010 view pdf »
however, analysis also suggests that forest sector markets could be disrupted by expansion in wood energy if much higher levels of wood energy consumption occur, or if projected recovery in housing demand and wood product output does not occur, or if more restrictive constraints or higher costs are imposed on wood residue utilization.
abstract: public and private research focused on wood utilization and product development in the united states is an important source of innovation required for sustaining the worldwide competitive position of the wood-based industry.
in the second half of 2008 and continuing into the first half of 2009, global paper and paperboard demand deteriorated rapidly as the financial crisis abruptly reduced consumer spending, international trade flows and industrial production.
investment in short-rotation hardwood fiber crops could play a larger role in the future, but that potential appears to depend on the u.s. trade outlook and future growth in pulp and paper demand.
it also compares the negotiated charge-out rate with the calculated break-even rate, incorporates inflation, accounts for depreciation, and automatically conducts a sensitivity analysis.
this  potentially rapid decline re-emphasizes the importance of performing power  calculations.
category: journal articles file size: 323 kb(s)
title: profile 2007: softwood sawmills in the united states and canada publication : profile 2007:
journal  articles file size: 440 kb(s)
category: journal articles file size: 2265 kb(s)
18-20; 2009 author(s) spelter, henry year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
category: journal articles file size: 453 kb kb(s)
2005): pages 16, 18.
title: environmental impact of manufacturing softwood lumber in northeastern and north central united states publication: wood and fiber science, 42(corrim special issue), 2010, pp.
category: general technical reports file size: 405 kb kb(s)
a biomax wood gasifier, a hot water boiler, and dry kiln were integrated as parts of a whole lumber drying system for a field test in southwestern united states.
in  addition to these market forces, government policies to promote renewable  energy continue to promote wood for energy.
that was on  the heels of a global energy crisis but just before full onset of the global  financial crisis later in the year.
they consumed 628 million cubic feet (ft3) of wood products, or 35 percent of all wood products used in manufacturing in 1977, according to the latest industry-wide survey (table 1) (mckeever and martens, 1983).
the rv estimates also tended to lead the direction of reported prices and were useful as leading indicators of reported market price directions.
currently, this wood the  basal area of yellow-cedar is dead on is primarily used for firewood.
global trends included a shift of  growth in paper and paperboard production from north america to europe and asia  over the past decade.
of all uses of solid sawn timbers, timber bridges have the least promising outlook.
general technical reports file size: 2.3 mb kb(s)
this trend was associated with generally slower growth in u.s. industrial production and displacement of growth in print media advertising expenditures by electronic media.
keywords: plywood manufacturing, nonwood costs, cost trends
nonetheless, recent fears by some that the outstanding economic environment that existed for lumber in 2004 is passé seem premature.
publication: springer, resource and market projections for forest policy development, isbn 978-1-4020-6308-4.
techniques and results of the timber assessment projection system models are compared to those of a more general global trade model, the global forest products model (gfpm).
69 pages author(s) verrill, steve p.; kretschmann, david e.; herian, victoria l. year: 2006 view pdf » view publication information »
the objective is to  combine two or more materials in such a way that a synergism between the  components results in a new material that is much better than the individual  components.
the results showed that while the usa, japan, and europe were predicted to remain major importers of forest products out to 2030, the rapid economic growth of china would make it the worlds largest market for raw wood and intermediate and final forest products.
abstract: this paper describes the current state of the u.s. economy and provides general and statistical information on forest products markets in terms of production, trade, consumption, and prices.
in the interim, supply-side factors such as weather and precipitation combine with business cycles on the demand side to determine short-run market behavior.
category: journal articles file size: 1365 kb(s)
machine-rate models cannot be configured to replicate chargeout!'s calculations.
keywords: log-sort yard; financial feasibility; small-diameter; economics; break-even analysis; .
the results of these estimations were incorporated into the north american pulp and paper model (napap).
maintaining revenues from forests  would require increased revenues from other sources including recreation,  environmental services, or new products such as biomass for energy.
abstract: furniture, fixtures and millwork manufacturers (chart-furniture industry groupings) are an important wood-using segment of u.s. manufacturing.
keywords: allowable properties, computer program, astm d1990, moisture adjustment, strength ratios, in-grade
author(s) li, xiaolei; buongiorno, joseph; ince, peter j. year: 2004 view pdf »
in the near future,  consumption of pulpwood in the emerging cellulosic biofuel industry is likely  to remain a small fraction of total u.s. pulpwood supply and demand, although  long-range future wood use for biofuel could be potentially quite large,  depending on future oil prices and technological developments.
investments in publically implemented projects were in the range of $110 to $120 million, while, by some estimates, investments in projects sponsored by private concerns exceeded $2.5 billion in the same year (ellefson and others 2010).
category: research in progress file size: 350 kb(s)
abstract: strategic identification and local placement of  fuel treatments are significant regional and local forest management problems  addressed by two tools developed by forest service research and development.
keywords: wisconsin street tree, na-fr-02-08, national forest health  monitoring program, tree assessment, tree size, ground cover, plot density, air  quality, land use, tree species
montreal, canada: international union of forest research organizations; 1990: pp.
abstract: the western governors' association assessment of biofuels potential in western states estimated the location and capacity of biofuels plants that could potentially be built for selected gasoline prices in 2015 using a mixed integer programming model.
two of these wood propellers were encased in polyethylene bags.
in the second half of 2008 and continuing  into the first half of 2009, global paper and paperboard demand deteriorated  rapidly as the financial crisis abruptly reduced consumer spending,  international trade flows and industrial production.
after changing to an in-use parameter, the two wood flooring products were similar in energy consumption during manufacturing, but engineered wood flooring still consumed significantly more fossil fuel.
category: journal articles file size: 562 kb(s)
a cubic meter of planed dry hardwood lumber stores 1.17 mg co2 equivalents as a final product.
emission data produced from modeling estimated biomass and fossil co2 production of 428 and 139 kg/m3, respectively.
author(s) mckeever, david b.; falk, robert h. year: 2004 view pdf »
in this report, the location and relative size of sawmills by state and province are described in maps and tables.
this paper reviews past and present demand estimates in the united states for forest resources, the methods used to develop these demand estimates, and their associated statistical reliability.
the target audience is financial professionals in the logging industry or equipment owners who have some background in engineering economics.
keywords: asymptotics; coef?cient of variation; ?
whether this is a subsidy in the sense of conferring a direct financial contribution by the government or merely a more efficient pricing mechanism is beclouded by the dearth of market-based transactions.
keywords: preservative treatment, pressure level, mechanical  properties, treatment quality, red pine, pinus resinosa
businesses in the nontimber forest products (ntfp) industry are generally small, exceptions exist, but most employ less than 10 people.
54-65 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1991 view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: inventory,  hardwood sawmills, northeastern region, united states title: strategic assessment of bioenergy development in the west publication: biomass resource assessment and supply analysis for  the wga region.
title: paper, paperboard and wood pulp markets, 2010-2011 chapter 8 publication : forest products annual market review, 2010-2011, united nations geneva, 2011.
by contrast, osb capacity has grown almost continuously and reached 23 million m3 (26 billion ft2) in 2006, on its way to about 26 million (29 billion ft2) by 2008.
each strategy also has trade-offs, risks, and uncertainties including possible leakage, permanence, disturbances, and climate change effects.
pub-fr-396; 2007 author(s) bowe, scott; molzahn, patrick; bond, brian; bergman, richard; mace, terry; hubbard, steve year: 2007 view pdf » view publication information »
category: conference proceedings file size: 359 kb(s)
71-84; 2012 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2012 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 818 kb(s)
annual wood products consumption is  dependent on many factors, including the number of new units started, the size  of units started, architectural characteristics, and consumer preferences.
can be sufficiently constrained so as to more-or-less replicate a machine rate calculation, doing so sacrifices much of chargeout!'s power and flexibility.
abstract: as of july 2005, the main stream of the softwood lumber industry in the u.s. and canada consisted of about 1,067sawmills.
red maple is characteristic of swampy sites, but it also thrives on drier locations.
policies to encourage programs or projects  that influence forest carbon sequestration and offset fossil fuel emissions  should also consider major items such as leakage, the cyclical nature of forest  growth and regrowth, and the extensive demand for and movement of forest  products globally, and other greenhouse gas effects, such as methane and  nitrous oxide emissions, and recognize other environmental benefits of forests,  such as biodiversity, nutrient management, and watershed protection.
another equally important aspect of monitoring world resources is increasing the extent, frequency, and reliability of systems to monitor present and future demands on the forest resource and how these demands impact the resource.
author(s) bergman, richard; ibach, rebecca e.; lapasha, constatine; denig, joseph year: 2009 view pdf » view publication  information »
category: journal articles file size: 1550 kb(s)
abstract: if america had canada's stumpage system, then there wouldn't be much of a dispute.
category: general technical reports file size: 309 kb(s)
keywords: yard trimmings, woody yard trimmings, wood waste, recycling, timber harvest, national forest
markets for sawn softwood in europe remain strong and nordic producers fared well in 2003, particularly sweden, whose sawnwood output neared record levels of 17 million m3, in spite of increased competition from russia and the baltic countries and due largely to increased marketing efforts in the united kingdom.
keywords: sustainable forest management, sustained mitigation benefit, carbon pools, ecosystem services, global carbon cycle,substitution, life cycle accounting, attributional lci,global warming potential, consequential lci, carbon offsets, date posted: 06/10/11
the purpose of this updating method is to bring each state-level estimate up to a common current year.
we compared solution uptake and penetration of boron and copper from a borax-copper (bc) preservative to that of boron in a disodium octaborate tetrahydrate (dot) treatment and copper in a chromated copper arsenate (cca) treatment.
keywords: termites, mississippi, heartwood, alaska, forest soils, biodegradation, soil biology, deterioration, callitropsis nootkatensis, decay, alaska cedar, resistance to decay, durability, field tests, stake tests, stakes title: economic potential of short-rotation woody crops on agricultural land for pulp fiber production in the united states.
woody crops might also be developed as feedstock for fuels or chemicals, but competitive development of hybrid poplars for such markets would require higher biomass feedstock values than current market values.
products, species and grades, and lamination costs may be changed over time to allow for changing resource requirements or availability and thereby provide flexibility in planning.
demand for sawn softwood in the increasingly important chinese market continues to grow, providing market opportunities for exporters of both sawnwood products and logs.
some woody residues are being recovered for recycling, composting, or other uses, but a large proportion is simply discarded.
title: a strategic assessment of biofuels development in the western states publication :
it, however, dropped its third shift in april 2003.
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy, consumption, production, imports, exports, forestry industry, forestry trade, forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent states, climate change, housing market, construction, timber, wood industry, pulp and paper industry, wood fuels, certification, wood products, tropical timber, forestry trade, sustainable forestry, sawnwood, sawn softwood, hardwood, lumber, wood-based panels, particle board, fiberboard, fibreboard, osb, mdf, plywood, paperboard, cardboard, woodpulp, pulpwood, sawlogs, pulplogs, roundwood, industrial roundwood, value-added, wood energy, bioenergy, biomass, fuelwood, certified forest products and carbon.
some of the tables show data that are derived from mathematical calculations and conversions from different units of measurement.
2008 author(s) green, david w.; gorman, thomas m.; evans, james w.; murphy, joseph f.; hatfield, cherilyn a. year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 207 kb(s)
because of the research community’s diversity, the exact magnitude of investment in wood utilization research is subject for much conjecture.
economic projections were developed by the author and others in the usda forest service.
cval was designed to evaluate exchange forestry offset (xfo) contracts on the chicago climate exchange (ccx), although the methodology ould be adapted for other trading mechanisms and agricultural sequestration projects.
title: material variability and repetitive member factors for the allowable properties of engineered wood products publication : journal of testing and evaluation, vol. 37, no. 6, pp.
title: repetitive member factors for the allowable properties of wood products publication : us forest service, forest products laboratory, research paper fpl-rp-657, 2010 author(s) verrill; steve p.; kretschmann; david e. year: 2010 view pdf »
overall economic growth has slowed, but sectors differ:  housing and related manufacturing sectors have held up relatively well while  general manufacturing has fallen into a recession.
businesses and consumers who are not familiar with life cycle analysis can use lca-based epds for comparison between competing products, much like using nutritional labels.
but some negative developments underscore the mature status of lumber as a commodity.
thinning to maintain an uneven-aged structure could be more controversial because it removes larger trees, although the revenue from such treatment covers harvest costs more frequently than does revenue from thinning to maintain an even-aged structure.
we propose methodology that takes into account differences in grade prices and the costs associated with misgrading.
all three concerns are associated with potential biases in microfibril angle estimates.
contaminant removal was slightly higher for the indented disc keywords: adhesives, angular velocity, impurities, kraft pulps,  power, recycling, rotating discs, rotational velocity, separation, stock  preparation, velocity measurment date  posted: 01/04/12
published on line:2010 author(s) ellefson, p.v.; kilgore, m.a.; skog, k.e.; risbrudt, c.d. year:
in contrast, chargeout!'s break-even rate returned exactly the specified return.
break-even analysis is incorporated to calculate the maximum amount that may be paid for laminations while still returning the required rate of return on invested capital to owners.
mckeever, david b.; skog, kenneth e. year: 2003 view pdf » view publication information »
hardwood chips enter the chip market from two principal sources: (1) chips produced from wood residue byproducts at sawmills and (2) chips produced from pulpwood roundwood, primarily from chip mills and to a small extent from in-woods chipping operations.
title: higher demand and production in 2004, but growth wavers in 2005 : markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2004-2005 publication: unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2004-2005.
the assessment area  covers forests on both public and private ownerships in the region and  describes all standing tree volume including stems, limbs, and tops.
forest products laboratory research paper author(s) verrill, steve; herian, victoria l.; green, david w. year: 2004 view pdf »
a softwood log mass  conversion of 42.1% to planed dry lumber was found.
abstract: the unece/fao  forest products annual market review, 2009-2010 provides general and  statistical information on forest products markets and related policies in the  un economic commission for europe region (europe, north america and the  commonwealth of independent states).
this rate has been stable  despite continuing increase in the recovery rate of paper in the 1990s though  2006 to 51% because increases in recovery after the mid 1990s have been  exported.
keywords: forest sector modeling, policy analysis, supply, demand, forests, forestry, econometric models, mathematical models, simulation methods, consumption, forecasting, forest products industry, forest products, marketing, economic aspects, market surveys, prices, economic forecasting
abstract: improving efficiency in the use of both wood and nonwood inputs has characterized the us forest sector over the last 50 years.
abstract: in  this article, we raise three technical concerns about evans′ 1999 appita journal ″variance approach″ to estimating microfibril  angle (mfa).
title: life-cycle inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and north central united states publication: lippke, bruce, jim wilson, leonard johnson, maureen puettmann. 2009.
consumption excluding fuelwood increased steadily between 1965 and 2006, from 12.3 to 18.8 billion cubic feet.
keywords: life cycle inventory, prefinished engineered wood, wood flooring,  environmental impact, carbon.
keywords: technology transfer, wood utilization research, knowledge diffusion,  technology transfer strategies title: managed  forest carbon estimates for the us greenhouse gas inventory, 1990-2008 publication: journal of forestry.
in each chapter, production, trade  and consumption are analysed and relevant material on specific markets is  included.
keywords: nonresidential construction, wood products consumption, value of new construction, lumber, structural panels, nonstructural panels, engineered wood products.
concurrently, some (i.e. cubbage and abt (1996)
wood consumption increased nearly 85 percent between 1960  and 1977, compared to an increase of 55 percent for all manufacturing over the  same period.
title: potential for expanding small diameter timber market : assessing use of wood posts in highway applications publication : gen. tech.
the projected effects of expansion in u.s.  and global wood energy consumption are to dampen growth in forest product  consumption (because of price impacts on demands) but also to provide greater  comparative advantages and enhanced net exports for u.s. producers of forest  products (because of price impacts on foreign producers).
abstract: using forests to mitigate climate change has gained much interest in science and policy discussions.
certifying wood products as green building materials is vital for  the long-term productivity of the wood building industry and for forest  management.
publication: forest products journal.
[san francisco, ca : miller freeman, inc., 1999].:10 p. :
in:  proceedings of the 55th western dry kiln association [held in] reno, nv.
2002 author(s) green, mcdonald, hennon, evans, stevens year: 2002 view pdf »
it also has a high aspect ratio, high strength-to-weight ratio, and has good insulation properties (sound, electrical, and thermal).
title: north america's wood pellet sector publication: fpl-rp-656, august 2009 (corrected september 2009) author(s) henry spelter; daniel toth year: 2009 view pdf »
abstract: the rpa timber assessment projects, over the next 50 years, the likelihood of increasing relative use of imported forest products versus u.s. roundwood harvest to meet u.s. consumption needs, although our projected consumption needs are now estimated to be lower than we projected in 1993.
the actual market values of wood and fiber resources are determined by shifting patterns of resource abundance and overall demand.
however,  after converting to an area (in-use) basis, unfinished engineered wood flooring  consumed 136 mj/m2 compared with 123 mj/m2 for unfinished solid strip flooring.
environmentally sound wooden facades with long service lives and  acceptable appearance are desired.
publication: staff paper series number 208.
abstract: in this article, we raise three technical concerns about evans′ 1999 appita journal ″variance approach″ to estimating microfibril angle (mfa).
graphs illustrate the major cost centers and cash flows.
title: life-cycle inventory of hardwood lumber
in 2000, approximately 14.5 million tons of urban tree and woody yard residues was generated, nearly 7% of total msw.
abstract: a statistical analysis was performed that identified time trends in the scheffer index value for 167 locations in the conterminous united states over the period 1969-2008.
unfinished solid strip flooring cumulative energy consumption was only 6.50 gj/m3 with 65% from biomass, roughly half that of unfinished engineered wood flooring.
modest rates of growth are occurring in the southern pine plywood, particleboard, and medium density fiberboard sectors.
keywords: hardwood chips market, u.s. north, u.s. south, chip exports
title: u.s. forest products  annual market review and prospects, 2007-2011 publication: usda  forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0326, 2011 author(s) james l. howard; david b. mckeever year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
since 1988, it has been about 20 billion cubic feet per year.
results so far found the amount of  gas heat produced from the wood chip-fed biomax 15 and 50 is 250,000 and  1,000,000 btus per hour respectively, while the hot water boiler provides  109,000 btus per hour for a 3,500 board foot dry kiln.
but there have been increases in the weight of oriented strandboard production and the value of furniture production.
publication: techlines author(s) skog, ken year: 2006 view pdf »
that is, given the manner in which allowable properties are currently calculated, as the coefficient of variation of the strength distribution of individual elements increases, the upward repetitive member adjustments (if any) of assemblies constructed from these elements should decrease.
that was on the heels of a global energy crisis but just before full onset of the global financial crisis later in the year.
recycling and wood residue use are key factors in productivity gains.
madison wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory. 25 pages.
increasing wood fuel use, a carbon-neutral process, would decrease the environmental impact of hardwood lumber manufacturing and increase its value as a green building material.
keywords: production, trade, prices title: urban tree and woody yard residues : another wood resource publication : res.
keywords: pulp and paper products; market outlook; production and demand shifts;  trade title: criterion 6, indicator 40:  distribution of revenues derived from forest management publication : usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note,  fpl-rn-0325, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; howard; james; westby;  rebecca year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
the projected higher imports relative to u.s. roundwood harvest is due in part to slower projected increase in available hardwood inventory and harvest in the south.
hardwood chips enter the chip market from two principal  sources: (1) chips produced from wood residue byproducts at sawmills and (2)  chips produced from pulpwood roundwood, primarily from chip mills and to a  small extent from in-woods chipping operations.
date posted: 01/27/12
in this study, we gathered information on the current use of posts, both wood and those made from other materials, used in highway applications.
logging industry investments were $0.9 billion in 1997 (2005$).
1902-1924; 2011 author(s) mckinley, duncan c.; ryan, michael g.; birdsey, richard a.; giardina, christian p.; harmon, mark e.; heath, linda s.; houghton, richard a.; jackson, robert b.; morrison, james f.; murray, brian c.; pataki, diane e.; skog, kenneth e. year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
category: journal articles file size: 135 kb kb(s)
lvii, no. 3 (2004): pages 33-39.
abstract: global trends in pulp, paper, and paperboard have deeply affected  u.s. pulpwood markets since the late 1990s.
keywords: production; sustainability; comsumption date posted: 02/21/11
after additional screening, 24 million acres were deemed eligible for treatment (14 million acres on federal lands).
13 p. 2009 author(s) skog, kenneth e.; rummer, robert; jenkins, brian; parker, nathan; tittman,  peter; hart, quinn; nelson, richard; gray, ed; schmidt, anneliese;  patton-mallory, marcia; gordan, gayle year: 2009 view  pdf » view publication information »
abstract: chargeout!, a discounted cash-flow methodology in spreadsheet format for analyzing machine costs, is compared with traditional machine-rate methodologies.
keywords: life cycle inventory, engineered wood  flooring, lci, carbon, prefinished date  posted: 11/16/11 title: forest biomass sustainability  and availability publication: in: chapter 1 in sustainable  production of fuels, chemicals, and fibers from forest biomass, acs symposium  series, volume 1067.
cval was constructed for foresters, other land management advisors, landowners, and carbon credit aggregators to evaluate the direct benefits and costs of entering into contracts for carbon sequestered in managed forests and forest plantations.
exports are, in some cases, a significant source of  value for regional and national economies.
40, no. 3 (2008): pages 448-458.
improved throughput (in principle, toward 50 samples per day) seems possible.
within the gfpm framework of  global forest product markets and trade, usfpm models aggregate u.s. forest  product demands and regional forest product production, timber harvest, and  timber stumpage markets in three u.s. subregions:
keywords: drying temperature; enzymatic; gray; interior; oxidative stain; soft maple date posted: 07/12/11
the second concern is associated with the  approximation of the natural variability of the microfibril angle by a function  of the icrofibril angle.
united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao).
ftm-west was designed specifically to account for economic complexities that stem from unconventional size distributions of trees and logs removed in thinning operations (compared with conventional timber supply in the west).
primary mill data was collected per  corrim research guidelines (corrim 2001).
mill closures and capacity reductions helped forestall what might otherwise have been a complete market rout for paper and paperboard commodities, but wood pulp and pulpwood prices all but collapsed.
keywords: paper consumption, paperboard consumption, woodpulp consumption, international markets, international trade
the estimated recovered wood utilization rate is highly uncertain, but is estimated to have increased from an insignificant amount in 1990 to 10% in 2006.
41 pages author(s) spelter, henry; mckeever, david; alderman, matthew year: 2006 view pdf »
chargeout!'s calculated rate will  provide a user-specified rate of return.
trends in wages for the pulp and paper industry have been increasing at the same pace as wages for all manufacturing while the trend in wages for solidwood industries has not kept pace.
abstract: this report is an informational report about four wood-based panel industries: particleboard, oriented strandboard, medium density fiberboard, and southern pine plywood.
although the surface-application approach used less monomer, the  physical properties of the juvenile wood did not increase as expected.
abstract: this report examines economic implications for sustainable forest management of globalization and related structural changes in the forest sector of the united states.
three drying  chambers were designed and constructed to control temperature and relative  humidity of maple test samples.
usfpm thus models all forms of wood biomass feedstock that could be used potentially for future energy production in the united states, including fuelwood harvest, other roundwood, mill residues, agricultural srwc, and logging residues.
cumulative allocated energy consumption for manufacturing 1.0 m3 planed dry lumber from 2.44 m3 of incoming logs was 5.86 gj/m3 with 66% from wood fuel.
nevertheless, the combined capacity of the remaining mills has increased by 16%, to over 173 million cubic meters.
the differences between chargeout!
title: efficacy of curtailment announcements as a predictor of lumber supply publication: forest products journal.
proceedings of the international conference and workshop; 1989 september 24-30; venice, italy.
average cu loss was approximately equal to or greater than as loss for specimens exposed to soil: for specimens leached in water, as loss was about twice that of cu loss.
year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
canadians acknowledge that canada has a competitive advantage in the way it prices timber, but claim it's not a subsidy.
the state of the united states economy is described as of the second quarter of 2003.
keywords: wood products consumption, new residential  construction, north american housing market, housing characteristics
keywords: fuel treatment, thinning, woody biomass, fuel treatment evaluator, web-based tool, silvicultural treatment, fire hazard
category: journal articles
keywords: ; production; consumption; timber products consumption; solid wood consumption; wood use; softwood lumber; hardwood lumber; structural panels; softwood plywood; oriented strandboard; osb; nonstructural panels; hardwood plywood; particleboard; medium-density fiberboard; mdf; hardboard; insulation board; construction; housing; new residential construction; single-family; multifamily; apartments; mobile homes; repair; remodeling; upkeep; improvements; expenditures; nonresidential construction; manufacturing; furniture; shipping; wooden containers; pallets date posted: 07/06/09
we raise these three concerns so that other researchers interested in understanding, implementing, or extending the variance approach or in comparing the approach to other methods of estimating mfa will be aware of them.
results so far found the amount of gas heat produced from the wood chip-fed biomax 15 and 50 is 250,000 and 1,000,000 btus per hour respectively, while the hot water boiler provides 109,000 btus per hour for a 3,500 board foot dry kiln.
rpa assessment update usda forest service.
title: consumption climbs in central and eastern countries, stagnates in the west : markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2003-2004
keywords: fuel treatment, evaluation tools, fuel treatment evaluator, fte, myftp
keywords: integrated, forest products, thermochemical, biorefinery
title: fuel to burn : economics of converting forest thinnings to energyusing biomax in southern oregon publication : gen. tech.
recently, it has become apparent how difficult it is to perform the calculations for such a submission.
consumption of mdf and osb set record levels.
1985 author(s) mckeever, david b.; burns, marvin; thomas, jerome year: 1985 view pdf »
category: general technical reports file size: 3.1 mb kb(s)
keywords: forest products, marketing, economic aspects, market surveys, fuel reduction, wildfire prevention, wildfires, prevention and control, fire prevention, fire management, statistics, prices, thinnings, fuel treatment model, ftm title: future market scenarios for pulpwood supply from agricultural short-rotation woody crops publication: third biennial conference : short-rotation woody crops operations working group : october 10-13, 2000, syracuse, new york.
abstract: this report provides general and statistical information on forests products markets in terms of production, trade, con-sumption, and prices.
because log scales have not been modified since to reflect changes in these factors, they are outdated and inadequately serve their purpose of accurately determining recoverable lumber volumes.
67 p. author(s) bergman, richard d. view pdf  » view publication information »
most pellets made in the united states are consumed domestically, but a growing offshore market is boosting exports.
the properties of wheat fibers can also be modified through physical and chemical technologies to improve performance of the final composite.
category: research notes file size: 849 kb(s)
in the process, they consumed about 280 million m3 (9.9 × 109 ft3) of timber.
keywords: life cycle inventory, prefinished engineered wood, wood flooring, environmental impact, carbon.
we provide an example of a sensitivity testing in a case where technology projections were made exogenously.
compare ranks investment alternatives according to the highest benefit cost ratio based on discounted energy values and cash flows.
that acreage generates about 10 to 16 million dry tons per year, depending on decade, and represents about 40 percent of current u.s. hardwood pulpwood output.
average lumber recovery factors varied from 267 bf/m3 (7.55 bf/ft3) for timber mills to 236 bf/m3 (6.6 bf/ft3) for specialty mills.
spatial information including feedstock resources, existing and potential refinery locations and a transportation network model is provided to a mixed integer-linear optimization model that determines the optimal locations, technology types and sizes of biorefineries to satisfy a maximum profit objective function applied across the biofuel supply and demand chain from site of feedstock production to the product fuel terminal.
371-375; 2011 author(s) ince, peter j.; mckeever,  david b. year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
a hypothetical even-aged thinning program ('thin-from-below' strategy) results in net negative market welfare over the projection period (2005-2020), while a hypothetical uneven-aged thinning program (thinning based on stand density index) results in positive net market welfare.
mills stopped growing at approximately 22 years of age.
7th annual statiscial analysis of the north american hardwood marketplace, memphis, tn: h.e. (gene) parker.
title: globalization and structural change in the u.s. forest sector: an evolving context for sustainable forest management publication : general technical report fpl-gtr-170.
the former is characterized by high elasticities of price transmission and, at times of market weakness, by low elasticities of product supply; the other, by the opposite of these benchmarks.
policy initiatives that address domestic markets and international trade concerns related to u.s. forest products are also discussed.
title: woody residues and solid waste wood available for recovery in the united states, 2002
another equally  important aspect of monitoring world resources is increasing the extent,  frequency, and reliability of systems to monitor present and future demands on  the forest resource and how these demands impact the resource.
category: journal articles file size: 267 kb(s)
the cash-flow  model computes measures of financial performance for incremental investment in  gasification business concepts, including net present value and internal rate  of return.
title: quantifying trade-offs between economic and ecological objectives in uneven-aged mixed-species forests in the southern united states publication: fpl-gtr-145 february 2004 author(s) buongiorno, schulte, skog year: 2004 view pdf » view publication information » category: general technical reports file size: 932 kb(s)
in addition, usfpm models potential future supplies of agricultural short-rotation woody crops (srwc) for energy and fiber, along with wood residue byproducts of sawmills and plywood mills, and the utilization of those materials in production of pulp, wood panels, and energy.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 2000-2003
we looked at markets where little or no machining would be required before use because this would make it more feasible to use small-diameter material.
large amounts of solid wood timber products are also used in the construction of new nonresidential buildings, and in the upkeep and improvement of existing structures.
keywords: coef?cient of variation; mckay's approximation; noncentral beta distribution date posted: 11/02/09
farm construction and nonbuilding construction, such as bridges, dams, and highways, were not included in this study.
chargeout!, a recently introduced discounted cash flow methodology is compared with seven machine rate methods using data representing a skidder.
keywords: production, consumption, import, export date posted: 10/22/09 title: profile 2009:
in the last four decades, increasing rigor in policy debates has stimulated the development of models to support policy analysis.
this has led mills to turn to roundwood or other non-sawmill sources of fiber.
its 2006 total of 426mmbf was down 12% from its previous year's total.
materials and energy consumed  during manufacture of building materials such as lumber affect a  building’s environmental performance.
in comparison, urban waste wood in the msw and c&d waste streams generated 63 million metric tons of waste wood, with 27 million metric tons remaining unused and deemed available for recovery.
title: paper recycling legislation and programs in the usa publication: proc united nations economic commission for europe timber committee workshop; 1998; pp.
author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 2003 view pdf »
estimates of methane emissions from wood and paper in landfills were also checked against independent estimates of total landfill methane emissions.
one such strategy is evident in the increased emphasis on the contributions of the pulp and paper industry to the green economy.
national-level u.s. forest products data published by trade associations and state and federal government organizations were used to estimate the roundwood equivalent of national roundwood products production.
scenarios were analyzed with usfpm/gfpm ranging from a baseline 48% increase to  a 173% increase in annual u.s. consumption of wood for energy from 2006 to  2030, while consumption of fuelwood in other countries was assumed to increase  by around 65% in aggregate.
because ∼60% of the carbon lost through deforestation and harvesting from 1700 to 1935 has not yet been recovered and because some strategies store carbon in forest products or use biomass energy, the biological potential for forest sector carbon mitigation is large.
keywords: life cycle inventory, lci, softwood lumber, northeast,  corrim, manufacturing, environmental impacts date  posted: 12/05/10
keywords: market growth, paper, paperboard, wood pulp, demand, production, demand, prices, consumption
title: cradle-to-gate life-cycle inventory of us  wood products production: corrim phase i and phase ii products publication: wood and fiber science, 42(corrim special issue), 2010,  pp.
title: wood supply and demand publication: in: mcgraw-hill yearbook of science & technology,  2011 pp.
keywords: integrated, forest products,  thermochemical, biorefinery
13 p. 2009 author(s) skog, kenneth e.; rummer, robert; jenkins, brian; parker, nathan; tittman, peter; hart, quinn; nelson, richard; gray, ed; schmidt, anneliese; patton-mallory, marcia; gordan, gayle year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information »
abstract: we identify confusion  in the literature about the definition and calculation of repetitive member  factors.
title: profile 2003: softwood sawmills in the united states and canada publication: res.
85 pages author(s) spelter, henry ; alderman, matthew year: 2005 view pdf » view publication information » category: research papers file size: 5.1 mb kb(s)
global warming potential was about 3 and 5 times greater, respectively.
proceedings, 1993 recycling symposium; 1993 february 28-march 1-4; new orleans, la.
one way to increase the value, and therefore the demand, for this material is to develop or expand markets where the material can be used.
certifying wood products as green building materials is vital for the long-term productivity of the wood building industry and for forest management.
forests as a whole provide vital ecosystem  services, as important atmospheric carbon sinks for example.
projections for the year 2006 are also presented.
abstract: the repair and remodeling of residential units in the existing housing stock is an important market for wood products.
keywords: life cycle inventory, lci, softwood lumber, northeast, corrim, manufacturing, environmental impacts date posted: 12/05/10
the program is then used to calculate material and energy requirements of the process, and to calculate related revenues and variable costs.
abstract: the north american wood pellet sector is profiled in this paper.
proceedings of the 2002 southern forest economics workshop, 2002 march 17-19 ... virginia beach, virginia.
58, no. 6 (june 2008):
currently, field serviceability issues that have been quantified are being combined with formerly developed kinetic degradation models to predict service-life of frt constructions.
results show that historically, the u.s. has increased its net imports and that the estimated harvest of roundwood overseas to make imports to the u.s. has increased faster than the estimated reductions in overseas harvest due to exports of u.s. products overseas.
scientists and supporting staff engaged by public research organizations was in the range of 900 to 1,000 in 2008.
abstract: usda forest service capital investment in management infrastructure was  $501 and $390 million (2005$) for 2005 and 2007, respectively.
life cycle environmental performance  of renewable materials in the context of building construction.
it receives double kudos for remaining the top producer, but also for being the one among the top 30 that cut back the most, thus doing its share to keep a badly oversupplied market balanced.
publication: unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2001-2002.
those currently in service in the middle east are experiencing performance problems as a consequence of wood shrinking during long-term storage at low equilibrium moisture content conditions prior to installation.
the estimated recovered wood utilization rate is highly uncertain, but  is estimated to have increased from an insignificant amount in 1990 to 10% in  2006.
these  production facilities represented 18.7% of total annual production in 2007.
life cycle environmental performance of renewable  materials in the context of building construction.
all three concerns are associated with potential biases in mfa estimates.
keywords: process simulation, modeling, plywood
pulpwood harvest in canada is projected to decrease with modest additional increases in paper recycling.
keywords: production, consumption, import, export title: u.s. timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics 1965-1999
publication : general technical report fpl-gtr-139.
title: impact of u.s. forest products consumption, imports, and exports on foreign timber harvests.
in 2000, just over 12 million tons of timber was harvested from national forests, compared to 14.5 million tons of urban tree and woody yard residues generated.
values of 608 mj/m3 of electrical and 5800 mj/m3 of thermal energy were determined for the manufacturing of planed dry hardwood lumber where mostly green wood residues were burned on-site for energy.
abstract: quantities of paper  and wood recovered for recycling in the united states were estimated for 1994,  based on production and end-use data.
staff paper series (university of minnesota.
keywords: measuring, wood, inexpensive, pallets date posted: 07/29/11
in the boreal region of eastern canada.
author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2002 view pdf »
forest carbon stocks in forests  supplying wood to the industry were found to be stable or increasing.
keywords: forest products research, research organizations, organization structure, conduct and performance, research institutes, management
compared with traditional machine-rate analysis publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, fpl-gtr-178, january 2009 author(s) bilek, e.m. (ted) year: 2009 view pdf »
title: criterion 6, indicator 32: exports as a share of wood and  wood products production and imports as a share of wood and wood products  production publication: usda forest service, forest products  laboratory, madison, wisconsin, fpl-rn-0318, 2010 author(s) howard; james l.; westby; rebecca; skog; kenneth e.
this article describes various categories of fiber resources used for pulp and paper products, factors influencing their utility and relative market values, and trends in fiber resource supply and demand.
the estimates included quantities recovered for recycling into new paper and paperboard products, exports of recov-ered paper, and quantities of paper and wood materials recovered and recycled into other products, including cellulose insulation, molded pulp products, fiberboard products, wooden pallets, animal bedding, mulch, particleboard, hardboard, reclaimed lumber, flooring, roof systems, siding, plastic lumber, and other composite products.
title: u.s. forest products annual market review and prospects, 1999-2000 publication : fpl-rn-0278 12/00 author(s) howard, james
at optimum operating condtions, a net cleaning due of $129/metric ton was obtained for a flat disc, compared to a measured $l25/meuic ton for the indented disc.
general technical reports file size: 262 kb kb(s)
abstract: located in 23 countries, 40 forest-products research and development organizations outside the united states were reviewed in 2004 and 2005.
publication: silva fennica 35(3): 265-276.
category: journal articles file size: 125 kb kb(s)
category: research notes file size: 2.5 mb kb(s)
the three commonly used measurement rules generally underestimate true recoveries.
the theoretical structure is that of spatial equilibrium modeling under competitive market assumptions.
management and harvesting of softwoods in the northeast-north central regions  required a greater amount of energy attributable to higherintensity management  scenarios.
this paper looks at historical contributions of the national forests to the region's timber supply and at contemporary prospects for supply in the context of the recently developed national fire plan.
author(s) howard, james l. year: 2001 view pdf »
oxford : elsevier academic press, 2004: pages 877-883.
this level of short-rotation woody crop production reduces the timber management intensity of u.s. forests and promotes migration of some existing timberland into agricultural production.
to develop these confidence bounds and test, we first establish that estimators based on newton steps from n-consistent estimators may be used in place of efficient solutions of the likelihood equations in likelihood ratio, wald, and rao tests.
we report analytic calculations and simulations that  suggest that the order of such adjustments should be reversed, that is, given  the manner in which allowable properties are currently calculated, as the  coefficient of variation of the strength distribution of individual elements  increases, the upward repetitive member adjustments (if any) of assemblies  constructed from these elements should decrease.
keywords: faustmann formula, outcome-based performance, forest managers
title: criterion 6, indicator 36: employment in the forest sector publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0322, 2011 author(s) skog, ken; howard, james; westby, rebecca; alexander, susan m.; bergstrom, john; cordell, ken; hill, elizabeth year: 2011 view pdf »
category: general technical reports file size: 295 kb kb(s)
abstract: a decline and mortality problem is affecting yellow-cedar trees on more than a half-million acres in southeast alaskahalf-million acres in southeast alaska.
in this paper, we discuss the latest version of a curve-fitting toll that permits us to reduce the time required to evaluate mfa x-ray diffraction patterns.
according to a company source the 385mmbf output would have been even greater but for some downtime taken during the year.
revenues to landowners from stumpage sales in  1997 were $22 billion (2005$) of which 5% went to national forests, 6% went to  other public lands, 33% went to industry land owners, and 56% went to other  private landowners.
title: evaluation of a value prior to pulping-thermomechanical pulp business concept: part 2 publication : tappi journal, may 2011, pp.
if there are ecological limitations on basal area that is allowed to be removed and there is a need to obtain a certain amount of merchantable wood volume to help cover costs, then uneven-aged treatments appear more likely to achieve one of our hazard reduction targets.
abstract: for many countries, international trade is a significant factor in  commercial use of forests.
the effects of forest  management, harvesting, and processing wood in the united states would be  shifted to forests and industries in other countries.
within the unece region, annual growth in consumption of paper and paperboard halved within the cis subregion (from 12.9% in 2003 to 6.5% in 2004), while growth rebounded in north america (from -0.7% to 4.5%).
to experienced administrators, conditions necessary for a successful research enterprise focused on wood utilization and product development include clarity in purpose and well-defined client groups, effective governing boards and advisory committees, visionary and enthusiastic administrators, talented and risk taking scientists, satisfied research clients and customers, and research contributions that add to the scientific foundation considered necessary to enhance the efficient use of wood.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory. 5 pages.
this sessment will assist the governors individually and collectively as they develop bioenergy policies.
at current bedding values, use for particleboard appears a less favorable alternative.
abstract: leaching of wood preservatives affects the long-term efficacy and environmental impact of treated wood.
major ghg emission sources include direct and  indirect (from purchased electricity generation) emissions from manufacturing  and methane emissions from landfilled products.
seattle, wa : corrim, 2008.
title: dynamics of the hardwood chip market publication: hardwood market report.
our study followed the life cycle inventory approach for prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern us and compared the results with those of solid strip wood flooring.
module c : life-cycle inventory of softwood lumber manufacturing in the northeastern and north central united states by richard d. bergman and scott a. bowe.
2010 author(s) bergman,  richard d.; simpson, william t.; turk, christopher year: 2010 view pdf » view publication information »
however, this could be overcome by large-volume, long-term contractual arrangements that provide a secure long-term outlet for excess adbf fiber that may otherwise not have value.
keywords: small scale lumber drying, gasification, biomax date posted: 07/15/10
basis, of structural panels, 76 million square feet, 3/8-in. basis of nonstructural panels, 49 million linear feet of wood i-joists, and nearly 3 million cubic feet of structural composite lumber were used to construct 82,000 new buildings or additions, and in the alterations and renovations of numerous existing buildings.
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory. 21 pages.
many and varied repair and remodeling activities and projects are undertaken annually.
view excel - worksheet » view zip - publication and excel worksheet » view publication information »
title: an inverse moisture diffusion algorithm for the determination of diffusion coefficient publication :
mechanization  is frequently necessary to perform cost-effective and safe operations.
year: 2010 view pdf »
abstract: land-use change and forestry is the major category featuring carbon sequestration in the annual us greenhouse gas inventory, required by the united nations framework convention on climate change.
title: dynamics of the hardwood chip market publication: hardwood market report.
overall, the construction of new buildings and their upkeep and improvement are the largest market for structural panels in the united states.
title: life cycle impacts of forest  management and wood utilization on carbon mitigation: known and unknowns publication: carbon management (2011)
but the reality is there are
modeling data estimated biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 428 kg per m3 and 139 kg per m3 , respectively.
title: high-resolution solution-state nmr of unfractionated plant cell walls publication :
abstract: the use of recovered paper has an influence on the amount of timber harvested as well as the feasibility of expanded recycling programs.
category: journal articles title: projecting recovered paper supply in the united states.
new data from a sample of western u.s. mills show that nonwood manufacturing costs have decreased since the 1983 apa estimates.
category: research in progress file size: 187 kb(s)
the slowdown in the overall u.s. economy offset domestic demand for paper and paperboard and compounded the trade effects of the strong dollar.
keywords: production; sustainability; consumption date posted: 05/16/11
net transfers were higher in 2005 primarily because additions to carbon stored in forest products were less in 2005.
given what we know about inventories and growth rates, what are the prospects for supplies to meet the needs of the southern pine industry?
in june of 2006, the international council of forest and paper associations announced the signing of an agreement by its global member companies on sustainability.
volumes include allowances for onsite waste and loss.
however, policies aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere could loom as bigger factors in the future.
abstract: this two-part analysis of the most feasible and effective urxwhv ior the pulp and paper and forest products industry to add energy, biofuels and biobased chemicals to wkhlu hxsting product streams was conducted by the american forest & paper association's agenda 2020 technology alliance.
tables and graphs provided throughout the text present summary information.
the bioenergy  assessment team was formed to xamine the potential for future development and  to create a comprehensive framework to assess environmental, technical and  socioeconomic impacts associated ith national, state and regional bioenergy and  biomass management policies.
abstract: u.s. papermakers should have plenty of available fiber due to expanding production, better forest management, and new production technology.
after changing to an in-use parameter, the two wood flooring products were  similar in energy consumption during manufacturing, but engineered wood  flooring still consumed significantly more fossil fuel.
keywords: nonresidential  construction, wood products consumption, value of new construction, lumber,  structural panels, nonstructural panels, engineered wood products.
abstract: the  lake states region of minnesota, wisconsin and michigan offers significant  potential for bioenergy production.
manufacturing in the southeastern united states publication : lippke, bruce, jim wilson, leonard johnson, maureen puettmann. 2009.
title: it's rose burg publication: timber processing, vol.
while growth in demand was quite robust in 2004, by the end of the first half of 2005, markets appeared more hesitant and prices appeared to waver or reach a plateau.
comparison of various price reports from public and private agencies in the west showed that forest service prices were substantially lower than those recorded by other agencies and rv calculations.
government policy measures enacted to  counter economic recessions often include funding to improve energy  independence from fossil fuels.
title: cradle-to-gate life-cycle inventory of us wood products production: corrim phase i and phase ii products publication: wood and fiber science, 42(corrim special issue), 2010, pp.
keywords: hazardous fuel reduction, simulation, fia data, biomass utilization, harvesting costs, western states
12 p. 2009 author(s) adair, craig; mckeever, david b.
the american statician, november 2005, vol. 59, no. 4, pp.
title: criterion 6, indicator 33: recovery or recycling of forest products as a percentage of total forest products consumption publication: usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note, fpl-rn-0321, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; howard; james; westby; rebecca year: 2011 view pdf »
now, post election in a maturing recovery, it's less clear cut.
1-47; 2011 author(s) bergman, richard d.;  bowe, scott a. year: 2011 view pdf » view  publication information »
in 2004-2005, a review of forest products and related research organizations beyond the boundaries of the united states was carried out.
keywords: sawmills, industrial capacity, statistics, softwoods, economic aspects
waste wood from other lesser sources and debris from catastrophic natural events, which may be disposed of outside the primary waste streams, are not included in this report.
overall net transfers to the atmosphere totaled 91.8 and 103.5 tgco2-eq.
there has been general support for the benefits of sustainably managing forests for carbon mitigation as expressed by the intergovernmental panel on climate change in 2007.
title: rate of convergence of k-step newton estimators to efficient likelihood estimators publication : statistics & probability letters.
but there have been increases in the weight of oriented  strandboard production and the value of furniture production.
keywords: real prices, natural resources, economic demand, stumpage, sawlogs, pulpwood, veneer logs, plywood, lumber date posted: 02/09/10
this study adds to the available literature on solid sawn timbers by compiling data on timber production and uses.
publication: research note fpl-rn-0305.
the role of wood has greatly diminished at navsta norfolk over the past 50 years.
abstract: with green building  concepts becoming widespread in the construction field, building practices and  materials are being examined for their environmental impact.
differences between the results calculated by the machine-rate methods occur because of different implicit assumptions used within the models' formus, largely because the machine-rate models are unable to properly incorporate the time value of money.
trends in foreign trade are also covered.
abstract: in 2002, the usda  forest service completed the fifth nationwide assessment of timber resource  demand and supply, as mandated periodically by the resources planning act (rpa)  (2).
however, there are many integrated carbon pools involved, which have led to conflicting implications for best practices and policy.
we examine the sustainability of regional forest biomass use in the context of existing thermal heating, electricity,and biofuels production,projected resource needs over the next decade including existing forest product market demand, and impacts on price and feasibility.
abstract: global pulp, paper and  board markets experienced an abrupt transition over the past year.
category: journal articles file size: 800 kb kb(s)
global natural resource  monitoring and assessments: preparing for the 21st century:
during the 1990's, the u.s. trade deficit widened, implying an increasing u.s. impact on timber harvests in foreign supply regions.
availability and pricing of timber and logs can be impacted by positive or negative factors surrounding the pulpwood and chip supply.
[literature citations added].
their downturn has caused demand to lag substantially behind the capacity that was built up to supply the prior boom.
the net impact of these trends was a contraction of growth in u.s.  pulpwood demand and generally declining real prices for pulpwood since the late  1990s.
imports may either supplement or be a substitute for production from domestic sources.
author(s) howard, james l.
usda forest service 5th rpa timber assessment.
abstract: the lack of data about employment in a number of categories  indicates that we do not have full understanding of employment associated with  forestry.
journal  articles file size: 403 kb(s)
accurate  and precise life-cycle inventory data on wood products are needed to meet this  demand.
after its primary use, a growing percentage of  this paper and paperboard is recovered and recycled.
its rapid growth leads to maturity within about 80 years.
abstract: prompted by continuing concern that timber-based commodities are becoming increasingly scarce, this paper presents information on changes in real prices (prices deflated by the general producer price index) of timber commodities as potential indicators of economic scarcity.
abstract: a pilot study to assess the structure, function, and health of wisconsin's street trees was initiated in 2002.
the next step is to estimate what is recoverable.
preparing for the 21st century:
this section shows the relation of that outline to the approaches and estimation methods to be presented in this appendix.
author(s) ince year: 2003 view pdf »
maintaining revenues from forests would require increased revenues from other sources including recreation, environmental services, or new products such as biomass for energy.
publication: unece/fao forest products annual market review, 2007-2008, pp.
keywords: pulpwood, short-rotation forestry, market scenarios, supply, models
this recent downturn was associated with a recession in u.s. industrial output from 2000 through 2001.
keywords: climatic change, forest products, environmental aspects, wood products, greenhouse gases, plant biomass, carbon content, carbon sequestration, measurement, monte carlo method, uncertainty, waste disposal sites, woodcarb ii
the mill's output of 433 mmbf exceeded its previous year's total by almost 50 mmbf.
year: 1987 view pdf »
category: journal articles title: faustmann and the forestry tradition of outcome-based performance measures publication: proceedings of the international symposium : 150 years of the faustmann formula: its consequences for forestry and economics in the past, present, and future, october 3-6, 1999, darmstadt, germany.
author(s) mckeever, david year: 2003 view pdf »
author(s) howard, james l. year: 2007 view pdf »
this paper illustrates and describes the software programs of venval and its use in lp for softwood plywood mill operations.
title: pulp & paper markets cope with high energy prices and growth in asia : markets for paper, paperboard and woodpulp, 2005-2006 publication:
title: u.s. wood fiber demand and supply outlook: the 5th rpa timber assessment publication: usda forest service 5th rpa timber assessment.
wood-based panels consumption in the russian federation.
1-9; 2009 author(s) verrill, steve; kretschmann, david e.; year: 2009 view pdf » view publication information » category: journal articles file size: 309 kb(s)
the third concern is associated with the fact that the variance approach was  not designed to handle tilt in the fiber orientation.
abstract: using sustainable building materials is gaining a significant presence in the us.
this paper provides an overview of  the methods and results from analysis of the concept as a hypothetical business  investment at a pulp and paper mill equipped for making thermomechanical pulp  (tmp).
category: research papers file size: 300 kb kb(s)
p. author(s) mckeever, david b. year: 2010 view pdf »
increased capital should mean more sophisticated capital costing methodologies.
the tnaa system of static, spatial equilibrium models has been applied to make so-year projections of the u.s. forest sector for more than 20 years.
keywords: manufacturing, end use demand, wood  products consumption, furniture & fixtures, lumber, structural panels,  nonstructural panels
the differences between the results  calculated by the machine rate methods occur because of different implicit  assumptions used within the models' formulas.
the table presents detailed information and projections for 2001.
keywords: forest biorefinery model; economic  feasibility; biomass gasification; biofuels date  posted: 10/17/11
category: journal articles file size: 455 kb(s)
geneva timber and forest study paper 27, pp 85-97;  chapter 9 author(s) aguilar, francisco; gaston, christopher;  hartkamp, rens; mabee, warren; skog, kenneth year: 2011 view pdf » view publication information »
not included are the amounts of wood used for facilitation (concrete forms, shoring, etc.) and millwork.
net transfers were higher in 2005 primarily  because additions to carbon stored in forest products were less in 2005.
this work should serve as a ready reference and review for anyone unfamiliar with the estimation procedure.
oak ridge  national laboratory, oak ridge, tn.
biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 187 and 65.1 kg/m3, respectively, were estimated.
title: grading and properties of small-diameter douglas-fir and ponderosa pine tapered logs publication: forest prod.
title: u.s. timber production, trade, consumption, and price statistics 1965-1997
title: challenges in converting among log scaling methods.
abstract: this chapter discusses economic globalization and world trade in relation to forest sector modeling for the us/north american region.
keywords: integrated,  forest products, thermochemical, biorefinery title: adding biofuel/bioproduct capacity to existing u.s. mills part 2:
title: ict and the paperboard and packaging industry
research paper fpl-rp-644.
j. 33(9):45-49 author(s) spelter, henry year: 1983
abstract: environmental impacts associated with the building  industry have become of increasing importance.
category: research papers file size: 811 kb kb(s)
nearly all new single-family houses and low-rise multifamily residential structures are wood framed and sheathed.
data updating previous studies are shown for sawlog stumpage, delivered sawlogs, and lumber; pulpwood stumpage, delivered pulpwood, and woodpulp; and delivered veneer logs and plywood.
there has been a decline in jobs in the u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, but jobs in state forestry agencies are steady to increasing.
author(s) spelter, henry.
author(s) howard, james l.; skog, ken; ince, peter j. year: 2002 view pdf »
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory; 1983.
imports are an increasing part of supply, with brazil, chile, and canada supplying growing amounts of plywood while brazil and europe augment major import flows of osb from canada.
the paper recycling rate (utilization rate  in producing new paper) increased from 22% to 38% between 1970 and 1996, but  then stabilized at 37% to 38% between 1996 and 2006.
life-cycle impact assessment was beyond the scope of this study.
approximate approaches were found to perform less well than the exact approach for large coefficients of variation and small sample sizes.
year-to-year variation in  index values was found to be larger than year-to-year variation in most other  weather parameters.
market developments are described for sawn softwood, sawn hardwood, softwood log trade, wood-based panels, paper and paperboard, fuelwood, and forest products prices.
baton rouge, la: louisiana state univ.; 1991: pp.
while public forest managers are unlikely to adopt performance measures based on forest equity value, an understanding of this concept may help shape the future direction of public forest management.
keywords: noncentral t, noise to signal ratio, variability, coefficient of variation, confidence bounds, normal, lognormal title: estimating the board foot to cubic foot ratio publication: res.
comparisons showed that f2m prices are generally higher than tms prices for both stumpage and delivered timber.
new residential construction continues to be the leading market for solid softwood products in the united states and second only to residential repair and remodeling in canada.
journal articles file size: 2196 kb(s)
madison, wi: u.s. department of agriculture, forest service, forest products laboratory: 65 pages author(s) spelter, henry; mckeever, david; alderman, matthew year: 2007 view pdf »
thirty administrators of the 40 organizations reviewed willingly provided commentaries.
author(s) verrill, steve year: 2007 view pdf »
the highly regarded independent producer seneca sawmill in eugene, ore. came in second.
state forestry program expenditures for 1998, 2002, and 2004 were $2.0  to $2.2 billion (2005$).
the current status and trends of the u.s. pulpwood market contrast  sharply to decades prior to the 1990s, when growth in u.s. pulpwood demand was  more robust.
the 167 locations were segregated into ten climate groupings (termed ″regions″) based on annual precipitation and number of fahrenheit heating degree days.
if these trends continue, we will become increasingly dependent  on forests outside the united states-making us less self-sufficient-in  providing benefits from use of wood and paper.
this market has become much more  important in recent years as housing stocks have grown larger and older, and as  homeowner incomes have risen.
a smaller coefficient for mould coverage in the beginning of the exposure period gave the panels with one of the coating systems, bap, a delay in mould growth, and the extrapolated values for years 6-12 indicate a longer aesthetic service life than panels with the two other coating systems.
author(s) spelter, henry year: 1991 view pdf »
rapid expansion of chinese pulp and paper production  capacity is having a huge impact on paper and paperboard markets, and on global  competition for wood, recovered paper, and pulp.
title: composites as a way to add value to the timber resources publication:
category: journal articles file size: 474 kb(s)
in order to obtain a better understanding of how such organizations are structured and administered, and how they judge organizational performance, a review of forest products and related research organizations beyond the boundaries of the united states was undertaken in 2004-2005.
however, under this scenario, the adequacy of timber supplies depends on 1) continued expansion of softwood plantations with increased management intensity in the south, 2) moderation of hardwood use in the south, and 3) continued improvement in technology both to grow trees and to obtain more wood and paper product output per unit of timber input.
living yellow-cedar trees are sometimes infected with 'black  sult of naturally induced forest decline stain,' which remains in the trees  after they die.
this study is a follow-up to the corrim report module g-life-cycle inventory of solid strip hardwood
keywords: drying  temperature; enzymatic; gray; interior; oxidative stain; soft maple date posted: 07/12/11
this paper presents results of a deconstruction industry survey following consortium for research on renewable industrial materials research guidelines.
computer applications in sustainable forest management : including perspectives on collaboration and integration.
phase ii research report.
this confusion casts some doubt on the validity of the 1.15 repetitive  member factor permitted in astm d 245 and astm d 1990.
title: u.s. hardwood fiber demand and supply situation : globalization and structural change
it includes detailed discussion of paper and paperboard trends.
black stain does not reduce the flexural (11).
title: forestry implications of agricultural short-rotation woody crops in the usa publication: forest policy for private forestry : global and regional challenges.
category: general technical reports file size: 2.2 mb kb(s)
we describe how the model was tested and calibrated and then provide examples of applications.
abstract: this paper addresses the economics of forest fuel thinning programs on federal lands in the u.s. west, and presents a model of regional timber and product market impacts.
the analysis projects modest increases in pulpwood demand beyond 2010, with decelerating growth in paper and paperboard consumption; increased demand for pulpwood in wood panels; increased imports of pulp, paper, and paperboard; and little additional growth in paper recovery for recycling.
a web-based tool-fuel treatment evaluator 3.0-is used to select high-fi re-hazard timberland plots from the forest service forest inventory and analysis program (fia) database and provide results of simulated thinning treatments.
in 1990 and  2005, respectively, although the difference between these net transfers may not  be statistically significant.
category: journal articles file size: 388 kb kb(s)
title: criterion 6, indicator 37: average wage rates, annual average income, and  annual injury rates in major forest employment categories publication : usda forest service, forest products laboratory, research note,  fpl-rn-0323, 2011 author(s) skog; ken; alexander; susan;  bergstrom; john; cordell; ken; hill; elizabeth; howard; james; westby; rebecca year: 2011 view pdf » view publication  information »
2010, 44, 3999-4005; 2010 author(s) heath, linda s.; maltby, van; miner, reid; skog, kenneth e.; smith, james e.; unwin, jay; upton, brad year: 2010 view pdf »
the  assessment included long-range projections of pulp, paper, and paperboard  production, consumption, and trade, with regional analysis of wood-fiber use,  paper recovery for recycling, and projections of pulpwood demand and supply.
this study quantified the energy impact of reusing  these two wood materials in new construction or remodeling.
view publication information » category: journal articles title: red and silver maples : resource availability, utilization, and costs publication: undervalued hardwoods for engineered materials and components.
so this year we cast a wider net but, in the end, 149 out of the 200 mills appearing on the top 200 list, and 48 out of the top 50, volunteered their numbers.
over  this same period, energy-related manufacturing emissions decreased by almost 9%  even though forest products output increased by approximately 15%.
some firms in the industry are vertically integrated, being both primary paper or paperboard producers and secondary converters.
leaching was greater from specimens with higher initial as and cu retentions.
keywords: forest products markets, wood markets, market analysis, forest policy,  consumption, production, imports, exports,forestry industry, forestry trade,  forestry statistics, europe, north america, commonwealth of independent  states,climate change, housing market, construction, timber, wood industry,  pulp and paper industry, wood fuels, certification,wood products, tropical  timber, forestry trade, sustainable forestry, sawnwood, sawn softwood, sawn  hardwood, lumber,wood-based panels, particle board, particleboard, fiberboard,  fibreboard, osb, mdf, plywood, paperboard, cardboard,woodpulp, pulpwood,  sawlogs, pulplogs, roundwood, industrial roundwood, wood energy, bioenergy,  biomass, fuelwood,certified forest products, furniture, builders joinery,  carpentry, wood profiles, engineered wood products, ewp, redd and carbon.
1-47; 2011 author(s) bergman, richard d.; bowe, scott a. year: 2011 view pdf »
keywords: timber products consumption, wood use, construction, housing, new residential construction, repair, remodeling, upkeep, improvements, expenditures, nonresidential construction, manufacturing, furniture, shipping, wooden containers, pallets.
over 5 years, however, the negative and positive deviations largely offset each other, resulting in roughly the same average price levels, at least compared with tms.
category: research notes file size: 383 kb(s)
abstract: using  sustainable building materials is gaining a significant presence in the united  states therefore proving sustainability claims are becoming increasingly more  important.
nearly all new houses are built principally with wood.
5th rpa timber assessment.
seattle, wa: northwest policy center; 1989: 55-62 author(s) skog, kenneth e.
however, after converting to an area (in-use) basis, unfinished engineered wood flooring consumed 136 mj/m2 compared with 123 mj/m2 for unfinished solid strip flooring.
keywords: softwoods, statistics, economic aspects, sawmills, united states, industrial capacity, forest products industry
abstract: in february 2008, the western governors' association adopted a policy reaffirming the governors' strong commitment to enhance and diversify the region's transportation fuels portfolio.
keywords: spruce-pine-fir, treatability, preservative, boron, copper, dot, cca title: u.s. fiber supply : steady and secure
in north america, market conditions for sawn softwood are booming, fuelled by a robust housing sector; however, the ongoing trade dispute between the united states and canada is dampening this generally positive outlook.
while the economic crisis in late 2008 and early 2009 reduced the demand for energy, as evidenced by a steep decline in the price of oil, government policies to promote renewable energy sources have kept the wood energy market strong.
keywords: sawmills, industrial capacity, softwoods, statistics, forest products industry, economic aspects
this would have represented an additional 9.5 million m3 (10.7 billion ft2) of structural panel consumption in 2003.
some of the tables show data that were derived from mathematical calculations, and some show conversions from different units of measurement.
hardwood pulpwood harvest on forest land is projected to increase for several decades but then decline in the long run with increasing fiber supply from agricultural short-rotation woody crops.
wood consumption increased nearly 85 percent between 1960 and 1977, compared to an increase of 55 percent for all manufacturing over the same period.
wrapping the wood propellers prior to shipping would slow moisture desorption, thereby minimizing shrinkage during short-term storage.
emission data produced through modeling estimated total biomass and fossil carbon dioxide production of 424 and 131 kg/m3, respectively, considering all impacts.
conference proceedings file size: 359 kb(s)
abstract: a review of market history shows that southern pine sawtimber stumpage prices have increased by over 150 percent in this decade (timber mart south).
the downturn was most  severe for graphic papers and significant also for packaging paper and board,  while tissue and sanitary paper markets were only modestly affected.
this year the hampton mill in willamina, ore. came out on top.
volume of roundwood harvest has  increased in the south but declined in other regions although value of  shipments for wood and paper products (excluding furniture) has declined in all  regions.
keywords: wood products  consumption, alterations, improvements, repair, remodeling, north american  housing market
however,less is likely available due to localized environmental and forest cover type constraints, and land owner willingness to harvest timber.
the analysis also considered projected growth and expansion  of forest plantations, such as pine plantations in the south, the market  potential for agricultural fiber crops, and projected pulpwood demand for wood  panel products such as oriented strandboard.
it is hard to generalize
these guidelines allow use of several accounting approaches when reporting the contribution of harvested wood products (hwp) under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
abstract: this review on research on life cycle carbon accounting examines the complexities in accounting for carbon emissions given the many different ways that wood is used.
title: fuels for schools: case study in darby, montana publication: general technical report fpl-gtr-173.
keywords: pulpwood, hardwood chips, market trends title: flexural properties of salvaged deadyellow-cedar from southeast alaska publication: forest prod.
(sometimes this ratio is multiplied by 100 and reported as a percentage.)
10 (2004): pages 3-19.
title: the top 200! :
keywords: woodpulp capacity, pulp mills, capacity trends, geographic distribution.
the model included information on forest biomass supply curves by county (developed using forest service fia data), agricultural biomass supply curves, transportation networks, and capital and operating costs of selected conversion technologies.
keywords: life  cycle inventory, lci, hardwood lumber, southeast, corrim, manufacturing,  environmental impacts
abstract: in february 2008, the western governors'  association adopted a policy reaffirming the governors' strong commitment to  enhance and diversify the region's transportation fuels portfolio.
publication: research note fpl-rn-0299.
the recovered wood utilization rate for wood pallets alone has increased  from 2% in 1993 to 34% in 2000 and 38% in 2006.
title: cval: a spreadsheet tool to evaluate the direct benefits and costs of carbon sequestration contracts for managed forests.
p. author(s) paun, dorothy; jackson, gerry year: 2000 view pdf »
category: journal articles file size: 261 kb kb(s)
keywords: pulpwood, markets, pulp, paper, forest products industry, economic aspects, pulpwood industry, forest products, marketing, statistics title: recycling north american paper recycling situation and pulpwood market interactions publication: recycling, energy, and market interactions author(s) ince, peter j. year: 1998 view pdf »
a summary cash flow chart and a pie chart showing key cost categories simplify analysis.
title: projected impacts on southern timber markets of accelerated paper recycling publication:
keywords: raised wood; foundation; raised slab; gulf coast; cost study; base flood evaluations
additional quantities of paper  and wood that could be recovered annually were also estimated for 1993, based  on maximum potential recovery from municipal solid waste, new construction and  demolition debris, and primary timber processing.
category: journal articles file size: 884 kb(s)
16 p. author(s) spelter, henry year: 2005 view pdf »
keywords: particleboard, oriented strandboard, plywood, capacity, cost, prices
the result was that two of the machine-rate models calculated hourly rates that were higher than needed to provide the specified return on capital, and two of the machine-rate models calculated hourly rates that were insufficient to provide the specified return.
abstract: over the last 50 years many changes have roiled lumber markets.
cumulative allocated energy consumption for prefinished engineered wood  flooring was 23.0 gj/m3 with 40% coming from coal.
abstract: the draft rpa timber assessment projects, over the next 50 years, the likelihood of increasing abundance of softwoods in the south and decreasing abundance of hardwoods in the south.
machine rate models cannot be configured to  calculate cash flows, allow for uneven costs or machine hours, incorporate  loans that have a different life than the expected machine life, incorporate  financing, or perform an after tax analysis.
a small pellet industry has existed since the 1930s, but its main growth occurred in the wake of the energy crisis in the 1970s.
title: hardwood chip market-was 2006 a normal year?
the spike in oil prices in 2011 has provided a  further rationale for choosing wood rather than fossil fuels.
keywords: forest products industry, sawmills, hampton mill, lumber production
several  types of avoided emissions were considered separately and were collectively  found to be notable relative to net emissions.
life-cycle  inventory of manufacturing prefinished engineered wood flooring in the eastern  united states.
environmental  impacts were measured based on emissions to air and water, solid waste, energy  consumption, and resource use.
this report provides instructions on how to prepare data for compare, information on how to use the program, sample data, sample output, and a listing of the program.
author(s) ince, peter j. year: 2005 view pdf »
keywords: bioenergy; bioeconomy; lake states title: chapter 6 cellulosic-based ethanol and the contribution from  agriculture and forestry publication:
a mechanical grading system previously developed for 9-inch diameter logs was shown applicable to small-diameter logs.
depending on the contract year and length, this can triple the revenue from ccx contracts.
author(s) verrill, steve; kretschmann, david year: 2008 view pdf » view publication information » category: research papers file size: 1.0 mb kb(s)
title: good vital signs : the economy as it pertains to the lumber industry remains healthy, but the flu is always lurking publication: timber processing.
title: life-cycle inventory of manufacturing hardwood lumber in southeastern us publication : wood and fiber science, volume 44, number 1, 2012, pp.
specimens were leached by an accelerated laboratory method for 12 weeks in soil obtained from different locations or in water.
abstract: this indicator shows the trend in recovering wood and paper for reuse in  products in the united states.
scientists and supporting staff engaged  by public research organizations was in the range of 900 to 1,000 in 2008.
abstract: between 1985-1995 a substantial number of multifamily housing units in the eastern and southern u.s. experienced problems with thermally degraded fire-retardant-treated (frt) plywood roof sheathing.
97-109;  2009 author(s) hartkamp, dr. rens; hillring, dr. bengt; mabee,  dr. warren; olsson, mr. olle; skog, dr. kenneth; spelter, mr. henry;  vinterback, mr. johan; wahl, ms. antje year: 2009 view  pdf » view publication information »
much of its input on forest management behavior and decisions about use of forestland derives from expert-based systems external to the tnaa system.
the amount of carbon stored in hardwood lumber exceeds fossil carbon emissions  by a factor of nine.
author(s) ince, peter j, buongiorno, joseph year:
this chapter explores methods used to reflect this pattern of technological change and others in the timber assessment projection system models.
general technical reports file size: 1,150 kb(s)
primary data collected for 2007 included annual production, energy consumption and type, material inputs, emission data, product outputs, and other coproducts.
use estimates are then compared to forest inventory data to identify potential problem/benefit areas.
title: 2000 national fire plan and its ramifications for wood supply from western national forests publication: 2000 statistical yearbook of the western lumber industry.
keywords: anaerobically digested bovine biofiber; particleboard; economics title: globalization and world trade
author(s) mckeever, david b. view pdf » view publication information »
keywords: grading, properties, douglas fir, ponderosa pine, tapered logs