- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
my objective in doing so is to spur you on to begin researching this type of mulch (which is a recycled product that comes from tires) for yourself.
at the very least, a  healthy skepticism regarding its use around edible plants would seem to be in  order.
expanding on this last point, fletcher writes that "rufus l. chaney, an environmental chemist at the u.s.d.a. agricultural research service, says that his research shows that small amounts of zinc in rubber will leach into soil over time."
where? - types of mulch | kinds | types of mulch colors
answer: rubber mulch (the type sometimes used in playgrounds) can be very appealing to certain types of gardeners.
- it doesn't attract insects.
like crushed stone, it's long-lasting; unlike crushed stone, you can buy it in all sorts of wild colors, such as teal!
the idea is that kids will "bounce" off of it when they fall down, making it safer than other materials.
by david beaulieu, about.com guide see more about: - rubber mulch - home safety tips - bark mulch - crushed stone - mulch question: is rubber mulch safe for plants?
is it safe to use aroundplants?
june fletcher of "the wall street journal" lists the pros and  cons ofrubber mulch, as compared to wood products used in mulching.
but even the "gut" needs some input to base its decisions on, doesn't it?
back to > mulch faq index back to > index for all faqs more - landscaping articles - flowering shrubs - compost and mulch more - garden mulch - home safety tips - halloween safety: carving pumpkins more related articles - recycling information - kid safety - bleeding hearts - garden mulches faqs - vegetable garden mulches - colored mulch | dyed or colored mulch - synthetic and inorganic mulch - what is mulch and which mulch should you us... - mulch - what is mulch and which mulch should you use
crushed stone mulch question: is rubber mulch safe for plants?
june fletcher of "the wall street journal" lists the pros and cons ofrubber mulch, as compared to wood products used in mulching.
my objective in  doing so is to spur you on to begin researching this type of mulch (which is a  recycled product that comes from tires) for yourself.
chalker-scott is an extension horticulturist for washington state university and has nothing good whatever to say about rubber mulch.
at the very least, a healthy skepticism regarding its use around edible plants would seem to be in order.
sign up - landscaping - pictures - diy projects - plants & lawns discuss in my forum is rubber mulch safe for plants?
if you think the above is a harsh indictment of the safety of rubber mulch, linda chalker-scott, ph.d., ups the ante.
here is a summary of her findings: pros: - it doesn't wash away in rainstorms.
it also boasts other good  qualities, prompting a spread in its use from play areas to the wider  landscape, including gardens.
rubber mulch is commonly used, for safety reasons, in areas where children  play.
but is it safe to use around plants?
again, i am not a chemist.
but  what iwill do is bring together a couple of resources that express  skepticism regarding the use of rubber mulch in the landscape.
a part of the new york times company.
- about.com - home & garden - landscaping landscaping search free landscaping newsletter!
answer: rubber mulch (the type sometimes used in playgrounds) can be very  appealing to certain types of gardeners.
here is a  summary of her findings: pros: it doesn't wash away in rainstorms.
it doesn't attract insects.
cons: - it looks artificial.
" - it "is not permanent;" rather, like organic choices, it does decompose.
- it "is not non-toxic; it contains a number of metal and organic contaminants with known environmental and/or human health effects."
rubber mulch is commonly used, for safety reasons, in areas where children play.
butaesthetics aside, is this type of mulch suitable for use in the landscape?
it also boasts other good qualities, prompting a spread in its use from play areas to the wider landscape, including gardens.
she summarizesher findings as follows: - it "is not as effective" as organic choices (such as wood bark) for weed control.
i am not here to scare you, but to alert you to questions about the safety of this product before you purchase it.
in the end, we all have to go with our gut feelings on questions about whether such-and-such is safe.
the resulting "chemical overload" could kill plants.
david beaulieu landscaping guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches playground rubber mulch environmental chemist wall street journal agricultural research service wild colors edible plants explore landscaping must reads most popular - pictures, getting started - plan your landscape for spring - take my free classes - a-z of plants - spring flowers see more about: - cat repellents - rose color meanings - install french drains - planting zones - getting rid of crabgrass by category - rubber mulch - home safety tips - bark mulch - crushed stone - mulch - landscaping pictures - ideas for a landscape design - landscaping shrubs - solving landscaping problems - landscape plants - lawn care tips - landscaping trees - patios, walls - decks, arbors - fences, driveways, walkways - water gardens, rock gardens - yard maintenance - pest control - organic weed control - help for beginners landscaping - about.com - home & garden - landscaping - organic weed control - compost and mulch - is rubber mulch safe to use in gardens?
like crushed stone, it's long-lasting;  unlike crushed stone, you can buy it in all sorts of wild colors, such as teal!
- it "is highly flammable and difficult to extinguish once it is burning.
i'm not a chemist, so i won't attempt to provide you with a definitive answer on how safe rubber mulch is for plants (even less does this piece address the issue of whether the product is safe for use in playgrounds).
i'm not a chemist, so i won't attempt to provide you with a definitive  answer on how safe rubber mulch is for plants (even less does this piece  address the issue of whether the product is safe for use in playgrounds).
the idea is that kids will "bounce" off of it when they fall  down, making it safer than other materials.
but what iwill do is bring together a couple of resources that express skepticism regarding the use of rubber mulch in the landscape.
it may be harmful to plants.
- most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.