every house built today can be close to 100% efficient by design alone, at no extra cost in construction.
the only people who are self-defined are those who are self-employed, or who work in community work cooperatives.
a familial system of shared ethics can: membership in a family of shared ethical values does not conflict with any other membership or duties, and is mainly a matter of organisation of a family registrar and some common funds.
political affiliations.
guilds and unions (in the sense {of trades) may actually reinforce this sense of irrevocable fate (no choice), as do caste systems in india.
already this is done by individuals and  businesses who have a product or skill to sell (real value), and who print up  vouchers or coupons to pay for setting up their business.
category 4 above is, of course, not permitted by any ethical charter, and category 3 need be funded only when other needs are satisfied.
time and money are often interchangeable.
5.4 urban-rural co-op systems, direct marketing.
laws of trusteeship  are ( ancient, philosophical and realistic.
d. replacement of crafts and skills with machines and mass production.
voting powers can be  allotted on the basis of involvement.
the  skills group help to sclect equipment, test markets (presale of products is  ideal), train young entrepreneurs in bookkeeping, and find resources and  materials.
directory of socially responsible investments, 1984 et sequ.
we can paint on or hang up an array ofrights, and (unless we are very thorough) never fill the land space available.
as some ideal, groups of 30 or so people could gather in core regions (with some outlier households) and so make travel locally an easier affair.
depositors receive from 0-12% interest per year depending on the amount of  time the money is in the account, and whether the depositor wants interest  paid.
6.4 fence and trellis suppliers and services, cattle grids and gates.
old city blocks in berlin have housing over street level shops on the sunny side, trades and work in the easily accessible interiors of hofs that penetrated and opened up the ,centre of the block, and a market or supply depot close to this assembly.
the local nees to primary processing, building, and consultancy or implementation servies can also be researched.
i the law clearly distinguishes between ownership or ( entitlement to a  resource, and the rights of the use of it.
none of this needs money if people work together.
this can be raised from small charges for leases and loans to residents, by charging an hourly rate a 10% levy on net profits of locally-funded cooperatives.
some small businesses (massage, paramedical) need only skills to start, while others (market garden, orchard, furniture making) need skills, capital, and time.
in fact, a bioregion is a sort of multi-cooperative, where smaller groups take on specific services, thus specific responsibilities.
each city farm has a small management group, and most have numerous volunteers, or a few paid staff.
for example, a dryland group in the ww sends a convener to a host group in the dryland tw, and assesses local needs, both ways.
the perversion of science to assist war, torture, oppression.
laws of trusteeship are ( ancient, philosophical and realistic.
c.e.l.t. services are funded by subscriptions from the 'public ($5), by  donations, and by government special schemes.
the main aim is to make friends with each other; to draw closer together socially.
14.8 development and property trusts (appropriate to village development, land rehabilitation)
every village could maintain one empty strata title for emergencies such as family break up, or to stage people in to permanent housing.
there are several small independent but cooperative permaculture institutes and allied groups , in existence which have associated non-profit trusts operating businesses to fund them; in this way, many trusts are independent of gifts or grants, and become self-reliant for funds.
however, energy can be generated in other ways, and site allowances should be made for this.
from privately to publicly owned figure 14.11  (scematic of capital flow within and without a village) figure 14.12  (cash flow of the village assets (sewing machines to reference libraries),  a charge sufficient to cover running costs, repairs, and replacements must be  placed on that item.
trusts are durable, efficient, easy to administer, and of great public service; everybody should be associated with one!
d. setting priorities for research via morbidity and global analyses, and funding such priorities.
all trade, or credit standing, is a public act, and refers to the community as a whole.
notes can  exceed reserves if used for procreative assets only (e.g. forests).
publishing is greatly assisted by computer word processing and allied computer typesetting services.
reputation: the  company maintains a reputation for high-quality products, service, and  reliability.
at times, traditional extended families grossly exploit (in particular) younger women, as household serfs, or are exploited by indolent members.
people can feel, and sometimes are, trapped in the nuclear family or the "compound" family of blood relatives who may share no ethical or interest base.
2.7 voluntary agencies and animal protection societies.
a. heating of earth by ('~rhon dioxide and gaseous pollutants in the global atmosphere.
that is, people can act independently of political theory (which rarely, if ever,covers the questions of ethics, simplicity, local autonomy, or life-oriented action).
industry should grow every stick  that they use by a charge on product, and investment in the community forestry  owned by local households.
in turkey, for instance, the  totally blind have the sole right to sell pigeon food in public places;  this gives them an independent income.
special coinvestment on projects can be initiated by advertisement in the  community.
the aims of a sensible village group might be to: a village can provide privacy in homes and gardens; access to tools as leased, rented, or easily accessed equipment from computers to tractors; entertainment from local folk groups to video cassettes; conservation as a village wildlife, water, and forest reserve, and recreation in the near environment.
a processing, shearing, or like facility may be needed by the group.
both groups set aside 10-15% of nett profit as research and develop- ment funds, or fund socially needed health and educa- tion.
there are dozens or  hundreds of funds, currencies, barter fairs, and investment trusts established  to build a sustainable future) has benefited.
they tend to spend this money on monuments and protection rather than in assisting nature to produce wealth.
a healthy and balanced life consists of being able to access all such pursuits.
commonwork members are free to leave, sellout to new lessees, and eventually be refunded their 10%, less base main- lenanceand service costs, but plus any interest paid.
prior to 1980, very few innovative or consciously ethical legally structured to be so) financial systems existed; totay there are hundreds of such organisations, holding their own summits and handling, via their stockbrokers, in excess of 160 billion dollars annually (in the usa alone), many other such organisations exist jin europe, australia, new zealand, india and southeast asia.
turnbull, 5hann, options:
.the extinction of natural systems and species.
they can purchase and improve land, and gift it at the improved value at a,  paper profit.
what is easy for a group may be impossibly stressful for a nuclear family.
as the current costs of such trusts are minor in the total, and as they are so useful in planning and in income-earning, they should be part of all new village design.
there are things that nobody else can help us with, but in a book written to help people make real-iife decisions, to build new landscapes, to regenerate damaged forests, and to lighten our load on earth, the present need is for clear and practical approaches.
b. adequate nutrition.
secondly, unless a large cash reserve is available, each trust can only  manage one area of land, and only slowly expand.
most nations in the united nations repress a majority of peoples on earth.
(partly' on cultural, but mainly on landscape, factors: that is, an ecoregion.)
(has principles of good enterprise based on existing companies.)
even the club secretary or organiser is paid in credits.
for this reason, i have not included fission processes with radioactive by-products, coal as now used, or mineral " petroleum beyond initial or transition use.
2.5 demonstration farms, e.g. free range, bee culture, workshop conveners, teaching centres.
within the "active" category (1 above), we can set priorities based on local or current problems in the biosocial context of the times.
this wealth is removed by interest charges in the fiscal or circulation sphere.
note: that if reserves are living things such as trees, wealth increases  and can be created.
strictly limited interest on share capital (fair but limited award for  capital and restricted influence of people holding share capital).
costs are high in three areas: food, energy, and transport.
category a -food and food support systems.
we should therefore resolve to gain time to evolve ever more effective ways to assist systems or people.
this always keeps the community healthy, as unused tools are expensive, but only for those who buy them!
i. only in the initial planning do people need to assign or choose functions; once chosen, no group meetings for business are necessary.
personal accountability principle: this applies to any group purchases,  whether public or private.
aid-financed deep wells and pumps in the same region have enabled large livestock herds and more annual cropping at the cost of a rapidly falling water table.
on a wider scale, cells of one to three people can a very large network; in this way, given occasional (every 2 years) meetings in affinities or work integration groups, attended by small autonomous groups, positive work-netting (not pointless networking) is possible.
in my meaning of "a living", it is the beekeeper, the ,bees,  their water, flowers, pollen, propolis, and the means to make the beehives.
d. of inland and fresh waters.
no other, and no mixed loads are collected.
in less than 30 years, 96 workercooperatives,  employing 17,000 worker-members, have emerged.
the trust can inform investors of any opportunity for their involvement at any level from volunteer or recreational use to paid consultancy, building, or in leaseholds available.
thus the very concept of land ownership is ludicrous, and we need only to use what is needed for the brief time that we are here; even i birth and death are small events in a total life pool.
multi-racial, multi-cultural, and multi-occupational families and global nations obliterates these "defended territories" and suits peaceful lifestyles.
as these meetings are pleasant, we can look forward to them, and so a pleasant and informative occasion replaces a frustrating and stressful "group decision" meeting.
in addition to normal business principles, the more intense and more  democratic operation of cooperatives demands that co-op staff must participate  in planning, seriously contributing to policy, procedures, and inno- vations.
in the case of capable farmers, they can themselves be appointed as co-managers, and many would gladly accept this role in restoration and earth care.
eucalypt monoculture for rayon fibre (textiles) has obliterated many ragi fields, and in total this may add up to a deferred catastrophe.
when most needs of the region are met, the currency can be collapsed.
trusteeship governs any r resource for the very long term, with no  right to exploit resources beyond essential needs, or replacement time.
legal procedures must also be followed by selfemployed people or family businesses, where cash is received for goods or services rendered or offered publicly.
of the estuaries and marine systems.
some are imperfect and need adjustment, others work in the context of specific cultures or landscapes, while a lesser number are effective across the whole range of specific phenomena.
a council can call for and act on submissions or reports relating to specific policies and strategies.
feet of garden to grow food.
the worker is, in effect,  "loaning" the cooperative the money, and so receives interest.
conscientious use of a credit union by village residents would greatly increase capital flow to village enterprises.
if not, jobs are open and funds to start them are available!
in this way, every person who wants to work controls their work, and non-involved people have no say.
if taxes were not in fact so used, we would all live in a society where the  need to work would be negligible, and both employment and unemployment (thus,  workers and owners) absent.
through the designers, users can obtain help in buil9ing and land design, nursery and livestock services, and appropriate tools.
shann turnbull is involved with planning new systems.
1.2 stone and gravel, earth materials.
above all, no group or community need last forever; group set up to achieve certain ends can disband with clear conscience if those ends are substantially achieved.
only the worker-owners have a vote.
nor is the making of money necessarily evil, providing the uses of money are creative and assist the natural world to proliferate.
many organisations are demanding that this too changes, and that those responsible are charged with the damage, as people bereft of social conscience; we may yet live to see a class of corporate criminals brought to book for their conscious crimes.
we can all seek for right livelihood to do work that assists in caring for the earth or other people, work that is congruent with our beliefs.
using a standard labour exchange form (which is legally binding), the recipient is debited and the donor credited for every hour's work he or she performs.
they must show that the proposed  business will attract customers from the community or even from outside the  community.
many people want to support small businesses and cooperatives, and often get into the spirit of the venture when they read about individuals and businesses in the catalogue.
good news should be remitted to: good money ($36 per year, 6 issues), from the center for economic revitilization, inc., box 363, worcester, vermont 95682.
givers take a tax  reduction on gift to a gleaning trust (any church or public trust).
many societies extend as close affinity groups across many nations, thus forming a non-national network.
land is surplus to their needs, and acost: a few people own too much land  (are what is termed "landpoor"), thus achieve low productivity and  incur land maintenance costs.
today, minority language groups (saamen, basque, pitjatjantjara) claim territories that are ancient, and specific to their life mode.
"community services" in any community can encompass the following: some of these are income-producing, some subject to state aid or tax immunity, and some are income consuming.
the mondragon cooperatives of spain at first grew large (3,000-5,000), but later reduced to cooperatives of 300-500 to preserve the identity of every individual.
wherever no volunteers appear for any task, then the group as a whole contributes a tithe to pay for the task to be carried out by a contractor (as in many trade tasks); thus all work gets done one way or another.
but wherever a body of laws has been formed based on our "rights" to property, to protect material resources and accumulations, and to permit destruction of the public resource, we will not only destroy whole environments and species, but in the end ourselves.
land access office people often complain that they lack access  to land resources; at the same time, we live in a delinquent or devastated  landscape.
2.8 skilled people, farriers, vets, natural historians.
gifts or deeds of land can be vested in a tax- deductible trust for use by  a specific group or the public  generally, under certain reasonable  conditions; many  community gardens run this way, usually at small rental.
loans, at low local interest (6-11% is fair) are made, and every borrower must be a contributor (active investment).
people who maximise a procreative asset base can support the use of some tools, and modest degenerative assets.
after all, why should coal miners' union funds pay for the takeover that closes down their colliery, ratther than the forest development funds that offers them, retraining as foresters (and forests will be need forever!)
each cooperative averages about 200-300 worker-owners; large numbers become too impersonal, and large cooperatives are divided into smaller independent units.
do careful sums, establishing prices based on roading, water supply, and sewerage.
they also offer a phone advice service from their new york office (phone: 2128702295).
an annual  meeting of all workers in a particular enterprise elects both directors  (managers) to run the business and a social council (union) to negotiate with  directors on work conditions, pay, education, etc.
briefly, the land area is closely assessed for earth resources, wildlife, forest and aquaculture potentioal, small and large livestock (bees to bullocks), arable land and mixed orchard, and socio-educational potentional.
1.2 regional news and newspapers, newsletters.
for currency to be valid and usable, some preconditions are  necessary.
rich clubs develop  motel-style accommo- dation and recreational fisheries.
construction materials 1.1 timber growers and suppliers, community timber plantations.
a small  business services centre is itself a small business, now very popular and  effective in india.
newsletter $25 per year, 10 issues, 84 fifth avenue, new york, n.y. 10011.
and manufacturing services and skills 3.1 clothing and cloth (spinning, weaving).
in this way, all group meetings can therefore be social and convivial, and for information exchange.
the group in charge of administering the loan checks references,  offers advice, and .acts on the recommendation of people who will service the  loan (usually a skills or research group of volunteers, some of whom may take  part in, or service, the business).
exchange can still take place, but it is accounted for in terms of stocks or services.
most customers will deal with a firm over and over again if it proves to be reliable, rather than take a chance with a company which may be cheap, but which maintains such sloppy standards as slow service and shoddy products.
a great benefit to having many business offices located in one place is the increased number of consumers and the ability to concentrate many products in a single product catalogue.
thus, the structure under which we should gather common policy is: overall, set policy priorities in rough order, weighted for urgency, public cost or loss of wealth, general or global spread of the problem, long-term effect, and threats to basic resources or life systems.
in either case, we have tyranny of a majority or tyranny of a minority, and a great deal of frustration and wasted time.
trust b can undertake a charge on any tools, accounting for replacement cost, wear and tear, fuel or power, and a service charge.
this 10% credited to the donor, forms a cpital fund together with any capital raised by the trust or the lessees (some as grants or gifts, some as business loans).the trust also needs income for maintaining services such as roads, fences, power, and to pay land taxes.
this services the registry, newsletter, and pays part or full-time wages to a collator.
confrontational thinking, operating through political or power systems, has destroyed cultural, intellectual, and material resources that could have been used, in a life-centred ethic, for earth repair.
."foreign" goods are thus more expensive, and local components increase; local businesses thrive.
(some would say this is an insult to god) money, however, is not intrinsically evil; it is the accumulation of money and its use to exploit others that is evil.
thus, many young families get legal access to garden land, on an  "allotment" basis.
worker-owners: these manage the cooperative, and are split into "management" and "union" groups.
some groups collect, grade, and sell citrus or nut crop, and many provide young trees to gardeners on contract for later product off the trees.
it also attaches to pre-existing essential services, although these are unlikely to be as useful or appropriate as those indicated here.
a bioregional association is an association of the residents of a natural and identifiable region.
acidic particles leading to acid rain.
the evil (privilege, power, stupidity, willfulness) lies within people, not within money itself.
ideally, the region so defined can be limited to that occupied by from 7000 to 40,000 people.
medical and pharmaceutical services.
by clearing for agriculture.
money, in a sane society, must therefore be tied or fixed in value relative to a useful real asset; this is the very basis of fair trade in large societies.
the savings (in time) exceeds the cash borrowed; from then on, the borrower has some spare capital.
for this reason, the place to start change is first with the individual (oneself), and second in one's region or neighbourhood.
by selective recruitment, skills and resources can be acquired, or developed by education and group capital investment.
peters, t., and r. waterman, in search of excellence, harper & row, 1983.
and he is an old caving companion of mine.)
a company does not die, unlike its directors, and the small group of trustees can act quickly and decisively without reference to the cumbersome and often uninvolved "board of directors" that some trusts have appointed.
money borrowed in order to save money is soon repaid, and so is safe to lend.
all money arises from the wealth of the natural world (plants, clean water, clear air, stored energy).
in this way, total failure is unlikely, as is unemployment.
6.3 hydrological and water supply services (dams, domestic water), design and implementation.
criteria: energy-efficient house design and non-toxic materials
most human communities function in relation to a long-term sustainablility only because they do differ from others; what is possible to an inuit (eskimo) is not possible to a forest pygmy.
sub-groups can raise their own funds (as well as have access to public funds) may have an active business management role in income-producing areas, and supply workers to carry out such businesses.
a product catalogue is often a valuable product in itself, offering product information and advice.
council on economic priorities (non-government research).
with life processes, we reduce the conflicts brought into our lives by the opposing demands of a truly sound economy and that of "unlimited growth" in the capitalistic sense; between a false assertion of human ,dominance over nature, and the certainty that we depend on all of nature; between the injunction to treat , all people as equal, and the status given to those who , consume and prosper at the expense of others; between " the tyranny of need created by gadgets and luxury, and the satisfaction of working with others to achieve our basic needs; between our natural drive to accumulate possessions, and the realisation that it is only what we share that gives us access to all necessary possessions.
it is wise to restrict directorships of a trustee company to those who are e very active in trust affairs, and preferably live close to each other in one region.
or forests without costing total upkeep and replacement, or we impoverish the common wealth.
rich clubs develop motel-style accommo- dation and recreational fisheries.
1.10 sources of toxins and unsafe materials in buildings, appliances, furnishings, paints and glues; high voltage equipment.
forests  represent firewood, but reserves are never cut except in dire emergencies.
as groups pass 30 or so in size, it may be possible to contemplate selective recruitment to make up deficiencies in skills, sex ratio, age differences, or specialties needed.
such examples dictate that no council has any excuse for not recycling; not only does waste cost the ratepayers money, but there is also a vast waste disposal problem.
communications networks 1.1 regional radio and c.b., ham radio .
each area of action can have a basically independent management sub-group, reporting to council regularly.
laws of ownership are relatively modern, and are foreign to tribal or clan law.
sell to prospective buyers, using a trust fund for road, water, and site preparation.
it has several  principles: open membership (open to all who can make use of the services and will  accept the responsibilities of membership).
now, any community printing its own currency has  these things to do: find and lease a resource that can be pledged to the exchange institution  as a redeemable asset.
the group purchasing is held totally and individually responsible for payment for any item.
this region is sometimes defined by a watershed, sometimes by remnant or existing tribal or language boundaries, at times by town boundaries, suburban streets, or districts, and at times by some combination of the above factors.
an example of this sort is if a group of five wanted to purchase a large brush chipper to create compost for themselves and to hire out to others in the community.
loans, at low local interest (6-11% is fair)  are made, and every borrower must be a contributor (active investment).
it can also act as leasehold and title register, or to service agreements for clubs and societies.
it can also handle financial systems such as leasing and lending units.
some law societies service ethical trusts at no charge for their time.
however, they are guaranteed by the exchange (though only if loans are made through s.c.c.e., not directly to the project).
in summary  then, the successful business: states group values and maintains a sense of loyalty to those values, personalises services, good quality, prompt service, and reliability, innovates in its area of expertise and looks ahead, and has a lean structure, and no uninvolved staff.
there are many more reasons why people gift land to  trusts, so that  (generally speaking) there are more lands available than there are reliable  stewards to occupy them.
depositors receive from 0-12% interest per year depending on the amount of time the money is in the account, and whether the depositor wants interest paid.
in fact, common work systems based on a social edifice of  responsibility to and for others.
local currency as the community gains skills in financial management, there is no reason  why an internal and district economy should not be bolstered by a noninflating  currency printed by the community.
the very powerful principle here is that "everything must pay"; more specifically, in community enterprises "proposers pay capital" and "users pay costs".
just as we can select from all extant ethics and beliefs those elements that we see to be sustainable, useful, and beneficial to life and to our community.
thus, the very first strategies we need are those that put our own house in order, and at the same time do not give credibility to distant power-centred or unethical systems.
it is probable that the ww group sets up sales, ads, investment in the first place, and acts for the enterprise in their country, thus generating capital.
thus, recycling begins with separation of wastes by the consumer.
towns and cities as farms: a twist on the above, which can be operated by a city farm group.
these represent a good medium to swap goods in particular, with the barter centre charging only on a proportion of successful swaps.
1.9 current state of housing in the region (numbers seeking housing, rentals available).
category m -appendices.
above all, a land trust should have a very clear idea of what it wants to achieve, and to set a practical time limit to do the job.
c.e.l.t. services are funded by subscriptions from the 'public ($5), by donations, and by government special schemes.
the very concepts of employment/unemployment deny this potential, and again frustrate people so that rebellion as strikes or riots follow.
this quickly points the way to local self-reliance strategies.
implications for policy making.
2.4 useful native species collections and reserves, potential for cultivation.
in my view, the neighbourhood factor-knowledge of each other's names-is a primary factor, and has proved to be a major factor in survival in disaster, as assessed (e.g.) in the 1967 hobart fires, where casualties in "anonymous" areas and commuter suburbs were many times higher than in neighbourhoods where people knew and cared for others.
the sharing of "power" is really a sharing of responsibility; part of that responsibility is the capital risk of any enterprise.
imports are greatly decreased, local employment rises rapidly, good products {and security) are available, and community morale is enhanced.
when we replace agriculture with gardens, then we should close down, as a priority, the most distant or most damaging agricultures.
while natural resources fuel such "wealth", artisans and architects develop the monuments, artists decorate them, and bankers, miners, and oil people fund or value them.
many people identify with their local region or neighbourhood and know its boundaries.
each and every parcel of land needs 3-4 involved,  active, and interested trustees, and under a legal limit, its plans and  purposes should be set for the long-term for 10-50 years ahead).
(security here means a cooperative neighbourhood and ample, sustainable resources for people.)
1.5 legal and information services.
producers of local goods, accept local currency only; this creates a  demand, and other regions must "buy" such currency to obtain local  goods.
legally, a trust body consists of a trustee and and document or trust deed, registered with the public ompany registrar.
3.11 draughting and illustrating services.
those people who live on and near the land.
moreover, state or private ownership (versus community ownership) of forests, small mines, and lands is devoted to state or corporate profits to support a largely urban, leisured class of bureaucrats, which denies these basic biological and earth resources to the very people who work to produce or mine them.
the ethical audit: "was the enterprise concerned with its ethical (people care) accounting?
the essentials of an ethical banking system is not only that it has an ethical charter and is used for appropriate assets, but that it belongs to and is governed by the commnity it serves, and therefore is not open to distant or centralised control.
advisors" are short-term, and if they do not leave a corps of well-informed people, are of i ephemeral effect; even such a basic technology as a water tap needs a trades-person capable of descaling vents and reseating valves, or replacing washers over the long term.
(indian proverb) 14.1 introduction
4.5 processed-product producers in region.
this can be borrowed from the bank or obtained by installments deducted from wages over a two-year period.
people buy or preprchase the book at a slightly  reduced price, which enables the publisher to print the book (this is how the  book you are reading was printed) in another example, a restaurant (zoo zoos) in washington state, usa, in  transferring from single ownership to a work cooperative, needed to raise funds  to buyout the owner.
satisfying the demand (e.g. for homes) by lending the currency to  builders, who can exchange it at the bank for other currency needed in trade,  or locally for products and services
such trusts often have names including the words: church, foundation, institute, communion, school, congregation, charity, bureau, trust, or even company.
the waste site is supervised, loads directed, and mixed waste sorted; saleable or recyclable items are grouped in clearly marked areas.
these "meetings"; have a chairperson, agendas, proposals, votes, or use concensus, and can go on for hours.
1.9 standard documents and data sheets available via the bioregional centre.
gynaecological and midwifery services.
the seller may retain a house title on the land if so required, and the price is then discounted.
if one has $100, how should this be spread about to do the most good with the least risk?
3.10 catering and cooking (food preparation).
sale, kirkpatrick, "bioregionalism: a new way to treat land", the ecologist 14 (4), pp 167-173, 1984.
the advantage of such alliances is that even isolated people can find global affinities; this is not necessarily true of regional organisations.
in turkey, for instance, the totally blind have the sole right to sell pigeon food in public places; this gives them an independent income.
green dollars are "earned" by goods or services to others, and "lost" by using services or goods.
although tribal peoples had (and have) a clear idea of total ecologies-the sum of fire, regrowth, wallaby, and pioneer fire species-arid although they had a word for this, there is no word-concept for a "total human family " ecology" beyond "a living".
however, we need a redeemable, solid, real and objective currency for trade  and exchange.
the real saving to small businesses is shared facilities such as  premises, accounting, and office services.
in fact, today's governments are not only in themselves  irresponsible, but they often fund secret and far more irresponsible agencies, responsible to nobody!
it  is a clear legal access to forage, and a registered and secure bee site; and it  is the tight to sell or market product to pay for other ijfe needs.
practical warnings are not to accept land gifts that have many restrictive conditions attached; in fact, it is wise to perhaps limit acceptance to unconditional gifts.
this basic design work completed, the trust or owners can advertise locally for people to run any one of these enterprises with levels ranging from that of a hobby (developing a butterfly forage system) to a fulltime occupation income (a trout farm).proper legal saeguards (lease documents) setting out rights of use, length of lease, responsibilities of the trust and lessee, and terms of payment (adjustable, but usually 10% of gross income) are drawn up to safeguard users.
impractical, frustrating, and time-consuming systems are those governed by large boards, assemblies, or groups (seven or more people).
thus, the work force has total control over the composition of representatives, rather like a bioregion.
these can then be sold to purchase more suitable land, or  to capitalise land elsewhere.
in several generations (if we are allowed this time) we may have achieved a truly free world of international affinities, but we always start where we are.
these can then be sold to purchase more suitable land, or to capitalise land elsewhere.
so "improvements" in short-term finances (to large landowners or industrialists) add up to a greatly impoverished population and environment; in short, desertification due to improvements".
cooperatives there are other and minor systems in use, but each of the above are now worldwide, have specific appropriate uses, and can be fairly easily understood or created by any community.
and distribute them to the poor, or sell at a small profit to keep running costs down.
the role of the s.c.c.e .is to review applications for loans and to recommend individuals and businesses to receive these loans.
a general plan of these resources must be published for all participants.
curiously, we are drafted to kill strangers, and denied the right to preserve life; no armies are created to build houses, grow potatoes, or plant forests for the future; unemployment for others is preferred by those who choose power as a method of exploitation.
1.8 bioregional groups and contacts-local and overseas.
thus, "users pay" should apply at every level of community, except for hardship or welfare services.
they can be reflected in our legal, financial, domestic, and public lives.
when we discuss the principle of "commonwork", or study the varied 'roles of an individual in a village, we can see that no person is just a miner, or clerk, or banker, but that on different days one can be a banker, forester, bee-keeper, writer, printer, or carpenter.
every country  has some, or many, methords to obtain usage rights.
"one solution" systems evolve from the concentration of power in one or other form of dictatorship (business, government, or military).
and we need to do this in an ethical and non-threatening way, so that the transition to a cooperative (versus conflicting) global society is creative (not destructive).
a cooperatively run bank oversees the functioning of all new cooperatives in the group, finances new cooperatives (up to 90%}, and offers expert managment skills.
morehouse, ward 1983, handbook of tools for community economic change, intermediate technology group of north america inc, po box 337, crotononhudson, new york 10520 usa. (available from the publisher.
examples are: group water storages or energy systems, group  refrigeration facilities, coownership of a fishing vessel or coastal holiday  home, etc.
there is a labour organiser in the group to sort out the balance of payments, and to despatch labourers to a recipient (who must have at least 60 hours in credit).
in 1946, the ecologist aldo leopold (in a sand country almanac, oxford university press) forsaw two seemingly inveitable trends; one is the exhausion of the wilderness as a resource, and "the other is the world-wide hybridisation of cultures through modern transport and communication.
many problems are very long-term, and short-term aid (typical of emergency programmes) is not able to address these; drought has an 18-20 year periodicity, and needs to be coped with by food storages on good years, emergency food and forage from tree crop, pre-drought reduction of herds, widespread rainfall harve!!ting systems, and a well-informed public assisted by appropriate policy such as equable adjustment of livestock herd size, and government aid to establish drought refuges locally for essential livestock and for people.
all these guard resources for future use, and are essential to a sustainable system.
intermarriage, visits, mutual trade and aid, skills exchange, and educational exchange between regions of very different cultures enriches both.
by improving properties so purchased, their value increases, and (under present rulings) taxation is not incurred on that increase in value if the property is held for 10 or more years, nor is the trust itself taxed on its income from investors.
the bank should not itself decide uses; the commun- ity (via a set of  financial, advisory or monitoring institutions owned by them) should do that.
ownership, in effect, gives the titleholder (person or state) a "right to exploit in the short term".
tribal maps often defined bioregions very well; totems and "skins" (clan groups) of tribes might take, as their totemic mothers, a particular tree or animal, which itself was limited in distribution by the sum of topographic and climatic factors.
if these have increased in yield and maintained in species, the area maintains health.
there are many ethical groups and individuals who regularly tithe 10% of their gross income to such endeavours.
apart from the asset categories given above, careful consideration must be given by any bioregion to what is locally conserved and used (the basis of regional wealth, such as soil) and what can be exported as a trade item (surplus water or surplus manufacture).
as we are talking about community money, its uses need to be  decided by that community.
14.12 land access trusteeship of land
where relief benefits are paid, the state rewards people to accept this role of "no work" , and in effect fines them if they work.
in germany and other european countries, the green party has increasing support and representation, with 23 federal and 48 state seats by 1983.
all such ethical organisations state their criteria in their legal or informal charters.
information (education and data), plus applied intelligence makes the best use of all assets, decides balances in the asset base, assesses future trends, and foresees needs and changes.
almost all such groups set up competitive and )
the borrowing criteria is that the entrepreneur must be willing to work  closely and regularly with celt during the loan so that a business has the  greatest chance to succeed.
total approaches to finance in society margrit kennedy (in a manuscript toward an ecological.
if the beneficiaries are individuals, such gifts are taxed as private income; if the beneficiaries are charitable trusts or churches, the gift is not only not taxable but can be tax deductible to any giver.
type 4 is the pioneering or kibbutz approach and needs the most intensive planning, especially for water resources, access to market, and specified enterprises.
1.4 seed sources and seed exchanges.
category f- social life.
even cement and mortar can be made if needed using kilns fired by wood, as can pottery,bricks, and roof tiles.
such values need to be carefully  framed, realistic, and simple to remember.
the  system is convivial; in fact its main aims are to  develop friendships.
the company maintains a reputation for high-quality products, service, and reliability.
holidays can be taken, and wet days spent on indoor work.
for a nation-state, taxes were perhaps intended to supply social needs, whereas in fact they have always been used to raise armies and enrich a minority far beyond the needs of a living; to create wealth for a few, and privelege for bureaucrats.
selecting a local currency, the australian adam smith club, june 1983.
it is a  local nonprofit corporation formed to help encourage small businesses that are  producing necessary goods and services for the community (in this case, the  berkshire area in massachusetts, u.s.a.).
the most recent 1960-1990) is also the longest period of out-migration, nd is still continuing after 20 years; it is a migration of skilled family people towards a smaller society.
they often give bad advice to groups, setting up litigious or cumbersome systems, giving endless trouble and necessitating agreement among many people (an end which is, in practice, impossible to honestly attain), and which involves distasteful accomodations and compromises, explicit or hidden.
at 2,000 people, theft and competitiveness is more common, and sects set up in opposition-the 'ecumenial alliances" are lost.
lifetime is that little space we are given to experience this world, which shapes up to, what we can imagine to be heaven, but where the achievement of paradise is constantly set back by the "serpents" of greed, power, stupid exploitation, and war.
by avoiding centralised administrations, we avoid power blocs, and by avoiding tax funding, we avoid inefficiency.
the concepts of village and bioregion refer to a base or home area, but today many people travel about.
a property trust purchases real estate for improvement, lease, or rental on behalf of many small investors who cannot afford to individually own or develop such properties.
wherever there is a need (for housing, roads, small businesses, farms), the  dollars needed are supplied by the exchange, but the borrower or user must  repay in local currency, thus creating a demand for it.
with a common interest and ethical base, cooperative interdependence supplants competition.
life expectancy, infant mortality, causes of death.
d. by draining wetlands.
retrieval and basic research for region and projects.
in everything we use there are hidden interest costs:.
thus, many people can be involved in primary production, processing, and building if only a few can manage the essential coordination and funding.
this eliminates control by inactive people in tasks they are not familiar with, and nullifies power seekers.
stone, mud, bamboo, round timbers, rope, thatch, and even baked brick and tiles, are the age-old durable building materials of mankind.
many such trusts concentrate on city office properties or rural monocultures; we can concentrate on other aspects of property investment, as outlined herein for village development, or land rehabilitation systems.
all groups need some of the tools of processing and repair; a wise farmer hires out or shares such tools.
belief, like religion, is a basically private and non-global characteristic, and should not be subject to comparisons.
about 70% of the total "free world" investment is american, and of the 70%, the majority (or about 40% of the total) is in the hands of women, who tend to inherit as well as save.
by desertification of arid area borders.
a farm is purchased by the club or society on a public access route 12 hours from the city.
depending on the aims and share capital,  people can lease small areas, or appoint a manager.
like landscape planning, there are community systems which can cause more time spent in conflict than can be made up later; such errors we can still call primary errors as they will lead to constant problems and expense later.
anew stove or cooker may prevent the incorporation of ashes in the diet, or a new diet 'may create a !!
there is no substitute for thorough analysis of soils and foods, the use of trace elements or soil additives, respect for traditional methods of food preparation, and an excellent education to accompany the project.
in effect, any member (by working or selling) issues their own currency, and could return any community to full employment.
in practice, any person has 3-5 close friends (who change slowly over time), a support group of 30 or more acquaintances, and resource access to the whole system.
the local nees to primary processing, building, and consultancy or  implementation servies can also be researched.
it is an invaluable experience to model such a property trust, and to teach others how to follow any successes that we achieve.
the job of the bioregional office is complex, and it needs 4-6 people to act as consultants and coordinators, with others on call when needed.
the units of exchange are hours of labour, and all labour is considered equal.
bioregionalism is an excellent concept, given the irrational land use systems and land divisions developed by the present power structures.
involvement with the mysteries that eternally surround us.
the farmer adjusts production to suit family needs, and as the  "link" grows, the system can also accommodate holidays on the farm,  educational workshops, and city help on the farm at peak work periods (planting  and harvesting).
such initiatives have in fact cmmenced in the amerindian groups subject to national (i.e. political) oppression in both north and south america.
families can, for instance, maintain a student dormitory near secondary or tertiary institutes, whereas at present many rural families have no such facility to send children ages 12 or over when they need or request higher education.
the green party's address is die grunen, bundestag, bonn, west germany.
any isociety that develops lawns beyond those used for figure 14.14 (trusteeship of land)
it must be stressed that the  "revolving loans office" is not a place but a group in cooperative  function.
surplus or savings out of the operation of the cooperative belong to  members (with members to decide on the use of the surplus, whether to develop  the business, to provide common services for members, and/or to distribute  among members according to the degree of involvement in the cooperative).
not only corporations but volunteer groups and consumer groups produce monitoring publications on multinationals on a global scale, and publish "nonbuyers" guides of the products of unethical organisations.
a community may have at least these formal structures coopratives a cooperative is a group of people acting together for the benefit of members.
type 2 is probably the easiest to plan and administer, and allows a whole graduation of involvement and committment.
note: until the above listing is made, no region can assess health priorities.
critical personnel to attach to a revolving loans office are in the following categories: 1.
the trust can gift land to other regional trusts or associations of whocm it approves, so that local gifts can be routed through a tax-deductible trust.
is the system economically viable?"
many such clubs exist in europe, and some in australia; they offer multiple use of one lot of land by many people.
southern cross capital exchange ltd, operating out of wentworth falls, nsw, australia, is a nonprofit organisation that brings together those who want to borrow from specific (socially conscious) projects, and those who have money to loan to such projects.
3.4 occupations based on waste recycling.
in the first trust of this type, the aim can be to stop accepting investors at $2-5 million, which will develop a property or properties as listed in the prospectus.
few people realise how many, and how varied, are the trusts that serve them in one or other way.
.socio-political and economic con- cerns.
investment centres should be active in person-to-person introduction-even investment parties!
f. essentially short-term solutions to long-term, chronic problems.
see under resources at the end of this chapter for addresses.
some of them are: the individual in the community must recognise the need to subscribe to a group fund for maintaining roads, fences, and infrastructure, or to donate work in lieu of money on a regular basis.
members of the community can become s.h.a.r.e. members, which  means they open a s.h.a.r.e. joint account with the bank.
was it honestly used?
these are modest needs to achieve; beyond them lies adventure in helping others get on a firm footing.
thus, in the evolution of land concepts, we have figure 14.15.
no isolated or scattered group of people can self provide for the above, but it is probable that about 30 to 200 houses can support these services and basic facilities, especially if there is planning for cooperative funding.
accountants: people skilled in setting up appropriate  accounting systems to monitor progress and profit in ventures, working closely  with team (a).
barter is a common economy practiced particularly in rural or neighbourhood areas where people are more likely to know one another.
given an extended family, a bioregional network locally, and some form of common work opportunity, any individual is assured of access to resources, capital, cultural exchanges, and good work.
price is agreed upon by the individuals, and reported in to the let centre by the consumer.
to prevent hoarding, notes can be dated and anew issue us made every 4-5  years; this is also a check on unwarranted accumulation, and possible forgeries.
the informal economy
council should be comprised of a selection of those active in the above areas, not of an uninvolved group.
there are hundreds of such essentially minor incomes available in every society for otherwise-neglected groups or ages.
households: basically consumers,  each household pays a nominal joining fee, goods are bought at a discount, and  an annual dividend is received for the bulk purchases over the year.
large companies receive public subsidies (often direct cash subsidies, e.g. the sugar industry) that would make millionaires of paupers.
any alliance of 4-10 villages (12,000-50,000 people) can, by agreement, run a sophisticated trade and travel organisation.
1.2 small business loans.
is the earth therefore more productive in terms of life forms?
therefore, a careful search for the right lawyer is essential (corporate lawyers are often knowledgeable about trusts).
data is available from the borough, but there are two or three key features that make the system work: 1.
to these ends, a set of loans or investments can be scattered over short to long term enterprises, e.g. we can order investment value under some such simple system as follows: 1.
large banks not only lose our money to start with, but make us pay for the loss.
(the european audit) 2.
category e -community and security.
computer services to a network, programming, and data bases on special subjects are now in demand, and can be placed in homes.
beneficial behavious involves managing natural systems for their own, and our, long-term benefit, not for our immediate and exploitative personal gain.
membership in such clubs can be made ~leable or transferable, and may increase in value over lime.
many such clubs exist in europe, and some in australia; they offer multiple  use of one lot of land by many people.
thus, pioneer villages can seek alliances with others for the common good.
venture funds: to be raised by proposal, open to groups or individuals, and handled by the common enterprise fund administrators for such group ventures as a shared house, boat, overseas programme, or business.
we have had "national service" to fight wars, but i cannot recall any but sustainable tribal societies that require every man and every woman to help shelter and feed themselves.
anyone who wants work can offer services; they need not wait for "jobs" .as
such work is urgent, important, and necessary, and we cannot leave it to the whims of government (always short-term) or industry as we know it today.
it is up to ratepayers to elect officials who will recycle sewage and solid wastes, and to vote out waste-promoting councils, who "cost the earth"!
even so, funds subscribed may always exceed demand (businesses are  slow to develop), so the fund managers should always be ready to fund the  start-up of mort advanced money systems such as investment advisors in ethical  trusts, local insurance and banking, and a local "mint" to print a  district currency of non-inflatable money, which in the end is also  non-interest bearing.
the  need to earn is most reduced by a set of strategies ranging from gardens for  food, efficient use of energy in house and work, shaiing of basic equipment,  and membership of fbulk purchasing groups.
coalitions of such farms represent a large lobby or vote group in society, and  are therefore.
the final "inflation" is caused by the misuse of money, and is now upon us.
such changes in people come about by education and information, and when enough people change, then political systems (if they are to survive) may follow, or become as irrelevant as they now appear to be in terms of real solutions.
in the uk, usa, australia, and canada, annual seminars (in the uk called "the other.
the way that land passed from clan management to personal ownership is well  documented; since the year 1400 or thereabouts, the methods used were as in  figure 14.14 most of us live on lands once tribal, now "owned".
in particular, reciprocal education values both sets of knowledge and world concepts, and respects others' lifestyles.
the  person receiving the loan must first collect references from people who know  them as responsible and conscientious.
1.3 cattle and livestock watch.
thus, the continuing and long-sustained programmes necessary to reverse forest loss and soil decline are usually sacrificed for the short-term policies of an elite maintaining power.
3.4 pest management of stored grains and foods.
craft products from metal or wood workshops, pottery, and art.
the developer needs to set up a trust (trust a)-a land bank-to hold commons (village land) for the common good and for later development.
holding seminars, inviting speakers, and instructing new  members in services and procedures; assisting neighbouring regions to set up  parallel and allied services- skills register.
by withdrawing investments from , ethical groups, socially sensitive investments not only pay better, but are basically an insurance against (rather than susceptible to) stock market crashes, as local facilities are always important in hard times, arid local investments do not crash.
in the concept of commonwork we have arrived at a new synthesis, a future  model not only for farms but for complex small communities.
effective local group action restores the true basic rights, which are those of personal responsibility for our sustenance on earth, and to earth itself.
air and ultralight craft.
with good management and skillful work, there is no reason why this should not also pay for itself, or show a financial advantage to investors.
the wealth of any area lies not in banks or cities, but in those basic resources, skills, and natural systems developed by its peoples.
to report on dirty business locally or regionally, and to find out who has dirty work afoot elsewhere, contact: 1.
thus, traditional diets need to be examined and supported if they provide sources of zinc from meats, bone, ashes, or animal testicles.
small business service centres can offer the following facilities to  businesses: secretarial: letters, prospectus, submissions, writing and presentation,  filing, mail order.
human concerns a. meaningful work (employment in right livelihood).
many city farms become  totally or mainly self-supporting from sales of goods or services, plus modest  membership fees.
in the end, only military (waste) funding can use all this misbegotten wealth.
14.5 bioregional organisation
thus, it is necessary to l' locate or found ethical investment groups and put our money with them.
small bus.iness services centre there will no doubt be many  businesses run in any community which are not run as cooperatives.
some of the most charming and climatically appropriate houses on earth are built without bank loans, architects, metals, concrete, or contractors.
the economic audit: "where did the money go?
the way that land passed from clan management to personal ownership is well documented; since the year 1400 or thereabouts, the methods used were as in figure 14.14 most of us live on lands once tribal, now "owned".
all occupations can be "open" , available to all, but a  proportion of occupations (adjusted to that proportion of the society that  needs such work to be available) can "beassigned to specifically  disadvantaged groups at the ttlme of life or state of health where such work is  perhaps the only possible useful work one can do.
i cannot think of any better examples than the long-term tribal occupancies of deserts, rainforests, and prairies.
other than the essential occupations, there are a , range of potential village enterprises.
of these, perhaps only a hundred will be initially interested in any regional association, and even less will be active in it.
the lao prepares a standard lease specifying rental (if any), goods exchange, length and type of lease, access, and the names of the parties.
local currency as the community gains skills in financial management, there is no reason why an internal and district economy should not be bolstered by a noninflating currency printed by the community.
first, it must be backed up by areal, objective resource.
all of these can occur independently of political change, and can be long-term (life-long) personal actions of great effect.
all lessees are selfemployed; land costs are minimal (their share of  services) and land costs access is secure.
more than one farm or tust can join in a commonwork  system; the trust or land owners set broad conditons of sustainable use, and  allot space or resources to enterprises, but the contributors to the capital  fund vote in their own cash management group.
celt has now achieved the status of a bank, and can  offer services such as a bank offers.
thus, we can have a clear conscience on money put to earth rehabilitation.
14.7 trusts and legal strategies trusts in the public interest are the legal basis on which churches, universities and many schools, research establishments, some hospitals, many public services, aid programmes, and charities rest.
of the first category, we seek volunteers to take up the tasks, and if they come forward, we allot that task to them, agreeing on a timetable and stages of completion.
criteria: essential community information, aids, and research d1.
physical therapists and paramedics, especially in massage and stress-related problems, often find plenty of customers in a rural district.
an example of this sort is if a group of five wanted  to purchase a large brush chipper to create compost for themselves and to hire  out to others in the community.
currency should be used to satisfy real needs of the community for food, shelter, trade.
there are appropriate legal structures for a village.
check  history and archaelogy, and keep a journal and open plan of all development.
lease of seminar rooms, small warehousing, equipment, office space.
people exchange garden products and plants, share, labour, and exchange goods and services.
it is ideal to plan so that any one enterprise (energy supply, bees, tree nursery) helps so supply others, as well as regional needs.
c.e.l.t. accepts cash deposits,  and lends out to enterprises working closely with them until they are on their  feet.
truly basic rights to grow or protect forests, to build a shelter, grow food, or provide water from our roof areas are commonly denied by local or state regulations.
banking, cost accounting, summary and position analyses,  presentation to accountants at years' end.
this 10% credited to the donor, forms a cpital fund  together with any capital raised by the trust or the lessees (some as grants or  gifts, some as business loans).the trust also needs income for maintaining  services such as roads, fences, power, and to pay land taxes.
this is a non-returnable fund.
.stands for community enterprise loans trust, a new zealandwide  charitable trust to promote and support small businesses and cooperatives.
there are no "free" machines or free lunches.
4.3 information sources on food processing and preservation.
as a property is developed with lakes, forests, and wildlife, 80 its value increases, and the increased share value can be traded, it is in such restoration work that management teams (some of them co-investors, by an issue of shares for labour) can test their rehabilitation skills, as outljn~ti in this book and elsewhere in the land restoration literature.
we have a great deal to learn from older cities, which evolved in an energy conservative environment; cities such as florence and vienna, older parts of berlin, and almost every village that functioned before 1930.
quarterly meetings are held between both parties  to work out what products can be trucked direct from the farm to the families,  who use the product and can retail any surplus to others.
thus, wealth used by unethical investment strategies is rapidly transferred via global stock or money markets to most efficiently exploit the poor; a wry comment on the people devising or running such systems.
a "family" of this type, with 1 ,000 or less members, can ally with like groups to create a tribe, and 20-40 such tribes form a nation.
even in cooperatives, the functions of management (supervision, administration, accounting, and assessing) and worker representation (unions) are necessary, but unlike privately owned businesses, the whole workforce are shareholders, and all vote for people to fill these positions.
fire volunteers and reports (4 wheel drive clubs).
like land ownership, the ownership of people is an illusory aim.
ethics and principles of self-governance, interdependence, and voluntary simplicity or restriction of human numbers on earth still apply at regional and outreach levels.
max neef, manfred, from the outside looking in: experiences in barefoot economics, dag hammarskjold foundation, sweden, 1982.
where species disappear, trees or fish die, farmland and forest yields are reduced, and species lists simplify, there is trouble, and a degenerative effect is operating.
moreover, tools on hire should completely repay their cost by charge on a piecework or hourly rate, over a period realistically estimated as half their working life (vehicles, tractors, office equipment and so on).
evolving a new policy base.
innovations: local fuels and new sorts of vehicles.
cooperatives have a greater demand on the energy  and time of their workers-there are often planning or assessment sessions after  working hours.
educate local businesses and banks (exchanges) in the use of the currency,  which can be changed for the national currency (while this lasts) at the bank,  or for other regional currencies.
maximise water storage by constructions of keyline, swale,  soil conditioning, ridge forestry, and broad canals or dams for diversion and  irrigation.
as a guide, 30% of titles available should cover (in value) all land and development costs, so that surplus titles are available for community access, profits, gifts, labour equity, and new project development.
in fact, common work systems based on a social edifice of responsibility to and for others.
the gains go to the rich or lenders, and the losses to the poor or borrowers even though the earth may provide the wealth of their labour (the production sphere).
it is only the increase in the variety, quantity, and health of natural systems that indicates the health of any area.
people can find "aunts and uncles" to take part of the responsibility for children in any such extended family, and if the children have a common fund (like their own credit union) for basic needs, then their care at a basic level is assured.
barge and sea systems.
it is possible for a group to provide many services, and for many people to earn a living in so doing.
for 100 titles in the village: development stage: village trust stage (the titles given to the village group by the developer): or site criteria for village development
does it reuse its waste wood, glass, metal, paper, or organic wastes?
the lack of common, practical translation of scientific findings to those who can use the informa- tion.
a concept of a global nation is, in fact, very well developed in such groups, and the idea of war or oppression across race, language, or territory is anthema to those allied in good works.
critical services and links can be built by any regional office; it can serve as a land access centre, operating the strategies outlined later under that section.
g. cash resources sequestered via addiction and crime.
above all, a land trust should have a very clear idea of what it wants to  achieve, and to set a practical time limit to do the job.
various lay bodies such as the sierra club, friends of the earth, and organic growers have funds to place in investment for at least short periods, and cannot always trust the local banks, which invest in adversary systems or which do not reveal their investment policy publicly.
in the usa, international green party, 113 29th st., newport beach, california 92663.
.childrens' permanent fund: all adults (age 17 or over) contribute $50 to this fund, with additional gifts encouraged.
a farm is purchased by  the club or society on a public access route 12 hours from the city.
in every case, the cost falls back on us.
finally, the informal economy includes purely volunteer labour, exchanges of gifts, and taking responsibility for a certain community project or area.
the use of torture and imprisonment for repression of people; arrest or detention without charge or public trial.
land allotment and village infrastructure infrastructures for energy, commerce, and land allotment are an integral part of a self-reliant village.
the interfaith center for cor~orate res~onsibilitx (i.c.c.r.1 a coalition of churches, issuing a newsletter the corporate examiner, which reports on local topics and their follow-ups.
in summary then, the successful business: attention to current and future trends (social, climatic, economic, political) is essential for any business group, and small business centres can research on such trends; societies change according to new information, products, and materials, and businesses must change or expand with these trends.
this group accumulates and publishes on successful community financial strategies for no-capital enter- prises (pre-selling), local share programmes, and how to print your own currency, as well as other strategies.
maps -bioregional map geological plant system soils sources and references to maps, suppliers regions, parishes, land titles access and roads reserves and easements rivers and water supplies note that if essential services are listed, deficiencies noted, and leaks of capital detected, then there is immediately obvious a category of "jobs vacant".
the let system (local employment trading system) centres in a community: every joining member must be willing to consider trading in local "green" dollars.
the development may give considerable profit (but that is not guaranteed).
all are freely and legally exchanged for goods or services, which are themselves interchangeable (a song for a lettuce is a good bargain).
city farms: a local group of 100 or more families forms a city farm association, and invites local, state, or federal authorities (via their local representatives) to allot from 1-80 ha (preferably with a building) to a city farm.
.stands for community enterprise loans trust, a new zealandwide charitable trust to promote and support small businesses and cooperatives.
(page512) 2.9 contractors (shearers, etc.) and consultancy groups, farm designers.
as an example, the development of permaculture village does just that; the shares (not identical units) actually fund the whole developmen including a common development fund, a local revolving loan fund, commercial and light industrial leases; areas are also set aside for primary producer regional markets, recreation, conservation, and energy reserves.
as a bequest: some good hearted older people will bequeath land, yielding  up successive rights as they age, to younger landless people or to a land  trust; this is i form of public bequest, and is a fairly common   occurrence to establish parks, wildlife areas, or demonstration and teaching  farms.
belief is of itself not so much a difference as a refusal to admit the existence of differences; this easily transposes into the antagonistic attitude of "who is not with me is against me" , itself a coercive and illogical attitude and one likely, in the extreme, to classify all others as enemies, when they are merely living according to their own history and needs.
no amount of gold or diamonds can avert, reduce, or soften the blows that nature is raining upon us, and in the final accounting, a cabbage can be worth a king's castle (or more) if it saves your life.
toward an ecological economy: money, land, and tax reforms.
many small enterprises yielding products or services can pre-sell their wares for initial capital, and many others need no capital to start up, but these may need time to develop.
we know how to solve every food, clean energy, and sensible shelter problem in every climate: we have already invented and tested every necessary technique 'and technical device, and have access to all the biological material that we could ever use.
all of the above sections can contain case histories of successful strategies in that area.
cooperatives have a greater demand on the energy and time of their workers-there are often planning or assessment sessions after working hours.
also, more tragically, to educate their children in the basics of village systems.
this property is designed by the club or society to serve the interests of members, whether- for garden, main crop, fuelwood, fishing, recreation, camping, commercial growing, or all of these-
category h -future trends & potential threats to the region (as a series of research essays).
this can be achieved in these ways: the first few of these options presume a developer, are faster, and probably easier than the last option.
they pay $') a year per family, mainly to cover the printing and distribution costs of the club's newsletter.
it is now time to diversify bioregional resources to afford a flexible response to these changes.
many "communal" systems fail if very few people are legally liable for capital risk.
perhaps the first move to a new body of nations united in earth care .are
it is only when others feel secure that we need not guard our environments, so that the very best preparation for security is to teach others the strategies, ethics, and practices of resource management, and to extend aid and education wherever possible.
in less than 30 years, 96 workercooperatives, employing 17,000 worker-members, have emerged.
in addition, the possibility of a group label for products exists in a community.
the currency, although equivalent to legal tender, is not issued and cannot be cashed in.
once continental groups and some global groups have allied, these congresses can increasingly bring in less informed or more remote groups to share resources in an humane alliance; after all, global seed exchanges, technology groups, gardening forums, and regional groups already meet and are increasing in cooperation.
community money (or credit), however, is not usable or necessarily wanted outside that community, hence circulates indefinitely in the community, providing a constantly available resource.
size of villages human settlements vary in their ability to provide resources, to develop a high degree of self-reliance, and in their alienating or(conversely) neighbourly behaviour according to population size and function.
by putting aside a sum for management, income can be made from wildlife reserves, seed, or new forests.
the let dollars carry no interest, and administration costs are charged on a "cost of service" basis.
for a little while, we have the use of the earth, and our time here is bounded by birth and death.
they printed meal vouchers, redeemable up to one year, and sold them to future customers and friends.
today these would be: biological: environmental: there is no implication in the above list that any investment fund should fund industries based on (relying on) the production of wastes.
thus, at least one of our "minority" groups can invest in their own salvation, and also change the wortd, not only without losing money but in fact getting more return from regenerative investment than from the death system.
at present, africa is in drought, and europe in a flood cycle, every 9+ years this reverses.
5.2 delivery services.
the first is to mobilise ground support in every electorate where a candidate of any party takes a stand on good ecology, or against nuclear and polluting industry; and the second is to form a local ecological or green party, or a bioregional group.
why should people give land away?
it is a mutual agreement, written and legal, that two groups, one third world (tw) and one western world (ww), work out for a mutual ethical enterprise.
the process of village development has been outlined herein; in such developments every resident can be a participant at most levels.
1.2 plant collections and botanical gardens, economic plant assemblies, aquatics.
3.7 engines and engine repairs.
each mother or mother-to-be would encourage 5-6 support people to contribute donations, and agree to help in other ways.
they do not want to invest in their own destruction by supporting polluting or addictive industries, and instead seek socially responsible investment.
city farms: a local group of 100 or more families forms a city farm  association, and invites local, state, or federal authorities (via their local  representatives) to allot from 1-80 ha (preferably with a building) to a city  farm.
billing and collecting accounts,  paying bills.
leasing systems any cooperative or village could run a leasing service for seldom-used items of capital equipment (photo- copiers to trucks) which individuals or businesses do need on occasion.
commonwork members are  free to leave, sellout to new lessees, and eventually be refunded their 10%,  less base main-
many, if not most, small towns need no other land assets.
production, as time spent by members in service to others, is thus never limited by the lack of money.
it is a fail-safe strategy to attach occasional understudies to this small group, or to stand ready to duplicate the function if it is not being administered.
lastly, there must be a demand for  its use, and a place to exchange it for other currency so that it works as well  for other people as it does locally.
educational programmes themselves need orientation to practical problem-solving using successful models.
other simple legal structures necessary to companies, cooperatives, credit unions, public investment trusts and so on are all well-outlined in company law, have excellent support services, and are routine arrangements.
perhaps we should start small, at about 30 or so adults, build to 200-300 people, and proceed slowly and by choice to 500, then "calve" into new neighbourhoods or new villages.
the consumers pay for their products or services directly, and their houses, products, and choice of work is self-determined; they are only unhappy to the extent they oppress themselves!
all can be locally produced if energy from community forests and people is provided.
it works in conjunction with a local bank in the area.
the acid test of a bioregion is that it is recognised as such by its inhabitants.
towns and cities as farms: a twist on the above, which can be operated by a  city farm group.
it is obviously important for womens' groups to direct this money to life-enhancing ; enterprises.
other: select a few caretaker house sites if necessary, and designate and  stockpile earth materials if and as these are discovered in earth works.
if this is timber, the currency is based on "a cord  of timber, cut and stacked in the woodyard at such-and-such a place", or  if clean water "a gallon of water bottled and redeemable at a certain  place."
thus, we can form small groups of one to three people who are responsible for management of a specific area of activity.
we accept the need, therefore, for accelerated reafforestation, the preservation of existing forests, sane village development, and the rehabilitation of eroded and misused lands.
on this land, the following activities are promoted: .demonstration gardens; the essentials of a successful city farm is that it lies in an area of real need (poor neighbourhoods), that it has a large local membership, and that it offers a wide range of social services to the ,area.
the system is best developed in japan, although scattered examples operate  elsewhere for products as diverse as fish and game, wheat and firewood.
however, we need a redeemable, solid, real and objective currency for trade and exchange.
the regional office may need to map and actively  seek land, and should make a small service charge for registration of leases.
there is usually only one title, or a few titles, nut there are probably thousands of possible rights upon any land.
one regional office makes it very easy for any resident or visitor to contact all services and associations offering in the region, and also greatly reduces costs of communication for all groups.
the above occupations cover the essentials of shelter,food, economy, energy, transport, and health.
6.8 glasshouse, shadehouse, food dryers, suppliers, and appropriate materials.
4.2 food processing centres (fpcs).
why,should we fund oun destruction when the alternative is wide open for profitable, ethical development?
the community  has cooperative schools, hospitals, a university, housing, health and welfare  services, a technical research laboratory, super-markets, banks, and computer  centres; all of these are cooperatives, and schools earn part of their costs by  contract to manufacturing cooperatives.
thus, every person fits a matrix of totem and function.(figure 14.2).
real estate or realty:
s.h.a.r.e (self-help association for a regional economy) po box 125, gt.
it is only the combined pressure of trade unions and monoculture industry that keeps people bound with the invisible shackles of custom to those unguarded slave camps termed industrial suburbs, with all their malnutrition, poor housing, and human suffering.
tukel, george 1982,toward a bioregional model, planet drum foundation 1982, po box 31251, san francisco, california, u5a. (this short treatment sees "bioregion" as watershed; while valid, many tribal and urban bioregions may not fit this model.)
the worker is, in effect, "loaning" the cooperative the money, and so receives interest.
village coalitions can fund and operate larger , systems such as mutual investment funds for special purposes, engage in manufacturing on a reasonable scale, and exchange skills and strategies.
2.4 training courses in region.
recycling 3.1 sewage and greywater disposal {domestic).
if people, via education, retraining, or selfhelp can  improve their skills, their political mobility (not fixed castes) can allow  them to improve their relative earning capacity, although not beyond a fair  differential relative to their community.
it is seen in the collapse of the environmental system.
education and other work is funded by the interest from deposits and loans.
in this chapter, therefore, i will try to set out the currently sucessful social strategies that enable a small group or a region to define problems and to solve them locally.
eventually,  if the chipper is used by enough people, it may even be possible for the  original five to get a return on their money, although this was not necessarily  an aim.
most small businesses  accept the currency, and much of the local trade can be carried on in this  currency.
there is no reason why a village could not own and operate a boat, trucks, or pack animals trade, why a mountain or urban village could not purchase and manage a foothill farm for food production, and why an inland village could not finance part of a coast development, as many villages already do in india (along the ganges) where towns and regions own pilgrim houses for voyagers.
very few of us have any rights to share the resources of such land, which is either state (army), church, or corporation-controlled .
of the second category, we roster people to do the work, laying out a worksheet and a (usually weekly or monthly) roster.
the "united nations" today is neither united nor represents nations; it is like the oft-quoted "moral majority", which is also neither of those things!
if and when the whole world is secure, we have won a right to explore space, and the oceans.
this is not so difficult, as almost every world nation except perhaps japan, botswana (diamonds), and nauru {rock phosphate) is today a debtor nation and few have any hope of repaying their debts-such is the stupidity of governments and banks that invest in corruption and exploitation (note that ethical funds don't share in the stock market crashes if they hold real assets that support sel!-reliance).
aid as joint enterprises what is a joint enterprise?
the role of the s.c.c.e .is to review applications for  loans and to recommend individuals and businesses to receive these loans.
a short list of developmental design programs for a commonwork land trust is as follows: all of this asserts that we are not "just clerks" or "just housewives" but that we have many r()les in any free society.
in boring work, or where people are deprived of intellectual life, emotional life may dominate and so their lives become a drama or series of dramatic events.
the borrowing criteria is that the entrepreneur must be willing to work closely and regularly with celt during the loan so that a business has the greatest chance to succeed.
through the designers, users can obtain help in buil9ing and land  design, nursery and livestock services, and appropriate tools.
c.e.l.t. helps people form and run cooperatives and other enterprises by  providing advice, running training sessions so that people can learn  cooperative business skills, and by providing loans.
these funds can be released when the development is fully approved by the shire council, and roading and services can be installed at those stages that may be demanded by the shire or region.
many groups put off such actions, but it is better to start them (at modest levels) very early in the whole process.
good people everywhere can take financial and developmental control of their regions, give equal service to all people, and rise from an ethical but outcast sum of minorities to be a driving force in world stability.
even so, funds subscribed may always exceed demand (businesses are slow to develop), so the fund managers should always be ready to fund the start-up of mort advanced money systems such as investment advisors in ethical trusts, local insurance and banking, and a local "mint" to print a district currency of non-inflatable money, which in the end is also non-interest bearing.
lenanceand service costs, but plus any interest paid.
every region needs to act as a curator and refuge for some critical life elements of allied regions, so that absolute loss of species is unlikely short of global catastrophe.
even in fiscal societies however, barter and exchange are developed (even by multinational firms), and formal barter centres are now also evolving locally to distribute surplus goods for real or imagined needs.
priority 4:: specify complex access and trackways, critical edges for  flowers, bee fodders, trellis systems, wayside crop.
we need not only to "think globally and act locally", but to "act and think globally and locally".
integrated pest management (lpm) 3.1 insectaries and invertebrate predator breeders and suppliers of biological controls.
the temporary nature of political systems is an impediment to effective action.
funds can be used for the following: the precise amount so used should not exceed 4-8% of funds (based on figures from other property trust expenses), and the remainder is devoted to the purchase and development of properties as outlined in the prospectus.
leasing systems any cooperative or village could run a leasing  service for seldom-used items of capital equipment (photo- copiers to trucks)  which individuals or businesses do need on occasion.
to hand over to other some income-earning but superfluous (to the existing group) enterprise, and so reduce income.
internal economics are greatly aided by exchange newsletters, computer services, and advertisement.
the system is best developed in japan, although scattered examples operate elsewhere for products as diverse as fish and game, wheat and firewood.
while chile (as an economic system guided by "experts") accumulated a $12 billion foreign debt in 1985, poor people, acting without loans, together built at least $11 billion housing in slum areas by local cooperation without incurring any foreign debt.
besides, as people grow and age, they develop differing needs for space and -relationships, and other (intellectual or interest) factors call for different personal relationships.
there are several ways to use cities as farms-many german towns carry on an active city forestry along roads and on reserves.
this is probably the best source for investors who want to make their money work well.
these can be taken topic by topic, sold at first by the page, and finally put together as a looseleaf notebook (volunteers enter local resource centres and addresses under each category; the system is best suited to computer retrieval).
thus, the legal and ethical basis for successful community cooperation must stress sharing, trusteeship, and modest consumption; the latter is the ,ore important, as individual power over land, real assets, finance, or group membership leads inevitably power over others, and we are back where we started.
1.9 skilled people., botanists, horticulturists.
these are not working cooperatives or businesses, but rather projects that save money or give the opportunity for a wider range of resources than if each person had to fund them individually.
friendly societies handle health  and insurance.
every bioregion should monitor tree cover, wildlife, seaweed beds, bird colonies, species counts, and productive cultivated land at regular intervals.
for a developed region, services such as a travel club, credit union, food cooperative (or rather, group purchase cooperative), farm club, and educational and medical services can also be provided.
the establishment of a  regional office (a land access office-lao) opens up the potential for offering  a set of strategies enabling better land use, and suited to the finances and  involvement of people using the service.
this right, and many similar rights, overlay all landscapes, all societies,  but can only be designed to be beneficial if that society (or that segment of  society who want self-reliance) entrust their lands and lives to a  public-interest deed of trust, and also trust each other to carry out a  function.
with no or very low interest rates, people buy goods at a steady rate, and industries do not need to be geared to cope with the fluctuations in market caused by the sw.ings inherent in a global money supply which starves some regions and floods others with only a profit motive in mind.
by rainforest destruction.
while the site choice may be very much influenced by opportunity, a criteria that is essential is that any village should be able to catch, store, reticulate, and clean up its own water supply.
most of what makes a successful business is the combination of human-centred values with good management, which we have listed below (paraphrasing from the findings of the book in search of excellence by t. peters and r. waterman, 1984, harper & row).
such values need to be carefully framed, realistic, and simple to remember.
secondly, unless a large cash reserve is available, each trust can only manage one area of land, and only slowly expand.
these can then be placed in smaller blocks for a variety of exchanges in goods and services, and are a good way to turn a large surplus of one commodity into a range of services and goods needed.
as for the touchy subject of population control, taking group responsibility for a very few children sometimes cures the urge to breed, and those who want more than two children are far outnumbered by those who don't, so that where children are not seen as a "future insurance"-as in very poor rural families- the population can soon achieve a steady state.
these are .environmental deterioration.
retirement fun (superannuation), union funds, insurance funds, a common trust funds are all large sources of investment monies; it is wise, therefore, to include representatives of or contributors to such funds in earthbank societies, and to invite them to ethical investment conferences.
at any rate, the present system is in the process of collapse, and the new barter systems are expanding; the only question we have is if the life support systems of earth will still be intact, or whether sanity in fiscal affairs will be delayed until no human survival is possible on a polluted earth.
more importantly, the regional office can offer and house community self-funding schemes, and collect monies for trusts and societies.
corporate members: these are the primary producer, manufacturing, or public service associations.
we can also make it cost to be socially .irresponsible
thus, the work  force has total control over the composition of representatives, rather like a  bioregion.
this may be subscription (library) or piece work (photocopier), hourly rate (computer) or miles travelled (vehicle).
however,  that should not preclude their sharing in certain commonlyused services, such  as accounting, telephone services, secretaries, telex, insurance, distribution,  cocataloguing of goods, group advertising, and export assistance.
arrange site option or purchase terms.
familiarity: in expansion, or in new products, good businesses stick to what they know best (and don't expand into or acquire a business in an unfamiliar field).
and that is the secret of success: assembling sufficient commonsense people in one area.
the formal economy "formal" means that goods or services are conducted under a legal umbrella, and are regulated by accounting procedures.
animal resources 2.1 breeders and stud or propagation centres, artificial insemination, hatcheries.
however, it is rarely an achievable reality, unless enough people gather in one area and manage to attract a sufficient number of like people to achieve a viable internal economy and trade infrastructure, together with the community common funds that make such enterprises possible.
this was, in fact, the system tried successfully by some small austrian towns in the 1930's depression; as such systems strengthen and grow, so regions can stabilise and pay for all their essential longterm resources.
in fact, educated people of good will, and traditional people, have seen where ownership has ruined common resources, and are returning to the concept of taking local-stewardship of the land itself.
the meeting observes the principle of one worker, one vote.
this cannot be stressed often enough.
above all, there is no one way to do anything.
dwellings need to be of varying types: a mix of such housing provides much more for needs and age differences than does the traditional family home.
"every major tool needs to be costed for running costs, repairs, and replacement plus any interest on capital.
each group or sub-group is small enough to reach fast agreements and know of each others' movements and work.
in natural systems this is the ;"law of return".
it is not a bank or finance company, and so loans through the s.c.c.e. are not secured.
all savings and contributions are accounted to individuals, and available as loans as for any credit union or revolving fund, across all currencies and regions.
occasionally people may form 35 person work groups to build houses, create gardens, or clean up housework; these work groups may be episodic, forming the pattern of a roundrobin until all present needs are met.
any surplus or unused funds accumulating in the trust can be invested in ethical systems, including housing cooperatives, inventory for development projects, and shares in ethical businesses.
in catastrophes, only residents are effective over the short term; it is they who need, and can effectively use, relief housing and supplies.
the credit union can carefully assess loan applications.
the farmer adjusts production to suit family needs, and as the "link" grows, the system can also accommodate holidays on the farm, educational workshops, and city help on the farm at peak work periods (planting and harvesting).
although many employees (unfortunate people) are paid to do only one job,  members of a common work can take up many occupations, the net return from  which afford a living plus some net profit for local investment as a tithe on  earnings.
5.7 roadside and self-pick sales.
young people growing up in such an environment have a capacity to use many materials, or to make whatever they require, as a result of the informal everyday association with the' open shops' that are the hallmark of small tradespeople, and where neighbours and family come and go the workplace itself.
like water, it is not the total amount of money entering a community which counts; it is the number of uses or duties to which we can divert money, and the number of cycles of use, that measures the availability of that money.
in fact, today's governments are not only in themselves irresponsible, but they often fund secret and far more irresponsible agencies, responsible to nobody!
14.11 money and finance
when basic needs are supplied locally, research and skills will reveal work in producing excess for trade this excess can be as information and education to other regions.
profile of morbidity in region.
above all, people need now to be well-informed so that they can act for themselves, or in concert, and we should all prepare for selfreliance and regional interdependence.
such a landuse system promises full and beneficial use of lands, and can take up much of the unemployment in a district.
davis (california) is one modern town where energy-conserving legislation is in place, and people are encouraged to conduct all non-polluting businesses from their homes; and where bikeways are available throughout the settled area.
each may operate in their own home, but all services are listed in an educational or informational newsletter and can combine where needed.
(cooperative enterprise loan trust): people's banking and seminars advisory services; includes s.c.o.r.e. service corps of retired executives.
think of the "ownership"  as a blank canvas or empty wardrobe.
*conservative: insulation, dams, money re- cycling systems, good storage areas, and strategic forests to guard against erosion or desertification are all categories of conserver society assets.
cliff, beach rescue services.
that is, energy needs are solved mainly in the home by a combination of good design and hardware.
to conduct oneself only in terms of response to other people gives a potential to evade responsibility for damage inflicted in the total resource base, and thus utlimately to others.
a community barter club also works on a system of debfts and credits, where residents offer goods, services, and skills, from landscaping to massage, from mowing to printing.
as nuclear family households are a minor part of modern societies (13-18% of all households), households based on friendship, or work affinity, or designed for students, single, or elderly people, are needed.
post exchange rates publicly at the money  exchange or bank and issue the currency to banks- .start
1.5 computer services and training.
of this  investment, 20% is a contribution to collectively owned funds, and 80% is for  the purchase of an individual shareholding or capital account (which is  normally not drawn upon by the worker except bn retirement, death, or in cases
thus, more iormal cooperatives need to include retraining, education, and work mobility for their , membership, or risk frustration and boredom with r work, the work factor itself can include some proportion of time or output devoted to social services generally, so that everyone feels that they are contributing to their society as a whole.
this helps explain why we always found tribally managed lands to be rich in natural life resources, and why we have managed to ruin much of the resources we inherited.
all lessees are selfemployed; land costs are minimal (their share of services) and land costs access is secure.
we can now speculate how residents can earn their living in the .village.
ailments in order of importance, under: 4.1 accidents & injuries; infectious diseases; addictions & drugs.
the whole world benefits from forests, and such benign strategies need to be operated on the widest possible scale.
c. corruption, and the misuse of public monies by selfinterest groups.
in modern times, nuclear  families or individuals are socially very isolated on large farms.
did the enterprise benefit people in the long run? "
all seem to  make a very good income by treating the city as a specialist farm.
no price is too high to pay for the right to work at "right livelihood", to consume what we can help produce, to feel secure, and not only to avoid harming, but to actively assist, other people and life forms.
for a developed region, services such as a travel club, credit union, food  cooperative (or rather, group purchase cooperative), farm club, and educational  and medical services can also be provided.
we should develop or create wealth just as we develop landscapes, by concentrating on conservation of energy and natural resources (reducing the need to earn), by developing procreative assets (proliferating forests, prairies, and life systems), by reducing the creation of degenerative assets (roads, monuments, cities), and by constantly divesting ourselves of any surplus wealth to these ends.
only members can trade with each other, the community account is at all times balanced.
unlike the mondragon cooperatives, which are usually appliance manufacturing factories, a small community cooperative might have three categories of membership, as below: 1.
this right, and many similar rights, overlay all landscapes, all societies, but can only be designed to be beneficial if that society (or that segment of society who want self-reliance) entrust their lands and lives to a public-interest deed of trust, and also trust each other to carry out a function.
these do wear out, but can be used to repair each other in workshops.
at about year 5 of development, when residents have a clear idea of future needs, the capital itself can be used to install wealth-producing assets for employment in the village (glasshouses, computers, machinery).
elsewhere, "zoned" industries create vast traffic problems, and the separation of people from services.
this i would initially fund about 20 of the 50 households, and more as manufactures develop.
this is enough; others will have good ideas about small essential services and businesses, and the research group can be very busy researching and publicising "leaks" of money from the area, so that under or unemployed people can start up services and supplies to stop these leaks, e.g. does the area make its own bread, yoghurt, sausages, shoes, clothes, pots and paper?
user pays principle: from privately to publicly owned figure 14.11 (scematic of capital flow within and without a village) figure 14.12 (cash flow of the village assets (sewing machines to reference libraries), a charge sufficient to cover running costs, repairs, and replacements must be placed on that item.
however, the same methodology can be used by conservationminded takeover teams, who "strip" polluting companies, and develop land and urban assets to serve the needs of the society and of nature.
benefits are numerous: commonwork systems:
without ethics or restrictions, any financial institution is a danger and a weakness in a community.
1.5 tiles and surfaces, paints (non-toxic) 1.6 furniture and fittings.
energy systems 2.1 home appliances for energy conservation and efficiency, energy saving and insulation.
why should an insurance company hi money in motor vehicle manufacturers producing unsafe or faulty vehicles?
the regional office may need to map and actively seek land, and should make a small service charge for registration of leases.
it is superfluous and unwieldly to have any more than 3 or 4 trustees for each trust, although small sub-committees can also be allotted part of any specific project work, and other people can contribute their special skills.
the community has cooperative schools, hospitals, a university, housing, health and welfare services, a technical research laboratory, super-markets, banks, and computer centres; all of these are cooperatives, and schools earn part of their costs by contract to manufacturing cooperatives.
14.14 futures i have borrowed, in part, from the publications of the infant world regional and familial alliances to detail (as a thematic structure) those global problems and local disturbances that will concern all of us over the next few decades.
imports are greatly decreased,  local employment rises rapidly, good products {and security) are available, and  community morale is enhanced.
unless the formation of trusts is a common practice in a particular country, very few lawyers can set up (or even know about) trusts.
a cooperatively run bank oversees the functioning of all new cooperatives in  the group, finances new cooperatives (up to 90%}, and offers expert managment  skills.
fiscal management, like energy management, also needs social, environmental, and ethical accounting.
only the corruption of fund managers would prevent such sensible provision for future work, and corruption cannot be exposed without investor pressure.
for currency to be valid and usable, some preconditions are necessary.
recently some american towns have enacted ordinances to force buildings to comply with a 60% self sufficient space heating requirement.
20% of the profits are held as capital reserves, and 70% are  distributed to workers, although not all of this is available for withdrawal  until a worker leaves the cooperative, at which point all of their financial  interest in the business must be withdrawn.
f. of food by biocides, radiation.
l.e. t.s. (local employment trading system): organised credit/debit non-currency systems.
auditing is the periodic assessment of the validity of any financial enterprise or investment strategy.
i do not, in my lifetime, or that of my children's children, foresee a world where there are no eroded soils, stripped forests, famine, or poverty, but i do see a way in which we can spend our lives towards earth repair.
once areas of action have been defined, regional groups can be formed into associations dealing with specific areas, eg.:
direct marketing is a fastgrowing selling technique;  it cuts out the retailer and so enables a product to be sold at a lower price  than can be offered by a conventional retailer.
ginsterweg 45, d3074, steyerberg, west germany.
from 20-50 families link to one or more farms in the nearby countryside.
just as bioregions need a federal congress periodically, so do they occasionally need global congresses; societies or families also need global meetings to break down the idea of defended regional boundaries to humanity.
for example, convivial treeplanting on community common areas should be a part of every household's responsibilities.
durable and well-made items.
consumers can reduce costs to below wholesale by assisting with harvest.
also, the trust deed gives an estimate of the duration of the trust; if this is intended to be "forever" , then legally the statement is likely to be , on the lines of "until 21 years after the death of the last descendant of ming emperors" or some such legally indefinable period.
criteria: native and economic species, organic and biocide free, products of good nutritional value.
does it provide a wide  range of services from haircutting to legal advice?
by doing this preliminary work, the borrower gets to know many people, and the community has a keen interest in seeing that the business succeeds.
consultancy for other sites in architecture, landscape, and design is possible, as is implementation and provision of plant materials from a nursery on site, which can further develop special crop for site, fire control, bees, orchards, or forages for animals (comfrey, tagasaste, etc.)
as money begins to flow to regional and socially responsible funds, even those people not personally persuaded of the need to invest in the future will have cause to think about investing in unethical systems from which public and financial support is being withdrawn, pursued vigorously as a strategy, reinvestment in ethical systems can change the total direction of capital flow towards beneficial systems.
it works in conjunction with a local  bank in the area.
throughout the world, groups are talking of issuing their own passports, or adopting world citizen status- given a common aim.
money is of no use if its ends are destructive to society, life forms, or values.
the only way to do this is to establish fin~ncial and economic systems onsite, such as a credit union, revolving loan fund, or local currency.
community forestry on steep and rocky i  lands will provide fuels, food, and buildings for the i future.
trusts are usually formed, operated, and staffed by people (often initially volunteers) motivated to perform one or other public duty, or who seek to assist a defined or special group in need.
lastly, there must be a demand for its use, and a place to exchange it for other currency so that it works as well for other people as it does locally.
category b -shelter, buildings.
in fact, as soon as possible after the developers pay land and developmental costs, they should seek to have village trustees elected.
so, sensible smallscale and cost--effective solutions are prevented or actively discouraged by governments and fiscal managers alike.
very few of us  have any rights to share the resources of such land, which is either state  (army), church, or corporation-controlled .
thus, in every occupation, job-sharing should be the rule, not the exception.
any local group is able to set up a resource list of data from models, to invite fund managers to visit their region to give seminars, and to adopt or devise local financial recycling systems, ethical brokerages, or non-monetary community exchange.
a chipper would be purchased, and an hourly  charge put on it to cover purchase, maintenance, and replacement.
faith in the fiscal system (an essential delusion if money is to maintain any barter value) is fading as nation states and giant corporations fail to meet their debts, and either repudiate debts or go into voluntary liquidation.
these are revolving loan funds that provide capital to community-based groups, enriching the community and forming a strong support base for the businesses established.
small bus.iness services centre there will no doubt be many businesses run in any community which are not run as cooperatives.
however, that should not preclude their sharing in certain commonlyused services, such as accounting, telephone services, secretaries, telex, insurance, distribution, cocataloguing of goods, group advertising, and export assistance.
many  people want to support small businesses and cooperatives, and often get into  the spirit of the venture when they read about individuals and businesses in  the catalogue.
they must show that the proposed business will attract customers from the community or even from outside the community.
it is always possible to use differences creatively, and design to use them, not to eliminate one or other group as infidels.
3.12 soaps, cleaning materials.
a selection of strategies follow, and  can be modified for local conditions: landlease system within urban areas; garden or farm club; towns and cities as farms; farm link system; and commonwork.
ln fact, it is a human ecological totality, provided with abstract and real self-reliance, and sufficient to pay for any tuition, travel, health service, and insurance needed by the family accessing a living.
in the preceding chapters, well-tried and common- sense techniques and strategies of earth restoration have been described and figured.
3.6 functional woodwork.
by doing this preliminary work, the borrower gets to know many  people, and the community has a keen interest in seeing that the business  succeeds.
in new york alone, the "open space coalition" counts 1,100  parcels of land as one or other form of city farm.
the community barter club can be an asset for people in the community who are unemployed or underemployed, and for those who need services but cannot afford to pay cash for them.
it is probable that some (or all) members could run one or more enterprises to fund a charity or "trust-in aid" programme for areas of need.
commonwork systems: any, tribe or even an individual farmer can allow  mutiple land use by setting up a commonwork system, akin to the african mahisa  or kivestock loan system of botswana.
on average, informed and concerned people will initially contribute a few  hundred dollars, just "to see a good thing go".
familiarity: in expansion,  or in new products, good businesses stick to what they know best (and don't  expand into or acquire a business in an unfamiliar field).
other groups occupied ecologies of grasslands, stony deserts, swamps, or mountain ridges.
a product catalogue is often a  valuable product in itself, offering product information and advice.
the bendigo home builder's club in victoria, australia is a group of 35 people building individual homes.
the fair assessment of these rest in family size, especially the number of dependents, base costs in the society, and frugality of the family unit.
most of us do not have large appetites; we wish only to have a shelter, enough food, some small luxuries, money to travel, and friends.
how do we marry needs and land resources?
some qreas will be under sports centres, some in trust to conservationists, some under lease to organise gardens and farms, and :i some reserved for educational and public bodies for public services.
where a very large number of people is needed for a job, a calendar is set and conveners let everybody know when and where the person power is needed.
producers of local goods, accept local currency only; this creates a demand, and other regions must "buy" such currency to obtain local goods.
if people, via education, retraining, or selfhelp can improve their skills, their political mobility (not fixed castes) can allow them to improve their relative earning capacity, although not beyond a fair differential relative to their community.
the borough issues an annual calendar, colour coded, and picks up only one or other category of waste on any one day, e.g.. clean glass, metal, tyres, paper, organic waste, oils, etc.
list b comprises those people (usually elderly or absentee landlords) who will lease either vacant land or the land around their houses on an annual, renewable basis.
most people came in to eat their promised meal, but some vouchers were traded to other people for some other service in the community, and thus the "currency" starts circulatin~ as vouchers relating to a real commodity.
investors can do the same for a public (for-profit) trust that reassesses its share prices annually.
currency should be used to satisfy real needs of the community for food,  shelter, trade.
however, they are guaranteed by the exchange (though only if loans are  made through s.c.c.e., not directly to the project).
it is ideal to plan so that any  one enterprise (energy supply, bees, tree nursery) helps so supply others, as  well as regional needs.
table 14.7 on energy conversion efficiency has been complied from several sources.
a  processing, shearing, or like facility may be needed by the group.
infact, a sensible village would closely investigate the advantages of a total vehicle leasing system, fleet purchase and insurance, local maintenance, and bulk fuel supply.
do not, in the first place, try to frame policy on purely local or trivial matters, unless as a case history applicable to a broad principle.
money is to the social fabric as water is to land-scape.
as political rule can change so rapidly, and is often repealed by opposing rulers, planning for the very long-term is possible only as a resident regional involvement.
2.3 space heating and house design for the region.
e mic summit"- toes) are now convened to hear from advisors and fund managers, and to supply education or materials to new groups.
his phenomenom occurred in the 1890's, 1930's, and 960'5 and at various times between.
laws of ownership are  relatively modern, and are foreign to tribal or clan law.
in the case of any small country, such trusts can run all public operations, and the "government" becomes simply a way of conveying tax capital back to the regions via local trusts.
in the mondragon system, actual cash or income differentials are limited in the ratio 1 :4 or 5; that is to say, a sweeper cannot receive less than 25% of the total wage of a doctor; this is a good basis for adjusting any ethical sharing in any system.
most people came in to eat their  promised meal, but some vouchers were traded to other people for some other  service in the community, and thus the "currency" starts circulatin~  as vouchers relating to a real commodity.
critical personnel to attach to a revolving loans office are in the  following categories: 1.
how is the land not attached to dwellings to be allotted?
both grow and exchange seed, set up a single seed catalogue and packaging system, agree to split profits, make arrangements for reciprocal travel, and devise ways to be closer friends.
they may cooperate together for group insurance purposes.
compost is sold, as is mulch, and any surplus is used to carpet a "ziggurat" (ascending spiral ramp) made of broken pipe, brick, .
it is a clear legal access to forage, and a registered and secure bee site; and it is the tight to sell or market product to pay for other ijfe needs.
as i see it, conflict arises on "national" boundaries that are fixed or disputed.
the tragic reality is that very few sustainable systems are designed or applied by those who hold power, and the reason for this is obvious and simple: to let people arrange their own food, energy, and shelter is to lose economic and political control over them.
worker-based clubs  usually develop private plots with overnight (caravan-style) accommodation for  weekends.
these enterprises depend on two basic factors: capital (enough money to start up and develop), and management (careful accounting, forward planning, market research and development, product development, sensible costing and staffing, correct lease and rental agreements, appropriate legal structures); thus a small business service centre is economical and necessary for 20 or more businesses.
this can be called a loans trust, credit union, finance cooperative or enterprise fund pool; it can include barter, a labour exchange, a regular fair or market, and it needs an open register of local skills and resources, well displayed.
thus, many young families get legal access to garden land, on an "allotment" basis.
the whole development group thus evolved can then purchase lands, capitalise them, and get them in order as a complex of lake, forest, and village settlement.
although cluster and strata titles give privacy, negotiability, and autonomy to individuals and families, and titles and houses can be resold, traded, or given to trust a, it is necessary to set up a land trust if only to administer the common lands, recreation reserves, and sites for future structures such as schools, restaurants, machine shops, or primary production.
recommended types of investments investments need to be staggered in terms of ultimate return, so that some money is always on call.
many have water  conversation, developing forest, wildlife corridors, wetlands, and special  species reserves as primary aims.
such nations may not have a common land base, or language, but do have a common ethic, minimally; at present, many thousands of organisations, affinities, tribes, bioregions, and spiritual and non-government organisations aspire to such beneficial ends; in every continent, a majority of people-the ethical majority-want peace; a clean and forested earth; a cessation to torture, malnutrition, and oppression; and aright to work towards these ends.
households: basically consumers, each household pays a nominal joining fee, goods are bought at a discount, and an annual dividend is received for the bulk purchases over the year.
the mondragon cooperatives have several features: 1.
the work of the bioregional group is to assess the natural, technical, service, and financial resources of the region, and to identify areas where leakage of resources (water, soil, money, talent) leave the region.
any such library of solutions needs an educational outreach.
20% of the profits are held as capital reserves, and 70% are distributed to workers, although not all of this is available for withdrawal until a worker leaves the cooperative, at which point all of their financial interest in the business must be withdrawn.
mollner, terry 1982, mondragon cooperatives and trusteeship (the design of a non-formal education process to establish a community development program based on mahatma ghandhi's theory of trusteeship and the mondragon cooperatives), doctoral thesis, university of massachusetts usa.
for some contacts in the us (or elsewhere) i have listed below public service organisation with good advice.
on the other hand, as land titles in a region are bought out and occupied by any group who share an ethical philosophy, so the shops, markets, processing centres, equipment, and , support services for the new economy become worthwhile and available.
the prime purpose is to give every person a chance to do more than object to or protest inappropriate land sales to overseas investors, land misuse, and poor planning, and to invest in saving critical or endangered national resources (such as wildlife and forests), while actively; rehabilitating eroded lands.
accounting is: note: all forms of accounting are assessed annually, and the results circulated to all investors or co-owners.
in central australian tribes, at every event there may be three "function" groups (independent of totems or "skins"): one group "knows" or records time-orchestrates (the intellectual); one carries out dances, increase ceremonies or activity (the physical); and one encourages, applauds, and appreciates (the emotional).
tasks fall into two categories: those which are creative, productive, or constructive, hence pleasing, and those which are basically maintenance (domestic, office, and garden work).
however, with the benefit of scepticism gained from hindsight, many people are working to reverse this historical trend; tribes are still forwarding their claims to common ground after 200--400 years of occupation, and thousands of people are formi11g trusteeship or~anisations to remove land from private ownerships, church, and state control, and to return it to use by!
many large companies set up, and to some extent fund, non-profit organisations or even charitable trusts as a means to reduce taxable income, to carry out educational services, or to obtain public goodwill; some businesses tithe to worthy trusts that they believe in (a tithe is usually a tenth of income, but in practice ranges 4 from 5-15%).
1.3 community banking and investment systems.
the primary categories are as follows: a. food and food support systems b. shelter and buildings c. livelihoods and support services d. information, media, communication, and research e. community and security f. social life g. health services h. future trends i. transport services m. appendices (maps, publications of the bioregion)
celt has now achieved the status of a bank, and can offer services such as a bank offers.
however, with the benefit of scepticism gained from hindsight, many people  are working to reverse this historical trend; tribes are still forwarding their  claims to common ground after 200--400 years of occupation, and thousands of  people are formi11g trusteeship or~anisations to remove land from private  ownerships, church, and state control, and to return it to use by!
bcause  the want a village, or more people on the land:
this is known as a "gleaning" system; many thousands of tons of unwanted food is so redistributed in the usa.
the only real security in life is a secure society of interdependent people, thus the only valid "defence" is aid to others.
every parcel of trust land is  aunique and longterm development, and if too much land is accepted, simple  maintenance and land tax costs can bankrupt the trust.
our freedoms are, in fact, a choice of those chains of responsibility or social dllties with which we feel comfortable-not the freedom to do nothing, or to do what we like (to be self-serving)-but the freedom to choose among occupations-the portfolio of self-expression, work or duties that we in fact do evolve in non-hierarchical societies, villages, and tribes.
does it provide a wide range of services from haircutting to legal advice?
this is known as a "gleaning" system; many thousands of  tons of unwanted food is so redistributed in the usa.
hence, we can find them associated with addictive, ostentatious, and exploitive occupations.
all these strategies need careful long-term planning, and tlrm policy implementation; these need to be in place over several decades before fine-tuning is possible.
this gives us a set of priorities based on "greatest effect and involvement".
3.6 checklist of common pests and predators, and safe pest control procedures.
on close examination, we "believe" in those systems that enable us to behave without guilt, with respect to our resources and our own culture.
in past times, it was unusual for a villager to hold just one job; the banker was also a part-time barber and trader and perhaps gardener.
employment, like suburbs and institutions such as  gaols, are as modern as lawns and politics; all ancient societies of people  arranged life without any of these impediments, but only by seeing life as  livings, and living things as basic to life.
there are dozens or hundreds of funds, currencies, barter fairs, and investment trusts established to build a sustainable future) has benefited.
lncome-earning for local development is a priority, while other capital-intensive schemes (e.g. commercial pottery) need to wait.
individuals can then take on new and more current tasks, or adopt a different level of effective :action based on past experience.
ment out of control").
a great benefit to having many business offices located in one place is the  increased number of consumers and the ability to concentrate many products in a  single product catalogue.
by giving some land away (especially to a  tax-deductible trust) they can concentrate on a smaller productive area.
as for dissenters, there never is any impediment to their setting up their own ideal system, and living in it; or setting up a parallel work group to show how it should be done.
such factors are now firmly tied to food crises and drought in most continents (new scientist 8
as the ethical investment movement matures, however, this negative approach is evolving into a very positive search for, and willingness to fund and support (or establish), enterprises which: thus, local or bioregional funds can establish small or large enterprises necessary to that region, using money raised by residents.
the trust can gift land to  other regional trusts or associations of whocm it approves, so that local gifts  can be routed through a tax-deductible trust.
i the law clearly distinguishes between ownership or ( entitlement to a resource, and the rights of the use of it.
it follows that expenditure on categories 3 to 5 conserve and create wealth in any society.
recreation can support itself for wood, fuel, and building materials by the  conversion of lawn s to use.
essential industries {small steel, cement, pipe, glass. and workshop-based t enterrprises, plus energy industries will need to be relocated inland, and extensive road rerouting plus barge or water transport services will be needed; areas that will become islands will need efficient water or air transport.
if we are one isolated a biodynamic gardener in a district of contract vegetable growers or graziers trained in chemical agriculture, we find both the practice and infrastructure support of the isolated system difficult; there may be no one to talk to, let alone share resources with.
kennedy, margrit, 1987
money itself is not a resource, and has no intrinsic value or use, but it can create categories of resources or assets, which we can identify as follows (after turnbull, 1975): *degenerative: those assets that decay, rust, or wear out: the buildings, roads, cars, furnishings, and appliances of society.
such trusts are currently immune from company tax; they also reduce family tax and enable a wide variety of enterprises to be initiated by one organisation.
the long-term aim is to: reduce the need for trade goods, and increase the information flow.
assessing reserves, and operating the banking and insurance functions of the  office.
they receive only 6% interest (but this means small loans can be given out at 10%, interest).
1.2 neighbourhood watch.
the framework for such nations already exists; it remains to give those frameworks the mechanisms that create true interdependence via anew type of extended family.
although they can purchase and manage a property, they usually come to an arrangement with an already established market gardener.
every member gets periodic statements of accounts.
agencies *finance companies and lending organisations .commercial or merchant banks *investment brokers and stock exchanges *limited liability companies (risk capital)
in this way, a co-op can partially fund itself, with generous help from the cooperative bank.
southern cross capital exchange ltd, operating out of wentworth falls, nsw,  australia, is a nonprofit organisation that brings together those who want to  borrow from specific (socially conscious) projects, and those who have money to  loan to such projects.
quarterly meetings are held between both parties to work out what products can be trucked direct from the farm to the families, who use the product and can retail any surplus to others.
persistent misuse (e.g. of a vehicle) results in a withholding  period or permanent withdrawal of permission to use.
c. adequate and easily maintained (low-energy shelter.
talking with thomas banyaca, a hopi messenger of his people, it became clear to me that we need anew concept of "nation" , and anew representative body to speak for them.
5.9 annual barter fair.
these sub-groups can appoint one of their number to represent that group on council.
above all, any financial institution should pay attention to two necessitous "foundation stones": *an ethic, expressed as a published, legally binding, and publicly known charter; and *restriction to appropriate resource development and trade, in its operations (for not all financial institutions suit every objective of community).
we need to turn our money resources to truly rehabilitative ends.
c.e.l.t. accepts cash deposits, and lends out to enterprises working closely with them until they are on their feet.
if no increase, or a decrease, is evident, something is wrong and should be immediately assessed for correction.
the following resource index for bioregions has been compiled by maxine cole and myself for the northern rivers bioregional association of new south wales, australia.
*trading or public companies *
these are essentially fossilised and no longer of relevance to ordinary people.
until we have demonstrated that we can establish a productive and secure earth society, we do not belong anywhere else, nor (1 suspect) would we be welcome elsewhere.
obtain an "agreement in principle" from the local shire or planning authority, establishing: 4.
shared and stated values: all concerned with the company believe strongly in a set of values, often restated.
it includes primary conversions (gas to several electricity) and secondary conversions (waste heat to high grade gas).
water balance disturbance.
2.5 appropriate technology groups, research centres and demonstrations.
through global associations and "families of common interest" we cross not only the regional but also state and national borders to set up multicultural alliances.
a balanced life has all three outlets, so that contented people may spend part of their time in: physical exertion (walking, gardening, sport); intellectual pursuits (design, research, education); and emotional-sensual areas (celebration, ontemplation, love).
benefits are numerous: producers have an assured market at a mutually agreed price set a year  ahead.
the large amount of investment capital redirected hrough ethical brokerages is the tip of an iceberg which involves many thousands of ordinary people who are members of guarantee circles, ethical credit mions,community loans trusts, common fund agencies or bioregions, or non formal systems of labour and workday exchanges, barter systems, direct market systems, or no-interest, pre-purchase, "green dollar" systems, moreover, existing banks, credit unions, cooperatives, businesses, and allied groups are discussing the rewriting of their charters to include the values of earth care, people care, and the production of socially useful or socilally sensitive) products, some credit unions and banks already have such a charter, and keep corporate watchdogs on the staff whose sole job it is to monitor companies for unethical behaviour.
an even greater saving is realised by a modest tractor-tool-truck hire services, in which trust b leases these infrequently used assets to residents as needed.
some of the reasons are: there are many more reasons why people gift land to trusts, so that (generally speaking) there are more lands available than there are reliable stewards to occupy them.
it is also possible to deposit funds with a tax- deductible trust, which purchases critical or species- rich areas discounted by farmer debt or by misuse or overcutting {salted and eroded lands).
in fact, a bioregion is a sort of multi-cooperative, where smaller groups  take on specific services, thus specific responsibilities.
the skills group help to sclect equipment, test markets (presale of products is ideal), train young entrepreneurs in bookkeeping, and find resources and materials.
company takeovers or raids are often used to enrich ruthless individuals by "assetstripping"-selling off a public company's assets and keeping the profits, regardless of the effects on the work force or national economy.
a mutual decision is reached on an enterprise, e.g. seed growing.
trade, as distribution rights, wholesale potential, import-export trade and village trade networks are yet another probable enterprise, as art!
there is no inducemel greater than self-interest, and self-interest dictates that every investor should use, assist in, and consume the products and services they invest in.
corporate members: these are the primary producer, manufacturing, or  public service associations.
lean management: successful businesses use a simple organisational structure, a minimum of staff directing operations, and no "corporate planners" or analysts.
in every group, there is work to do.
as we cannot predict effects on fisheries or crops, diverse planning will be needed to establish inland aquacultures, forests, and gardens; economic species should be collected and preserved for future changes.
this can be borrowed from the bank or  obtained by installments deducted from wages over a two-year period.
the investing group decides  expense, location, and use payments.
whereas conventional financial systems propose a single economic criteria to such audits, i propose that we of the alternative nation apply three criteria: 1.
however, unlike simple barter, a member in credit can spend over the whole range of services or goods offered.
a selection of strategies follow, and can be modified for local conditions: land lease system within urban areas (oxfam model): this is particularly suited to young families in rental accommodation.
1.7 government departments and their resources, regulations.
the right not to be in debt.
user pays principle:
in the extended family, problems such as lack of shelter, land access, access to capital and services, deserted or neglected children (or adults), transmission of infective diseases, and population control can largely be dealt with by internal behaviour on some ideal of (dynamic) stability.
thus, the place of habitation is secondary to a shared belief in the establishment of an harmonious world community.
in many smaller villages, barter and exchange occurs as non-formal financial transactions, and a modest financial component is maintained only for travel and trade external to the region; symbolic wealth such as cowries are used in trade.
joint or group delivery / cartage.
as confidence in the local f.und grows, loans can start to cover  energy-saving house additions, insulation, or new well-designed housing, small  vehicles, small fuel supply technology, and land purchase for approved  projects.
the head does not ask for flowers while the belly lacks rice.
and so on...for crafts, music, markets, livestock, and nature study or any other interest.
such families already exist in europe, with small groups living in a scatter of households and locations across many existing national boundaries; some have existed for 18 or more years, and members report individual satisfaction with a larger support group.
all occupations can be "open" , available to all, but a proportion of occupations (adjusted to that proportion of the society that needs such work to be available) can "beassigned to specifically disadvantaged groups at the ttlme of life or state of health where such work is perhaps the only possible useful work one can do.
the sharing of "power" is really a sharing of responsibility; part of  that responsibility is the capital risk of any enterprise.
very few of such publicly needed, publicly funded and publicly open businesses fail.
2.2 hot water systems, solar systems.
some couples can tolerate years of close work, but many might prefer a slightly more independent existence, close to but not necessarily living with each other.
there are various ways to finance the process: some mix of the first two is possible, with trust funds established by the developers.
community finance and recycling 1.1 barter and exchange.
3.2 compost systems and organics.
nonprofit groups often collect unwanted food from orchards, canneries, etc.
it is no mere coincidence that there is both an historic and resent relationship between community (people assisting each other) and a poverty of power due to financial recession.
while "natural law" demands a fair return for every gift received, the laws of power demand gifts without thought of return-this is called "economic growth" and means unlimited resource exploitation and the concomitant exploitation of people.
the fair assessment of these rest in family size, especially the number of  dependents, base costs in the society, and frugality of the family unit.
management is often in close contact with both producers (staff) and customers, and involved in production.
there are hundreds of such essentially  minor incomes available in every society for  otherwise-neglected groups  or ages.
another class of investors are members of churches and organisations which profess an ethic of peace and goodwill.
3, broker-bankers: people actually handling cash flow, assessing reserves, and operating the banking and insurance functions of the office.
well-managed, the capital should actually increase, giving a large annual capital for village use.
there is an obvious conflict between the need to live in a region in a responsible way (bioregional centrality) and the need to integrate with other people in other places (global outreach).
markets and outlets 5.1 local markets.
the specific project areas in which ethical trusts operate are: the way such trusts stage development and show a return is as in figure 14.5.
at various periods of history, usually coincident with economic downturn, groups of people have left mainstream society to set up intentional communities.
the regional office posts  paired lists: list a is for those who want 200-1,000 sq.
in the mondragon system, actual cash or income differentials are limited in  the ratio 1 :4 or 5; that is to say, a sweeper cannot receive less than 25% of  the total wage of a doctor; this is a good basis for adjusting any ethical  sharing in any system.
the profound change we must all make is internal; body needs to realise that there is no group to their rescue, that it is only what each of us that counts; thus, those who cooperate with others, and take on a task relevant to all people, will be above those who seek personal survival.
1.6 libraries and collections of data in region.
most local businesses will accept a regional currency.
people buy or preprchase the book at a slightly reduced price, which enables the publisher to print the book (this is how the book you are reading was printed) in another example, a restaurant (zoo zoos) in washington state, usa, in transferring from single ownership to a work cooperative, needed to raise funds to buyout the owner.
as we are talking about community money, its uses need to be decided by that community.
briefly, the land area is closely assessed for earth resources, wildlife,  forest and aquaculture potentioal, small and large livestock (bees to  bullocks), arable land and mixed orchard, and socio-educational potentional.
ethics, if shared, discussed, and acknowledged, give unity to groups, villages, and nations, indicate a way to go, and control our use of earth resources.
in most cases, other people define the lives of the recipients of relief or salaries; as all such money comes from the pool of public wealth, then all such people are, in effect, on "relief payments", just as a company supported by public subsidy is on public relief (usually our primary production systems in the western world).
a small business services centre is itself a small business, now very popular and effective in india.
we cannot use soils, crops.
5.8 market packaging and package suppliers, ethical packaging systems and designs .
such a modest fund can operate out of a house or old shop front, or from a counter in an established food co-op or cooperative business.
even if a currency was originally based on bricks, it can be used to create such biological reserves as forests over time.
this principle stops "l'vegotabright idea" and a "iet'sgetit" approach-ideas must be paid for.
many city farms become totally or mainly self-supporting from sales of goods or services, plus modest membership fees.
a registry can therefore inform people of the balances in sex ratio and age structure, and recruitment in the late stages of enrolment can be adjusted to give a fair balance of sex-age distribution.
people who steal our independence steal our lifetimes; our personal independence relies on a cooperative human society.
a management committee plans for the whole area (access, water, fences, rates, etc) and can be selected by the club.
the tw group sells locally and supplies mainly labour and skills, but also teaches skills to the ww people.
no-one would deny that people are the most difficult factor in any design or assembly.
the borrowers make  personal guarantees, and "guarantee circles" are set up to spread the  risk (e.g. parents who want to build a school will all guarantee to pay back  the loan).
next, landuse can be indicated, and finally legal, social, and financial systems discussed for the place and time.
some qreas  will be under sports centres, some in trust to conservationists, some under  lease to organise gardens and farms, and :i some reserved for educational and  public bodies for public services.
in planning, first designs should be for water and energy, then access, then dwellings and other structures.
a. desertification, under the topics of: 1.
the habit of frugality is perhaps the most important of those assisting other life forms.
each member can either be a recipient or donor of labour.
"adversary-orinented" systems.
however, there are many functions (from crafts and arts to gardening and building) that do not need entrepreneurial skills, but which follow if these resources are available.
farm link (producer-consumer cooperative): these are appropriate to  highrise or rental accommodation in an urban area.
management is often in close contact with both producers (staff) and customers,  and involved in production.
the environmental audit: "were the activities life-enancing?
unethical e.g. retailing dangerous and persistent pesticides or herbicides.
secondly, it is an unhappy state to be employed, but , not free to use initiative; any person can go daily to a job, no matter how useless or boring, no matter how destructive, and be paid to be defined in a single role, e.g. as a teacher, clerk, process worker, or labourer; the worker has no say in policy, social value, hours, product quality, or environmental worth.
if not, jobs are open and  funds to start them are available!
however, commonworks need to be close to towns or on a public transport route, so that townspeople can participate; remote areas do not suit this system unless it is paired with a village development.
this principle  stops "l'vegotabright idea" and a "iet'sgetit"  approach-ideas must be paid for.
it is  not a bank or finance company, and so loans through the s.c.c.e. are not  secured.
l,e.t. system: conventional money derives from many agencies external to a community, and circulates throughout all communities, tending to be accumulated in cities, multinational coffers, and banks supporting large investors.
a people with a common ethic is a nation wherever they live.
by allotting 30% of sites to the body corporate (trust a), the developers ensure that: the trust can use this asset in many ways, but would be most effective in ensuring either conservation of energy or business development on site, and in using the common wealth for increasing local productive assets if a credit union has been established, much of the trust capital can be transferred to a loans account, so that residents can draw on it at low interest for local occupational development.
most of what makes a successful business is  the combination of human-centred values with good management, which we have  listed below (paraphrasing from the findings of the book in search of  excellence by t. peters and r. waterman, 1984, harper & row).
attention to current and future trends (social, climatic, economic,  political) is essential for any business group, and small business centres can  research on such trends; societies change according to new information,  products, and materials, and businesses must change or expand with these trends.
in particular, children need a wider alliance and support group than just one or two parents.
although each business may be a separate entity, the label can be of  a similar design, with the words " another product from boon dock"  (or some such) printed at the bottom.
democratic organisation (members participate in decisions affecting the  cooperative, with affairs to be administered by people elected by the members}.
neutral e.g. funding a film which may have no message, ethical or otherwise.
3.8 functional glasswork.
the investing group decides expense, location, and use payments.
even if a currency was originally based on bricks, it can  be used to create such biological reserves as forests over time.
usually, money borrowed to save energy is amortised over periods of from 2-7 years.
others can develop from local skills: teachers are needed for children, for adult education, and for applied workshops on site.
by these and other methods; the public can start to go to work via the normal financial and market procedures of the capitalist world to set their environment in order, to preserve species, and to educate and train an effective work force in assuming control for good purposes.
demand means that there must be a real need for some item or service lacking in the local society.
some can be based on land resources (glasshouse crop, special crop, cut flowers, herbs, pharmaceutical, processed dairy products, fish and aquaculture).
no redundancies in the cooperatives-workers are retrained and new jobs found in other expanding co-operative groups.
too many of these "assets" in any region will impoverish the region in the long term.
very few of such publicly needed, publicly funded and publicly open
customer reaction is then gauged in a matter of weeks or months, not years.
from 20-50 families link to  one or more farms in the nearby countryside.
the monopolisation of socially useful inventions by patents, especially in seed and technology.
as the problems are truly global, global concerc and action will be needed.
we are acting at our best level and have the greatest chance of success (or least chance of failure) when we are active workers in, and consumers of, the products or services that we fund.
we can retain as land stewards the very few broadscale graziers and managers who now use vast tracts of land or who crop huge monocultural acreages.
obviously, cities break up into different, often occupational or income, districts, each with its own dialect and ecology, consumption spectrum, and morality.
in such a web of function, any one person can be in two or three teams, thus achieving a "portfolio of occupations".
the regional office also serves as a contact centre to other regions, and thus as a trade or coordination centre.
practical resources (people, skills, machinery, services, biological products) essential to the functioning of a small region, and assisting the conservation of resources, regional cash flow, the survival of settlement, employment and community security.
asssessor-designers: people skilled in good house, factory, and farm design, energy budgeting, and appropriate technology-the "permaculture" team, used to help assess proposals to be funded.
an annual meeting of all workers in a particular enterprise elects both directors (managers) to run the business and a social council (union) to negotiate with directors on work conditions, pay, education, etc.
introductory services.
at about 100 income-producing people, a significant financial institution can be village-based; at about 500 all people can know each other if social affairs are organised from time to time.
like any other enterprise, a diverse approach is recommended, with energy from wind, tide, river, solar and methane used where appropriate.
ownership, in  effect, gives  the titleholder (person or state) a "right to  exploit in the short  term".
cooperatives also involve sharing, achieved by spreading the skills needed for anyone job over more than one person (rotating jobs); by having near equality in shareholding; and by being able therefore to assess how others are coping with a job.
demand means that there must be a real need for some item or service  lacking in the local society.
townspeople can access farm facilities; this is valuable education for  children.
surplus city garden or food product is collected, sorted, packaged, and retailed.
this is a lesson in modesty and responsibility.
investment funds for special projects leasing company or system coopratives a cooperative is a group of people acting together  for the benefit of members.
10% of the profits must be returned to the community for public services.
1.5 native species reserves and nurseries.
6.2 soil, water and leaf analysis services for micronutrients and soil additives, water analyses, ph levels.
and from sales to visitors and travellers in the district; educational services and accommodation are much in demand.
although each business may be a separate entity, the label can be of a similar design, with the words " another product from boon dock" (or some such) printed at the bottom.
"livings" are occupations which return a living wage to a family.
the trust will always need income for maintenance of roads, fences, water supply, fire control, and other site factors.
no group can achieve financial self-reliance overnight, but within 5-7 years of a determined start, a cooperative group using their creative talents can succeed in making a living for themselves and building up a strong business sector in their community.
this   works; "public" forestry does not.
the world needs a new, non-polarised, and non-contentious politic; one riot made possible by those in situations that promote a left-right, black-white, capitalist-communist, believer-infidel thinking.
the result of having such capital and interest flowing in to the trust is that village morale is greatly increased, with every resident seeing long-term plans fairly rapidly achieved.
wherever there is a need (for housing, roads, small businesses, farms), the dollars needed are supplied by the exchange, but the borrower or user must repay in local currency, thus creating a demand for it.
respect and encouragement: management should give staff  control of their own areas, encourage them to develop new ideas, and to follow  guidelines and values rather than a rigid set of rules.
any village which has access to or can develop forest, aquatic, marine, agricultural, and market areas has many more options open to it than a village marooned in a simple ecology.
c.e.l.t. helps people form and run cooperatives and other enterprises by providing advice, running training sessions so that people can learn cooperative business skills, and by providing loans.
an accountant on call can handily contract to service many groups.
the development group should hand over a site design and user's manual to the directors of trust a, who can display and circulate the initial design, record changes and modifications, and keep clear the essential land areas for productive use.
there may be some capital available as housing loans, but a building cooperative would be much more effective in this instance.
accounting: tax assessment, broad strategies, trust advice, plan of  networking monies, common funds, trust administration.
people who maximise the possession of degenerative assets eventually fail in their attempts to organise upkeep and repair-hence so many ruined castles and stately homes.
the ineffectiveness of researchers in applying findings and obtaining feedback.
if, in addition, there is a modest investment or funding organisation set up (itself a job), then capital to train and equip people to fill these gaps is also available.
it can also provide the basic life essentials of shelter, food, and energy.
criteria: concept of right livelihood or socially useful work.
the meeting observes the  principle of one worker, one vote.
the developmental group works best as a small core of 2-4 people, each with special skills such as real estate, design, planning, or law.
it is also very wise for any charitable trust to establish a non-profit trading (business) trust to help finance its activities, and this trading trust can refund costs to volunteers, pay wages, and gift profits to the charity or to any other charity.
most customers will deal  with a firm over and over again if it proves to be reliable, rather than take a  chance with a company which may be cheap, but which maintains such sloppy  standards as slow service and shoddy products.
however, a larger site plan does allow more convivial access to land, some commercial crop potential, significant forests and ponds, and access and utility easements.
several newsletters, like "exchange and mart" in the u.k. cope with this service.
funds can be established as follows: .
such groups develop a familial, rather than a competitive or conflicting, inter-relationship.
villages can pool their surplus or current financial resources in a developmental credit union, and create land titles to sell in order to develop public service facilities.
member leaves a 8roup or the community.
of soils via chemical waste.
in istanbul and india trades may well be grouped in streets or market areas, so that both new materials, assembly, and sale are facilitated (and branches of each craft allotted, or adjusted to production by demand), but the total market or neighbourhood contains all trades except those based on rare resources or needed only on a regional basis.
unfortunately, despite our most devout wishes, there are very few people who can start up and maintain a function; we are lucky if we can find 6 or 7 of these in any group of 30-40 people.
this is rigorously applied and holds even if i!
a basic explanation of land trusts, self-management, community banking, self-financmg social investment, and s.h.a.r.e .programs.
careful forward planning can yield one or two livings in workshops (craft, medical, or design).
3.3 information sources on ipm.
consumers control quality and quantity by pre-order and stated preference.
although many employees (unfortunate people) are paid to do only one job, members of a common work can take up many occupations, the net return from which afford a living plus some net profit for local investment as a tithe on earnings.
to extend aid and services to areas in desperate need, such as those experiencing real poverty, natural catastrophe, or medical insufficiency.
these goods or services needabout a 5% maintenance cost, just to pay for repairs or people to run the system.
however, commonworks need to be close to towns or on a public transport  route, so that townspeople can participate; remote areas do not suit this  system unless it is paired with a village development.
the way to abolish such systems is to have one meeting where the sole agenda is to vote to abolish decision meetings-this is usually carried unanimously!-and another where a concensus is reached to abolish concensus-this too shouldn't take long.
trust b can duplicate or triplicate itself to accommodate new enterprises and to insulate from risk those successful operations which may later develop.
it is a legal entity with limited liability, and perpetual succession (no dissolution for individual gain).
a "life census" needs to be compiled every 2-5 years, and some data needs continual records, as absences are harder to detect than presences.
2.3 self-employment {work from fulfilling regional needs: job vacancy lists).
it is also advantageous that wood, wind, solar, or high-pressure water is available for energy production, and that clear ideas of how clean energy can be obtained, or developed and maintained, is part of the design.
it is estimated that france has 100,000 public interest groups, each with its own areas of interest and subscribers, and that about 10,000 form up annually; one can only suppose that others also fade out, their work redundant or completed.
legal forms, leases, representation in litigation, land and  propertyconveyancy, new legal structure design, seminar services, trust  structure- communication: phone, telex, fax services, photocopy, answering services,  travel arrangements and despatch- gift, tithe, and public service deductions.
in very recent societies, our basic "right" is to vote,form unions, protest, or go to law (i.e. to support professional classes).
however, in every case they are built in areas where trade unions, building surveyors, health officials, and local or state governments do not impede the home builder or the community providing shelter for themselves.
1.13 checklist of vegetables, fruits and nuts which can be grown in the region, and species useful for other than food provision .
this  property is designed by the club or society to serve the interests of members,  whether- for garden, main crop, fuelwood, fishing, recreation, camping,  commercial growing, or all of these-
any person can feel a sense of social cohesion and group spirit in such a situation.
some ideal number is between one and three individuals, who manage independently, but who may work to a general plan and schedule to fit in with others.
there are two ways to ensure the political changes which will bring ecological changes.
land access office people often complain that they lack access to land resources; at the same time, we live in a delinquent or devastated landscape.
we need not only fixed villages and bioregions, but open corridors to other regions, other people, and across nations.
credit unions or friendly societies can set aside 10% of income to  satisfy instant requests for money from depositors; larger sums can be  withdrawn at short notice-often within a week.
the alternative (as in australia,  the usa, and increasingly in europe) is for cities to become sprawling  monstrosities of suburbs that reduce whole production areas to lawns and rotary  clotheslines, and forests and trees to chopsticks and newspapers, while  over-extending public utilies and creating insolvable transport and waste  probiems.
even in cooperatives, the functions of management (supervision,  administration, accounting, and assessing) and worker representation (unions)  are necessary, but unlike privately owned businesses, the whole workforce are  shareholders, and all vote for people to fill these positions.
it is possible to agree with most people, of any race or creed, on the basics of life-centred ethics and commonsense procedures, across all cultural groups; it matters not that one group eats beef, and another regards cows as holy, providing they agree to cooperate in areas which are of concern to them both, and to respect the origins of their differences as a chance of history and evolution, not assessing such differences as due to personal perversity.
all seem to make a very good income by treating the city as a specialist farm.
1.10 publications and information leaflets of use in the region, reference books, libraries, posters.
at some point, therefore, a decision must be taken to take some positive action (and avoid the fate of affluence): 1.
each and every parcel of land needs 3-4 involved, active, and interested trustees, and under a legal limit, its plans and purposes should be set for the long-term for 10-50 years ahead).
managers are  elected, and are responsible to the rest of the group; they can also be sacked!
from 60-80%  of total city income is thus derived from city forest products.
this may be subscription (library) or piece work  (photocopier), hourly rate (computer) or miles travelled (vehicle).
14.9 village development as individual designers gain field or applied skills in house, energy system, and property design, and as ethical investment comes of age, the idea of "client work" can be joined to that of earth repair, and to real estate development.
income is needed by a community for the continued upgrading of public services.
computer and telecommunications will enable most villages to be in a data network, but real--object trade needs transport.
coalitions of such farms represent a large lobby or vote group in society, and are therefore.
all these strategies enrich village or regional life, and give access to a wider world; this is particularly important for children and young people.
this "troika" approach (1-3 people per function) ensures that meetings in anyone area are few; news can come out as reports, available to anybody.
such a set-up is diagrammed infigure 14.3.
so go to it, as the sum of minorities is always the majority!.
thus, governements and farmers can plan to reduce herds, store grains, increase tree crop, enlarge or increase water storages and swales, and select plant crop species for such regular or cyclic variations.
politically respectable!
(figure 14.8 recycling:
the bioregional , and tribal congresses that are occurring today.
they contribute a set amount of capital into the capital fund, of which a percentage can be withdrawn should the worker depart.
recreation can support itself for wood, fuel, and building materials by the conversion of lawn s to use.
financial collapse; recession.
in forming a development trust, our aims are not just financial, but also ensure community survival by community involvement.
a small business service centre may be needed in the mid-term, employing 3-4 people.
3.2 footwear and accessories, leatherwork.
1.3 plumbing and piping, drainage, roofing.
14.4 alternatives to political systems systems of government are currently based on self- interest, economic pragmatism, belief, impractical theory, and power-centred minorities (religious, military, capitalist, communist, familial, or criminal).
thus, (be following sections give strategies for change in the social and economic areas of society).
personal accountability principle: this applies to any group purchases, whether public or private.
it then follows that financial institutions should themselves pay close attention to their function in that region, preventing leakages of essential resources, and expediting the export of local surplus in order to bring scarce resources into the region.
we need well-designed villages today more than any other enterprise: villages to re-locate those soon-to-be-refugees from sea-level rise, villages to house people from urban slums, and villages where people of like mind can find someone else to talk to and to work with.
this is the antithesis of "integration" (bureaucratic genocide) that is promulgated by majority groups who disallow language use and cultural life to minorities.
each may operate in their own home, but all services are listed in an  educational or informational newsletter and can combine where needed.
these  charges apply equally to businesses, administration, trusts, and private groups  or individuals.
the choices- photo copy available on requeest) evolution in community
shared and stated values: all concerned with the company believe  strongly in a set of values, often restated.
such a modest fund can operate out of a house or old shop front, or  from a counter in an established food co-op or cooperative business.
thus, it is not differences in themselves that are important; it is how all groups relate to the basic rules of the local ecology that permit them to function on a long-term basis.
investment sources a good many people inherit, earn, or win sums of.
draught animal systems.
lawyer-trustees: people able to package a set of legal strategies for community or family groups, and to advise (with 2) on taxation, export-import, trust and leasing documents, labour exchange agreements, and company, commonwork, or cooperative law.
the group in charge of administering the loan checks references, offers advice, and .acts on the recommendation of people who will service the loan (usually a skills or research group of volunteers, some of whom may take part in, or service, the business).
if a great many wealthproducing assets are available, then some degenerative assets can be supported, but any society which spends only on categories land 2 will first pollute, and then eventually extinguish, its resource base.
they are the users of the store cooperative in  that their products are sold there, and/ or they receive bulk supplies through  the store for their business.
such a landuse system promises  full and beneficial use of lands, and can take up much of the unemployment in a  district.
asssessor-designers: people skilled in good  house, factory, and farm design, energy budgeting, and appropriate  technology-the "permaculture" team, used to help assess proposals to  be funded.
networking (tribe to tribe) enables such higher-ievel organisations as travel and accommodation nets to be set up on a global basis, cash to be transferred to areas of need, and larger joint enterprises developed.
however, productivity in such cooperatives is very high, and incomes or profits correspondingly high.
it is a legal entity with limited liability, and  perpetual succession (no dissolution for individual gain).
there are many currencies in every society, such as (figure 14.9 evolution of a locally-appropriate money system (figure 14.10 currency promises, exchanges, stamps, coupons, vouchers, cigarettes, hugs and kisses.
voting powers can be allotted on the basis of involvement.
others range sheep, duck, or geese flocks for fire or pest control.
an intentional village should have a group ethic acceptable to all who come there.
in business, there is no substitute for good management, budgeting,  accounting, and marketing skills.
in small and unified groups (tribes), what is achieved by financial systems elsewhere is achieved by a set of exchanges, gifts, obligations, and feasts; here social accounting replaces fiscal accounting and to a great extent, everybody "owes" the others.
village energy coupled with domestic energy conservation, modest power units can supply small villages or regions with their energy, an can certainly be started by the same protest groups, who rightly oppose giant coal, nuclear, oil-powered, centralised and polluting energy systems.
this will mean increased air and seawater tempera- tures, the extension of typhoons and monsoon rains away from the equator towards latitudes 20-25°, drier winters in western coastal and southwest mediterran- ean climates, and a general increase in carbon dioxide, hence increased plant growth in the semiarid areas of tropical deserts.
active e.g. a group of people investing in reafforestation, and working in that area.
no investment in glamour stocks (coal, oil, uranium, city properties, paper pulp, agrochemicals, mining) is likely to yield anything to us but more pollution and to hasten global collapse.
it would at one stroke abolish the condition where the third world and the poor in affluent countries payout more in interest than it has received in loans, pre.vent the growth of a minority wealthy elite, and stabilise resource use.
just keep in mind that there is more than enough land laready cleared for  all people, and that it has long ago been paid for in labour or cash; there is  really no need to buy it again, just the get the right of use.
every country has some, or many, methords to obtain usage rights.
trading, or "unit discretionary" , trusts are also known as non-profit corporations (not to be confused with for-profit organisations).
the one essential is a long-term legally binding lease.
however, there is so much damage to ecosystems-hence so much rehabilitative work to do-that we will be employed in good works for a few generations to come.
the regional group can also invite craftspeople or lecturers to address interest groups locally, sharing income from this educational enterprise.
it is a local nonprofit corporation formed to help encourage small businesses that are producing necessary goods and services for the community (in this case, the berkshire area in massachusetts, u.s.a.).
much depends on a village development credit union which is founded by the village under trust b to serve the village needs.
the essentials to concentrate on are sound land planning, shelter, a capital base, and the development of livelihoods.
livelihood support services 2.1 small business service centres.
they printed meal vouchers, redeemable up to one year, and  sold them to future customers and friends.
of course, all initial designs are made to be changed.
but in almost every case, "case histories" of solutions are not locally available over the range of current problems.
of extreme hardship).
the tools of society; those things which manufacture or process raw materials into useful products (huskers, grinders, blenders, lathes, furnaces, and so on).
they also pay a joining fee to capital funds.
about 12% of garbage cqllection charges, 38% of drinking water charges, and 77% of social housing charges are accountable as interest.
leakage from the community must therefore be prevented and recycling made the rule.
first we must learn to grow, build, and manage natural systems for human and earth needs, and then teach others to do so)
let us presume a 50-house(100 adults) village situation.
thus the concepts of unique bioregions, intact language and culture, and cross-cultural enrichment is central to a permaculture of human resources, and an ecumenical global nation.
at the waste disposal site, loads must also be in one category.
of this investment, 20% is a contribution to collectively owned funds, and 80% is for the purchase of an individual shareholding or capital account (which is normally not drawn upon by the worker except bn retirement, death, or in cases of extreme hardship).
a credit is calculated at one hour, and the donor and recipient agree among themselves what they consider the job is worth.
it is not that people iack the will to cooperate; it is more often that they have
as groups discuss, and accept, the minimal ethic above, they they can quickly proceed to recognise each other.
if no such summits exist in your area, convene one; we started with only 12 people in australia, but 60-100 interested people and organisations now attend these seminars, and banks, insurance companies, cooperatives, and credit unions send representatives to assist new groups.
plant resources 1.1 nurseries and propagation centres, tissue culture, sources of innoculants, mycorrhiza.
the alternative (as in australia, the usa, and increasingly in europe) is for cities to become sprawling monstrosities of suburbs that reduce whole production areas to lawns and rotary clotheslines, and forests and trees to chopsticks and newspapers, while over-extending public utilies and creating insolvable transport and waste probiems.
finally, one cannot stress too much the factor of mixed ecologies.
as a background to any trends such as global warming, the basic llyear (22 year) sunspot cycle, and more importantly the 18.6 year lunar cycle (the latter affecting the shift north or south of cyclonic systems, the former affecting incoming radiation) will continue to determine drought and wet years.
there is a modest income from guests, visitors, and site tours if the village concurs on that aspect,.
trade is always reciprocal.
curiously, such monuments often display natural things portrayed in paintings and objects, but in so doing use up nature (the cedar table becoming more revered than the cedar tree, the leopard-skin coat more valued than the leopard).
each city farm has a small management group, and most have numerous  volunteers, or a few paid staff.
this sort of capital exchange format may be one way in which community schools and other socially conscious projects can become financially viable.
accountants: people skilled in setting up appropriate accounting systems to monitor progress and profit in ventures, working closely with team (a).
strategies for an alternative nation chapter 14 of permaculture designers manual by bill mollison he who desires but acts not.
credit union anyone who belongs to an identifiable group of 30 or more people can start a credit union.
worker-owners: these manage the cooperative, and are split into  "management" and "union" groups.
every parcel of trust land is aunique and longterm development, and if too much land is accepted, simple maintenance and land tax costs can bankrupt the trust.
obviously, the opportunity for local co-ops to enter into recycling industries is there; many small local industries can buy wood, glass, paper, or oils from the borough.
flood (cleanup, rubber duckies).
some of them are already on this path.
these strategies may, in fact, be of more assistance to real change than the skills of land management, for society has far more competent farmers and engineers than it has ethical bankers or lawyers whose work relates to curing or preventing (not just treating) social and environmental problems.
people list themselves and, as local land comes up, introduce  themselves.
obtain sealed permission for subdivision from the local authority.
it must be stressed that the "revolving loans office" is not a place but a group in cooperative function.
14.10 effective working groups and right livelihood
the newsletter is $35 per year, 11 issues, from iccr, room 556,475 riverside drive, new york, n.y.10115.
however, workshops yield capital for further developments locally, and a village can, in fact, develop as a special education centre if enough skilled people are attracted to that idea.
the borrowers make personal guarantees, and "guarantee circles" are set up to spread the risk (e.g. parents who want to build a school will all guarantee to pay back the loan).
with sound ethics and resource usage restrictions, any financial institution can prevent leakage of wealth and the erosion of basic resources, so that it is itself an asset to community, and builds wealth for re-investment.
people list themselves and, as local land comes up, introduce themselves.
a chipper would be purchased, and an hourly charge put on it to cover purchase, maintenance, and replacement.
purchase of existing homes and lots results in little delay in the pioneering stage.
a management committee plans for the whole area (access, water,  fences, rates, etc) and can be selected by the club.
for example, a  publishing company sends out pre-publication order slips to people before a  particular book is published.
list b comprises those people (usually elderly or absentee landlords) who  will lease either vacant land or the land around their houses on an annual,  renewable basis.
the rise of a large, popular, efficient set of services to livert public money to good ends (and get it back) is a reaction to (or revulsion with) the current misuse of noney by governments, large aid agencies, and rapacious investors whose sole motive is profit, power, or greed, this movement is one of the truly new phenomena of this century, and its growth is exponential.
barrington, ma 01230, usa).
unlike the present united nations, we do not need a world centre, or paid administrators, but can instead meet as affinity groups (e.g. in alternative economic summits, bioregional congresses, tribal conferences, garden and farm design groups) to deal with our specific areas of interest, and to make these affinities global in scope.
1.6 demonstration farms and gardens, teaching centres, workshop conveners.
2.6 government departments and their resources, regulations.
this is the resenje and gives confidence in the currency.
by their nature, political systems seek to impose a policy control over as wide an area of influence as possible, are power-centred (not life-centred), and are often composed of very few families or (in the case of royalist and feudal societies), one family.
for a nation-state, taxes were perhaps  intended to supply social needs, whereas in fact they have always been used to  raise armies and enrich a minority far beyond the needs of a living; to create  wealth for a few, and privelege for bureaucrats.
in some land trusts, it is this biological-environmental accounting which sets the basis for the "economic rent", and (in the event of a degenerative trend) even the basis for continuing in occupation and use of the land.
to prevent hoarding, notes can be dated and anew issue us made every 4-5 years; this is also a check on unwarranted accumulation, and possible forgeries.
good ideas and equipment cost money to implement, thus all those who vote for equipment must be made equally liable to pay for it..
the pragmatic and practical approach to the main body of this work largely omits reference to those visions or beliefs classifiable as spiritual or mystical; not because these are not a normal part of human experience, but because they are arrived at as a result of long contemplation or intense
this works; "public" forestry does not.
they are also inherent in the following: 2.
ln fact, it  is a human ecological totality, provided with abstract and real self-reliance,  and sufficient to pay for any tuition, travel, health service, and insurance  needed by the family accessing a living.
the only way to do this is to establish fin~ncial and economic systems onsite,  such as a credit union, revolving loan fund, or local currency.
this work needs to be set out clearly, as jobs or tasks.
community savings and loans a worthwhile goal of any community would be to keep the money saved and earned in the community cycling within itself.
a community services council at any new community or village with common lands may be elected to administer policy on publicly owned or common assets, to collect lease monies on utility plots, to administer funds for schools and medical services, and to see that rates are used in maintaining roads, water supplies, and other public services.
examples are: group water storages or energy systems, group refrigeration facilities, coownership of a fishing vessel or coastal holiday home, etc.
the value so  printed should not exceed the value of the reserve by a factor of more than 3  times.
credit union anyone who belongs to an identifiable group of 30 or more people can start  a credit union.
fees for a regional secretariat would arise from an annual fee forwarded by participant groups.
e. intolerable employment; unsafe, unhealthy, waste-productive .
if any intelligent, hard-working, and ethical group pool some resources and take only a fair living wage, then they must amass spare capital in time.
nobody  "represents" a bioregion or cooperative in the ungovernable sense  that elected politicians "represent" their electorate (i.e. every  "representation" or policy decision of a coopera-tive comes from the  ground up; whereas almost every politician makes purely personal decisions over  avast range of policy and expenditure-and that is "manage.
1.8 voluntary agencies involved in plant protection, planting, and propagation.
as enterprises develop, the capital fund enables further research and development.
such integrations are conducive to the development of complementary skills in the neighbourhood.
land access trusteeship of land
the  office can handle the bookkeeping and serving of local industry and services,  supply goods, advise, provide labour and goods exchange, and arrange legal  forms.
the negative ("non-buy") emphasis of the early years involved disinvestment in companies which: do not care for the earth, producing: do not care for people, as assessed by: d0 not show a public conscience
land lease system within urban areas (oxfam model): this is particularly  suited to young families in rental accommodation.
each person is required to  invest about $5,000 when joining.
community savings and loans a worthwhile goal of any community would  be to keep the money saved and earned in the community cycling within itself.
this will reach alternative people via their conferences and publications.
land in trust can be developed in a number of ways, and can include garden  clubs, commonworks, and as leased land for specific purposes.
1.3 audio-visual services, photography, television, film 1.4 business and research communications e.g. fax, telex, modem, card files, computer, journals, libraries, graphics, telephone answering services.
a short list of developmental design programs for a commonwork land trust  is as follows: priority 1 ::
i believe we should always tend towards minimising the spread of people and their works on the face of the land.
thus, if the charitable trust is trust a, and the trading trust is trust b, the system as a whole works as perfigure 14.4.
surveyors, road builders, builders, and landscapers are usually locally available for such projects.
despite good scientific prognoses and assessments, effective ground strategies are lacking.
there are several ways in which this may be done: potential enterprises and occupations it is of great advantage to analyse just how village occupants can self-employ in service to the village itself and to nearby districts.
insecure people can never have enough material resources, or the appearances of security.
persistent misuse (e.g. of a vehicle) results in a withholding period or permanent withdrawal of permission to use.
in our present fiscal or money-run world, the primary responsibility that we need to take charge of is our wealth, which is the product of our sweat and our region, not representable by valueless currency.
education (cooperatives should provide education for members, officers,  employees, and the public on principles and techniques of cooperation).
those people  who live on and near the land.
here, wood is sorted into useful wood (a community woodwork centre is available), firewood (issued to elderly people), and chipping or mulch wood.
it may be a key organisation in a bioregion.
a. of the atmosphere, leading to acid rain and climatic change.
a final limit to development.
no consensus beyond that of an initial ethical and value consensus is necessary; everyday decisions are made by small groups.
all trusts need an income, and may thus need a business or trading arm.
if the idea is a good one, it will pay itself  off in time through lease.
we can paint on or hang up an array  ofrights, and (unless we are very thorough) never fill the land space available.
d. access to a land base for sustenance.
reduction of stratospheric ozone.
other community projects can be helped along by volunteer efforts, gifts of materials, and gifts of time as advisors or entertainers.
oct 87, p.28) the lunar atmospheric tide is the overriding effect, and the chief collator of such data (robert currie, state university of new york, stonybrook, n.y. usa) warns of agricultural shortages in the northern hemisphere in 1990-92.
our own lifetimes are, in terms of soils, trees, or climate, as ephemeral as snowflakes.
few economic systems, including those outlined in this section, give thought to some ultimate end.
a low unit price ($100) enables even poorer people to invest; a single unit can be held by a partnership, society, or other corporate group so that even less money need be contributed per person in order to assist (e.g.) unemployed people.
some groups collect, grade, and sell citrus or nut crop, and many  provide young trees to gardeners on contract for later product off the trees.
land in trust can be developed in a number of ways, and can include garden clubs, commonworks, and as leased land for specific purposes.
think of the "ownership" as a blank canvas or empty wardrobe.
industry should grow every stick that they use by a charge on product, and investment in the community forestry owned by local households.
all, however, need careful forward planning.
however, productivity in such cooperatives is very high, and  incomes or profits correspondingly high.
costs reduce as trust income grows.
"(the pitjatjantjara or "life increase"audlt) active and passive investment involvement many investors never see or experience the systems they fund via brokerages.
outside aid is far less effective except in the matter of supply of requested resources; in areas of india where drought was offset by storage of hardy crops such as ragi (a sorghum), the introduction of exotic wheat varieties has meant that ragi is often unavailable for storage.
small business service centres can offer the following facilities to businesses: in business, there is no substitute for good management, budgeting, accounting, and marketing skills.
this levy is the same as that paid by the mondragaon cooperative system to fund their banks, schools, and research facilities in spain, and applies only to net profits of trust-funded cooperatives.
was $5 from the funding exchange, room a, 135e 15th st. new york, ny 10003.
i could never understand why people struggle to maintain a job down a coalmine, especially when their pooled capital and labour could create a forest, with all the pleasure one gets from working in the open air, and the varied work a forest provides.
there are a variety of locations that can be used for village development: all need a different real estate and planning approach, so that type 2 and types 4 to 6 are probably outright purchase or option systems; types 1 and 3 are part of a gradual takeover or buy-in system over some years; and types 2 and 6 may have both factors operating at once, i.e. some land is purchased for development, while older village resources are also purchased for use.
thus, the district secures its  initial land resource.
for example, as stated in , coevolution quarterly, summer '83, p. 91, investment returns for public utilities supplying power were as follows: nuclear based stocks appreciated 24% .. mixed groups (some nuclear) 52% non-nuclear power utilities 82% dividends for those groups were 30%,59% and 81% respectively.
until age 12, parents can apply for loans, and thereafter (until age 17) the children can themselves apply, after which they are cognised as adults.
such formal economics are necessary where people (managers) act hjr a group of members or mvestors, and not just for themselves or their households.
manure and money have much in common.
they contribute a set  amount of capital into the capital fund, of which a percentage can be withdrawn  should the worker depart.
proportional lnvestment
they are also inherent in the  following: 2.
this basic design work completed, the trust or owners can advertise locally  for people to run any one of these enterprises with levels ranging from that of  a hobby (developing a butterfly forage system) to a fulltime occupation income  (a trout farm).proper legal saeguards (lease documents) setting out rights of  use, length of lease, responsibilities of the trust and lessee, and terms of  payment (adjustable, but usually 10% of gross income) are   drawn up  to safeguard users.
the purpose or charter of this credit union can be to fund  local or neighbourhood self-reliance.
this can also alter as new opportunities arise, but like self-employment, money should cover a wide portfolio of ventures.
procedural stages to follow i. formation of a group or location of a site.
thus, community savings and loans associations are appropriate for reducing community and household costs, and freeing more capital into the'community, which leads us to the s.h.a.r.e. and c.e.l.t. systems of "wealth-producing" loans.
residents should, as early as possible, set up a separate unit discretionary trust (trust b) for trading operations.
in my meaning of "a living", it is the beekeeper, the ,bees, their water, flowers, pollen, propolis, and the means to make the beehives.
any isociety that develops lawns  beyond those used for figure 14.14 (trusteeship of land)
wherever possible, life, work, and recreation should be integrated in a dwelling; not only are households better informed, children less alienated, and adults less isolated from social contact, but the need for complex transport systems is eliminated.
usually,  money borrowed to save energy is amortised over periods of from 2-7 years.
14.6 extended families chiajen (the family): the family is society in embryo; it is the native soil on which the performance of moral duty is made easy through natural affection, so that within the family circle a basis of moral practice is updated; this is later widened to include human relationships and society in general.
scientific concerns a.
in fact, everybody who uses a bank to store money is an investor by default, and if unaware of the bank's investment strategy, may most probably be investing (via the bank) in systems which are creating local problems or global disorder.
many good farmers are made bankrupt by trying to restore land to health!
prepare a detailed and careful site plan and proposal for the village.
2.2 species collections, including worms and like invertebrates.
2.8 reliable contractors and builders.
as much as "the will to do" indicates health in the individual, so an increasing biological resource indicates health in the community.
it should be the long-term aim of any village to own and operate its own employment enterprises.
financial institutions (those which deal in public funds) are of the following nature: *credit unions *credit cooperatives *tusts and foundations ' *savings and loa~ banks, or associations
in this way, everybody benefits: the banks, the debtor nation, the environment, and the purchasers; moreover the wildlife and forest reserves so purchased can be sensitively developed for nature, tourism and research rather than being cut down for debt repayment.
people can be called on to write accounts of their specialities, as they apply to the region, and regional news sheets publish results as they come in.
as enterprises develop, the capital  fund enables further research and development.
"the argument for simplicity is never a political argument...when people practice it in their lives... they don't even need any politics."
all trusts need an  income, and may thus need a business or trading arm.
in fact, educated people of good will, and  traditional people, have seen where ownership has ruined common resources, and  are returning to the concept of taking local-stewardship of the land itself.
financing public services when all titles sell, the monies generated by the sale of " the 30% of titles vested in the village trust would ensure a very large interest yield annually for village development.
processing and food preservation 4.1 suppliers of processing equipment.
because people believe in trustesship: many of us do not believe in  private land ownership, but nin trust ownerships for public use under sound  environmental control.
all of these, and many others, need little transport.
the regional office posts paired lists: list a is for those who want 200-1,000 sq.
setting up funds for aid, tree  planting, and accepting gifts to aid trusts; servicing land access and  investment systems.
common policy always leaves room , for local issues, but gives strong principles for guidance in those issues.
there are many currencies in every society, such as (figure  14.9  evolution of a locally-appropriate money system (figure 14.10   currency promises, exchanges, stamps, coupons, vouchers, cigarettes, hugs and  kisses.
.annual membership fund: invested and the interest used.
1.11 contractors and consultancy groups: implementation of plant systems, farm designs.
these are not working cooperatives or businesses, but rather  projects that save money or give the opportunity for a wider range of resources  than if each person had to fund them individually.
1.8 library and research resources.
however, trusts can also self-fund via non-profit businesses to become foundations, fully equipped with their own income sources.
tool rental and access; .gleaning operations; plant nursery; seminars, demonstrations, training programmes, educational outreach; and seed, book, plant, and general retail sales.
money is in itself not a resource, it represents (or should represent) a resource which lies "somewhere else".
house and livestock security, 1.1 house siting.
(manas, 17 act 1984).
the rich are conspicuously represented in societies devoted to monument but not in the area of landscape rehabilitation.
there is no need to stress that we are imperfect page 507 people, living in an imperfect world; "do not adjust your vision, reality is at fault" (graffiti), so that many strategies given here are starting points rather than endpoints.
solar hot water systems are now routine installations, and photo-voltaics almost so.
a "small business centre" can be a property trust.
such preprations may mean that several strategies need to applied including; factors such as coastal seawater contamination of groundwaters, increase flood.damage, coastal erosion, profound changes in fisheries and agriculture, and sociall disruption are foreseen as inevitable for a century to come, but if all the causative factors continue unabated, worse and more rapid changes can occur over the next 30 years.
criteria: basic preventative and common ailment treatment, necessary hospitalisation, accident treatment, local resources gl.
the erection of monuments itself becomes a reason for existence.
garden or fann club: ,these suit families with some ,apital to invest as shares, with annual membership (shares can be sold).
wherever a body of laws has been formed on the basis of the responsibility of people to their environ- ment, a dynamic, long-maintained, and relatively harmless occupancy of the earth has resulted.
every  scrap of land in settlement should first be planned and used.
the ratio of the lowest to the highest paid person is never greater than 1 :5.
i would also add to the above categories: *informational:
these charges apply equally to businesses, administration, trusts, and private groups or individuals.
the american indians (irequois nation) frame this as a "seventh generation" concept: that our decisions now are carried out in terms of their benefit or disadvantage to our descendants in seven generations' time about 100 years ahead).
each cooperative averages about  200-300 worker-owners; large numbers become too impersonal, and large  cooperatives are divided into smaller independent units.
our own lifetimes are, in terms of soils, trees,  or climate, as ephemeral as snowflakes.
1.3 research institutes, horticultural and pastoral agencies.
it is quite practical to create such new villages without much initial capital in the actual development phase.
the charge on the bag pays for the bags, into which people separate the waste, and for the calendar; the borough also gets income from the sale of paper, glass, metals, wood, plastics, and compost.
it also means that no one person or group has "rights of decision" over other functions or groups.
managers are elected, and are responsible to the rest of the group; they can also be sacked!
all other associations can use the office for any necessary registration, address, phone, and newsletter services, and pay a fee for usage.
it is good to be able to visit, stay with, and cooperate with a few households and to form new relationships as needed; it is also necessary to have the freedom to choose new work alliances.
otherwise, each label has its own  business name and information.
for example, a publishing company sends out pre-publication order slips to people before a particular book is published.
thus, for all functions needing entrepreneurial skill, we need key people.
also, each group depends on each other being in function, and this is important for group unity; we presume a shared ethic and values, which are clearly spelt out, but do not assume love, trust, or any particular form of personal diet and behaviour except in line with ethics (we are never perfect, just moving towards improvement).
criteria: assistance for isolated people to meet people of like mind f1.
people who will not sort their waste (about 4"0) must buy a strong plastic bag from the borough (hire cost $7) which itself is recleaned for use.
land trusts need be few, close to settlements, and cover all essential  uses; the rest of the land can go back to natural forests or prairie.
2.4 power generation systems for region: current and proposed.
kits, games, software, information from: micahel linton.
essential land for local food, fuel and structural forestry, recreation,  and conservation can be planned, and secured under a set of public trusts by  public investment, gift, bequest, taxdeductible donation, transfer from other  authorities or trusts, or outright purchase.
these years will be wet in the year 2009 or thereabouts.
1.12 produce: products and producers in region, growers.
this strategy enables us to build compact urban areas while retaining  farmlands that are uncluttered by settlement.
thus it is wise to share even simple occupations, so that individuals have occupational shares in 2-3 enterprises.
in the concept of commonwork we have arrived at a new synthesis, a future model not only for farms but for complex small communities.
many, if not  most, small towns need no other land assets.
the trees, wildlife, fish, invertebrates, mammals, and domestic livestock of a region.
ot adapted those sensible legal and administrative, or social mechanisms which allow them to cooperate.
these groups also need to place surplus funds in organisations which work towards their aims.
as well as a guiding ethic, the broad aims of such a party are (as stated in planet drum, p.o.box 31251, san francisco, ca 94131, usa): ecological, socially egalitarian, grassroots democratic, and , non-growth.
they receive only 6%  interest (but this means small loans can be given out at 10%, interest).
land should be priced to local real estate values, and only very poor management would then show a loss on development.
this generates interest in the community  products, which. should gain a valuable reputation for quality, durability, or  taste as standards for the group label are established.
we may "dream" understanding, but it is something we cannot demand, define, or teach to others; it is for each of us to develop.
we all value cultural and environmental diversity-or the world would become one vast toyota-coca cola-mcdonald-hilton monoculture.
many true nations, such as the iroquois confederation or any tribal alliance with a common ethic, are not represented by such a body, nor are whole nations such as the basques, tartars, kurds, palestinians, hawaiians, hopi, tibetans, pitjatjantjara, misquito, aranda, basarwa, herrero etc etc etc.
the services council needs.
depending on the aims and share capital, people can lease small areas, or appoint a manager.
reserve pledges need to be publicly available and assessed.
cooperative groups, communities, associations, and shared work groups fail in part to foresee and to plan for evolution.
slow or organic growth is easily coped with, while sudden influxes can be disruptive.
5.3 export markets and wholesalers.
some tend to erect monuments to contain acquisitions (loot) in such places as museums, art galleries, stately homes, castles, libraries, and churches.
recycling in the community or neighbourhood
some of the topics that can be included in the regional directory are as follows.
3, broker-bankers: people actually handling cash flow,
1.4 land access systems, commonworks, leases, trusts.
however, mechanical efficiency is perhaps the least important concept for people, and is relevant only if: finally, no matter how efficient a technology may be, if it lays waste to or destroys the basic quality or quantity of soil, water, or clean air, then it must be rejected, as this is the "economics of extinction".
a community credit union can pay all routine accounts of a household; some credit unions even have a cheque account service.
passive e.g. buying the products of an ethical company 3.
we should, i feel, discourage passive investment; all brokers can introduce investors and producers in mutually supportive web.
does it reuse  its waste wood, glass, metal, paper, or organic wastes?
in a world where such a great deal of work has to be done just to repair past damage, replace forests, secure soils from loss, house people, or build local self-reliance, unemployment is an obscene concept.
on average, informed and concerned people will initially contribute a few hundred dollars, just "to see a good thing go".
it is usually possible to buy a copy the trust deeds of other ethical organisations, and to use these as a model for a local trust, so reducing legal costs.
from 60-80% of total city income is thus derived from city forest products.
economy: money, land and tax reforms, oct. 1987) is convinced that an interest-free financial system is not only the sole sustainable medium for exchange, but that such a "no growth" fiscal system encourages and preserves all natural resources.
to attempt to balance these costs, allot land and assets for income to service groups, and ensure that common property and rights are fairly assigned and well managed.
note: that if reserves are living things such as trees, wealth increases and can be created.
if people who really want land set up adetermined research group on "ways and means", or open an advisory centre on such methords, they would achieve their needs much faster and with far less expense than if they rely on undertaking a political "revolution" (a transfer of power), or saved their pennies, and with much greater longterm benefit to society.
often, however, that resource is a useless object (a diamond) which people rarely find a need for in any lifethreatening crisis, and never in any global crisis such as now threatens us.
practical warnings are not to accept land gifts that have many restrictive  conditions attached; in fact, it is wise to perhaps limit acceptance to  unconditional gifts.
what do we put in place of such impediments to action?
secondly,  other people must have confidence in it, which is why it is backed up by a  local resource and can therefore be traded.
such systems are, like it or not, promoting antagonism and destroying cooperation and interdependence.
good  accounting advice will often dictate that land should be creatively gifted to  such a trust (i.e. it benefits the giver; this is especially true of donors who  have a large income from other sources).
many can operate on site, and the cooperative store would serve as an outlet, or other leasehold retailers can offer goods and services for the village.
action: once a decision is made, effort is made to get it done with all possible speed.
it would appear that;.sustainable societies emphasise the duties and responsibilities of people to nature equal to those of people to people; that any code relates equally to other lifeforms and elements of landscape.
money from $1,000-100,000 surplus to their present needs.
credit unions or friendly societies can set aside 10% of income to satisfy instant requests for money from depositors; larger sums can be withdrawn at short notice-often within a week.
6.2 emergency communications.
if people who really want land set up adetermined research group on  "ways and means", or open an advisory centre on such methords, they  would achieve their needs much faster and with far less expense than if they  rely on undertaking a political "revolution" (a transfer of power),  or saved their pennies, and with much greater longterm benefit to society.
we should cease to look to power structures, hierarchical systems, or governments to help us, and devise ways to help ourselves.
the challenge is to change the design for the better!
1.4 bricks and concrete products (tanks, blocks, etc).
analysis of those sections of society and managed funds that prop up the whole investment system mea identifying the source of such funds.
some people may like to cooperate in an animal-breeding programme for special poultry, " pigeon, sheep, or goat breeds as a small stud.
a design gives a starting point, not an end point.
any taxes applicable are the responsibility of members, and any member can know the turnover or balance of any other member.
they are the users of the store cooperative in that their products are sold there, and/ or they receive bulk supplies through the store for their business.
worker-based clubs usually develop private plots with overnight (caravan-style) accommodation for weekends.
there are many good reasons to make the trustee a private company, as directors of such companies need to be few in number (3 or 4 are e enough), can appoint others if one dies or resigns, and can be anonymous.
it has long been apparent that our current political, economic, and landuse systems cannot solve such long-term and worsening problems as soil degradation, ground water pollution, forest decline, the spread of poverty, unemployment, and malnutrition (or its extreme, famine).
this may well be achieved by the "adoption" of a few acres of community forest by a household.
this can be called a loans trust, credit union, finance cooperative or  enterprise fund pool; it can include barter, a labour exchange, a regular fair  or market, and it needs an open register of local skills and resources, well  displayed.
this is enough;  others will have good ideas about small essential services and businesses, and  the research group can be very busy researching and publicising  "leaks" of money from the area, so that under or unemployed people  can start up services and supplies to stop these leaks, e.g. does the area make  its own bread, yoghurt, sausages, shoes, clothes, pots and paper?
when the trusts are formed to trade, they can take or own any business name that suits their work; such businesses are administered by a trustee.
although the total village structure is complex, the work of any individual is simple, as is the case with a plant in a polyculture.
, 14.16 references and resources .
brokerage houses now deal in large surplus barter systems for industry, using a trade unit (t.u.) valued at about $1, for pricing and exchange value.
secondly, other people must have confidence in it, which is why it is backed up by a local resource and can therefore be traded.
if taxes were not in fact so used, we would all live in a society where the need to work would be negligible, and both employment and unemployment (thus, workers and owners) absent.
there are certain rules for earth care which lie beyond the economic realm.
the gross imbalance of wealth promotes "big" spending in capital-consuming but publicly paid investments (big dams, big power stations, big housing corporations) where governments refer the costs to the people.
the management group obtains backing from investors (via a public prospectus) to float a property trust on the investment market.
brokers or enterprise trusts can direct surplus investment to socially and environmentally responsible industries and developments such as new, well-designed villages.
however, alliances of 200-500 household-size hamlets can make a very viable manufacturing or trading alliance and maintain a safe genetic base.
we start by defining a nation as a people subscribing to a common ethic, and aspiring to a similar culture.
for example, many alkaline desert soils lack avilable zinc; whole grains and seed legumes may exacerbate metabolic zinc loss.
it is the agent of transport, the shaper and mover of trade.
the office can handle the bookkeeping and serving of local industry and services, supply goods, advise, provide labour and goods exchange, and arrange legal forms.
thus, community savings and loans associations are appropriate for reducing  community and household costs, and freeing more capital into the'community,  which leads us to the s.h.a.r.e. and c.e.l.t. systems of  "wealth-producing" loans.
it does not matter, of course, if perfect balances are not achieved, but resources remain plentiful only if people remain relatively few.
in workshops, essential tools such as drill press, lathe, radial-arm saw, welder, planer or thicknesser, and router can be available on lease or time share.
many homes are in fact commercial premises for home services and industries; many store their own roof water, provide much of their food from the garden, and may contain recreational assets.
the purpose or charter of this credit union can be to fund local or neighbourhood self-reliance.
trusts are formed just to conduct businesses and trade, giving away their profits annually to named beneficiaries.
support services and products for food production 6.1 residue testing services for biocides, also nutrient, mineral and vitamin content (food quality control).
a careful assessment of skills and available capital will indicate priorities in any village.
the fund is managed with the common enterprise fund for essential child-oriented ventures or for education.
the following areas can be reserved for future use: some community tools are needed for the site at large: -posthole borer (fencing) -trailer -chisel plough/soil conditioner -chipper (biomass and mulch provider,fire control)
many tribes of 200 or so confederate to alliances of 4,000-7,000 in this way, share special products by trade, or arrange out-marriages.
in modern life, some time spent in primary production or in manufacture, some in service to a wider group, and some in relaxation celebration is an ideal; few achieve it.
charities and local farms benefit greatly, as charity donors can see their funds as likely to return to them.
otherwise, each label has its own business name and information.
such invitations are irresistable to those who hold office by virtue of  local goodwill or votes.
in fact, fair or normal profits can be used to benefit both people and land, can give young or poorer people titles, and can rehabilitate landscapes otherwise neglected.
to control , the cash flow of our society is to control our lives.
as with money, land ownership and thus land usage in society is unbalanced,  except where tribal land councils still exist; even in tribes, cattle or  resource ownership can become unbalanced (as in botswana, where 9% of the  people own 80% of the cattle) if crops and herds cease to be tribally owned and  are privately c owned on common lands.
many of us have been locked in to unsatisfactory work or personal relationships, or too much alone in the context of nuclear family "ideals" , which in real societies are for the few.
why is this the case?
many people with large incomes actually benefit from tax-deductible land gifts.
seeds have a high information content, as do books or data bases.
all organics are composted by a small tractor windrow system, and all oils are collected for re-sale as lubrication oils after filtration.
category i -transport (see also category h).
the establishment of a regional office (a land access office-lao) opens up the potential for offering a set of strategies enabling better land use, and suited to the finances and involvement of people using the service.
the schematic offigure 14.1 gives the basic parameters for both steady-state and out-of-control or declining populations.
(although these may also be developers, some contractors will work for equity in the project either as village occupants, or for resale at a later date.)
as confidence in the local f.und grows, loans can start to cover energy-saving house additions, insulation, or new well-designed housing, small vehicles, small fuel supply technology, and land purchase for approved projects.
this generates interest in the community products, which. should gain a valuable reputation for quality, durability, or taste as standards for the group label are established.
if you have worked one of these strategies, notify them, and give a clear account of your system.
6.9 lime quarries and sources, stone dusts, local trace mineral sources, regional geological resources.
most groups start with 1-3 people, and recruit slowly.
there are two unhappy states of human existence; the first and worst is to be defined by your community or nation as unemployed, that is to say, of no use to anyone.
such families need to define each adult as an individual, with a right to the essentials of their own space (bed and work space), garden, and occupation.
the real saving to small businesses is shared facilities such as premises, accounting, and office services.
businesses can charge federal currency for spare parts, and green dollars for labour.
each person is required to invest about $5,000 when joining.
options are cheaper, often as little as, e.g. $50 per year for several years if the price offered is about 20-30% of the developed site value.
nobody need pretend all problems are solved-conspicuous consumption can still ruin the idea of energy self-reliance--but with good management, the plan that follows comes very close to a sane village development.
all of this comes to naught if we, as a people, continue to invest in arms and destruction, to permit land abuse, and to fail to tackle the social and political impediments to reclaiming desertified and abused lands, or even to prevent the poisoning of land.
such surplus should not, however, be based on the loss of any irreplaceable resource such as soil or humus.
there is usually only one title, or a few titles, nut there are probably  thousands of possible rights upon any land.
issue the proposal and site plan.
this is the primary written rule "to become friends for mutual enrichment".
every scrap of land in settlement should first be planned and used.
lawyer-trustees: people able to package a set of legal  strategies for community or family groups, and to advise (with 2) on taxation,  export-import, trust and leasing documents, labour exchange agreements, and  company, commonwork, or cooperative law.
the question arises whether certain values can be preserved that would otherwise be lost."
an ideal member has many transactions, but accumulates modest debits and credits.
intensification of local ozone at ground level.
6.7 land planning services.
it is now certain that socially responsible investment pays.
essential land for local food, fuel and structural forestry, recreation, and conservation can be planned, and secured under a set of public trusts by public investment, gift, bequest, taxdeductible donation, transfer from other authorities or trusts, or outright purchase.
when costs are cleared, decide on future projects from profits and skills gained.
(there is no more time-wasting process than that of believing people will act, and then finding that they will not.)
any, tribe or even an individual farmer can allow mutiple land use by setting up a commonwork system, akin to the african mahisa or kivestock loan system of botswana.
in any human group endeavour, there are practical and effective, or impractical and ineffective, ways to manage a complex system.
trusts can also give ito other trusts under a bequest basis.
to start your own money handling, write to and get a publications list from: the e.f. schumacher society, box 76a, rd 3, great barrington, massachusetts 01230.
at the household level, !
it has several principles: the worker--cooperative centred around mondragon, in the basque region of spain, are worthy of note.
unlike other property trusts, investors should be given every opportunity to involve themselves in their investments via on-site work, consultancy, leaseholds, tree nursery supply, preference in sales of titles in villages, access to products or services, and (controlled) recreational access to lands and buildings.
should any person wish to set up a trust, the very first thing to do is to closely define the purposes of the trust, the group to whom it will apply ("all the citizens ...of australia" or "those suffering from spina bifida"), and to instruct a lawyer to draw up the trust deed and to register this and the trustee company.
3.5 references and libraries.
some of the factors that greatly assist effective aid are therefore: the core of successful aid lies in modest trials, careful extension, and provision for widespread education, so that after aid has ceased (or ended a phase) local people can continue the education process, maintain any system (financial, technological, or agricultural), andcan call for additional modest resources if necessary.
these are revolving loan funds that provide  capital to community-based groups, enriching the community and forming a strong  support base for the businesses established.
for a little while, we have the use of  the earth, and our time here is bounded by birth and death.
we need to set about, in an orderly, sensible, and cooperative way, a system of replacing power-centred politics and political hierarchies with a far more flexible, practical, and information-centred system responsive to research and feedback, and with long- term goals of stability.
given such basic financial tools, secondary needs are to rationalise resources as a type of real estate service and resource listing internally, so that all members can assist others as producers, consumers, trustees, or by land, appliance, and shelter rationalisation.
the danger point of "going under" is past, and now it is time to think of diversifying and disinvestment before the group gets too affluent, or too big.
people are not limited to a one-to-one exchange; as the club organiser keeps records of the debits and credits of each individual, transactions occur as long as services are desired.
just keep in mind that there is more than enough land laready cleared for all people, and that it has long ago been paid for in labour or cash; there is really no need to buy it again, just the get the right of use.
thus , in developing permaculture, we have the following factors in mind; perhaps we can approach the matter of successful aid defining what such a success would entail; by setting criteria for judging "success" .thus, successful aid should: problem areas are no place for fools, amateurs, or people who will not listen to others or assess results.
as and when independent villages do achieve an identity, an ethic, and unity, beneficial connections can be made ranging from radio and land links to bulk purchase, trade, and share facilities, so that coastal, urban, arid, tropical, and primarily rural villages can access and share the resources of others on an agreed-upon lease, hire, or exchange basis.
i believe that only group or community (bioregional) survival meaningful and possible; individual survival is meaningless, as is survival in fortresses, thus, we plan for total regions, and include all the skills of society.
this sort of capital exchange format may be one way in which  community schools and other socially conscious projects can become financially  viable.
now, any community printing its own currency has these things to do: the bank should not itself decide uses; the commun- ity (via a set of financial, advisory or monitoring institutions owned by them) should do that.
s.h.a.r.e. stands for self help association for a regional economy.
money borrowed in  order to save money is soon repaid, and so is safe to lend.
friendly societies handle health and insurance.
even here, every household can plant and tend an area, and profit from or manage it; it is also an improving asset that can be sold or transferred.
many have water conversation, developing forest, wildlife corridors, wetlands, and special species reserves as primary aims.
everybody is self interested in their success!
membership in such clubs can be made  ~leable or transferable, and may increase in value over lime.
priority 2: specify forest sites and forest types, allowing specific  forage forests for locally acceptable or endemic animal species- priority 3: specify crop areas for orchard and perennial crop, based on  best soils, low slopes, windbreaks, and water access.
few villages own all of these, however, and new villages need to reserve off land and areas for future priority development of both structures and primary product areas.
the need to earn is most reduced by a set of strategies ranging from gardens for food, efficient use of energy in house and work, shaiing of basic equipment, and membership of fbulk purchasing groups.
5.6 market advisory skills and groups, contract and legal skills.
modifications to habitat can result in a constantly increasing biological resource, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
there are several ways to use cities as farms-many german  towns carry on an active city forestry along roads and on reserves.
for the last 40 years or so, money has been made by destruction of real wealth (soils and forests) and the debts are now being called in by nature herself.
fiscal (moneybased) societies give a false impression of security, which quickly falls apart every 40 or so years when inflation-which is itself due to greed-makes currency valueless.
ment out of  control").
community forestry on steep and rocky i lands will provide fuels, food, and buildings for the i future.
unlike the mondragon cooperatives, which are usually appliance  manufacturing factories, a small community cooperative might have three  categories of membership, as below: 1.
surplus city garden or food product is collected, sorted, packaged, and  retailed.
4.4 sources of yeasts, bacterial and algal ferment materials.
a community credit union can pay all  routine accounts of a household; some credit unions even have a cheque account  service.
more than one farm or tust can join in a commonwork system; the trust or land owners set broad conditons of sustainable use, and allot space or resources to enterprises, but the contributors to the capital fund vote in their own cash management group.
convene, by advertisement, prospective customers and obtain firm commitments.
category c -livelihoods & support systems.
if the idea is a good one, it will pay itself off in time through lease.
thus, the district secures its initial land resource.
public access and service centres owned by the village, such as food processing, freezer, and laundrette facilities not only provide a part-time income for a resident but sharply reduce the energy needs for each house to provide and maintain such facilities, and provide a wider district resource.
any village group can help others become more self-reliant and give sound management advice to new groups.
members of the community can become s.h.a.r.e. members, which means they open a s.h.a.r.e. joint account with the bank.
it is an even easier step to confuse oneself with the creator, and all the easier if one adopts a belief system in which god is portrayed as a man!
good models of village forestry are operating in indian and taiwan; poor models of public forestry are all about us.
farm link (producer-consumer cooperative): these are appropriate to highrise or rental accommodation in an urban area.
families, unlike many societies, have child care and the welfare of their members at heart.
every dissenter or group of dissenters should therefore set up trusts to promulgate their own views, or form an independent trust in a cooperative network of like trusts.
any trust can have (unregistered, no cost) an association of volunteers, aides, or clients who can publish a newsletter and generally assist the trust in its affairs.
many failing logging companies have vast areas of degraded lands suited to small forest farm operations, and would-be forest farmers would love to manage a small area of forest properly, as would many theoreti- cal botanists and academics who have 1ong known how to develop a forest for eternal yield, but never had the land or capital to do so.
education and other work is  funded by the interest from deposits and loans.
landsman community services ltd., 375 johnston ave., courtenay, b.c. canada, v9n 2y2, or the maleny and district community credit union, 28 maple st., maleny qld 4552, australia.
likewise, road, rail, boat, and not-too-distant air access are also advantageous for trade and travel.
the borough of devonport, in the city of auckland, new zealand, has a total solid waste-recycling system, and from this conservative endeavour manages to return a cash benefit to households (versus the cash payment or rates paid to councils in non-recycling areas).
the essentials of trust a are that it holds assets for the public good, does not take risks, and leases or rents to trust b, which does trade and take risks, and has trust a as one of its beneficiaries.
cooperatives also involve sharing, achieved by spreading the  skills needed for anyone job over more than one person (rotating jobs); by  having near equality in shareholding; and by being able therefore to assess how  others are coping with a job.
(william blake, proverbs of hell)
as so few (dedicated) people can operate a trust effectively, it is far better to set up many such local trusts than to risk the power-centred inefficiences of a monstrous hierarchical system, such as some religious sects and foundations have become.
in order to do this, finance managers need to join forces with good managerial or design groups.
6.6 farm machinery, garden and domestic tool suppliers (see also processing), appropriate and tested equipment, fabricators and designers, repair services, hire and contract services.
the group purchasing is held totally and  individually responsible for payment for any item.
the evidence on acid rain alone (well documented) will convince any more person that further " progress and development" will cause social and environmental upheaval.
givers take a tax reduction on gift to a gleaning trust (any church or public trust).
water pollution and biocides; radioactives and chemical or waste pollution.
thus, decisions reached by boards, parliaments, and concensus groups either oppress some individuals (votes) or are vetoed by dissenters.
in everyone of the above categories, effective solutions to the stated problems exist, have beeh applied, and have solved that problem locally or even nationally.
although tribal  peoples had (and have) a clear idea of total ecologies-the sum of fire,  regrowth, wallaby, and pioneer fire species-arid although they had a word for  this, there is no word-concept for a "total human family "  ecology" beyond "a living".
even here,  every household can plant and tend an  area, and profit from or manage it;  it is also an improving asset that can be sold or transferred.
if we close down farms and wasteproduct factories, we need to greatly enlarge true wilderness, for it is the ultimate grace to give room on earth to all living things, and the ultimate in modesty .to regard ourselves as stewards, not gods.
all are freely and legally exchanged for goods or services, which are  themselves interchangeable (a song for a lettuce is a good bargain).
an essential strategy for rapid and flexible action is to limit the number of people responsible for anyone area of action or task.
customer reaction is then gauged  in a matter of weeks or months, not years.
the real cause of a lack of shelter (as with food) in any country is not that of finance, but of restrictive practices by a regulatory bureaucracy.
2.3 fish breeders and aquatic species.
in addition, the possibility of a group label for products exists in a  community.
in this way, we can build a global, interdependent, and cooperative body of people involved in ethical land and resource use, whose teaching is founded on research but is also locally available everywhere, and locally demonstrable in many thousands of small enterprises covering the whole range of human endeavours, from primary production to quaternary system management; from domestic nutrition and economy to a global network of small financial systems.
as the ethical investment process evolves, many more projects involving investors as residents, builders, primary producers, or suppliers of goods and services can be developed bioregional funds do, in fact, offer their investors chance to at least define the sort of goods they wan produced in their region, at the quality level the would prefer.
some of the reasons are: to continue land in its use: as an organic farm, wildlife refuge, economic  botanical garden, or as an excample of good land use.
it was said of a recent prime minister of australia that his national policies all worked to maximise profits from his farm!
3.2 suppliers of safe control chemicals, traps.
thus the very  concept of land ownership is ludicrous, and we need only to use what is needed  for the brief time that we are here; even i birth and death are small events in  a total life pool.
(a basic reference for a reformist economy.
action: once a decision is made, effort is  made to get it done with all possible speed.
10% of the profits must be returned to the community for public  services.
studies of such groups reveal that those who were effective adopted a set of values which ensured their continued internal and external interdependence; of those, perhaps the most important factor was that the group adopted "voluntary simplicity" as an ethic.
this is rigorously applied  and holds even if i!
every place where this has started (and since 1980,.
by radioactives in the soil and food chains.
soil salting and collapse.
garden or fann club: ,these suit families with some ,apital to invest  as shares, with annual membership (shares can be sold).
such invitations are irresistable to those who hold office by virtue of local goodwill or votes.
land trusts need be few, close to settlements, and cover all essential uses; the rest of the land can go back to natural forests or prairie.
certain behaviours occur at various group sizes; here are some approximate size and function groups: as even very small numbers of people (4-6) can be very effective, it is better to set up independent but friendly alliances of small groups than to coalesce into groups of 600 or more.
as with money, land ownership and thus land usage in society is unbalanced, except where tribal land councils still exist; even in tribes, cattle or resource ownership can become unbalanced (as in botswana, where 9% of the people own 80% of the cattle) if crops and herds cease to be tribally owned and are privately c owned on common lands.
one of the more extraordinary features of many of the strategies outlined in this chapter is that they have arisen in (and been developed and applied by) poor, depressed, minority, often unskilled, and frequently "powerless" groups.
4.2 genetic and birth defects; nutritional problems.
they also need your input as new ideas and services, or new investment opportunities arise in your area.
blood relationship is no guarantee of freedom of choice, or fair dealing.
they also have more than one household to relate to, or to visit or dwell in when educational needs change.
turnbull, shann, new money sources and profit motives for democratising the wealth of nations, the company directors association of australia ltd., 27 macquarie place, sydney 2000, australia.
a very reliable early income can be made from information, by way of workshops and classes, although workshop income fades over time as students gain skills themselves.
this is a matter of personal choice or good advice, but some sensible propositions area: thus the risk is spread widely, home and regional assets funded, and public services supported.
nonprofit groups often collect unwanted food from orchards, canneries, etc.  and distribute them to the poor, or sell at a small profit to keep running  costs down.
completion dates are set and notified to all people, and some form of report, diary, or plan is made public or minuted.
the federation of city fanns  in the uk numbers some 46 active farms, and many more groups forming at anyone  time.
surgical and hospitalisation services.
the ratio of the  lowest to the highest paid person is never greater than 1 :5.
the continuous oppression of minority ethnic, language, cultural, or tribal peoples.
copies available for $20 + postage from the trusteeship institute, inc, baker road, shutesbury ma 01072 usa. (highly recommended reading for community groups and organisers.)
here, the developer acts as a foundation director (settlor), and should retire as soon as the site has 10-12 residents, who then assume directorship of the trust lands and cash assets for the village (about 3-4 directors are enough).
concensus, in particular, is an endless and pointless affair, with coercion of the often silent or incoherent abstainer by a vociferous minority.
this strategy enables us to build compact urban areas while retaining farmlands that are uncluttered by settlement.
the essentials of a successful city farm is that it lies in an area of real  need (poor neighbourhoods), that it has a large local membership, and that it  offers a wide range of social services to the ,area.
common enterprise fund: the family fund, held in 2-3 places and convertible to a variety of currencies, and managed by a few individuals as a j full-time job.
it is but a short step from worshipping inside monuments to worshipping monuments themselves (people often being more proud of their church than they are of the trees and stones which were destroyed to build it).
(the iroquois audit) 3.
communication systems.
3.9 paper recycling and manufacture, book trades, printing and binding.
thus, every larger group needs to delegate responsibility for work to smaller autonomous groups, who are trusted to do the job, and only replaced if they persistently fail to do so.
e. access to finance for development.
the trust deeds state not only the purposes of the trusts but in addition the "will" of the trust is usually included, leaving its assets to an allied trust if this trust completes operations, closes down, or fails from lack of interest or of funds.
there need be no limit to the number of units held by any person.
direct marketing is a fastgrowing selling technique; it cuts out the retailer and so enables a product to be sold at a lower price than can be offered by a conventional retailer.
the revolving loan fund the basic principle of a revolving loans fund is that people put in  $500-5,000 capital at a nominated interest (from 010%) into an established  financial institution, and this is then loaned out to new businesses within the  community.
at present, few villages have the initial sound legal, financial, and social structures to achieve this.
p.o. box 6855, auckland, new zealand.
on this land, the following activities are promoted: .demonstration gardens; garden allotments (where space permits); domestic animals (rabbit, pigeon, poultry, sheep, goats, cows, horses)  kept and used as demonstration and breeding stock; reycling centre for equipment, building materials (income-producing).
probable livelihoods for 100 ha, 40 or more families: .bees poultry
a common global policy can start with a general ethic as stated in the beginning of this book; it can then proceed to specific policies, for specific cultures, regions, and landscapes.
thus, in bioregional networks, commonworks, and intentional villages, the individual can choose a set of lduties and occupations that fit skills, choice, and age.
lean management:  successful businesses use a simple organisational structure, a minimum of staff  directing operations, and no "corporate planners" or analysts.
eventually, if the chipper is used by enough people, it may even be possible for the original five to get a return on their money, although this was not necessarily an aim.
14.2 ethical basis of an alternative nation people without an agreed-upon common basis to their actions is neither a community nor a nation.
it is quite possible, even sensible, to completely replace the bureaucracy of public services with a series of locally administered trusts, and holland (in particular) largely supplants expensive paid public services (burdened as they are with heavy salary and capital costs, and .liable to inaction, self-interest, and executive inefficiency) to publicly formed trusts (called stichtings).
the revolving loan fund the basic principle of a revolving loans fund is that people put in $500-5,000 capital at a nominated interest (from 010%) into an established financial institution, and this is then loaned out to new businesses within the community.
the e. f.  schumacher society, great barrington, mass. u.s.a. has data on these systems,  and runs one such currency (see resource listing at the end of this chapter).
keeping a file on key people available for special advice  and assessment.
council needs to meet monthly, or even more infrequently, with the sub-groups normally handling everyday business within their budget and allotted areas of operation.
in addition to normal business principles, the more intense and more democratic operation of cooperatives demands that co-op staff must participate in planning, seriously contributing to policy, procedures, and inno- vations.
although they can purchase and  manage a property, they usually come to an arrangement with an already  established market gardener.
many small towns funded their public works this way in the 1930's.
some strategies for investment in the environment recently third-world debt (heavily discounted by the creditor bank as apoor investment, so that one can buy $1,000,000 of debt for $120,000 of cash) has been purchased by conservationists (via a tax-deductible trust such as the world wildlife fund, or one of many conservationist societies), for this debt, the trust asks not for repayment of capital and interest in hard currency, but in forest or wetland assets in the debtor country.
3.5 steelwork, fitting and turning, smithing and casting, welding.
respect and encouragement: management should give staff control of their own areas, encourage them to develop new ideas, and to follow guidelines and values rather than a rigid set of rules.
by  establishing a land trust, they can legally encourage others to develop parts  of the property, and so set up a socially rich area with multiple potential.
in this section, we are apparently talking about : money, but keep it clear in your mind that we are actually talking about-a philosophy of true democracy, peace, and "lifetime".
the lao prepares a standard lease specifying rental (if any), goods  exchange, length and type of lease, access, and the names of the parties.
the accumulation of unused wealth, or wealth that does not lead to the proliferation of life, is a pollution of the same nature as any unused resource.
2.2 skills resource bank: business, legal and financial advisory services, volunteer and retired people.
we could describe all western political systems as those of competing belief elites; whether they are self-described as communist, socialist, capitalist, or democratic, they all function in ways which are essentially short-term.
it would take very little additional organisation for these groups to meet together, count their numbers, and recognise each other's rights.
a local "earthbank" group is at first a research, 'teaching, or seminar convening organisation, but as local money systems are established, some members obtain employment by running financial, exchange, or barter systems.
this same statement also refers to the adoption of an ethical basis to action, to the placement of money and resources, and to the determination to act in accordance with one's beliefs.
in all such settlements, the cultural, crafts, trades, commercial and domestic functions were integrated.
to structure such policies, we must search out working solutions (e.g. we know that singapore has solved most housing funding problems, that some towns are energy and food self-reliant, and that many problems have already been solved in other areas or at other times).
most small businesses accept the currency, and much of the local trade can be carried on in this currency.
1.7 tools and fasteners, tool sharpening services and repairs, glues and tapes.
they can purchase and improve land, and gift it at the improved value at a, paper profit.
trusteeship governs any r resource for the very long term, with no right to exploit resources beyond essential needs, or replacement time.
special coinvestment on projects can be initiated by advertisement in the community.
the savings (in time) exceeds the  cash borrowed; from then on, the borrower has some spare capital.
it is already unlawful to clear forests in south australia, to light fires in many areas, or to destroy protected wildlife, trees, or reserves in many countries; but we can murder with impunity by using biocides, destroy whole forests with acid rain, destroy the ozone layer, and risk sea level rise without penalty.
a good accountant to lay out the bookkeeping and give advice is necessary, as is an efficient office manager to communicate with the trusts's target population.
better still, we can make foresters of our farmers.
about 18-20% of businesses may also be non-profit trusts owned or operated by the charitable trusts that benefit from (are beneficiaries of) them.
14.15 no assistance i.n areas of need
3.3 basketry and weaving, mats and screens.
6.5 suppliers of natural fertilisers, mulch materials, trace elements, soil amendments.
3.3 solid wastes disposal and collection (boxes, bottles, plastics).
nevertheless, a group of such small cooperatives can make any vehicle or machine if each produces apart, and this is in fact organised by the smaller cooperatives in the mondragon system.
gifts or deeds of land can be vested in a tax- deductible trust for use by a specific group or the public generally, under certain reasonable conditions; many community gardens run this way, usually at small rental.
the e. f. schumacher society, great barrington, mass. u.s.a. has data on these systems, and runs one such currency (see resource listing at the end of this chapter).
the region is our home address, the place where we develop our culture, and take part in bioregional networks.
category d -information systems, media services, communications and research.
2.10 publications, posters, libraries for the region 2.11 produce: species and suppliers in region.
employment, like suburbs and institutions such as gaols, are as modern as lawns and politics; all ancient societies of people arranged life without any of these impediments, but only by seeing life as livings, and living things as basic to life.
no person can force another group to cooperate, but must offer reasonable, rewarding, and fair cooperation.
modifying all climatic and plant data given herein is the global warming effect and stratospheric ozone loss now expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
a few also develop special skills and become teachers in trades or disciplines.
the following categories are of use in villages everywhere: family dwellings and their 0.2-2 ha lots can accommodate some of these, but in miniature.
thus, money  advanced for gardens, fuel conservation, energy generation, or for appropriate  vehicles and appliances is soon returned.
category g -health services.
cooperation between cooperatives (encourages the development of more  cooperatives) the worker--cooperative centred around mondragon, in the basque region of  spain, are worthy of note.
good models of village forestry are operating in  indian and taiwan; poor models of public forestry are all about us.
there are, for instance, far less paid-up or active members of political parties or oppressive societies now than there are organic gardeners whose life works seek peace and plenty.
on a community level, or with more than 6-8 people involved, labour exchange may need to be coordinated or regulated.
even if we do achieve the goals of global community self-management, we are as much in danger of destroying the world by producing goods endlessly in mondragon cooperatives, communist, or capitalist factories, or as individuals.
2.6 designers of low energy home systems and buildings.
in 1983, the permaculture institute, following 'seminas with the e. f, schumacher group in the usa, carted teaching in local community funding and ethical investment' "banking on the earth".
feet of garden to grow  food.
thus, money advanced for gardens, fuel conservation, energy generation, or for appropriate vehicles and appliances is soon returned.
this would be an easier task if all intentional groups affiliated, and subscribed to a common policy; it is difficult for a small group to evolve a total policy in isolation, and a common policy statement sums up the skills of all groups.
3.4 functional pottery.
this would, in effect, build fences, terraces, and eventually schools, workshops, and alternative energy systems.
nobody "represents" a bioregion or cooperative in the ungovernable sense that elected politicians "represent" their electorate (i.e. every "representation" or policy decision of a coopera-tive comes from the ground up; whereas almost every politician makes purely personal decisions over avast range of policy and expenditure-and that is "manage.
already this is done by individuals and businesses who have a product or skill to sell (real value), and who print up vouchers or coupons to pay for setting up their business.
print the currency itself, preferably in a solid local material difficult  to duplicate or forge elsewhere, and numbered, dated and counted.
the very modern "urban' planning" where city or town sectors are designated as industrial, commercial, residential, or recreational are in fact the very antithesis of good planning for transport energy conservation, and bear little or no relationship to the zonation of function and available time around a settlement or house, as outlined in chapter three.
the person receiving the loan must first collect references from people who know them as responsible and conscientious.
in this way, a co-op can partially fund itself, with  generous help from the cooperative bank.
only in very mobile societies does money start to replace fair dealing, objective value, and hospitality shared, and the abstract and intrinsically valueless "money" (usually cheap strips of paper or lumps of metal) replaces real goods and services.
no redundancies in the cooperatives-workers are retrained and  new jobs found in other expanding co-operative groups.
clay, concrete, and clean fill; as the ziggurat ascends, community organic gardens follow the fill.
by changing ourselves, and living in closer harmony !
it only needs any town, region, or nation to set up such a constant system to put right many social and ecological ills.
14,13 an ethical investment movement
2.7 sources of information, publications, trade literature, library resources.