the clc again stated that it did not have enough information to adequately comment on the proposal.
the department wishes to make it  clear that the exemption contained in sec. 570.62(b)(1) (new) that permits 16-  and 17-year-olds to operate certain lightweight, small capacity, portable  counter-top power-driven food mixers would not apply when the equipment is  adapted--through the use of various attachments--to perform functions other  than mixing, or to process meat or poultry products because of the prohibitions  of ho 10 (occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines  and occupations involving slaughtering, meat and poultry packing, processing,  or rendering) (see sec.
although none of these injuries were life threatening, most were considered to be serious and many caused the partial loss of digits and will leave some permanent scarring.
consistent with its enforcement  position, the department exercised its prosecutorial discretion, as authorized  by 29 u.s.c. 216(e), and declined to cite reg. 3 occupations violations for the  employment of 14- and 15-year-olds by state and local governments as long as  that employment fell within the occupations authorized by reg. 3 (sec.  570.34(a) (old)) and did not involve any of the tasks or occupations prohibited  by reg. 3 (sec.
the interpretations of the  secretary of labor contained in subpart g indicate the construction of the law  that guides the secretary in administrating and enforcing the act.
before a 14- or 15-year-old may legally perform work covered by the flsa, the act requires that the work itself be exempt, or that the secretary of labor has determined that the work to be performed does not constitute oppressive child labor.
the exception to this rule is where there is some discrete operation or division that could legitimately be characterized as such an establishment and therefore would be subject to these rules (e.g., minors employed in a food service operation at a city park or a publicly owned sports stadium).
section 570.65(b)(4) defines the term circular saw to mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a continuous series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting, and used for sawing materials.
(m)(1) employment inside and outside of places of business where  machinery is used to process wood products.
accordingly, the title has been  revised as follows: occupations involved in the operation of balers,  compactors, and paper-products machines (order 12).
570.37 were approved by the omb under control no. 1215-0208.)
the department appreciates the concerns of both the ywn and the clc that the proposed work-study program, unlike the wecep, does not prohibit participating employers from displacing a worker already employed in the employer's establishment with a student (see sec. 570.36(e) (new)).
the term shall not include construction sites, portable sawmills, areas where logging is being performed, or mining operations.
not only is the operation of such power-driven machinery prohibited by sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec. 570.33(e) (new), the laundering of clothes and other materials generally constitutes a ``processing occupation'' which is prohibited under sec. 570.33(a) (old and new).
both the ywn and the afl-cio recommended that  the department add a requirement to the revised sec. 570.34(m)(1) that all  youth who come within the exemption provided by flsa section 13(c)(7) must  receive safety training or certification for the specific activities allowed  under the proposal.
such youth may not ride in the bed of a pick-up truck, on the running board of a van, or on the bumper of a refuse truck.
``for example, 14- and 15-year-olds would be permitted to work on a pottery wheel, but would be prohibited from applying certain glazes and would be prohibited from any work on or around the high heats of a pottery kiln.
since publication of the 2007 nprm, the department has received several inquiries regarding how these posting requirements impact employers of youth who do not own or control the baler or compactor that is available for use by their employees.
this section, however, does not prohibit the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds whose duties require them to occasionally enter freezers only momentarily to retrieve items as permitted by sec. 570.34(i).
finally, the report  recommends that the apprenticeship and student- learner exemption contained in  ho 10 be restricted to apply only to 16- and 17-year-olds employed in retail,  wholesale, and service industries.
the department believes  that implementation of the final rule would not reduce the overall number of  safe, positive, and legal employment opportunities available to young workers.
youth 14 and 15 years of age may, however, operate office equipment pursuant to sec. 570.34(a) and vacuum cleaners and floor waxers pursuant to sec. 570.34(h).
as previously noted, the compactor and baler act  provides that any new standard(s) adopted by ansi would also be sufficient for  the determination of the safety of the scrap paper balers and paper box  compactors, if the secretary of labor certifies the new standard(s) to be at  least as protective of the safety of minors as the two standards specified in  the act.
this is because historically such facilities, when open to the general public, have been considered to have a retail concept.
the prohibitions of ho 14 are based on the equipment and apply  regardless of the materials being processed.
most recently, the  department investigated the death of a 16-year-old grocery store worker in new  york who was crushed to death by a baler that had been jerry-rigged to operate  while the door to the loading chamber was open.
it is also important to note that all the prohibited occupations detailed in sec.
hazardous occupations order no. 12 generally prohibits minors under 18 years of age from working in occupations involving the operation of paper-products machines.
dates: effective dates: this rule is effective july 19, 2010.
places of business where machinery is used to process wood products shall mean such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops.
in addition, for purposes of this section, an employer's conduct shall  be deemed knowing, among other situations, if the employer received advice from  a responsible official of the wage and hour division to the effect that the  conduct in question is not lawful.
because these jobs are not specifically permitted by sec.
the rule does not have ``substantial direct effects on one or more indian tribes, on the relationship between the federal government and indian tribes, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities between the federal government and indian tribes.''
the on-off switch of the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor must be maintained in an off position when the machine is not in operation.
the comments submitted in response to the anprm  may be reviewed at the federal erulemaking portal athttp://www.regulations.gov,  docket identification number whd-2007-0001.
minors 14- and 15-years of age would still be prohibited from operating or assisting in the operation of such mixers under the provisions of reg. 3 (see sec. 570.33(e) (new)).
section 570.33(c) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds in the operation of motor vehicles or service as helpers on such vehicles.
however, as the report implies, the use of chain saws by  16- and 17-year-olds would not be prohibited when cutting other materials such  as metal, concrete, stone, and ice.
the department received three comments on this proposal.
finally, the department does not accept nada's recommendation to expand sec. 570.34(a)(8) (old) to include all motor vehicles.
the department has decided to add abrasive cutting discs to the list of machines prohibited by ho 14 because it would be in keeping with the niosh recommendation and will provide important protections to working youth.
executive order 13175, indian tribal governments this rule was reviewed under the terms of e.o. 13175 and determined not to have ``tribal implications.''
these incorporations by reference were approved by the director of  the federal register in accordance with 5 u.s.c. 552(a) and 1 cfr part 51.
the report shows that a substantial number of deaths and injuries are  associated with operating and assisting in tasks performed by power-driven  hoisting apparatus, including deaths of youth (see niosh report, page 36).
seventeen orders, published in subpart e of this part, have thus far been issued under the flsa and are now in effect.
it should also be noted that section 13(d) of the flsa already provides an exemption from the act's minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions to any homeworker engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths).
(3) work in the repair or maintenance of  roads, railroads or flumes and work in construction and maintenance of  telephone lines, but only if the minors are not engaged in the operation of  power-driven machinery, the handling or use of explosives, the felling or  bucking of timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, or work on trestles.
supervised refers to the requirement  that the youth's on-the-job activities be directed, monitored, and controlled  by certain named adults.
the term shall include all types of derricks, such as a-frame, breast, chicago boom, gin-pole, guy, and stiff-leg derrick.
for example, a minor may ride in a motor vehicle to reach another work site where he or she will perform work, to receive special training or instructions while riding, or to meet other employees or customers of the employer.
section 13(c)(7) defines a new entrant into the workforce as an individual who  is under the age of 18 and at least the age of 14, and, by statute or judicial  order, is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
places of business where machinery is used to  process wood products shall mean such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath  mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making  shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops.
in addition, the teacher-coordinator, the employer and the student would be required to sign a written participation agreement that details the objectives of the work-study program, describes the specific job duties to be performed by the student, and the number of hours and times of day that the student would be employed each week.
transportation incidents were the most common fatal event among forestry workers, accounting for 43 of the 82 deaths (see niosh report, page 30).
the term power-driven woodworking machines has long been defined in sec.
prohibited youth peddling also includes such promotion activities as the holding, wearing, or waving of signs, costumes, sandwich boards, or placards in order to attract potential customers, except when performed inside of, or directly in front of, the employer's establishment providing the product, service, or event being advertised.
as used in this paragraph (l): permitted lifeguard duties include the rescuing of swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring of activities at poolside to prevent accidents, the teaching of water safety, and providing assistance to patrons.
ho 5 was amended to permit the employment of student learners and apprentices, but hos 1 through 4 were not.
in addition, the report recommends that the department continue to emphasize enforcement of portions of the compactor and baler act requiring that balers and compactors conform to construction and operations standards that greatly reduce exposure to hazardous energy.
section  570.35a also includes provisions that allow the administrator of the wage and  hour division discretion to grant requests for special variances from the  occupation standards established by sec.
accordingly, the department is revising the  proposed sec. 570.34(b) to reflect this suggested change.
executive order  13175, indian tribal governments
the department proposed to redesignate this section as sec.
the clc reported that its comments are also  endorsed by the following organizations: a better world foundation, a minor  consideration, american federation of teachers, american federation of school  administrators, americans for democratic action, association of farmworker  opportunity programs, farmworker justice, international initiative to end child  labor, migrant legal action program, national association of state directors of  migrant education, national consumers league, ramsay merriam fund, and the  united food and commercial workers international union.
570.58(b) as recommended by the ywn.
to ensure consistency, the department proposed  that this single definition of power-driven woodworking machines be included in  sec. 570.34(m)
these standards are also available for inspection at the occupational safety and health administration's docket office, room n-2625, u.s. department of labor, 200 constitution avenue, nw., washington, dc 20210, or any of its regional offices.
570.35a already includes provisions that allow the whd [[page 28427]] to grant requests for special variances from the occupation standards regarding prohibited work, and that this should be expanded to grant variances from the reg. 3 hours standards as well.
the fmi, council, and afl-cio also supported the proposal to adopt the department's long-standing enforcement position permitting 16- and 17-year-olds to operate--but not set-up, adjust, repair, oil, or clean--certain power-driven pizza dough rollers.
the clc also expressed concern that neither the statute nor the proposal [[page 28422]] addresses the potential exposure of young workers to ``the toxic chemicals present in adhesives and coating agents that are used in woodworking operations.''
the modifications to the list of prohibited occupations are as follows: 1.
570.59, the section heading is revised to read  as follows: sec. 570.59 occupations involved in the operation of power-driven  metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (order 8).
it stated that because sec. 570.33(d) (old) and sec.
contrary to nada's statement, reg. 3, of which sec. 570.34(a)(8)
the median number of days away from work for workers who suffered food slicer related injuries or illnesses was four days, not an insignificant number (see niosh report, page 47).
(n) work in connection with cars and trucks if confined to the following: dispensing gasoline and oil; courtesy service; car cleaning, washing and polishing by hand; and other occupations permitted by this section, but not including work involving the use of pits, racks, or lifting apparatus, or involving the inflation of any tire mounted on a rim equipped with a removable retaining ring.
it does not include a workroom or workplace solely where meats are smoked.
this rule was reviewed under the terms of e.o.  13175 and determined not to have ``tribal implications.''
both supported the department's enforcement positions that  school should not be considered in session for a 14- or 15-year-old youth who  has graduated from high school; has been excused from compulsory school  attendance by the state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the  eighth grade and his or her employment complies with all the provisions of the  state school attendance law; or is subject to an order prohibiting him or her  from attending school.
the flsa would require that students participating in the  work-study program, if covered by the act and not exempt from the minimum wage  requirements of section 6, receive the applicable minimum wage for all hours  worked.
the department also believes that the clc recommendations that the ratio of supervisors to young workers should be one-to-one and that all adults supervising have experience in the workplace or the industry were not contemplated by congress and would be viewed as excessive.
in fact, as discussed earlier, weed-eaters are among the equipment the department is adding as an example of power-driven machinery such youth are prohibited from operating (see sec. 570.33(e) (new)).
the term does not include the stacking of materials by an employee in an area nearby or adjacent to the machine where such employee does not place the materials into the machine.
as with the blenders discussed above, their operation by minors under the age of 18 is prohibited under ho 10 when used to process meat.
(3) in determining the amount of any penalty under section  216(e) of the flsa, the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the  business of the person charged and the gravity of the violation shall be  considered.
the blending  blades are attached, often permanently, to the bottom of the glass jar.
section 570.128 deals with a provision of flsa section 12(a) that  relieves from liability a purchaser who ships or delivers for shipment in  commerce goods acquired in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the  producer, manufacturer, or dealer that the goods were produced in compliance  with section 12 and that were acquired for value without notice of any  violation.
as mentioned earlier, the consolidated appropriations act, 2004 (pub.
the department is incorporating the child labor civil money penalty provisions of the gina amendments into this final rule without prior notice and opportunity for public comment because it has for good cause found, pursuant to the administrative procedure act, 5 u.s.c. 553(b)(b), that these procedural requirements are unnecessary with respect to these particular regulatory changes.
revisions resulting from the niosh  recommendations include the expansion of ho 4 to prohibit the employment of  minors in forest fire fighting and fire prevention activities and in timber  tract and forestry service occupations; the revision of ho 7 to prohibit the  employment of minors in the tending, servicing, and repairing of hoisting  equipment and the addition of such equipment as cherry pickers, scissor lifts,  bucket trucks, aerial platforms, and hoists of less than one ton capacity to  the list of prohibited equipment; and the expansion of ho 10 to prohibit the  employment of minors in poultry slaughtering and processing occupations.
a new center heading and a new sec.
congress has used ansi standards in other  contexts as expressions of the best available technology in the safety area.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
examples of  industries or activities included in sic 083 are the gathering of balsam  needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss, spanish moss, sphagnum  moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of gum, turpentine, and  rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of pine gum.
the clc also recommended that the proposed sec. 570.33 include an introductory  statement reinforcing the principle detailed in sec.
examples of permitted machines and devices include, but are not  limited to, dishwashers, toasters, dumbwaiters, popcorn poppers, milk shake  blenders, coffee grinders, automatic coffee machines, devices used to maintain  the temperature of prepared foods (such as warmers, steam tables, and heat  lamps), and microwave ovens that are used only to warm prepared food and do not  have the capacity to warm above 140 [deg]f. minors are permitted to clean  kitchen equipment (not otherwise prohibited), remove oil or grease filters,  pour oil or grease through filters, and move receptacles containing hot grease  or hot oil, but only when the equipment, surfaces, containers and liquids do  not exceed a temperature of 100 [deg]f. minors are also permitted to  occasionally enter freezers momentarily to retrieve items in conjunction with  restocking or food preparation.
the dolwd did not oppose this  enforcement position but suggested that an ``exception'' from the definition of  school is in session should be created for youth enrolled in home school or  other alternative school programs based on considerations of ``whether the work  interferes with the individual's schooling, health or well being rather than  the hours of operation for public schools.''
students participating in a valid work-study program would be permitted to work  up to eighteen hours a week, a portion of which may be during school hours, in  accordance with the following formula that is based upon a continuous four-week  cycle.
570.35a (old) and sec.
the department's administration  of this enforcement position permitting the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds  by state and local governments has had extremely positive results.
the ywn also suggested that the department should clearly state in the final rule that school is considered to be in session during any week in which school attendance is required for one or more days.
the department received six comments that addressed  its proposal to incorporate into reg. 3 its long-standing
[[page 28451]] particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation; and (iv)
in addition, the department will not implement its proposal to reserve sec.
the department believes that despite the lack of  comments, 16- and 17-year-olds can safely perform certain tasks within the  timber tract, tree farm, and forestry service industries.
the employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age in  the occupations, for the periods, and under the conditions specified in sec.
the employment would be permitted in any industry other than those prohibited by reg. 3 and would also be subject to all the applicable hours and times standards established in sec.
(5) employment of homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen wreaths, including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths.
currently, the work of repairing, servicing, disassembling, and tending the machines covered by ho 7 is prohibited to 14- and 15-year-olds under reg. 3 at sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec.
the american federation of labor and congress of industrial organizations (afl-cio), while submitting its own comments, also endorsed those submitted by the clc.
the nprm also proposed to incorporate into the regulations three long- standing enforcement positions regarding the cleaning of power-driven meat processing equipment, the operation of certain power-driven pizza- dough rollers, and the definition of high-lift trucks.
these comprehensive comments were submitted by the young workers health and safety network (ywn) and the child labor coalition (clc).
such slides, which often reach heights of over 40 feet, rely on power-driven machinery that pump water to the top of the slides which facilitates the descents of the riders to the ``splash-down'' areas at the base of the slides.
reg. 3, as currently written, does not allow 14- and 15-year-olds to participate in the network's work-study programs.
the sic industry group of timber tracts encompasses establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts or tree farms for the purpose of selling standing timber, including those establishments that grow christmas trees.
although not specifically named as high-lift trucks in the current ho 7, such equipment meets the definition of high-lift trucks because each is ``a power-driven industrial type of truck *
the chapter advised the  department that the red cross had revised its own rules and had begun  certifying 15-year-olds as lifeguards.
under the department's proposal, any employee under the age of 16 whose duties  include this core duty--such as a ``junior lifeguard'' or a ``swim-teacher  aide''-- or whose employment could place him or her in a situation where the  employer would reasonably expect him or her to perform such rescue duties,  would be performing the duties of a lifeguard while working in such a position.
the provisions of section 16(e)(1)(a)(ii) of the fair labor standards  act, regarding the assessment of civil penalties not to exceed $50,000 with  regard to each violation that causes the death or serious injury of any  employee under the age of 18 years, apply only to those violations that occur  on or after may 21, 2008.
no person  shall be imprisoned under this subsection except for an offense committed after  the conviction of such person for a prior offense under this subsection.
l. additional recommendations of the report the niosh report recommends that the department retain, as currently issued, ho 3 (coal mining occupations), ho 13 (occupations involved in the manufacture of brick, tile, and kindred products), ho 15 (occupations involved in wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking occupations), and ho 17 (occupations in excavation operations).
the whd is also reviewing prohibitions regarding the potential exposure of young workers to ionizing radiation, as reflected in the publication of the 2007 anprm.
the national council of chain restaurants (the council),  which described itself as a national trade industry group representing the  interests of the nation's largest multi-unit,
a to  z index |  site map |  faqs |  dol forms  | about dol |  contact us secretary of  labor hilda l. solis print this page    text size     e-mail this page dol home  > federal  register  >
a  new sec. 570.130 is added to read as follows: sec. 570.130
the department received six  comments on its enforcement position that defines the term school in session as  applying to the normal hours of the public school system in the minor  employee's district of residence.
the terms and conditions  for employing such apprentices and student-learners are detailed in sec.
during this process, congress solicited input from the department,  niosh, employers, employer associations, and employee associations.
a baler that is designed or used to process materials other than paper would be defined in sec.
the  wage and hour division has consulted with representatives of the department's  occupational safety and health administration (osha) and will defer to that  agency's expertise and guidance when determining whether an employer is in  compliance with the safety provisions of this exemption--i.e., whether a  workplace barrier is appropriate to the potential hazard, whether a sufficient  distance has been maintained from machinery in operation, and whether the youth  is exposed to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
the ywn, afl-cio, and clc all supported the proposal as written.
this cooperation  will continue after the adoption of the final rule.
for example,  sec. 570.34(a)(6) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in the  operation of power-driven mowers or cutters and sec. 570.34(b)(6) (old)  prohibits the employment of such minors in occupations that involve operating,  setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing power-driven food  slicers, grinders, choppers, and cutters, and bakery-type mixers.
participating employers are also required to sign an agreement defining job duties and expectations.
the report's rationale for this  recommendation is that available data suggest that there were no fatalities  involving such counter-top power-driven machines, and
although gina does not define the terms repeated violations and willful violations, those terms already have been defined by the wage and hour division (see 29 cfr 578.3(b) and (c)), and are currently applied, pursuant to section 16(e) of the act, in the assessment of civil money penalties for repeated and willful violations of sections 6 and 7 of the flsa.
the clc also argued that language in the proposed ho 4 is changed from  the current rule and contradicts itself in that sec. 570.54(a) declares all  occupations in logging to be particularly hazardous; that the definition of all  occupations in logging contained in sec. 570.54(b) includes the constructing,  repairing, and maintaining of camps used in connection with logging; and sec.
the niosh report recommends that ho 10 be expanded to prohibit work in all meat products manufacturing industries including those engaged in the processing of sausages and/or other prepared meat products and those engaged in poultry slaughtering and/or processing (see niosh report, page 41).
any student 14 or 15 years of age, enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum, whom authoritative personnel from the school attended by the youth identify as being able to benefit from the program shall be able to participate.
since october 1999, the department has investigated at least 36 injuries of young workers that were caused by operating or cleaning power-driven meat slicers.
in  sec. 579.5, paragraphs (a) and (e) are revised to read as follows: sec.
they specifically mentioned and questioned the efficacy of permitting youth  employment in particular industries and employment situations.
the dolwd supported the  proposal provided adequate safety provisions were in place.
although not specifically named as high-lift trucks in the  current ho 7, such equipment meets the definition of high-lift trucks because  each is ``a power-driven industrial type of truck *
the clc stated that a child permanently expelled from public school might still be required, under state or local law or perhaps court order, to attend some other school.
for the exemption to apply, the youth must also be  required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive  levels of noise and sawdust.
the  dolwd supported this proposal and noted that alaska state regulations restrict  any worker under the age of 18 from working in door-to-door sales.
the department proposed to revise ho 4 to add a prohibition on the employment of youth 16 and 17 years of age in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations to the current prohibitions on logging occupations, and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill.
570.55, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: sec.
the youth is supervised by  an adult relative of the youth or is supervised by an adult member of the same  religious sect or division as the youth; (ii)
in fact, employment opportunities for 14- and 15-year-olds would increase with  creation, for example, of a limited exemption for certain work-study programs,  allowing youth to be employed in work of an intellectual or creative nature,  and allowing youth to be employed in those permitted occupations listed in sec.
the department believes this long-standing important safety-affecting interpretation requiring compliance with ho 2 should be included in the regulatory language.
the fmi,  council, afl-cio, and ywn all supported adoption of the department's  enforcement position allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to operate--including  setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, and cleaning--lightweight, small  capacity, portable counter-top power- driven food mixers that are, or are  comparable to, those models intended for household use.
the telephone number for ansi is (212) 642-4900 and its web site is located athttp:// www.ansi.org.
the exemption would not apply to balers and compactors that are not designed or used to process paper or cardboard as such equipment may not be considered scrap paper balers or paper box compactors as required by the compactor and baler act.
accordingly, as suggested by those commenters, the department will define the term week as used in reg. 3 to be the same workweek the employer establishes for the youth to determine overtime compensation under 29 cfr 778.105--a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours--seven consecutive 24-hour periods.
total reporting and recordkeeping burden hours: 1586.
570.58, paragraphs (a) and (b) are revised to read as follows:
the ywn also  recommended that the department not use the term ``eleemosynary'' in the  regulations but replace it with ``plain english words, such as `non-profit,  religious or charitable organizations' to assure understanding by all  parties.''
their absence from this current round of rulemaking is not an indication that the department believes them to be of less importance or that they are not being given the same level of consideration as the recommendations addressing the current nonagricultural hos.
after carefully  reviewing the comments, the department has decided to implement the proposal as  written with the following modifications.
though cognizant of the limitations of the report, the department places great value on the information and analysis provided by niosh.
the median number of days  away from work for workers who suffered food slicer related injuries or  illnesses was four days, not an insignificant number (see niosh report, page  47).
finally, the ywn's recommendation that the proposal be  expanded to include specific items being stored in the freezer or cooler, such  as seafood and poultry, is unnecessary because, as discussed above, sec.
these standards have been incorporated into  these regulations by reference by the federal register as discussed in sec.
those conditions included that the youth be trained and certified in aquatics  and water safety by the red cross or by some similarly recognized certifying  organization, and that the youth work under conditions acceptable to the red  cross or some similarly recognized certifying organization.
they may work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
the department decided not to address, in the nprm, the niosh report  recommendation to remove the ho 4 exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds  to work in the construction of living and administrative quarters of logging  camps.
reporting requirements: wsp application:
the department followed this interpretation when it  amended ho 12 and added standards ansi z245.5-1997 and ansi z245.2-1997 in 2004  (see 69 fr 75396) and again when promulgating this final rule.
the department's  review of these new standards, which included input from niosh, concluded that  the 2008 ansi standards are also as protective as those cited in the compactor  and baler act.
this  subpart authorizes only the following occupations in which the employment of  minors 14 and 15 years of age is permitted when performed for periods and under  conditions authorized by sec.
570.34(b) (new) to permit the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to perform work of a mental or artistically creative nature, such as computer programming, the writing of software, teaching or performing as a tutor, serving as a peer counselor or teacher's assistant, singing, playing a musical instrument, and drawing.
in addition, the following exceptions do not apply  to work which entails entering the sawmill building, except for those minors  whose employment meets the requirements of the limited exemptions discussed in  sec.
as per the  provisions of sec. 570.61(a)(4), it would not matter if products other than  meat--such as vegetables or cheese--were being processed.
because youth often overcome the effects of those characteristics that initially place them at increased risk of injury and death in the workplace only through the maturation process, it is believed that requiring older workers to perform those tasks that present greater risks to younger workers actually eliminates injuries and deaths--rather than delaying them or transferring them to the older workers.
the department once again notes that it has requested public comment on the issue of exemptions for student-learners and apprentices in the anprm that was published in conjunction with, and on the same day as, the nprm.
crews often work from late  afternoon to late at night as that is when most of the potential customers are  likely to be at home.
in addition, when drafting the proposal regarding youth riding as passive passengers in motor vehicles, the department looked for guidance for establishing the criteria regarding the use of seat belts or other safety restraining devices.
570.120 to reflect the 1995 change in the process for issuing and revising hos.
sec. 570.58 occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus (order 7).
* * vehicle cleaning, washing, and polishing  activities commonly involve small portable power-washers and hand-tool  buffers'' (emphasis in the original).
the ywn also recommended that ho 10 be expanded to cover seafood processing occupations.
ansi standard z245.5-1997....
operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines includes operating such machines, including supervising or controlling the operation of such machines, feeding material into such machines, helping the operator feed material into such machines, unloading materials from such machines, and helping the operator unload materials from such machines.
except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, employment in any of the permissible occupations to which this subpart is applicable shall be confined to the following periods: (1) outside of school hours; (2) not more than 40 hours in any 1 week when school is not in session; (3) not more than 18 hours in any 1 week when school is in session; (4) not more than 8 hours in any 1 day when school is not in session; (5) not more than 3 hours in any 1 day when school is in session, including fridays; (6) between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in any 1 day, except during the summer (june 1 through labor day) when the evening hour will be 9 p.m. (b) definitions.
such minors may perform work in offices or repair or  maintenance shops.
but the department believes that these changes are  important as they are essential to fulfilling its charge of keeping working  youth safe by prohibiting occupations that are particularly hazardous or  detrimental to their health or well-being.
the department believes that the standards established by osha to address such potential exposures, which are continually under agency review, provide vigorous protections to all workers.
written  participation agreement: the regulations require preparation of a written  participation agreement for each student participating in a wsp and that the  teacher-coordinator, employer, and student each sign that agreement (see sec.
(b) occupations that the secretary of labor may,  pursuant to section 3(l) of the fair labor standards act, find and declare to  be hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or  detrimental to their health or well-being.
during the remaining week of the four-week cycle, such minor would  be permitted to work during school hours on no more than two days, and for no  more than eight hours on each of those two days.
locate the nearest office by calling the wage and  hour division's toll-free help line at (866) 4us-wage ((866) 487-9243) between  8 a.m. and 5 p.m. in your local time zone, or log onto the wage and hour  division's web site for a nationwide listing of wage and hour district and area  offices at:http://www.dol.gov/whd/america2.htm.
the agreement, which must also be signed or otherwise  consented to by the student's parent or guardian, would also affirm that the  student will receive the minimum number of hours of class room instruction as  required by the state educational agency for the completion of a  fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum and that the employment will  comply with the applicable child labor and minimum wage provisions of the flsa.
the afl-cio,  ywn, and clc also noted that this proposal would allow [[page 28415]] youth to  perform janitorial and clean-up work, work already permitted within retail,  food service, and gasoline service establishments by sec. 570.34(a)(6) (old),  in additional types of establishments.
in  sec. 570.61, the section heading and paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(7), (b), and (c)(1)  are revised to read as follows: sec.
570.62, paragraph (a)(2) is revised, and a new paragraph (b) is  added, to read as follows: sec.
as  mentioned earlier, the consolidated appropriations act, 2004 (pub.
in these situations, the department has determined that it is not  necessary for every employer (tenant) that wishes to take advantage of the  loading exemption to post a notice on
such training  is available to 15-year-olds via a separate red cross water safety instructor  (wsi) course.
the clc recommended that  the proposal should also require that the supervision be ``one-on-one'' and  that the supervisors of the young workers should be required to have experience  within the wood processing industry or that workplace.
570.63(b) to mean a  powered machine that remains stationary during operation, designed or used to  compact refuse other than paper or cardboard boxes, into a detachable or  integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
to clarify that the  limited exemption to ho 11 which permits 16- and 17-year-olds to operate  certain lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food  mixers (see sec. 570.62(b)(1)) would not apply when the equipment is  adapted--through the use of various attachments--to perform functions other  than mixing, or to process meat or poultry products because of the prohibitions  of ho 10.
subpart c--employment of minors between 14 and  16 years of age (child labor reg. 3) sec.
the occupation of lifeguard is not specifically authorized in reg. 3 as an occupation that 14- and 15-year-olds may perform.
570.33(m) (new) prohibit the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds by a public  messenger service, adoption of this proposal implies that employment of such  youth by a private messenger service would be permitted.
the department then multiplied this rate, which includes fringe benefits, by 52.5 hours.
the occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any of the machines listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
the employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age in the occupations, for the periods, and under the conditions specified in sec.
a representative of an educational management company called white hat management, llc (white hat) recommended that the flsa's blanket prohibition against 14- and 15-year-old being employed in manufacturing occupations should be relaxed, stating that ``in today's day and age when so many manufacturing jobs are automated and operated by computers or buttons, that a blanket prohibition for manufacturing employment hardly seems appropriate.''
every youth shall receive, every school year he or she participates in the work-study program, at least the minimum number of hours of classroom instruction, as required by the state educational agency responsible for establishing such standards, to complete a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum.
other forestry workers gather products which  requires them to climb trees *
all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the  violation shall be taken into account in determining whether a violation was  willful.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- \3\  both of these exemptions are contained in section 13(d) of the flsa.
finally, the  department does not accept nada's recommendation to expand sec.
(b) work of an intellectual or artistically creative nature such as, but not limited to, computer programming, the writing of software, teaching or performing as a tutor, serving as a peer counselor or teacher's assistant, singing, the playing of a musical instrument, and drawing, as long as such employment complies with all the other provisions contained in sec.
the department proposed  to implement the report's recommendation by creating a new sec. 570.62(b)(1)
in certain situations, such as at  shopping malls, industrial parks, office buildings, or military bases, multiple  employers may have access to and use ``community'' balers and compactors that  the facilities manager or owner has made available to the tenants or  contractors.
72, 76; secretary of labor's order no. 09-2009 (nov. 16, 2009): delegation of authorities and assignment of responsibilities to the administrator, wage and hour division, 74 fr 58836; 104 stat.
home-schooled youth would be able to participate in work-study programs operated by local public schools in the same manner many currently participate in team sports programs, band, and other extracurricular activities.
the clc commented that the department's proposal that the supervision received by young workers employed under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) be close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted is essential in view of the serious hazards that such youth will face.
included on the list of prohibited power-driven meat processing machines are meat patty forming machines, meat and bone cutting saws, meat slicers, knives (except bacon-slicing machines), headsplitters, and guillotine cutters; snoutpullers and jawpullers; skinning machines; horizontal rotary washing machines; casing-cleaning machines such as crushing, stripping, and finishing machines; grinding, mixing, chopping, and hashing machines; and presses (except belly- rolling machines).
sec. 570.33 and 570.34, but rather to refer readers to those sections.
the department proposed to retain all the  current prohibitions contained in sec. 570.33 but would modify the prohibition  regarding the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing occupations  to comport with the provisions of the consolidated appropriations act, 2004,  which enacted section 13(c)(7) of the flsa.
accordingly, the dol estimates wsp sponsor school districts will incur an average of $1440 (rounded) in additional compliance costs.
the department has considered the comments and has decided to  adopt the proposal as written.
570.34 occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
section 570.118 notes that the flsa sets a minimum age of 16 years for employment in manufacturing or mining, but does not take into account the effects of the 2004 enactment of flsa section 13(c)(7).
such work would include, for example, delivering items to a customer or assisting passengers with the loading and unloading of their luggage in conjunction with the operation of an airport shuttle van.
as used in this section:
the report also documents that the forestry industry has a high fatality rate as well, and workers face injury risks similar to those of logging workers.
the academic  schedules of the students are carefully coordinated so that students do not  miss any classes on the days they work and the school year has been extended  beyond the standard academic schedule of the local public school to compensate  for the time the students spend at work.
section 570.103(c) states that there are only four  specific child labor exemptions contained in the flsa, and only one of them,  concerning the delivery of newspapers to the consumer, applies to the minimum  wage and overtime requirements of the act as well.
both the ywn and the afl-cio recommended that the department add a requirement to the revised sec. 570.34(m)(1) that all youth who come within the exemption provided by flsa section 13(c)(7) must receive safety training or certification for the specific activities allowed under the proposal.
at the time the nprm was published, the department certified to this effect to the chief counsel for advocacy of the u.s. small business administration (sba).
they create steam at a  temperature that ``clearly exceeds the temperature limits established for  prohibiting use of other equipment such as anything related to hot oil that  exceeds a temperature of 100 degrees f.'' a representative of the billings,  montana job service also questioned how the department's proposal addresses the  employment of youth who operate espresso machines.
570.34(a) (old) and all the  prohibited occupations contained in sec. 570.34(b) (old) that currently apply  only to retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
in proposing these regulations, the department will help  agencies meet their needs to hire certified lifeguards by allowing lifeguards  to begin work at the age of 15.
six flags expressed the same concern regarding its ability to use its payroll tracking system as a compliance tool and recommended that the department allow employers to use any reasonable system such as labor tracking and payroll monitoring tools that complement their record keeping systems.
the implementation of revised subpart g of the child labor regulations, general statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended, to incorporate all the changes made by the agency since this subpart was last revised in 1971, will simply provide compliance guidance on the child labor provisions detailed in earlier subparts of 570 and therefore imposes no economic costs.
the provisions of the consolidated  appropriations act, 2004, amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from  the child labor provisions for certain minors 14 through 17 years of age who  are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
* * children under 18 should not be able to work at heights in timber tracts or tree farms.''
the regulations for  14- and 15-year-olds are known as child labor regulation no. 3 (reg. 3) and are  contained in subpart c of part 570 (29 cfr 570.31-.37).
locate the nearest office by calling the wage and hour division's toll-free help line at (866) 4us-wage ((866) 487-9243) between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. in your local time zone, or log onto the wage and hour division's web site for a nationwide listing of wage and hour district and area offices at:http://www.dol.gov/whd/america2.htm.
accordingly, the department is revising the proposed sec.
the ywn agreed with this proposal with the added requirements that ``[w]ritten permission from parent or legal guardian is required to permit employer to transport 14- and 15-year-olds and a copy of written permission must be maintained by employer'' and ``[a] minor cannot be abandoned at worksite without adult supervision.''
the report contends that such manlifts appear to pose more significant injury risk than those traditionally prohibited by ho 7 (see niosh report, page 36).
the department associates no additional costs for the workplace observation requirement to ensure compliance with the flsa child labor provisions, because such monitoring will normally be conducted when school staff visit the workplace to see whether educational objectives are being met.
most of these blenders  were free standing counter-top models while others were incorporated into other  equipment such as milk dispensers.
v. executive order 12866; regulatory flexibility this final rule is being treated as a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of e.o. 12866 because of its importance to the public and the department's priorities.
finally, the department proposed to revise  subpart g of the child labor regulations, entitled general statements of  interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act of  1938, as amended, to incorporate all the changes adopted by the agency since  this subpart was last revised in 1971.
accordingly, as suggested by those commenters, the department  will define the term week as used in reg. 3 to be the same workweek the  employer establishes for the youth to determine overtime compensation under 29  cfr 778.105--a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours--seven  consecutive 24-hour periods.
in three of the four weeks, the participant is permitted to work during school hours on only one day per week, and for no more than for eight hours on that day.
except for civil penalties collected for violations of section  212 of the flsa, sums collected as penalties pursuant to section 216(e) of the  flsa shall be applied toward reimbursement of the costs of determining the  violations and assessing and collecting such penalties, in accordance with the  provision of section 202 of the act entitled ``an act to authorize the  department of labor to make special statistical studies upon payment of the  cost thereof and for other purposes'' (29 u.s.c. 9a).
finally, the department appreciates the concerns of both the ywn and clc that under the guise of ``artistic or creative endeavors'' some employers have attempted to employ youth in unsafe or unsavory lines of work that, as the commenters note, jeopardize the morals of the young workers.
in  addition, flsa section 16(e) states that any person who violates the provisions  of flsa sections 12 or 13(c), relating to child labor, or any regulations  issued under those sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to  exceed: (1) $11,000, for each employee who was the subject of such a violation;  or (2) $50,000 with regard to each such violation that causes the death or  serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which penalty may be  doubled where the violation is repeated or willful.
in addition, flsa section 16(e) states that any person who violates the provisions of flsa sections 12 or 13(c), relating to child labor, or any regulations issued under those sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed: (1) $11,000, for each employee who was the subject of such a violation; or (2) $50,000 with regard to each such violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which penalty may be doubled where the violation is repeated or willful.
unfunded mandates reform act for purposes of the unfunded  mandates reform act of 1995, 2 u.s.c. 1532, this rule does not include any  federal mandate that may result in excess of $100 million in expenditures by  state, local and tribal governments in the aggregate or by the private sector.
the clc also expressed  concerns that singing and the playing of musical instruments are often in  demand ``in bars, lounges, cabarets, and other places that 14- and 15-year-olds  might best avoid.
the report states: ``the logging industry *
570.32 (new) that all work  that is not specifically permitted is prohibited.
570.65(c) that permits apprentices and student-learners to perform, under specific guidelines, tasks that would otherwise be prohibited by ho 14.
there is little occupational injury, illness, and fatality data  available regarding minors less than 16 years of age.
the department proposed to redesignate this section as sec. 570.141.
furthermore, section 13(c)(7) permits the employment of a new entrant inside or  outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood products  only if the youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris  within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such  wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from  machinery in operation, and is required to use personal protective equipment to  prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
accordingly, the dol estimates wsp sponsor school districts will incur  an average of $1440 (rounded) in additional compliance costs.
the department is also adding to that section its long-standing position  that outside school hours means such periods as before and after school hours,  holidays, summer vacations, weekends, and any other day or part of a day when  the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is not  in session.
the department has interpreted the reg. 3 prohibition regarding service as helpers on a motor vehicle to preclude youth under the age of 16 from riding anywhere outside the passenger compartment of the motor vehicle.
the other provisions of sec. 570.35 (limiting  employment to no more than 8 hours a day on any one day school is not in  session, and no more than 40 hours in any one week when school is not in  session) remain applicable to the employment of wecep participants.
whd whd final rules child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation; final rule    [5/20/2010] [ pdf] fr doc 2010-11434 [federal register: may 20, 2010 (volume 75, number 97)] [rules and  regulations]
the department also  believes that the clc recommendations that the ratio of supervisors to young  workers should be one-to-one and that all adults supervising have experience in  the workplace or the industry were not contemplated by congress and would be  viewed as excessive.
570.118 to 570.121, inclusive.
the clc assumed that the youth-employer's establishment ``means inside or directly outside the establishment, but not away from the establishment, such as on a street corner or parking lot.
the term also includes establishments that manufacture or process meat products or sausage casing from such animals.
the report recommends that this exemption no longer be applicable to the employment of such minors in meat products manufacturing industries.
the clc commented that ``[if] the school day  schedules established by private schools and by parents of home-schooled  children could determine when children being educated in those settings  governed here, there would be nothing in the dol child labor regulations that  would prevent such a school or parent from setting a schedule that would permit  children to work during the hours that the public school system is in session.
killing floor includes a workroom, workplace where such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are immobilized, shackled, or killed, and the carcasses are dressed prior to chilling.
the department has similarly concluded for the same reasons noted above that this rule is not a ``major rule'' under the small business regulatory enforcement fairness act of 1996 (5 u.s.c. 801 et seq.).
570.118 to incorporate the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7).
the department also proposed to continue to permit youth 14- and  15-years of age to perform those occupations involving processing, operating of  machines, and working in rooms where processing and manufacturing take place,  that are currently permitted under sec. 570.34(a) (old), as referenced in sec.
some permitted milk shake blenders had more than one spindle so  multiple products could be processed simultaneously.
the report notes  that investigations of baler-related incidents show that failure to maintain  machinery in safe operating condition contributes to fatalities and serious  injuries and that neither adult supervisors nor young workers may fully  appreciate the risks posed by uncontrolled hazardous energy.
the flsa, as amended, includes other  exemptions from the minimum wage and overtime provisions that impact jobs often  performed by young workers, such as those contained in section 13(a)(3)
sec. 570.33 and 570.34 as they pertain to work experience and career  exploration programs (weceps).
congress has used ansi standards in other contexts as expressions of the best available technology in the safety area.
after carefully reviewing the comments, the department has decided to continue its long-standing enforcement position that school hours are defined by the hours that the local public school district where the minor resides when employed is in session, and to add this definition to sec. 570.35(b) to avoid confusion and to simplify both compliance and enforcement of the hours standards of reg. 3.
remanufacturing department shall mean those departments of a sawmill where lumber products such as boxes, lawn furniture, and the like are remanufactured from previously cut lumber.
the american red cross (red cross),  which has been developing and implementing lifeguard training and certification  programs since 1914, stated that it is ``comfortable'' with the department's  proposal with one small change.
prohibited activities include operating,  assisting to operate, setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any  horizontal or vertical dough mixer; batter mixer; bread dividing, rounding, or  molding machine; dough brake; dough sheeter; combination bread slicing and  wrapping machine; or cake cutting band saw.
there  is, thus, no corresponding environmental assessment or an environmental impact  statement.
the department also recognizes the concerns of the ywn and clc over the department's decision not to limit the student-learner and apprentice exemption contained in ho 10 at this time.
the department has created a new 29 cfr 570.37 that describes the conditions that allow the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds--pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered work-study program (wsp)--under conditions reg. 3 otherwise prohibits.
other forestry workers gather products which requires them to climb trees *
the final rule also provides that 16- and 17-year-olds may perform such fire prevention tasks as the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; the maintaining of fire fighting equipment;
pulling lumber from the  dry chain, except minors under 16 years of age may not pull lumber from the dry  chain as such youth are prohibited from operating or tending power-driven  machinery by sec. 570.33(e) of this part.
570.122 so as to incorporate guidance provided by the federal register.
the fmi and the council both  recommended that the department reconsider and adopt the niosh recommendation  that would allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and  food slicers.
the department received several comments supporting the creation of a  work-study program that would allow youth to work during the hours school was  in session, but opposing that such a program be limited, as the department  proposed, to students enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum.
the department has also moved the definition of  portable sawmill contained within sec. 570.54(a)(2) (old) to the definitions  section (sec. 570.54(b) (new)).
570.63, the section heading and paragraphs (a)(2), (b) are revised,  paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) are added, and paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(a) is revised to  read as follows: sec.
the clc also noted that the proposal would  not prohibit an employer from replacing a permanent worker at an establishment  participating in the work-study program with student-workers, as prohibited  under the wecep provisions contained in sec.
accordingly, the title has been revised as follows: occupations involved in the operation of balers, compactors, and paper-products machines (order 12).
the report notes that there were 712 non-fatal injuries and illnesses in 1997, with a median of 11 days away from work, associated with work with mixers, blenders, and whippers (see niosh report, page 49).
the department carefully considered all the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with one clarifying modification.
the department considers the issuance of this rule to be an important and necessary step in its ongoing review of the criteria for permissible child labor employment, a review which strives to balance the potential benefits of transitional, staged employment opportunities for youth with the necessary protections for their education, health and safety.
section 13(c)(7) overrides the heretofore complete prohibition on the  employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing occupations contained in  section 3(l) of the flsa.
the department also proposed to apply to  flsa-covered nonagricultural employers of minors, with certain modifications,  all the permitted occupations contained in sec.
the department was  able to quickly put an end to this unacceptable employment by not only  enforcing the child labor and minimum wage provisions of the flsa, but by  partnering with local law enforcement authorities to ensure that city and state  laws addressing community standards were enforced.
the report also did not consider potential approaches for decreasing workplace injuries and fatalities that provide an alternative to a complete ban on employment, such as safety training, increased supervision, the use of effective personal protective equipment, and strict adherence to recognized safe working practices.
in addition, the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor must include  an on-off switch incorporating a key-lock or other system and the control of  the system must be maintained in the custody of employees who are at least 18  years of age.
570.58, paragraphs (a) and (b) are revised to  read as follows:
that final rule limited permitted cooking  duties to cooking (1) with electric or gas grills which does not involve an  open flame (see sec. 570.34(b)(5)(i) (old) and sec.
(old) be replaced with the words motor vehicles so such youth may be permitted to wash additional types of motor vehicles such as suvs, station wagons, and vans.
as mentioned, section 3(l) of the flsa expressly prohibits children under the age of 16 from performing any work other than that which the secretary of labor permits, by order or regulation, upon finding that it does not interfere with their schooling or health and well-being (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l)).
* * using machetes and pruning shears *
prohibited activities associated with youth peddling not only include the attempt to make a sale or the actual consummation of a sale, but also the preparatory and concluding tasks normally performed by a youth peddler in conjunction with his or her sales such as the loading and unloading of vans or other motor vehicles, the stocking and restocking of sales kits and trays, the exchanging of cash and checks with the employer, and the transportation of minors to and from the various sales areas by the employer.
(iv) abrasive cutting discs.
the department has carefully reviewed  the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal, as presented, with one  modification.
the clc noted that it had several serious concerns about this proposal.
the department will carry on these efforts and will continue to work with both niosh and osha to better educate employers, employees, and enforcement personnel about the requirements of the ansi standards.
570.36 (new)) would provide those programs with limited exemptions from the hours standards contained in sec. 570.35(a) that are similar to the exemptions provided by the proposed work-study program.
the department proposed to change the  name of ho 8 from occupations involved in the operations of power-driven metal  forming, punching, and shearing machines (order 8) to occupations involved in  the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines  (order 8).
regulatory revisions  many of the revisions being made by this final rule will result in the  redesignation of several sections and subsections of the regulations.
gina amended flsa section 16(e) to define serious injury as (1) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (2) permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or (3) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
all kitchen  equipment they were permitted to operate prior to the adoption of this final  rule, as the list of permissible kitchen equipment is set forth in sec.
it also commented that the fact that dol would require the lifeguards to be certified by the red cross (or a similar certifying organization) in aquatics and water safety ``in no way assures that the dol proposal is prudent.''
the department, in its 2007 nprm, specifically requested public comments as to which occupations or tasks within the timber tract, tree farm, and forestry service industries, if any, are not particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health and well-being of youth (see 72 fr 19351).
the afl-cio supported the proposal but suggested that employers be required to keep the door open while the minor was inside the freezer, that the freezer door be equipped with an emergency release mechanism to ensure the youth can escape if the door is mistakenly shut, and that the employer provide unobstructed entry to and egress from the freezer.
for example, the department has developed long- standing enforcement positions regarding the application of certain of the hours standards limitations to minors who, for differing reasons, no [[page 28423]] longer attend or are unable to attend school.
it reported that about one-third of those injuries were to the  eye.
in the final rule issued in 2004, the department stated that it would publish a notice in the federal register when the secretary made any such certifications.
youth peddling the department proposed to amend reg. 3 and  create sec. 570.33(j) to ban the employment of 14- and 15-year-old minors in  occupations involving youth peddling, also referred to as ``door-to-door  sales'' and ``street sales.''
some of these positions have been in place since the 1970s and all have been detailed in the wage and hour division's field operations handbook since 1993.
such youth should be  permitted to perform many of the tasks that ho 4 has long permitted youth  employed in logging to perform:
and (iv)) as well as when assessing the risks from potential exposures to toxic chemicals; but whd will not itself issue citations for violations of osha standards.
the department has carefully reviewed all the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal as written.
the ho also prohibits the employment of such youth in the occupation of setting up or adjusting a ``cooky'' or cracker machine.
the clc stated that adoption of this proposal would allow  14- and 15-year-olds to perform office work for such employers as accounting  firms, advertising agencies, mass mailing businesses, insurance companies, and  many similar businesses.
in addition, gina also permits the assessment of a civil money penalty up to $50,000 with regard to each violation that caused the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years.
in order to  address the concerns of the red cross, ensure the maximum possible safety for  young workers and their charges who are learning to swim, and eliminate  confusion, the department is modifying the language in the proposed sec.
as an outgrowth of this proposal, it stated that ``it would make sense either for the wage and hour division to enforce osha in this context by issuing osha citations that assert osha violations, or for the wage and hour division investigator to notify osha of an osha violation and direct osha to investigate the matter as well for osha violations.
the ywn also noted that ``back hoes'' and  ``front-end-loaders'' would fall within the definition of high-lift trucks and  recommended, for the sake of clarity, that the department specifically name  them in the revised sec. 570.58(b).
this rule is not subject to e.o. 12630, because it  does not involve implementation of a policy ``that has takings implications''  or that could impose limitations on private property use.
willful violations  under this section has several components.
the issue of allowing  certain training exemptions from the hos first arose in the early 1940s, after  the enactment of the first six hos.
all  occupations in timber tracts means all work performed in or about  establishments that cultivate, manage or sell standing timber.
has a child to support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law, have waived school attendance requirements for this minor; (iv) is subject to an order of a state or federal court prohibiting him or her from attending school; or (v) has been permanently expelled from the local public school he or she would normally attend, unless the youth is required, by state or local law
the employment (including suffering or permitting to work) by an  employer of minors 14 and 15 years of age in occupations detailed in sec.
effects on families the undersigned hereby certifies that this rule will not adversely affect the well-being of families, as discussed under section 654 of the treasury and general government appropriations act, 1999.
finally, the department proposed to take no action concerning the niosh report recommendation concerning the apprenticeship and
in enacting flsa section 3(l), congress intended to assure the health and educational opportunities of 14- and 15-year- olds, while allowing them limited employment opportunities.
the department appreciates the concerns of the one employer and two employer associations that recommended that an employee's own academic schedule and individual attendance requirements should be used to determine when school is in session for that minor and recognizes how such a position could be seen as a means of providing minors with more work experiences while addressing employer staffing problems.
the employment of a 14- or 15-year-old who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade inside or outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood products
the afl-cio, ywn, clc and six flags all  supported the department's decision not to accept the niosh
the clc labeled as a ``wise approach'' the department's  proposal to rely on the expertise of osha, or the office charged with  administering an osha-authorized state plan where appropriate, to determine if  employers are complying with certain of the safety standards established by  flsa section 13(c)(7).
as used here, the terms youth peddling,  door-to-door-sales, and street sales do not include legitimate fund-raising  activities by eleemosynary organizations such as cookie sales conducted by the  girl scouts of america or school fund-raising events where the [[page 28413]]  students are truly volunteers and are not promised compensation for the sales  they make.
ho 14 also prohibits such minors from setting-up, adjusting, repairing,  oiling, or cleaning circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears.
the ywn and the clc supported using the hours of the local public school district the minor would attend if he or she attended public school when defining the term school in session.
but when it is determined that an employer- employee relationship does exist, and the employee is engaged in work that is subject to the flsa, the minimum age for such employment at a traditional swimming pool would be 14.
therefore,  the department requested in the nprm that the public provide information that  would help it identify which occupations or tasks within the timber tract, tree  farm, and forestry services industries are not particularly hazardous to youth.
however, when those jobs are not located in retail, food service, or gasoline service establishments, the provisions of sec. 570.34 (old) (both authorizations and prohibitions) do not apply to the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds.
a 12-inch long, 4-inch diameter, piece of a tree branch.
[federal register: may 20, 2010 (volume 75, number 97)]
this is also true for poultry processing which is not encompassed in the existing ho.
in  sec. 570.103, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: sec.
570.34 all those  occupations in which 14- and 15- year-olds may be employed when the work is  performed outside school hours and is confined to other specified limits.
the list of occupations in sec. 570.33 is not exhaustive.
such  employees are often referred to as ``chicken catchers'' or ``poultry  catchers.''
(52.5 hours x  $19.59 hourly rate x 1.4 fringe benefits factor.)
570.129 is added to read as follows: sec.
for example, a ``mixer'' as discussed in sec. 570.62(b)(1) would become a ``grinder'' prohibited by ho 10 (see sec. 570.61(a)(4)) when the grinding attachment is in use.
the ywn and the clc  opposed this proposal and both, apparently, support the comments submitted by  the usla, although this is not clear.
the agreement shall detail the objectives of the work-study program; describe  the specific job duties to be performed by the participating minor as well as  the number of hours and times of day that the minor will be employed each week;  affirm that the participant will receive the minimum number of hours of  class-room instruction as required by the state educational agency for the  completion of a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum; and affirm  that [[page 28453]] the employment of the minor will be in compliance with the  child labor provisions of both this part and the laws of the state where the  work will be performed, and the applicable minimum wage provisions contained in  section 6 of the flsa.
fifteen-year-olds employed as lifeguards are, however, prohibited  from entering or working in any mechanical room or chemical storage areas,  including any areas where the filtration and chlorinating systems are housed.
as discussed previously, in order for an employer  to avail itself of the limited exemption contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1) that  permits 16- and 17-year-olds under certain conditions to load, but not operate  or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, the employer  must determine that the equipment meets an appropriate ansi standard listed in  ho 12.
minors 14- and 15-years of age would still be prohibited from operating or  assisting in the operation of such mixers under the provisions of reg. 3 (see  sec. 570.33(e) (new)).
570.61(a)(4) to incorporate its  interpretation that the prohibition against 16- and 17- year-olds cleaning  power-driven meat processing machines extends to washing the machine's parts  and attachments, even if the machine is disassembled and reassembled by an  adult.
operators place the glass jar on top of the base, place the ingredients in the jar, affix the lid to the jar, press the appropriate button or switch, and blend the product.
the network is an association of private, not-for-profit college preparatory high schools that strive to [[page 28426]] meet the educational needs of people in many economically challenged areas throughout the country.
the authority citation for subpart e continues to read as follows: authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 212, 213(c).
in addition, the ywn recommended that the department amend the  first sentence of proposed sec. 570.33(j) to prohibit sales by youth ``in front  or around the outside of retail establishments'' as ``many youth peddle wares  outside grocery stores, large chain or box stores, etc.''
paper products machine means all power-driven machines used in remanufacturing or converting paper or pulp into a finished product, including preparing such materials for recycling; or preparing such materials for disposal.
it added that, for these reasons, other organizations like the ymca do not certify lifeguards until age 16 and thus ``dol's argument that this proposal ties dol enforcement practice to `standards' in the industry is not accurate.''
the docket id for the nprm that generated these comments is whd-2007-0002.
prohibited machines include those indoor- types of power-driven trash compactors equipped with built-in carts that detach from the compactor to facilitate disposal of the compacted waste.
their absence from this current round of rulemaking  is not an indication that the department believes them to be of less importance  or that they are not being given the same level of consideration as the  recommendations addressing the current nonagricultural hos.
the temperature of 100[deg] f, when  presented in sec. 570.34(a)(7) (old) and sec. 570.34(i) (new), does not apply  to the operation of kitchen equipment or to such permitted activities as  cooking with certain grills or deep fryers.
570.33(n)(1) (new) generally preclude the employment of such youth as poultry  catchers.
additional lifeguard duties may include checking in and out items such as  towels and personal items such as rings, watches and apparel.
only  the ywn and clc commented on the department's proposal to clarify the reg. 3  limitation that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed to work more than  three hours on any one day when school is in session by adding the phrase  ``including fridays.''
570.35(a)(1) and (a)(5)
reg. 3 limits the hours that 14- and 15-year-olds may work to: (1) outside school hours; (2) not more than 40 hours in any 1 week when school is not in session; (3) not more than 18 hours in any 1 week when school is in session; (4) not more than 8 hours in any 1 day when school is not in session; (5) not more than 3 hours in any 1 day when school is in session; and (6) between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in any 1 day, except during the summer (june 1 through labor day) when the evening hour will be 9 p.m.
four commenters, the food marketing institute (fmi), six flags, the wwa, and the representative of morey's pier, opposed the proposal.
[[page 28453]] the employment of the minor will be in compliance with the child labor provisions of both this part and the laws of the state where the work will be performed, and the applicable minimum wage provisions contained in section 6 of the flsa.
it is important to note that the  functions of such mixers, as well as how they are addressed by ho 10 and ho 11,  change when different ``attachments'' are used.
the department expects that  its experiences under the new work-study program will be similar.
570.61(a)(7), which for many years has prohibited 16- and 17-year-olds from handlifting or handcarrying any carcass or half carcass of beef, pork or horse, to include carcasses or half carcasses of buffalo and deer.
the changes affecting the types of occupations and industries in which  14- and 15-year-olds may or may not be employed, as well as the periods and  conditions of such employment (reg. 3 occupations and hours standards), are  largely clarifications of existing provisions or enforcement positions, though  new occupations involving work of an intellectual or creative nature,  lifeguarding, and the loading of personal hand tools onto motor vehicles, are  being added to the list of permitted occupations.
there is little occupational injury, illness, and fatality data available regarding minors less than 16 years of age.
copies of this final rule may be obtained in alternative formats (large print, braille, audio tape, or disc), upon request, by calling (202) 693-0023.
it was the department's intention to qualify in the final rule which occupations, if any, would be permitted for 16- and 17-year- olds after the comments were reviewed.
sec. 570.131 through 570.139, again at the direction of the federal register.
part 579--child labor  violations--civil money penalties 0 29.
the department does, however, address the issue of older youth  operating certain counter-top mixers later in this final rule with regard to ho  11.
the department is aware that permitting 15-year-olds to be employed as lifeguards at such water amusement park facilities as lazy rivers, wave pools, and the splashdown pools of elevated slides could be construed as allowing these youth to tend power-driven machinery.
some  employers believe that 14- and 15-year-olds are permitted to be employed in any  industry or occupations not expressly prohibited by reg. 3, or that any  employer in any industry is permitted to employ such youth in the occupations  permitted by sec. 570.34(a) (old).
the national council of chain restaurants (the council), which described itself as a national trade industry group representing the interests of the nation's largest multi-unit, multi-state chain restaurant companies, requested that the proposed sec. 570.33(e) include additional language which would emphasize that 14- and 15-year- olds would continue to be permitted to operate all those pieces of kitchen equipment listed in sec.
these revisions also implement specific  recommendations made by the national institute for occupational safety and  health in its 2002 report to the department of labor.
the ywn supported the proposal with  additional requirements.
the term slaughtering and meat packing establishments is  defined in ho 10 to mean places in which cattle, calves, hogs, sheep, lambs,  goats, or horses are killed, butchered, or processed.
(ii) instructional schedule.
the first modification involves a redesignation of the sections dealing with both wecep and the work study program as requested by the federal register.
579.1(a) to incorporate the [[page 28445]] provisions of section 16(e) of the flsa as revised by gina.
one commenter, the international association  of amusement parks and attractions, included comments from three of its member  organizations along with its submission.
in enacting flsa section 3(l), congress intended to  assure the health and educational opportunities of 14- and 15-year- olds, while  allowing them limited employment opportunities.
congress has created four additional exemptions to the nonagricultural child labor provisions of the flsa that are not currently reflected in subpart g (the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens by homeworkers; the loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors by 16- and 17-year-olds; the limited driving of certain automobiles and trucks by 17-year-olds; and the employment of certain youth between the ages of 14 and 18 years inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products).
from the child labor provisions contained in flsa sections 13(d), 13(c)(5),  13(c)(6), and 13(c)(7).
no comments were received regarding whether standard ansi z245.5- 2004 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.5- 1990 and whether standard ansi z245.2-2004 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
the department proposed to revise reg. 3 at new sec.
* * (1) the killing and processing of rabbits or small game in areas physically separated from the killing floor.
no proposed rule will result directly from that information  collection effort, however, the topics discussed in the anprm may be the  subject of a future rulemaking.
this revision would also  expand the current prohibitions involving quarter carcasses of beef and horse  to include buffalo.
standard ansi z245.5-2008 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--baling equipment-- safety requirements (ansi z245.5-2008) for scrap paper balers or the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-1997 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--stationary compactors--safety requirements (ansi z245.2-1997), the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-2004 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance and [[page 28457]] operation (ansi z245.2-2004), and the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-2008 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance and operation (ansi z245.2-2008) for paper box compactors, which the secretary has certified to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.5-1990 for scrap paper balers or standard ansi z245.2-1992 for paper box compactors.
570.63 occupations involved in the operation of balers, compactors, and paper-products machines (order 12).
because sign wavers and those hired to wave or hold up other products, or wear placards, sandwich boards, or costumes to attract potential customers are exposed to many of the same dangers associated with youth peddling, the following sentence has been added to sec.
to protect young workers from  hazardous employment, the flsa provides for a minimum age of 18 years in  occupations found and declared by the secretary to be particularly hazardous or  detrimental to the health or well-being for minors 16 and 17 years of age.
the occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines: (i) chain saws.
the issue of allowing certain training exemptions from the hos first arose in the early 1940s, after the enactment of the first six hos.
570.32 (new) that all work that is not specifically permitted is prohibited.
it also commented that the fact that dol  would require the lifeguards to be certified by the red cross (or a similar  certifying organization) in aquatics and water safety ``in no way assures that  the dol proposal is prudent.''
the dolwd recommended that the department focus on identifying the specific areas and occupations where work is prohibited and eliminate the specific provisions concerning where work is permitted.
the exemption, contained at section 13(c)(7) of the  flsa, overrides the ho 4 prohibition against 16- and 17-year-olds performing  any work in the sawmill industry that entails entering the sawmill building by  permitting certain youth to be employed inside and outside of places of  business where machinery is used to process wood products.
for  purposes of this exception, impermissible duties include grounds or field  maintenance such as grass mowing, spreading or rolling tarpaulins used to cover  playing areas, etc.; cleaning and repairing equipment; cleaning locker rooms,  showers, lavatories, rest rooms, team vehicles, club houses, dugouts or similar  facilities; loading and unloading balls, items and equipment from team vehicles  before and after a sporting event; doing laundry; and working in concession  stands or other selling and promotional activities.
section  570.122 is revised to read as follows: sec.
in addition, the 17-year-old must hold a state  license valid for the type of driving involved in the job, have successfully  completed a state-approved driver education course, and have no records of any  moving violations at the time of his or her hire.
in addition, niosh also was able to identify 16 additional deaths of workers of all ages that were attributable to forest fire fighting activities (see niosh report, page 30).
570.33-.34) section 570.33(b) (old) prohibits youth 14 and 15 years of age from employment in occupations involving the operation or tending of any power-driven machinery other than office equipment.
as the report recommends that the limited exception contained in ho 12 for  apprentices and student-learners be retained, the department's decision not to  address that issue is in full agreement with that recommendation.
the department agrees with several commenters who noted that applying the same definition of the term week for determining compliance with the minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the flsa would make it much easier for employers to use their payroll systems as tools and tracking systems for implementing and maintaining compliance with the child labor requirements.
* * had the highest lifetime risk of fatal injury of any industry,  at 47 deaths per 1,000 workers based on an analysis of national traumatic  occupational fatality surveillance system data for 1990 and 1991.
however, when those jobs are not located in  retail, food service, or gasoline service establishments, the provisions of  sec. 570.34 (old) (both authorizations and prohibitions) do not apply to the  employment of 14- and 15-year-olds.
also, available occupational injury, illness, fatality, and employment data on  the specific operations in the specific industries covered by the niosh report  recommendations tend to be combined with data on other operations and/or  industries.
the department has carefully reviewed the  comments of the ywn, afl- cio, and clc.
the same assumption was made by a teacher at the  sunrise mountain high school in peoria, arizona who commented ``[t]hese  internships provide our students valuable hands-on experiences to help connect  school and careers in a meaningful way.
570.62 occupations involved in the operation of  bakery machines (order 11).
these revisions are necessitated by the expansion of the  prohibitions of ho 10 to include the processing of such animals.
these exemptions, which do not apply to work  performed in a portable sawmill or that entails the young worker entering the  sawmill building, permit 16- and 17-year-olds employed in occupations in the  operation of sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, or cooperage stock mills to  work in offices or in repair or maintenance shops; to straighten, mark, or  tally lumber on the dry chain or the dry drop sorter; pull lumber from the dry  chain; to clean up the lumberyard; to pile, handle, or ship cooperage stock in  yards or storage sheds other than operating of or assisting in the operation of  power-driven equipment; to perform clerical work in the yards or shipping  sheds, such as done by ordermen, tally-men, and shipping clerks; to perform  clean-up work outside shake and shingle mills, except when the mill is in  operation; to split shakes manually from precut and split blocks with a froe  and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover; to pack shakes into  bundles when done in conjunction with splitting shakes manually with a froe and  mallet, except inside the mill building or cover; and to manually load bundles  of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars, provided that the employer  has on file a statement from a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy  certifying the minor capable of performing this work without injury to himself.
when the department  conducts an investigation of a work-study program participating employer, it  will follow its normal investigation procedures to determine if the employer  complied with child labor requirements.
after the 2007 nprm was published, ansi adopted two new standards related to balers and compactors:
to the extent that these provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of sec.
in addition, because atvs are motor  vehicles as defined by sec. 570.52(c) (old and new), 14- and 15-year-olds would  be prohibited from operating such equipment under sec.
the department's enforcement experience includes situations where employers have questioned why 16- and 17-year-olds were not permitted to use small mixers to process such things as cheese dip and batter for seafood when such machines generally appeared to present no risks to such minors.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with one modification.
as previously explained, any job not specifically permitted is prohibited.
in order to provide clarification, the department proposed to incorporate this  long-standing interpretation into the regulations at sec. 570.33(i) (new).
the department wishes to emphasize that this proposal  creates a new, limited, work-study program designed to accommodate the needs of  a narrowly defined population--14- and 15-year-old students enrolled in a  college preparatory curriculum at a public or private school that has been  granted authority to operate such a program by the department.
the department's experience with the pilot work-study program indicates that most of the jobs occupied by the students were entry-level positions created especially for the work-study program.
whd and osha, as recommended by the clc, will continue their  partnership to leverage the education and outreach efforts and enforcement  actions of each agency.
the comments centered around the  following elements of the proposal: (1) whether 15 should be the minimum age  for employment as a lifeguard at a traditional swimming pool or water amusement  park; (2) whether 16 should be the minimum age for employment as a lifeguard at  natural environments such as lakes, rivers, and oceanside beaches; and (3)  whether 15-year-olds should be prohibited from being employed as dispatchers or  attendants at the top of elevated water slides.
finally, continuation of this enforcement position facilitates the enforcement  of the reg. 3 hours standards by establishing a single, easily determinable  standard.
this page dol home > federal register >
gina, effective may 21, 2008, increased the maximum civil money penalty that may be assessed for violations that cause the death or serious injury of a minor from $11,000 to $50,000.
the afl-cio strongly urges dol not to permit children under  18 to do any of this work.
in 1998, the interstate labor standards  association created a subcommittee to work towards ending door-to-door sales by  children and recommended that the department of labor act as a national  clearinghouse regarding information concerning door-to-door sales operations.
similarly, the department believes that the clc recommendation regarding the mandatory reporting of work-related injuries and deaths that might occur to youth employed under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) would be duplicative of the reporting requirements already established by osha.
the limited  exemption contained in section 13(c)(7) applies only to certain youth--new  entrants into the workforce--and only when certain additional criteria are met.
as a result, no tribal summary impact statement has been  prepared.
however, these specialized metal balers also include large  industrial machines that feature shear blades that are not normally present on  lighter-duty type balers.
the clc stated that it ``welcomes'' the proposed inclusion of chain saws, wood chippers, and reciprocating saws but also ``sees no reason for dol's failure to include abrasive cutting discs as well.''
a relative shall mean the parent (or  someone standing in the place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or  aunt of the young worker.
16- and 17-year-olds from being employed in occupations involving the setting  up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning of such pizza-dough rollers.
the report notes that available data  demonstrate that chainsaws specifically contributed to 70 worker deaths between  1992 and 1997 and over 1,600 lost workday injuries.
and expand the list of examples of  prohibited equipment to include power- driven trimmers, weed-eaters, edgers,  golf carts, food processors, and food mixers.
570.119 fourteen-year minimum.
the ywn was equally brief, stating  ``[t]he network strongly agrees with this proposed change.''
the term all occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill, as defined by ho 4, specifically excludes work performed in the planing-mill department or other remanufacturing departments of any sawmill, or in any planing mill or remanufacturing plant not a part of a sawmill.
sections 570.118 through 570.120 are revised to read as follows: *
under the proposal, all occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention would include the controlling and extinguishing of fires, the wetting down of areas or extinguishing of spot fires, and the patrolling of burned areas to ensure the fire has been extinguished.
flsa section 13(c)(1) states, in relevant  part: ``the provisions of section 212 of this title relating to child labor  shall not apply to any employee employed in agriculture outside of school hours  for the school district where such employee is living while he is so employed,  if such employee *
ansi standard z245.2-1992.
[[page 28416]] the department also proposed to revise sec.
when enacting the compactor and baler act, congress explicitly applied certain industry standards for the determination of which balers and/or compactors are safe for minors to load: ansi standard ansi z245.5-1990 for scrap paper balers or standard ansi z245.2-1992 for paper box compactors.
the department proposed to retain all the current prohibitions contained in sec. 570.33 but would modify the prohibition regarding the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing occupations to comport with the provisions of the consolidated appropriations act, 2004, which enacted section 13(c)(7) of the flsa.
operating or  assisting to operate means all work that involves starting or stopping a  machine covered by this section, placing materials into or removing materials  from a machine, including clearing a machine of jammed materials, paper, or  cardboard, or any other work directly involved in operating the machine.
the clc stated ``[a]ny reasonable person who has seen such  couriers rushing through city streets, dodging cars, pedestrians, and other  cyclists to deliver important documents, would shudder to think that 14- and  15- year-olds would be able to do this work, if dol's proposal becomes the  final regulation.''
sec. 570.35(a)(1), (a)(3) and (a)(5).
a new rin has been assigned to the wage  and hour division.
the representative  of morey's pier believed that each minor should be treated individually and  that his or her own academic schedule and attendance requirements should be  used when determining when school was in session for the minor.
section 13(c)(7) allows the employment of  certain 14- and 15-year-olds inside and outside of places of business that use  power-driven machinery to process wood products as discussed above.
for a discussion  of this provision, see sec.
570.63(c)(2) that permits apprentices and student-learners to perform, under  specific guidelines, tasks that would otherwise be prohibited by ho 12.
the report also recommends that the department retain the exemption contained in ho 14 that permits 16- and 17-year-old apprentices and student learners to perform work that would be otherwise prohibited by the ho.
the department also notes that the proposed work-study program provides considerable flexibility to those schools that choose to participate.
the  original report that led to the issuance of ho 14 in 1960 noted that these  machines had already been found and declared to be particularly hazardous for  16- and 17-year-old employees when used to process certain materials.
the afl-cio supported the  proposal and suggested that ``abrasive cutting discs'' be added to the list of  prohibited equipment.
570.35 to reflect that school would not be considered to be in session for a 14- or 15-year-old minor who has graduated from high school; or has been excused from compulsory school attendance by the state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the eighth grade and his or her employment complies with all the requirements of the state school attendance law; or has a child to support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law, have waived school attendance requirements for this minor; or is subject to an order of a state or federal court prohibiting him or her from attending school; or has been permanently expelled from the local public school
however, these specialized metal balers also include large industrial machines that feature shear blades that are not normally present on lighter-duty type balers.
579.5, sections (a) and (e), to note that flsa section 16(e) references both sections 12 and 13(c) when discussing the types of child labor violations that are subject to the assessment of civil money penalties.
the granting of a special variation is determined on a case-by-case basis.
the text and discussion of this provision appear in sec.
the ywn also recommended that ho 10 be expanded to  cover seafood processing occupations.
for the same reason, the department has decided not to accept the council's recommendation that sec. 570.33(e) be revised to emphasize that youth will continue to be permitted to operate all kitchen equipment they were permitted to operate prior to the adoption of this final rule, as the list of permissible kitchen equipment is set forth in sec.
the fmi reported that its retail membership is composed of large multi-store chains, regional firms and independent supermarkets.
no person shall be imprisoned under this subsection except for an offense committed after the conviction of such person for a prior offense under this subsection.
570.35b will be issued as sec.
operating an elevator, crane, derrick, hoist, or high-lift truck except such  youth may operate unattended automatic operation passenger elevators and  electric or air operated hoists not exceeding one ton capacity; (2) riding on a  manlift or on a freight elevator, except a freight elevator operated by an  assigned operator; and (3) assisting in the operation of a crane, derrick or  hoist performed by crane hookers, crane chasers, hookers-on, riggers, rigger  helpers, and like occupations.
section 12(a) provides that no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or  deliver for shipment in interstate or foreign commerce any goods produced in an  establishment in or about which oppressive child labor was employed within 30  days before removal of the goods.
she noted that the junior  lifeguard program is an important tool for recruiting and developing future  lifeguards.
the exemption contained in sec. 570.58(a)(1) permitting youth to operate and ride inside passenger elevators would be retained, but the exemption that currently allows 16- and 17-year-olds to operate an electric or air-operated hoist not exceeding one ton capacity would be eliminated as per the report recommendation.
as used in  this section:
as discussed previously in the  sections dealing with hos 10 and 12, the department proposed to take no action  concerning the apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions to certain hos at  this time.
the department  understands the concerns of both commenters as to the types of tasks young  workers would be permitted to perform under the umbrella of ``artistic or  creative endeavors'' and notes that it will rely on 29 cfr 541.302(b)--which  limits the scope of this term to such fields as music, writing, acting, and the  graphic arts--for guidance.
570.35 hours of work and conditions of employment permitted for minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the department, during its meetings held after the release  of the report with various stakeholders, including representatives of the  full-service and quick-service restaurant industries, sought to identify which  types of mixers could be operated safely in the workplace by 16- and  17-year-olds.
no comments were received on these proposals to amend subpart g.
the revisions also simplify the  section by combining, clarifying, and condensing previous subsections.
the genetic information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) (pub.
such light non-power- driven hand tools would include, but are not  limited to, rakes, hand- held clippers, shovels, and brooms, but would not  include items like lawn mowers or other power-driven lawn maintenance  equipment.
570.35a  (old) and sec.
chain saw shall mean a machine that has teeth  linked together to form an endless chain used for cutting materials.
570.33 is a non-exhaustive list that only sets forth common examples of prohibited occupations.
sec. 570.38 and 570.39] 0 3.
sec. 570.33 and 570.34 as they pertain to work experience and career exploration programs (weceps).
the department also disagrees with the ywn and clc comments that the [[page 28428]] proposed work-study program was designed to accommodate a single program--the cristo rey network.
prohibited activities include operating, assisting to operate, setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any horizontal or vertical dough mixer; batter mixer; bread dividing, rounding, or molding machine; dough brake; dough sheeter; combination bread slicing and wrapping machine; or cake cutting band saw.
the department notes that when the compactor and baler act was enacted, congress took considerable pains to ensure that the legislation contained appropriate safeguards that would provide young workers with necessary protections while ensuring that the employers of such youth could achieve and maintain compliance.
for purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(b) of this section, the term ``serious injury'' means: (a) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (b) permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or (c) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
therefore, the department has decided to also incorporate the  2008 ansi standards into this final rule.
the department is adding poultry scissors and shears to the list of prohibited power-driven meat processing machines listed in sec.
570.34(a) to be performed in additional industries, rather than just in retail,  food service, and gasoline service establishments.
the wwa opined that ``[it] is a  universally accepted position of the aquatic community that a lifeguard's first  responsibility is to prevent accidents and injuries by enforcing rules and  educating patrons * *
the youth  is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by  a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood
the department, for this very reason, did not specifically identify the cristo rey network in the nprm.
a copy of the written agreement for each student participating in the work-study program shall be kept by both the employer and the school supervising and administering the program for a period of three years from the date of the student's enrollment in the program.
there were also concerns that 14- and 15-year-olds could now become full-time janitors and spend an entire shift performing cleaning duties.
(7) employment of 17-year-olds to perform limited driving of cars and trucks during daylight hours under specified conditions.
570.63(b) to mean a powered machine that remains stationary during operation, designed or used to compact refuse other than paper or cardboard boxes, into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
(ii) reciprocating saws.
and (iv)) as well as when  assessing the risks from potential exposures to toxic chemicals; but whd will  not itself issue citations for violations of osha standards.
, 29 cfr part 11, indicates that the rule will not have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment.
the city advised the department that, even with the adoption of the enforcement position that permits state and local governments to employ minors under certain conditions, it was being forced to abandon a youth-employment program that provided 14- and 15-year-olds with certain jobs because of the prohibition against loading materials into vehicles.
standard ansi z245.2-2008 (stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations) and standard ansi z245.5- 2008 (baling equipment--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations).
the revision of several of the nonagricultural hos--implementing specific recommendations made by niosh or that arise from the department's enforcement experience--will, in all but one instance involving the use of certain counter-top mixers (ho 11), require employers to assign older workers to perform tasks that previously may have been performed by 16- and 17-year-olds.
as  mentioned, the department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same  day as the nprm, to solicit public comment on this important issue.
the term does not include other types of shearing machines, using a different form of shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular shears.
the clc correctly stated that another of the  department's regulations, 29 cfr 541.302(b), advises this term includes such  fields as music, writing, acting, and the graphic arts.
570.130 to present detailed discussions of the exemptions
in addition, the prohibitions against operating or tending  power-driven equipment contained in sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec. 570.33(e
(j) cleaning vegetables and fruits, and the  wrapping, sealing, labeling, weighing, pricing, and stocking of items,  including vegetables, fruits, and meats, when performed in areas physically  separate from a freezer or meat cooler.
it will not have a significant adverse effect on the supply, distribution or use of energy.
this same subsection cites flsa section 3(d), which defines the term employer and then, in footnote 4, discusses that definition.
if fatalities result from recognized illegal activities, such as working with fireworks or a power-driven circular saw, the best strategy for preventing future injuries may not be to revise the regulations but to increase compliance with existing laws through public awareness initiatives, targeted compliance assistance efforts, and stepped-up enforcement activities.
in  addition, in order to be employed inside or outside of places of business where  machinery is used to process wood products, the new entrant must be supervised  by an adult relative or an adult member of the same religious sect or division  as the entrant.
the report notes that substantial numbers of fatalities occur among workers who are passengers on forklifts, riding on the forks, or working from the raised forklift attachments (see niosh report, page 36).
participation in the proposed work-study program is voluntary and it  in no way conflicts with other federal, state, or local programs addressing the  educational needs of young workers.
the term does not include other types of shearing machines,  using a different form of shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular  shears.
not included in the definition of a  water amusement park would be such natural environment swimming facilities as  rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside  beaches.
circular  saw shall mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a continuous  series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting, and used for  sawing materials.
the term also includes the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
570.33  is a non-exhaustive list that only sets forth common examples of prohibited  occupations.
the dol has slightly increased the total burden hour estimate from 1585  hours to 1586 to align the data with what appears in the general services  administration, regulatory information service center and the omb, office of  information and regulatory affairs combined information system (rocis) used to  track the burdens imposed by federal government information collections.
the sic industry group of forestry services encompasses establishments primarily engaged in performing, on a contract or fee basis, services related to timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and marketing, as well as other forestry services not contained in another sic such as timber cruising, forest fire fighting, and reforestation.
the clc stated that ``[w]hat is particularly  troubling-- and what dol does not indicate in its preamble to the proposed  regulation--is that the only school system that appears to qualify for the  proposed program is a private roman catholic system.''
there were also concerns that 14- and 15-year-olds could now become  full-time janitors and spend an entire shift performing cleaning duties.
although flsa section 13(c)(7) does not impact the prohibitions of ho 5 because eligible youth are still prevented from operating power-driven woodworking machinery, it does expand the types of workplaces where certain youth may be employed to include sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, and cooperage stock mills as well as other workplaces the department's final rule includes under reg. 3 and ho 4.
the list of permitted equipment includes, but is not  limited to, dishwashers, toasters, dumbwaiters, popcorn poppers, milk shake  blenders, coffee grinders, automatic coffee machines, devices used to maintain  the temperature of prepared foods, and microwave ovens that do not have the  capacity to warm above 140 [deg]f. although there may have been some confusion  among employers, the department has long interpreted the term toaster to mean  that type of equipment that was generally found in snack bars and lunch  counters when reg. 3 was issued and used to toast such items as slices of bread  and english muffins.
by adding skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, and  bobcat loaders to the definition of high-lift trucks, the department believes  it will clarify the requirements for compliance with ho 7.
finally, the ywn, afl-cio, and the clc all  encouraged the department to revise its proposal and accept the niosh  recommendation to prohibit the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in the  constructing and repairing of living or administrative quarters of logging  camps.
the prohibition concerning the employment of youth in forest fire fighting and fire prevention applies to all forest and timber tract locations, logging operations, and sawmill operations, including all buildings located within such areas.
the school is located in a neighborhood where 20 percent of those  attending the local public school drop out annually and the high school  graduation rate of the local public school is 55 percent.
the second modification clarifies the role of the  teacher-coordinator.
section 570.120 describes the authority and  process by which hos are adopted, and lists those occupations the secretary has  found and declared to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or  well-being of minors 16 and 17 years of age.
for example, the  department investigated the death of a 15-year-old male in 1999 who was  employed as a poultry catcher, working in the dark and under red lighting, in  arkansas.
any such unlawful act or practice may be enjoined by the united  states district courts under section 17 upon court action, filed by the  secretary pursuant to section 12(b) and, if willful will subject the offender  to the criminal penalties provided in section 16(a) of the act.
in addition, there are a number of diverse  and serious health hazards associated with the slaughtering of animals and  manufacturing of meat products, including exposure to infectious agents and  respiratory hazards.
these activities are normally performed in environments and under conditions that present risks of injury and illness to young workers.
1263, 5 u.s.c. app; secs.
the usla noted that the  participants at this conference, which used a consensus-based process to issue  its recommendations, considered such factors as the physical and cultural  parameters of the natural environments to be guarded; the psychological and  physiological stresses of public safety employment; the lack of physical  stamina, maturity, and experience of those under 16 years of age; and the  varying levels of supervision provided young lifeguards.
this  modification does not change the content of the department's original proposal.
in addition, the department's interpretation of prohibited helper services under sec.
the department also proposed to add buffalo and deer to the lists of animals contained in the definitions of the terms killing floor and slaughtering and meat packing establishments and to note that these lists are not exhaustive.
the participants attend 8 hours of training, which follows the red cross's  guard start program, and then volunteer at the pool as aides during swim  lessons.
under reg. 3, 14- and 15-year-olds may work in certain occupations in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments, but are not permitted to work in certain other occupations (including all occupations found by the secretary to be particularly hazardous for 16- and 17-year-olds).
additionally, a considerable number of deaths were associated with activities  not directly related to operation of the hoisting apparatus, notably servicing,  repairing, and disassembling.
total dollar cost burden:  $14.
the  department notes that the use of standard industrial codes by the niosh report  was helpful in identifying the different occupations and industries that could  be impacted by the department's ho.
the  compactor and baler act also provides that any new standard(s) adopted by ansi  would also be sufficient for the safety of the scrap paper balers and paper box  compactors, if the secretary of labor certifies the new standard(s) to be at  least as protective of the safety of minors as the two standards specified in  the act.
reg. 3 identifies a number of occupations and activities that are specifically prohibited for these minors without regard to the industry or the type of business in which their employer is engaged (e.g., operating or tending any power-driven machinery other than office machines, see sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec. 570.33(e)
section 570.122 is revised to read as follows: sec.
the report notes that investigations of  baler-related incidents show that failure to maintain machinery in safe  operating condition contributes to fatalities and serious injuries and that  neither adult supervisors nor young workers may fully appreciate the risks  posed by uncontrolled hazardous energy (see niosh report, page 50).
the department does not accept the dolwd's recommendation that reg. 3 be  revised to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to operate certain weed- eaters because  of the potential for injury associated with the operation of such equipment.
b. occupations that are  permitted for minors between 14 and 16 years of age (29 cfr 570.33-.34)
sec. 570.61(a)(4)) to avoid confusion and facilitate compliance.
in addition, the department proposed to expand the ho that prohibits  youth from operating power-driven circular saws, band saws, and guillotine  shears to also prohibit the operation of power-driven chain saws, wood  chippers, and reciprocating saws.
the report states: ``the logging  industry *
however, wecep, by design, does little to help  those students who wish to use work experience, and the wages such experiences  generate, as a means to realize their academic potential and acquire a college  education.
the minor was not operating the  forklift at the time of his death but was serving as a ``spotter'' and
for purposes of this section, an employer's  conduct shall be deemed to be in reckless disregard of the requirements of the  act, among other situations, if the employer should have inquired further into  whether its conduct was in compliance with the act, and failed to make adequate  further inquiry.
570.35, additional conditions that limit the periods during  which 14- and 15-year-olds may be employed.
prohibited machinery (sec.
except, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the operation of those lightweight, small capacity, portable, countertop mixers discussed in sec. 570.62(b)(1) of this chapter when used as a mixer to process materials other than meat or poultry.
570.103(c) to reflect that the flsa now contains eight exemptions from the child labor provisions and that two of these exemptions are also exemptions from the act's minimum wage and overtime requirements.
furthermore, the 16-year-age  minimum for employment is applicable to employment in all other occupations  unless otherwise provided by regulation or order issued by the secretary.
the inquiries  have concerned such jobs as a computer programmer and computer applications  demonstrator for a college, print and runway model, and musical director at a  church or school.
the regulation also requires that the student's parent or guardian sign the training agreement, or otherwise give consent to the agreement, in order for it to be valid.
minors under 16 years  of age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated  water slides performing such tasks as maintaining order, directing patrons as  to when to depart the top of the slide, and ensuring that patrons have begun  their ``ride'' safely.
but the employer  (tenant) must exercise due vigilance, for should the notice be inaccurate or  incomplete--i.e., the baler or compactor fails to meet the appropriate ansi  standard, or the notice fails to fully identify the appropriate ansi  standard--the burden of compliance remains with the employer (tenant) of any  youth who loaded the equipment.
during enforcement actions involving employers who avail  themselves of the limited exemption contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1), the  department routinely confirms whether the scrap paper baler or paper box  compactor being loaded by 16- or 17-year-olds meets the requirements of the  applicable ansi standard, as determined and declared by the employer.
after reviewing the list of permitted lifeguard  duties presented in sec.
this legislation amended the flsa by adding  subsection 13(c)(5), which permits 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not  operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors only  when certain conditions are met.
570.34, except upon approval of a variation by the administrator of the wage  and hour division in acting on the program application of the state educational  agency.
even though this prohibition is clear and quite broad, other sections of reg. 3 have traditionally named certain pieces of power- driven machinery so as to eliminate any doubt or confusion as to their prohibited status.
finally, the clc noted that the statute did not require woodworking establishments that employ youth under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) to report all work-related accidents and deaths of such workers to the department.
the limited exemption provided by flsa section 13(c)(5) and  contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1), which allows 16- and 17-year-old workers, under  specific conditions, to load but not operate or unload certain scrap paper  balers and paper box compactors, would remain.
the clc also argued that language in the proposed ho 4 is changed from the current rule and contradicts itself in that sec. 570.54(a) declares all occupations in logging to be particularly hazardous; that the definition of all occupations in logging contained in sec. 570.54(b) includes the constructing, repairing, and maintaining of camps used in connection with logging; and sec.
tty/tdd callers may dial toll-free (877) 889-5627 to obtain information or request materials in alternative formats.
it is important to note that in those rare instances when the catching activities would be agricultural in nature, such as where poultry catchers are employed solely by a farmer on a farm to catch poultry raised by that farmer, the catchers would be subject to the agricultural child labor provisions contained in flsa sections 13(c)(1) and (2).
the nprm proposed to continue to allow the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds in all those retail, food service, and gasoline service establishment occupations in which they are currently permitted to be employed.
such criteria, which must be consistent with the established  national policy of balancing the benefits of employment opportunities for youth  with the necessary and most effective safety protections, will also be of value  as the department considers creating new hos.
such employers can consult with the manufacturer of  the equipment, the supplier of the equipment, the owner of the equipment if the  equipment is leased, industry and/or employer associations, osha, and safety  engineering consultants.
as mentioned, the department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, to solicit public comment on this important issue.
an employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be deemed to be willful for purposes of this section where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the act or showed reckless disregard for the requirements of the act.
the one private  citizen comment, which concerned the issue of door-to-door sales, was  incorrectly submitted to the anprm docket by the commenter and was assigned a  document id of whd-2007-0001-0004.
the ywn praised the enforcement benefits that would arise from having only one standard in each school district, thereby avoiding multiple schedules that would create unworkable and needlessly complex enforcement standards.
the department believes that before any changes to  the existing exemptions are made, it is important to consider and develop  criteria for determining when apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions are  appropriate.
they are often required to work many  hours on school nights and late into the evening.
the department is adding poultry  scissors and shears to the list of prohibited power-driven meat processing  machines listed in sec.
[[page 28456]] cutting saws, poultry scissors or  shears; meat slicers, knives (except bacon-slicing machines), headsplitters,  and guillotine cutters; snoutpullers and jawpullers; skinning machines;  horizontal rotary washing machines; casing-cleaning machines such as crushing,  stripping, and finishing machines; grinding, mixing, chopping, and hashing  machines; and presses (except belly-rolling machines).
youth may conduct sales in such employer exterior facilities,  whether temporary or permanent, as garden centers, sidewalk sales, and parking  lot sales, when employed by that establishment.
the term shall include all types of hoists, such as base mounted electric, clevis suspension, hook suspension, monorail, overhead electric, simple drum, and trolley suspension hoists.
the ywn also questioned the justification for adding a new and unique age cut-off for this one particular job, when all other regulations group 15-year-olds with 14-year-olds.
the department believes that only a few minors have obtained  employment in such occupations since the amendment was enacted and doubts that  the number will increase.
many machines are adaptable for the baling and compacting of a wide variety of materials, including paper, aluminum cans, plastic milk jugs, and general refuse.
570.140 (as redesignated as discussed in paragraph 7 above) to incorporate the  provisions of gina.
the dolwd recommended that the program should be expanded to include pre-apprenticeship work training programs, and a representative of the new jersey department of education (njdoe) recommended that ``determining the educational and eligibility requirements for such programs be left to state education agencies.''
the department will continue to study these  recommendations.
(2) work of operating, tending, riding upon, working from, repairing, servicing, or disassembling a manlift or freight elevator, except 16- and 17-year-olds may ride upon a freight elevator operated by an assigned operator.
(iii) clean-up in the lumberyard.
that same section defines power-driven woodworking machines to mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening, or otherwise assembling, pressing, or printing wood or veneer.
young workers have been killed or seriously injured while operating wood chippers.
the department proposed that compliance with the safety and health provisions discussed in the previous paragraph will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by osha or, in those areas where osha has authorized the state to operate its own occupational safety and health plan, the applicable standards issued by the office charged with administering the state occupational safety and health plan.
(iv) piling, handling, or shipping of cooperage stock in yards or storage sheds  other than operating or assisting in the operation of power-driven equipment;  except minors under 16 years of age may not perform shipping duties as they are  prohibited from employment in occupations in connection with the transportation  of property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means by sec.
a representative of the national association of state directors of career technical education consortium (state directors) apparently believed that the adoption of the proposal contained in sec.
these youth are often transported by crew leaders in vans,  which fail to meet proper safety and insurance requirements, to areas quite  distant from their home neighborhoods.
the niosh report notes that the fatality rate for adolescents aged 16 and 17 was 5.1 per 100,000 full-time equivalent workers for the 10-year period 1980-89
working in offices and in repair or maintenance  shops; work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living  and administrative quarters, constructing and maintaining telephone lines; and  work in the feeding or care of animals.
570.33 (new) would be applicable to the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds, regardless of the industries in which they are employed.
the department has opined, as early as 1989, that the term  public messenger service involves that delivery service rendered to a company  which takes messages, small parcels, etc. from one party for delivery to  another party.
section 12(c) prohibits any employer from employing oppressive child  labor in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such  commerce.
as noted earlier, flsa  section 13(c)(5) and sec. 570.63(c)(1)(iv) require that before a 16- or  17-year-old employee may load a baler or compactor subject to ho 12, his or her  employer must first post a notice on the equipment stating that: (1) the baler  or compactor meets the named applicable ansi standard; (2) sixteen- and  17-year-old employees may only load the baler or compactor; and (3) any  employee under the age of 18 may not operate or unload the baler or compactor.
570.102  and in footnote 21, which is cited in sec.
the department received eight comments on this proposal.
not included in the definition  of a traditional swimming pool or a water amusement park would be such natural  environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs,  piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
as a result, no tribal summary impact statement has been prepared.
(o) work in connection with riding inside passenger compartments of motor  vehicles except as prohibited by sec. 570.33(f) or sec. 570.33(j), or when a  significant reason for the minor being a passenger in the vehicle is for the  purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting--or assisting in  the transporting of--other persons or property.
(d) work performed in or about boiler or engine rooms or in connection with the maintenance or repair of the establishment, machines, or equipment.
likewise, a 14- or 15-year-old could be employed, with all the safeguards of sec.
the department does not share the ywn's concerns about adding  ``a new and unique age cut-off for this one particular job, when all other  regulations group 15-year- olds with 14-year-olds.''
an adult shall mean an individual  who is at least eighteen years of age.
the department also notes that 14- and 15-year-olds who are employed in artistic or creative endeavors will continue to be prohibited from performing any of the occupations or tasks detailed in the revised sec. 570.33.
revisions resulting from the niosh recommendations include the expansion of ho 4 to prohibit the employment of minors in forest fire fighting and fire prevention activities and in timber tract and forestry service occupations; the revision of ho 7 to prohibit the employment of minors in the tending, servicing, and repairing of hoisting equipment and the addition of such equipment as cherry pickers, scissor lifts, bucket trucks, aerial platforms, and hoists of less than one ton capacity to the list of prohibited equipment; and the expansion of ho 10 to prohibit the employment of minors in poultry slaughtering and processing occupations.
the department recognizes  niosh's extensive research efforts in compiling and reviewing this data.
the term shall mean and include highlift trucks known under such names as fork lifts, fork trucks, fork lift trucks, tiering trucks, backhoes, front-end loaders, skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, bobcat loaders, or stacking trucks, but shall not mean low-lift trucks or low- lift platform trucks that are designed for the transportation of but not the tiering of materials.
the department believes that the strict enforcement of such ordinances by the appropriate authorities will continue to be important supplements to the effectiveness of the federal child labor laws.
such youth may work up to 23 hours in any one week when school is in session and not more than 3 hours in any day when school is in session, any portion of which may be during school hours.
the following tasks in forest fire prevention provided none of these tasks  may be performed in conjunction with or in support of efforts to extinguish a  forest fire: the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction,  maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; the piling and burning of slash; the  maintaining of fire fighting equipment; and acting as a fire lookout or fire  patrolman.
reg. 3, originally  promulgated in 1939, was revised to reflect the 1961 amendments to the flsa,  which extended the act's coverage to include enterprises engaged in commerce or  the production of goods for commerce and thereby brought more working youth  employed in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments within  the protections of the act.
also in 2000, a municipality  contacted the department inquiring whether it could legally employ such youth  as lifeguards at its city-owned swimming pools.
furthermore, the employer must also post a notice on the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor that conveys certain information, including the identification of the applicable ansi standard that the equipment meets, that 16- and 17-year-old employees may only load the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor, and that no employee under the age of 18 may operate or unload the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor.
the term permitted lifeguard duties does not include the operation or tending  of power- driven equipment including power-driven elevated water slides often  found at water amusement parks and some swimming pools.
the  department notes that when the compactor and baler act was enacted, congress  took considerable pains to ensure that the legislation contained appropriate  safeguards that would provide young workers with necessary protections while  ensuring that the employers of such youth could achieve and maintain  compliance.
any such changes, therefore, would be outside the scope of this rulemaking.
the employment of 15-year-olds (but not 14-year-olds) as lifeguards the department proposed to revise reg. 3 at sec.
the concerns of the afl-cio, ywn, and clc about increased youth employment in several industries, such as dry cleaning and laundry services, treating and disposing of waste, mass mailing enterprises, and the painting of houses and automobiles, are unfounded.
youth peddling does not include the activities of persons who, as volunteers and without compensation, sell goods or services on behalf of eleemosynary organizations or public agencies.
copies of this final rule may be obtained in alternative formats  (large print, braille, audio tape, or disc), upon request, by calling (202)  693-0023.
the department also  notes that reg. 3 has for many years prohibited young workers from operating  compact power mixers or blenders, also know as ``immersible wands'' and  ``immersion blenders,'' used for such tasks as liquefying soups and sauces and  pureeing fruits, meats, and vegetables.
(2) this section shall not apply to the operation of pizza-dough rollers, a type of dough sheeter, that: have been constructed with safeguards contained in the basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in the in-running point of the rollers; have gears that are completely enclosed; and have microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of the rollers are removed.
failure to meet the requirements of this section may result in withdrawal of the approval.
in order to prevent any possible confusion and to provide maximum clarity, the department has revised the final rule by adding the following sentence to the end of sec. 570.34(m)(2):
in addition, the  department proposed to revise the definition of manlift so that, as recommended  by the report, it incorporates those pieces of equipment that perform the same  functions as manlifts but that do not currently fall within the prohibitions of  the ho.
the department charged the employer of this youth with a violation of ho 5, and assessed and collected a civil money penalty because of the violation.
the usla further  commented that this position was also reached by participants at a national  conference held in 1980 which issued a report entitled ``guidelines for  establishing open-water recreational beach standards.''
the additional occupations the department proposed to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to perform are discussed below: 1.
section  570.127 is revised to read as follows: sec.
similarly, the department believes that the clc  recommendation regarding the mandatory reporting of work-related injuries and  deaths that might occur to youth employed under the provisions of flsa section  13(c)(7) would be duplicative of the reporting requirements already established  by osha.
the department also proposed to change the word cooky in sec. 570.62(a)(2) to cookie to reflect the more common spelling of that word.
the blending blades are attached, often permanently, to the bottom of the glass jar.
(f) bagging and carrying out customers' orders.
the department also proposed to add buffalo and  deer to the lists of animals contained in the definitions of the terms killing  floor and slaughtering and meat packing establishments and to note that these  lists are not exhaustive.
the department believes that the  continuation and incorporation of this enforcement position brings clarity in  that employers need only look to the hours of operation of the local public  school where the minor resides to attain compliance.
the one private citizen comment, which concerned the issue of door-to-door sales, was incorrectly submitted to the anprm docket by the commenter and was assigned a document id of whd-2007-0001-0004.
accordingly, the department is revising the proposed sec. 570.34(b) to reflect this suggested change.
in 2004 ansi adopted standard ansi z245.2-2004 (stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations) and standard ansi z245.5-2004 (baling equipment--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations).
the youth would have to be  enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum and must receive, every year they  participate in the work- study program, at least the minimum number of hours of  class room instruction required by the applicable state educational agency  responsible for establishing such standards.
all occupations in timber tracts means all work performed in or about establishments that cultivate, manage or sell standing timber.
in addition, the prohibitions against operating or tending power-driven equipment contained in sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec. 570.33(e) (new) and the prohibition against employment in occupations in connection with the transportation of property contained in sec. 570.33(f)(1) (old) and sec.
the term shall not include work in forest  nurseries, establishments primarily engaged in growing trees for purposes of  reforestation.
the ansi standards for scrap paper balers and paper box  compactors govern the manufacture and modification of the equipment, the  operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee training.
the department now concurs that employment at such camps, which are purposely located considerable distances from forest fires, when in compliance with all other hazardous occupations orders, is not particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or well-being of 16- and 17-year-olds.
reg. 3 limits the hours and times of day that such minors may work and identifies occupations that are either permitted or prohibited for such minors.
the department also understands that,  given the constant development and changes occurring in the modern workplace,  in continuing to provide a definitive list of permitted occupations and  industries, it may unintentionally discourage the creation of positive and safe  employment opportunities for young workers.
the department has long taken the position that ho 4 (logging occupations and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill) prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from operating chain saws in logging operations because the ho prohibits all work ``in connection with the felling of timber.''
the report also recommends that the department remove the limited exemption for apprentices and student-learners contained in ho 16 (occupations in roofing operations and on or about a roof) and ho 17, and retain the same exemption as it applies to ho 5 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines) and ho 8 (occupations involved in the operation of power-
a detailed  discussion of the department's review was included in the notice of proposed  rulemaking published in the federal register on april 17, 2007 (see 72 fr  19339).
the  department appreciates the concerns raised by the red cross that certified  lifeguards may not have received the proper training, and therefore the proper  certification, to give swimming instruction.
in order to clarify the final rule, the department has decided to add  ponds and quarries to the non-exhaustive list of examples of natural  environment swimming facilities that currently includes rivers, streams, lakes,  reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, and oceanside beaches.
an incomplete or inaccurate posting by the  facilities manager or owner will not relieve an employer from being charged  with a violation of ho 12 or assessed a child labor civil money penalty.
the department appreciates the  concerns of the ywn and clc regarding the use of certain power-driven pizza  dough rollers, but again notes that its enforcement experience indicates that  when employers properly apply all the provisions of the enforcement  position--which have been included in the proposed limited exemption-- 16- and  17-year-olds can safely operate such equipment.
any such changes,  therefore, would be outside the scope of this rulemaking.
[[page 28452]] or ordinance, or by court order, to attend another school.
working in offices and in repair or maintenance shops; work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters, constructing and maintaining telephone lines; and work in the feeding or care of animals.
niosh  includes the caveat that if this recommendation is implemented ``it should be  accompanied by a mandatory reporting period in which all serious youth injuries  and deaths resulting from previously prohibited activities are promptly  reported to the u.s. department of labor.''
the department also proposed to revise the title of ho 14 to reflect  its application to the additional pieces of machinery and to change the word  operations to operation.
these prohibitions are designed to protect young workers from the hazards associated with loading docks, motor vehicles, and receiving departments; strains from lifting and moving heavy items; and falls and falling items.
participating youths are assigned to assist an instructor, are never left alone to teach a class, and also help during recreational swims ``by checking in/out patrons bags/apparel/ belongings.''
------------------------------------------------------------------------
the department also proposed to remove the language that  limited the application of sec.
it is important to note that the clc is incorrect in its assumption that this proposal would permit the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds by messenger service firms that ``have standing contracts with law firms, accounting firms, and other types of businesses'' to deliver documents or small packages.
one private citizen, who submitted his comment to the electronic docket for the anprm published on april 17, 2007, was the only commenter to oppose the proposal.
(c) cooking with electric or gas grills which does not involve cooking over an [[page 28450]] open flame (note: this provision does not authorize cooking with equipment such as rotisseries, broilers, pressurized equipment including fryolators, and cooking devices that operate at extremely high temperatures such as ``neico broilers'').
clc stated ``dol's osha experts are familiar with these hazards.''
band saws were also covered under ho 11 when used to cut sheet cakes to desired sizes and shapes.
section 570.34(b)(8) (old) prohibits the employment of such youth by retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments to load or unload goods to and from trucks, railroad cars, or conveyors.
* * these workers also cut the trees with a chainsaw and drag them from the cutting area to a truck and then load them on to a truck.
however, such tasks are permitted only when not performed in conjunction with extinguishing a forest fire.
the sic industry group of timber tracts encompasses establishments  primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts or tree farms for the  purpose of selling standing timber, including those establishments that grow  christmas trees.
while the department agrees  with the clc that it is unlikely that many such schools or home-schooling  programs would materialize, it does note that the emergence of schools that  were designed to allow migrant children to work on farms during the daylight  hours when the local public school was in session, was an impetus for the 1949  amendment to the flsa that codified this very same enforcement position as it  relates to agricultural employment.
but the  department considers it appropriate that the school district sponsoring the  work- study assist the employer in the both achieving and monitoring the  compliance of the work-study program.
on the other hand, the department has adopted an enforcement position since at least 1981 that counter workers in quick service establishments or cashiers in grocery stores whose duties require them to occasionally enter freezers only momentarily to retrieve items are not considered to be working in the freezers.
h.  occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines and  occupations involving slaughtering, meat packing or processing, or rendering  (order 10) (29 cfr 570.61) ho 10 generally prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from  being employed in all occupations in or about slaughtering, meat packing or  processing establishments, and rendering plants.
specifically, the department believes school districts sponsoring a wsp will incur the greatest additional costs.
the department believes that by continuing to reference certain  common prohibited machinery by name, both clarity and compliance will be  increased.
two of the commenters made recommendations that are beyond the purview of the department as they would require changes to the statute.
the department believes  congress was aware that such standards are copyright protected and available to  the public only at a cost or for reviewing at an appropriate library.
the proposal stated that the calendar week would  continue to serve as the timeframe for determining whether a minor worked in  excess of 18 hours during any week when school was in session or in excess of  40 hours in any week when school was not in session.
summary of comments a total of 28 comments were received and are available for  review at the federal erulemaking portal athttp://www.regulations.gov.
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc also noted that this proposal would allow [[page 28415]] youth to perform janitorial and clean-up work, work already permitted within retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments by sec. 570.34(a)(6) (old), in additional types of establishments.
these provisions apply equally whether the volunteer is an adult or a minor.
the department has restated this position numerous times in response to written requests and has included this position in its field operations handbook since at least 1992.
570.63(b) to mean a powered machine designed or used to compress materials other than paper or cardboard boxes, with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable container.
for example, the department has developed long- standing  enforcement positions regarding the application of certain of the hours  standards limitations to minors who, for differing reasons, no [[page 28423]]  longer attend or are unable to attend school.
effects on families the undersigned hereby certifies that this  rule will not adversely affect the well-being of families, as discussed under  section 654 of the treasury and general government appropriations act, 1999.
these specialized metal balers  and compactors, which process such items as cars, radiators, and siding, may  share similar designs and operating procedures with those compactors and balers  that process only paper products or process other materials in addition to  paper products.
the network provided information that its model is  achieving its stated aims.
these hazardous occupations orders (hos) apply on either an industry basis, specifying the occupations in a particular industry that are prohibited, or an occupational basis, irrespective of the industry in which the work is performed.
the clc commented that ``dol's approach here hardly comports with its stated desire to balance `the benefits of employment opportunities with the necessary and appropriate safety protections' (72 fr 19337).
s245.5-1990, and that the new standard ansi z245.2-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
in addition, these standards are available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara).
the department also proposed to revise and  redesignate the sections of subpart g currently dealing with general  enforcement
ho 11 still prohibits
section 570.102 is revised to read as follows: sec.
these accommodations ensure that students complete a fully accredited, college preparatory curriculum that exceeds both state and accrediting agency requirements.
if the equipment does not meet the requirements of an applicable ansi standard, or if the employer failed to make such a determination, or if any other requirement of the limited exemption contained in flsa section 13(c)(5) was not met, a violation of ho 12 has most likely occurred.
the report observes that not all machines that perform cutting and sawing functions fit into ho 14's definitions of circular saw, band saw, or guillotine shears; for example, abrasive cutting disks do not have visible notches or teeth, but they perform the same function.
the following occupations, which is not an exhaustive  list, constitute oppressive child labor within the meaning of the fair labor  standards act when performed by minors who are 14 and 15 years of age: (a)  manufacturing, mining, or processing occupations, including occupations  requiring the performance of any duties in work rooms or work places where  goods are manufactured, mined or otherwise processed, except as permitted in  sec.
this legislation added section 13(c)(5) to the flsa, permitting minors 16 and 17 years of age to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors when certain requirements are met.
the department proposed to  incorporate them into reg. 3 to promote both clarity and compliance.
the department notes that the already  existing wecep (see sec.
youth have been injured and have died as a result of these activities.
contrary to nada's statement, reg. 3, of which sec. 570.34(a)(8) is a part, has clearly stated in sec. 570.33(b) for many years that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed in ``occupations which involve the operation or tending of hoisting apparatus or of any power-driven machinery other than office machines'' (emphasis added).
the employer will be held responsible for any violations of the flsa or the child labor regulations.
this same issue was mentioned by pleasant hill, which noted that it had swimming instructors who were properly certified by the red cross but were not certified as lifeguards.
the report notes that baler and compactor related deaths are not limited to those in which paper or cardboard is being processed.
(new)), and (2)  cooking with deep fryers that are equipped with and utilize a device which  automatically lowers the baskets into the hot oil or grease and automatically  raises the baskets from the hot oil or grease (see sec. 570.34(b)(5)(ii) (old)  and sec. 570.34(c)
the department believes congress was aware that such standards are copyright protected and available to the public only at a cost or for reviewing at an appropriate library.
sec. 570.34(m) and 570.54(c): (i) straightening, marking, or tallying  lumber on the dry chain or the dry drop sorter.
[[page 28460]] to a 30-mile radius of the minor's place of employment.
nada stated that nowhere in the  regulatory history of sec. 570.34(a)(8) or in the niosh report has any  suggestion been made that power-equipment-assisted motor vehicle cleaning,  washing, and polishing activities pose ``significant safety or health risks to  14- and 15-year-olds.''
the department notes that the use of standard industrial codes by the niosh report was helpful in identifying the different occupations and industries that could be impacted by the department's ho.
the department would also note that, as mentioned by the clc, 14- and 15-year-olds have been permitted to be employed by hospitals and nursing homes for many years.
accordingly, the department proposed to create a new sec.
reg. 3 sets forth the employment standards for 14- and 15-year-olds.
the department believes that the continuation and incorporation of this enforcement position brings clarity in that employers need only look to the hours of operation of the local public school where the minor resides to attain compliance.
although the  greatest number of these injuries and illnesses occurred in meat packing [[page  28435]] plants (5,526), establishments that produce sausages and prepared meats  experienced 4,147 injuries and illnesses, and poultry slaughtering and  processing establishments experienced 3,937 that same year (see niosh report,  page 43).
for further information contact: arthur m. kerschner, jr., division of enforcement policy, branch of child labor and special employment enforcement, wage and hour division, u.s. department of labor, room s- 3510, 200 constitution avenue, nw., washington, dc 20210; telephone: (202) 693-0072 (this is not a toll free number).
m. subpart g--general statements  of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act  of 1938, as amended (29 cfr 570.101-570.129) subpart g discusses the meaning  and scope of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
therefore, 15-year-olds working at the tops of waterslides are fulfilling one of the core duties of properly trained lifeguards, in a manner which places them at the least possible risk.''
an adult shall mean an individual who is at least eighteen years of age.
copies of these standards are available for purchase from the american national  standards institute (ansi), 25 west 43rd st., fourth floor, new york, ny 10036.
570.37 (new) would indeed be the employer of the youth under the flsa and held to all the act's minimum wage, overtime, record keeping, and child labor provisions--unless subject to a specific exemption or exception--as would any other employer.
these agreements shall be maintained for 3 years from the date of the student's [[page 28446]] enrollment in the wsp (see sec. 570.37(b)(4)(ii)).
since this section's inception, the department has interpreted it  to mean that such youth are prohibited from working as dairy stock clerks, meat  clerks, deli clerks, produce clerks, or frozen-food stock clerks where their  duties would require them to enter and remain in the freezer or meat cooler for  prolonged periods.
the administrator of the wage and hour  division shall approve the application, or give prompt notice of any denial and  the reasons therefor.
the clc also was concerned that the ansi standards are copyright- protected and that employers must either purchase them from the american national
the prohibitions of the ho do not differentiate between portable and non-portable equipment, and models designed for use in the home versus those solely designed for industrial applications.
the report makes several recommendations  concerning the establishment, revision, and elimination of apprenticeship and  student-learner exemptions, but the rationale for each recommendation either is  vague or is not provided.
the department also believes that the certification process as proposed by the department, which again is similar to that required of wecep applicants, provides sufficient transparency without requiring publication in the federal register or public comment.
revisions to ho 12 to prohibit the employment of minors in the operation of balers and compactors not currently covered by the ho, and the expansion of ho 14 to add additional power-driven equipment to the list of equipment minors may not operate, are also the result of niosh report recommendations.
(iv) piling, handling, or shipping of cooperage stock in yards or storage sheds other than operating or assisting in the operation of power-driven equipment; except minors under 16 years of age may not perform shipping duties as they are prohibited from employment in occupations in connection with the transportation of property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means by sec.
the child labor provisions of the fair labor  standards act (flsa) establish a minimum age of 16 years for employment in  nonagricultural occupations, but the secretary of labor is authorized to  provide by regulation for 14- and 15-year-olds to work in suitable occupations  other than manufacturing or mining, and during periods and under conditions  that will not interfere with their schooling or health and well-being.
such employment is very similar to that  involved with the operation of logging camps, occupations that 16- and  17-year-olds have been permitted to perform for many years.
by removing this subsection, the department removes  the exception for timber tract and forestry service occupations.
[[page 28417]] such youngsters' moral health, even if not on their physical  health and safety.''
the permitted blenders are identical to models used in private homes, generally do not operate at more than 600 watts, and have jar capacities that do not exceed 8 cups (64 ounces).
the ywn and afl-cio suggested that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from working with hydraulic grease racks, though the ywn recommended that an exception be made to permit automotive repair students in cooperative education programs who have been properly trained and receive appropriate supervision to ``work around these racks'' but not to operate them.
barring adoption of her recommendation, she believed the department's enforcement position to be the ``second best option.''
the department does not interpret the helper prohibition as applying to 14- and 15-year-olds who simply ride inside a motor vehicle as passengers and, thus, reg. 3 permits a 14- or 15-year-old, under certain circumstances, to ride inside the enclosed passenger compartment of a motor vehicle operated by a driver whose employment complies with the conditions specified in ho 2.
the department notes that it is not imposing any recordkeeping burdens on the employers or the school districts beyond those proposed in the 2007 nprm, therefore no additional estimates of costs or burdens will be incurred that [[page 28429]] must be accounted for pursuant to the paperwork reduction act and regulatory flexibility act.
[[page 28447]] the additional  changes being implemented are also expected to have little or no direct cost  impact.
these changes in the law became effective  may 21, 2008.
similarly, witnesses stressed that early morning and late evening work hours, which interfered with sleep and often fostered exhaustion, were unhealthful for children and also diminished the time that children should have spent with the family (see in the matter of proposed regulation relating to the employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age under the fair labor standards act, official report of the proceedings before the children's bureau, february 15, 1939, at 19, 21, 34, 82).
she questioned whether such employees, who are not employed as lifeguards, must be at least 16 years of age or be 15 years of age with proper lifeguard certification.
this rule is not subject  to e.o. 13211.
such light tools would include, but are not limited to, rakes, hand-held clippers, shovels, and brooms.
flsa section 3(d) was amended in 1966, and the provisions of that amendment are not reflected in subpart g.
compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than  paper means a powered machine that remains stationary during operation,  designed or used to compact refuse other than paper or cardboard boxes into a  detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
the  report states that current injury and fatality surveillance systems do not  provide sufficient detail to justify this exemption.
in order to address the concerns of the red cross, ensure the maximum possible safety for young workers and their charges who are learning to swim, and eliminate confusion, the department is modifying the language in the proposed sec.
each  committee convened thereafter to study, draft, and implement a new ho developed  its own criteria for determining the appropriateness of including apprentice  and student- learner exemptions and was not restricted by the determinations  made by previous committees.
section 11(c) also authorizes the  secretary of labor to prescribe the recordkeeping and reporting requirements  for these records.
in 2003, the department became aware of a non-profit network of private schools, hereafter referred to as the network, that was operating a corporate work-study program for its students.
[[page 28436]] report's recommendation to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers in retail, wholesale and service industry establishments.
778.105 of this title.
the department appreciates the recommendations of several commenters that the work-study program should be extended to youth enrolled in programs other than college preparatory, such as vocational programs, internships, and apprenticeships.
the  department's enforcement experience confirms that employers have many ways of  ensuring that, should they wish to take advantage of the limited exception  contained in flsa section 13(c)(5), their balers and compactors comply with the  appropriate ansi standard.
the department believes  that the youths who will be employed under the provisions of flsa section  13(c)(7) will receive significant workplace protections from the statute and  these resulting regulations.
the dolwd also recommended that an exception be granted allowing such youth ``to be employed in logging camp support positions such as cook, janitor, etc.''
the youth does not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines; (iii)
these revisions also implement specific recommendations made by the national institute for occupational safety and health in its 2002 report to the department of labor.
the department is evaluating the alternative recommendation made by the report that it consider developing a new ho that combines the sawing machinery covered under ho 14 with other specialized machinery that performs cutting and sawing functions through direct contact of the cutting surface and the material.
the record on which reg. 3 was based included hearings where advocates of children expressed concern over the need for children to avoid fatigue, so as not to deplete the energy required for their school work.
the report notes that in 1997 there were an estimated 13,646 occupational injuries and illnesses resulting in days away from work among employees in the meat products manufacturing industry.
* (e) an administrative determination of the amount of the civil money penalty for a particular violation or particular violations of section 12 or section 13(c) relating to child labor or any regulation issued under those sections shall become final 15 days after receipt of the notice of penalty by certified mail by the person so charged unless such person has, pursuant to sec.
finally, the department proposed to revise subpart g of the child labor regulations, entitled general statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended, to incorporate all the changes adopted by the agency since this subpart was last revised in 1971.
ho 5 prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate reciprocating saws that are used or designed for cutting wood, but the same piece of equipment is permitted when used or designed exclusively to cut materials other than wood, such as metal.
(6) work in the feeding or care of animals.
(v) clerical work in yards or shipping sheds, such as done by ordermen, tally-men, and shipping clerks.
section 570.34(b)(7) (old) prohibits 14- and 15-year-olds from working in freezers and meat coolers.
the department charged the employer of this youth with a violation of ho  5, and assessed and collected a civil money penalty because of the violation.
in addition, niosh also was able to  identify 16 additional deaths of workers of all ages that were attributable to  forest fire fighting activities (see niosh report, page 30).
the whd is also reviewing prohibitions regarding the potential exposure of  young workers to ionizing radiation, as reflected in the publication of the  2007 anprm.
the occupation of lifeguard is  not specifically authorized in reg. 3 as an occupation that 14- and  15-year-olds may perform.
the prohibition would  include the catching and cooping of all poultry, not just chickens.
570.35b will be issued as  sec.
l. 110-233) was enacted  into law.
570.33-.34) section 570.33(b) (old) prohibits youth 14 and 15 years of age from  employment in occupations involving the operation or tending of any  power-driven machinery other than office equipment.
(a) finding and declarations  of fact.
the clc also made the same three recommendations as the afl-cio and stated that ``[e]ven if dol's occupational safety and health administration (osha) has similar rules, these should be incorporated into the child labor regulations so that a dol wage and hour division inspector could assert a child labor violation rather than having the employer face two inspections, one by the wage and hour division and another by osha.''
these changes in the law became effective may 21, 2008.
the concerns of the afl-cio, ywn, and  clc about increased youth employment in several industries, such as dry  cleaning and laundry services, treating and disposing of waste, mass mailing  enterprises, and the painting of houses and automobiles, are unfounded.
list of subjects  in 29 cfr part 570 child labor, child labor occupations, employment,  government, incorporation by reference, intergovernmental relations,  investigations, labor, law enforcement, minimum age.
secretary means the secretary of labor, u.s. department of labor, or an authorized representative of the secretary.
each minor riding as a passenger in a motor vehicle  must have his or her own seat in the passenger compartment; each seat must be  equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device; and the employer must  instruct the minors that such belts or other devices must be used.
by adding skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, and bobcat loaders to the definition of high-lift trucks, the department believes it will clarify the requirements for compliance with ho 7.
570.103  comparison with wage and hour provisions.
under ho 7, 16- and 17-year-olds may currently perform such work, except they may not assist in the operation of a crane, derrick, or hoist as defined by the ho.
additionally, a considerable number of deaths were associated with activities not directly related to operation of the hoisting apparatus, notably servicing, repairing, and disassembling.
similar alternative recommendations were made regarding ho 5 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines) and ho 8 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines).
this subpart authorizes only the following occupations in which the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age is permitted when performed for periods and under conditions authorized by sec.
in order to prevent any possible confusion and to provide maximum  clarity, the department has revised the final rule by adding the following  sentence to the end of sec. 570.34(m)(2):
establishments  that perform timber estimation and valuation and forest fire prevention and  pest control are also included in sic 085.
cfoi data reflect that during the period  of 1994-2004, 15- year-olds experienced an occupational fatality rate of 4.7  fatalities per 100,000 workers--a rate that was greater than that experienced  by all workers aged 15 and older.
the interpretations of the secretary of labor contained in subpart g indicate the construction of the law that guides the secretary in administrating and enforcing the act.
the department notes that when rules are clearly written and adequately explained, public understanding and compliance follow.
the term slaughtering and meat packing establishments is defined in ho 10 to mean places in which cattle, calves, hogs, sheep, lambs, goats, or horses are killed, butchered, or processed.
under the existing regulation, the term does not include establishments that process only poultry, rabbits, or small game.
both of these commenters, along with the afl-cio, made additional  recommendations to the proposal.
wecep was created to provide a carefully planned  work experience and career exploration program for 14- and 15-year-old youth  who can benefit from a career-oriented educational program designed especially  to meet the participants' needs, interests, and abilities.
in addition to taking these steps, the final rule will  incorporate the provisions of gina into (new) sec. 570.140.
the department notes  that when such programs do not involve an employer-employee relationship, they  fall outside the provisions of the flsa.
in order to clarify the final rule, the department has decided to add ponds and quarries to the non-exhaustive list of examples of natural environment swimming facilities that currently includes rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, and oceanside beaches.
the term shall include both passenger and freight elevators (including portable elevators or tiering machines), but shall not include dumbwaiters.
the report also  documents that the forestry industry has a high fatality rate as well, and  workers face injury risks similar to those of logging workers.
[[page 28444]] (sec. 570.127), good faith defense (sec. 570.128),  and the relation of the child labor provisions to other laws (sec. 570.129).
section 570.65(b)(4) defines the  term circular saw to mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a  continuous series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting,  and used for sawing materials.
participation in the proposed work-study program is voluntary and it in no way conflicts with other federal, state, or local programs addressing the educational needs of young workers.
no student shall participate in the work-study program until there has been made a written agreement signed by the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student.
(old and new), permitting 16- and 17-year-olds to be employed in certain sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill occupations.
as niosh stated, ``[t]his relatively small difference in rates is cause for concern because youth under age 18 are employed less frequently in especially hazardous jobs.''
after carefully considering all the comments, the  department has decided to adopt the proposal as originally written, with one  modification and minor editorial changes.
the regulations for 14- and 15-year-olds are known as child labor regulation no. 3 (reg. 3) and are contained in subpart c of part 570 (29 cfr 570.31-.37).
the clc also disagreed with the department's decision not to address the issue of student-learners and apprentices in this final rule.
reg. 3, as currently  written, does not allow 14- and 15-year-olds to participate in the network's  work-study programs.
whd and osha, as recommended by the clc, will continue their partnership to leverage the education and outreach efforts and enforcement actions of each agency.
that penalty may be  doubled, up to $100,000, when such violation is determined by the department to  be a repeated or willful violation.
it would also  include work on tree farms, except those tree farm establishments that meet the  definition of agriculture contained in 29 u.s.c. 203(f).
the secretary, in promulgating this  final rule, hereby certifies that standard ansi z245.2-2004 and standard ansi  z245.2-2008 are as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi  z245.2-1992 and that standard ansi z245.5-2004 and standard ansi z245.5-2008  are as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.5-1990.
even though reg. 3 for many years  has prohibited the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to operate any  power-driven equipment other than office machines, the department routinely  receives inquiries as to the status of these individual pieces of equipment  under reg. 3.
it felt that the proposal was so narrowly tailored to one specific program that it could easily bar other school systems ``that have similar, but not identical, approaches'' from taking advantage of the program.
the department received no comments opposing adoption of this  portion of the proposal.
that final rule limited permitted cooking duties to cooking (1) with electric or gas grills which does not involve an open flame (see sec. 570.34(b)(5)(i) (old) and sec. 570.34(c) (new)), and (2) cooking with deep fryers that are equipped with and utilize a device which automatically lowers the baskets into the hot oil or grease and automatically raises the baskets from the hot oil or grease (see sec. 570.34(b)(5)(ii) (old) and sec. 570.34(c)
the report also recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit work from truck-mounted bucket or basket hoists commonly termed ``bucket trucks'' or ``cherry pickers'' because worker fatalities are associated with work from such equipment (see niosh report, page 36).
this requirement for dual certification, like the other lifeguard
in addition, this enforcement position applies only to the operation of the machine.
one such condition is that the equipment must meet specific standards issued for balers or for compactors by the american national standard institute (ansi).
the ywn was equally brief, stating ``[t]he network strongly agrees with this proposed change.''
some of the hos, specifically hos 5, 8, 10, 12,  14, 16, and 17, contain limited exemptions that permit the employment of 16-  and 17-year-old apprentices and student-learners under particular conditions to  perform work otherwise prohibited to that age group.
in addition, sec. 570.33(a) (old and new) provides additional protections as it prevents the employment of such youth in work places where goods are manufactured, mined, or otherwise processed.
since publication of the nprm, the  department has received inquiries from public schools and private schools (not  part of the cristo rey network) about establishing work-study programs under  sec.
we note, as reported by the clc, that osha, which is the  recognized expert in occupational safety and health issues, already has in  place important safety standards addressing emergency release mechanisms, panic  bars, and unobstructed paths in the workplace--and that these standards protect  all workers, not just those under the age of 16.
the first modification involves a  redesignation of the sections dealing with both wecep and the work study  program as requested by the federal register.
at such a hearing, the employer or an attorney retained by the employer may present such witnesses, introduce such evidence and establish such facts as the employer believes will support the exception.
the department has carefully reviewed all the comments and has  decided to adopt the proposal as written.
the ho prohibits, with certain exceptions discussed  below, the loading, operating, and unloading of scrap paper balers, including  paper box balers and compacting machines, and other power-driven machines used  in the remanufacture or conversion of paper or pulp into a finished product.
the  department's enforcement experience includes situations where employers have  questioned why 16- and 17-year-olds were not permitted to use small mixers to  process such things as cheese dip and batter for seafood when such machines  generally appeared to present no risks to such minors.
the new information collection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements subject to the pra being imposed with the enactment of the new work-study program are discussed above.
finally, the ywn's recommendation that the proposal be expanded to include specific items being stored in the freezer or cooler, such as seafood and poultry, is unnecessary because, as discussed above, sec.
on may 21, 2008, the genetic  information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) (pub.
no employer or employer association, when commenting on the 1999 or the 2007 nprm, reported that it was difficult or expensive to determine that their balers and/or compactors met or failed to meet the appropriate ansi standards.
the forest service did, however, recommend that the proposal be revised to  permit such youth to work in forest protection-type activities, which it sees  as non- hazardous, such as clearing fire trails or roads, maintaining fire  fighting equipment, and acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman.
the department appreciates the recommendations of several  commenters that the work-study program should be extended to youth enrolled in  programs other than college preparatory, such as vocational programs,  internships, and apprenticeships.
the department's  review of standard ansi z245.2-2004 has found it to be as protective of the  safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2- 1992, and the department's review of  standard ansi z245.5-2004 has found it be as protective of the safety of minors  as standard ansi z245.5-1990.
the department also proposed that the term adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth would mean an adult who professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.
the final rule will also revise those provisions of 29 cfr part 579 relevant to civil monetary penalties in order to incorporate the provisions of this recent statutory amendment into the regulations.
to the extent that these provisions are inconsistent with the  provisions of sec.
in addition, for purposes of this section, an employer's conduct shall be deemed knowing, among other situations, if the employer received advice from a responsible official of the wage and hour division to the effect that the conduct in question is not lawful.
the employment would be permitted in any industry other than those  prohibited by reg. 3 and would also be subject to all the applicable hours and  times standards established in sec.
* * had the 14th highest lifetime risk of 5.8  deaths per 1,000 workers'' (see niosh report, page 28).
section 570.55 lists,  when discussing the prohibited occupations involved in the operation of  power-driven woodworking machines, such activities as supervising or  controlling the operation of the machines, feeding materials into such  machines, and helping the operator feed material into such machines.
over the last ten years, the department has investigated the serious injuries of several youth that resulted from the use of chain saws to cut branches and trees, charged violations under ho 5, and assessed and collected civil money penalties because of those violations.
the journal noted that the victim had been drinking beer while trimming the branches.
section 570.34(a)(7) (old) specifically includes automatic coffee machines on  the list of equipment that 14- and 15-year-olds may operate (see sec. 570.34(i)
such training is available to 15-year-olds via a separate red cross water safety instructor (wsi) course.
the department wishes to emphasize that the development of this  student-work program was never intended to advantage any single, private school  system, but was proposed for the benefit of all academically motivated students  enrolled in college preparatory curricula that can avail themselves of such a  program of employment that clearly facilitates, rather than interferes with,  their schooling.
the department proposed to revise the prohibitions of ho 14 to include chain saws, wood chippers, and reciprocating saws.
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc supported the  proposal to expand the scope of ho 10 to prohibit the employment of 16- and  17-year-olds in or about places where such animals as cattle, calves, hogs,  poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are killed, butchered,  or processed and where sausage and sausage casings are manufactured or  processed.
finally, the clc noted the  department's statement that youth peddlers performing outside sales are usually  exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the flsa and took issue  with the department's failure to ban peddling by 16- and 17-year-olds as well.
570.33(n)(1) of this part.
prohibited youth  peddling also includes such promotion activities as the holding, wearing, or  waving of signs, merchandise, costumes, sandwich boards, or placards in order  to attract potential customers, except when performed inside of, or directly in  front of, the employer's establishment providing the product, service, or event  being advertised.
the american journal of forensic medicine and pathology (volume 28, no. 4, december 2001) reports on the death of a 32-year-old male who lost his balance and fell on the blade of an electric reciprocating saw he was using to trim branches.
the department has also decided to provide a table listing all the applicable ansi standards in sec. 570.63(c)(1)(iv)(a).
the undesignated center heading preceding sec.
the youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate
570.38 and 570.39, respectively.
executive order 12988, civil justice reform analysis
as with the blenders  discussed above, their operation by minors under the age of 18 is prohibited  under ho 10 when used to process meat.
the terms and conditions for employing such apprentices and student-learners are detailed in sec.
the report also recommends that ho 7 be revised to eliminate the exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds to operate an electric or air-operated hoist not exceeding one-ton capacity.
written participation agreement: the school system administering the wsp and each applicable employer shall separately maintain a copy of the written participation agreement for each student.
the proposed revision to  sec. 570.119 would contain the general prohibition against the employment of  minors under 14 years of age under any circumstances that is currently included  at the end of sec.
it serves the best interests of the 14- and 15-year- old parent, as well as the  young parent's child, for the parent to complete his or her education, thus  realizing a long-term benefit of increased and better employment in the  future.''
the department has long  taken the position that ho 4 (logging occupations and occupations in the  operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill)  prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from operating chain saws in logging operations  because the ho prohibits all work ``in connection with the felling of timber.''
information collection burdens total number of respondents: 1530 (30 school districts and 1500 employers).
under this  final rule, properly certified 15-year-olds could be employed at such pools as  lifeguards.
the suggested methods of confirmation are purely discretionary; no work-study participating school district will be penalized for not adopting them.
the council supported the proposal as written.
(a) the administrative determination of the amount of the civil penalty for each employee who was the subject of a violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or of any regulation under those sections will be based on the available evidence of the violation or violations and will take into consideration the size of the business of the person charged and the gravity of the violations as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
this exemption, as detailed in  the compactor and baler act, would apply only to certain scrap paper balers and  paper box compactors, as currently defined in sec. 570.63(b).
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided  to adopt the proposal with one modification.
the nprm also proposed to  incorporate into the regulations three long- standing enforcement positions  regarding the cleaning of power-driven meat processing equipment, the operation  of certain power-driven pizza- dough rollers, and the definition of high-lift  trucks.
in addition to taking these steps, the final rule will incorporate the provisions of gina into (new) sec. 570.140.
the  department appreciates and understands the commenters' concerns about the  potential occupational exposure of young workers to hazardous and toxic  chemicals or to bloodborne pathogens.
the clc commented that ``[w]orking  in the forestry industry can involve working at heights *
ho 10 provides a limited  exemption that permits the employment of apprentices and student-learners under  the conditions prescribed in sec. 570.50(b)
hoist-related fatalities of  young workers have been reported, including a recent case in which a youth was  killed while operating a half-ton capacity hoist'' (see niosh report, page 36).
(m) public messenger service.
sec. 570.35(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6).
for example, sec. 570.34(a)(6) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in the operation of power-driven mowers or cutters and sec. 570.34(b)(6) (old) prohibits the employment of such minors in occupations that involve operating, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing power-driven food slicers, grinders, choppers, and cutters, and bakery-type mixers.
this same subsection cites flsa section 3(d), which  defines the term employer and then, in footnote 4, discusses that definition.
sec. 570.33 and  570.34, but rather to refer readers to those sections.
signed at washington, dc,  this 10th day of may, 2010.
section 11(c) also authorizes the secretary of labor to prescribe the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for these records.
in early 2005, the department, after reviewing additional information, extended this enforcement position to permit the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at all traditional swimming pools regardless of who owns, operates or manages the establishments, and at those facilities of water amusement parks that constitute traditional swimming pools.
the kind of work performed in such  departments is similar to that done in planing mill departments in that rough  lumber is surfaced or made into other finished products.
youth have  been injured and have died as a result of these activities.
the department has carefully considered the comments and  has decided to adopt the proposal with one modification.
890 (28 u.s.c. 2461 note), as amended by 110 stat.
the afl-cio and the clc  recommended that all-terrain vehicles (atvs) be added to the list of prohibited  machinery because, as the clc reported ``the serious hazards of operating atvs  have been extensively documented.''
e. logging occupations and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4) (29 cfr 570.54) ho 4 generally prohibits minors 16 and 17 years of age from being employed in most occupations in logging and in the operation of a sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill or cooperage stock mill.
finally, the department proposed to restructure the definitions section contained at sec.
in addition,  when serving as dispatchers or attendants at the top of an elevated water  slide, minors under 16 years of age are not performing, nor can they reasonably  be expected to perform, the core lifeguard duty of rescuing swimmers because  they are so far removed from the splash- down area of the slide.
the machine was the only  baler at the center and, therefore, was used to process a wide variety of  items.
it described itself as an informal network of public health professionals, advocates, and government agency staff that includes individuals from academia, public health, labor law enforcement, health and safety consultation and/or enforcement, labor organizations, and educators.
accordingly, the department proposed to amend the definition of power- driven woodworking machines to include those machines that process trees, logs, and lumber.
except as described below, other types of blenders, mixers, and ``blixers''--used for a variety of food preparation operations including the blending of milk shakes--continue to be prohibited to that age group.
although  not defined in the regulations, the department has, since at least 1942,  considered the term remanufacturing departments to mean those departments of a  sawmill where lumber products such as boxes, lawn furniture, and the like are  remanufactured from previously cut lumber.
the authority citation for part 570 subpart c is revised to read as follows: authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 212, 213(c).
unlike the machines currently listed in sec. 570.65(a)(1), the prohibition would not be lifted if the chain saws, wood chippers, or reciprocating saws were equipped with full automatic feed and ejection-devices--devices that are almost never found on such equipment.
week means a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours-- seven consecutive 24-hour periods--that is identical to the workweek the employer establishes for the employee under sec.
the existing reg. 3 prohibits employers such as state and local governments, banks, insurance companies, advertising agencies, and information technology firms from employing 14- and 15-year-old workers in any jobs other than those that occur in those discrete operations or divisions that could be characterized as retail, food service, or gasoline service establishments.
supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth, as a term, has several components.
a relative shall mean the parent (or someone standing in the place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker.
these specific conditions, which are contained in ho 2 (sec. 570.52), include that the automobile or truck may not exceed 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, the driving must be restricted to daylight hours, the vehicle must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device for the driver and for any passengers, and the employer must instruct the employee that such belts or other devices must be used.
such light non-power- driven hand tools would include, but are not limited to, rakes, hand- held clippers, shovels, and brooms, but would not include items like lawn mowers or other power-driven lawn maintenance equipment.
employers of wsp participants are also required to keep a copy of the written participation agreement for each student employed.
570.35a [redesignated as sec. 570.36] 0 4.
ansi standard z245.2-1997.
as noted earlier, flsa section 13(c)(5) and sec. 570.63(c)(1)(iv) require that before a 16- or 17-year-old employee may load a baler or compactor subject to ho 12, his or her employer must first post a notice on the equipment stating that: (1) the baler or compactor meets the named applicable ansi standard; (2) sixteen- and 17-year-old employees may only load the baler or compactor; and (3) any employee under the age of 18 may not operate or unload the baler or compactor.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal, as presented, with one modification.
the clc again stated that it did not have enough information to  adequately comment on the proposal.
the term also includes battery- operated machines and tools, but does not apply to machines or tools driven exclusively by human hand or foot power.
the department also understands that, given the constant development and changes occurring in the modern workplace, in continuing to provide a definitive list of permitted occupations and industries, it may unintentionally discourage the creation of positive and safe employment opportunities for young workers.
c. periods and conditions of employment (29 cfr 570.35) flsa section 3(l) authorizes the secretary of labor to provide by regulation for the employment of young workers 14 and 15 years of age in suitable nonagricultural occupations and during periods and under conditions that will not interfere with their schooling or with their health and well-being.
department means the u.s. department of labor.
570.127, .128, and .129, and create a new sec.
the employer must also post a notice on the machine that states, among other things, which applicable ansi standard the machine meets.
in its document 5108,  weed trimmers can throw objects and injure eyes, the u.s. consumer product  safety commission estimated that, in 1989, there were approximately 4,600  injuries associated with power lawn trimmers or edgers that required emergency  room treatment.
the prohibition concerning the employment of youth in forest fire fighting and  fire prevention applies to all forest and timber tract locations, logging  operations, and sawmill operations, including all buildings located within such  areas.
(iii)  teacher-coordinator.
niosh includes the caveat that if this recommendation is implemented ``it should be accompanied by a mandatory reporting period in which all serious youth injuries and deaths resulting from previously prohibited activities are promptly reported to the u.s. department of labor.''
570.127, .128, and .129, and  create a new sec.
reports showing that minors were being injured when operating these machines on materials not covered by an existing ho led the department to issue the all- encompassing ho 14.
a compactor that is designed or used to  process materials other than paper would be defined in sec.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
the department has made minor, nonsubstantive  changes to the proposed sec.
as used in this section:  applicable ansi standard means the american national standard institute's  standard ansi z245.5-1990 american national standard for refuse collection,  processing, and disposal--baling equipment--safety requirements (ansi  s245.5-1990) for scrap paper balers or the american national standard  institute's standard ansi z245.2-1992 american national standard for refuse  collection, processing, and disposal equipment--stationary compactors--safety  requirements (ansi z245.2- 1992) for paper box compactors.
administrative law judge means a person appointed as  provided in 5 u.s.c. 3105 and subpart b of part 930 of title 5 of the cfr, and  qualified to preside at hearings under 5 u.s.c. 554-557.
finally, the department has determined that  the final rule provides sufficient clarity that it is not necessary to adopt  the clc's recommended revision to the opening sentence of sec. 570.33 to repeat  the statement contained in sec.
as mentioned, certain modifications to the existing lists of permissible and prohibited occupations were also [[page 28408]] proposed.
the exemption concerning the employment of homeworkers who make wreaths, contained in flsa section 13(d), is an exemption from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the act as well as its child labor provisions.
in 2004, in recognition of the importance of youth employment programs operated by public sector employers that provide safe and meaningful developmental opportunities for young people, and in response to specific requests received from two municipalities, the department adopted an enforcement position that permits state and local governments to employ 14- and 15-year-old minors under certain conditions.
the ywn suggested that the department replace the  word mental with intellectual, so that the phrase in the subsection would read  ``work of an intellectual or artistically creative nature.''
the department has considered the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal as written.
it includes work on tree farms, except those tree farm  establishments that meet the definition of agriculture contained in 29 u.s.c.  203(f).
if employers have allowed flsa covered and nonexempt 14- and 15-year-olds to wash or polish cars and trucks using power- driven washers or hand-tool buffers, they have done so in violation of the federal child labor provisions.
under reg. 3, 14- and  15-year-olds may work in certain occupations in retail, food service, and  gasoline service establishments, but are not permitted to work in certain other  occupations (including all occupations found by the secretary to be  particularly hazardous for 16- and 17-year-olds).
as noted in the nprm, the department  believes that before any changes to the existing student-learner and apprentice  exemptions are made, it is important to consider and develop criteria for  determining when student-learner and apprentice exemptions are appropriate.
the work-study program was implemented to help  students offset the costs of a quality college preparatory education and  develop important work experience and socialization skills that will allow them  to assume leadership roles as adults.
the department interprets this  provision as permitting it to incorporate only more recent versions of standard  ansi z245.5-1990 and standard ansi z245.2- 1992--the two standards contained in  the original legislation.
both supported the department's enforcement positions that school should not be considered in session for a 14- or 15-year-old youth who has graduated from high school; has been excused from compulsory school attendance by the state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the eighth grade and his or her employment complies with all the provisions of the state school attendance law; or is subject to an order prohibiting him or her from attending school.
the clc  stated that ``most distressing is the fact that dol gives no indication of what  the red cross training requires.''
the term  retail/wholesale or service establishments, as defined in ho 10, includes  establishments where meat or meat products are processed or handled, such as  butcher shops, grocery stores, restaurants, quick service establishments,  hotels, delicatessens, and meat locker (freezer-locker) companies, and  establishments where any food product is prepared or processed for serving to  customers using machines prohibited by the ho.
the  representative of morey's pier recommended that the term workweek should be  defined, but not necessarily by the calendar.
(g) errand and delivery work by foot, bicycle, and public transportation.
the department believes this revision to be  nothing more than a clarification of its long-standing interpretation of the  regulations.
hazardous occupations orders are the means through which occupations are declared to be particularly hazardous for minors.
for example, the occupational safety and health act of 1970 directed the  department of labor to adopt the then-existing ansi standards, rather than  delay any activity until the agency promulgated particular occupational safety  and health standards (see section 6(a) of the occupational safety and health  act, 29 u.s.c. 655(a)).
the costs imposed by this rule should not be significant for any single entity, and they do not affect a substantial number of small entities in a way that would require an analysis under the regulatory flexibility act.
(n) occupations in connection with: (1) transportation of persons or property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means; (2) warehousing and storage; (3) communications and public utilities; (4) construction (including demolition and repair); except such office work (including ticket office) or sales work in connection with paragraphs (n)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section, as does not involve the performance of any duties on trains, motor vehicles, aircraft, vessels, or other media of transportation or at the actual site of construction operations.
section 570.120 describes the authority and process by which hos are adopted, and lists those occupations the secretary has found and declared to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or well-being of minors 16 and 17 years of age.
the clc also expressed  concern that neither the statute nor the proposal [[page 28422]] addresses the  potential exposure of young workers to ``the toxic chemicals present in  adhesives and coating agents that are used in woodworking operations.''
the current sec. 570.65(a)(2) would be  redesignated as sec. 570.65(a)(3) and revised to reflect that 16- and  17-year-olds could not be employed in occupations involving the setting-up,  adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning of any of the equipment covered by  the ho.
though the  department did not propose specific regulatory language regarding these terms  when it published the nprm, it did seek information from the public regarding  whether such regulatory provisions would be appropriate, including whether: (1)  the department should continue to use the hours of operation of the local  public school where a minor resides to determine when he or she may legally be  employed, even when that minor does not attend that local public school or, for  whatever reason, may actually have attendance requirements that differ from  those of the rest of the students attending that local school; (2) the flsa's  requirement that such a minor only be employed under conditions and during  periods that will not interfere with his or her schooling or health and  well-being would be equally or better served if it were based on the minor's  own actual academic schedule; and (3) using the academic schedule and  attendance requirements of each minor when determining when school was in  session for that minor would provide working youths greater opportunities and  flexibility when seeking safe, positive and legal employment.
as mentioned, the niosh report made 35 recommendations concerning the existing nonagricultural hos.
the cup was then positioned on the machine so that the single  spindle--with an aeration disk or disks mounted at the bottom--could blend the  milk shake.
all occupations in logging shall mean all work performed in  connection with the felling of timber; the bucking or converting of timber into  logs, poles, piles, ties, bolts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood,  cordwood, fence posts, or similar products; the collecting, skidding, yarding,  loading, transporting and unloading of such products in connection with  logging; the constructing, repairing and maintaining of roads, railroads,  flumes, or camps used in connection with logging; the moving, installing,  rigging, and maintenance of machinery or equipment used in logging; and other  work performed in connection with logging.
this provision is designed to prevent such youth from being injured by contact with the machines' sharp blades and cutting surfaces.
except as provided in paragraph (c) of  this section, employment in any of the permissible occupations to which this  subpart is applicable shall be confined to the following periods: (1) outside  of school hours; (2) not more than 40 hours in any 1 week when school is not in  session; (3) not more than 18 hours in any 1 week when school is in session;  (4) not more than 8 hours in any 1 day when school is not in session; (5) not  more than 3 hours in any 1 day when school is in session, including fridays;  (6) between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in any 1 day, except during the summer (june 1  through labor day) when the evening hour will be 9 p.m. (b) definitions.
[page 28403-28461] from the federal register online via gpo access
finally, the  department is adding a statement to sec.
l. 110-233) was enacted into law on may 21, 2008, after the publication of the 2007 nprm.
included on the list of  prohibited power-driven meat processing machines are meat patty forming  machines, meat and bone cutting saws, meat slicers, knives (except  bacon-slicing machines), headsplitters, and guillotine cutters; snoutpullers  and jawpullers; skinning machines; horizontal rotary washing machines;  casing-cleaning machines such as crushing, stripping, and finishing machines;  grinding, mixing, chopping, and hashing machines; and presses (except belly-  rolling machines).
the final rule also included the secretary's  certification, as permitted by the compactor and baler act, that the new  standard ansi z245.5-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard  ansi-
such youth are prohibited from operating or tending any power-driven machinery, other than office equipment, and this prohibition has always included automatic car washers, power-washers, and power-driven scrubbers and buffers.
15- year-olds are permitted to operate them under the provisions of reg. 3.
the council noted that  frequently ``the academic schedule and attendance requirements followed by  public schools do differ, sometimes significantly, from the schedule followed  by private schools.
fifteen-year-olds employed as lifeguards would, however, be prohibited from entering or working in any mechanical rooms or chemical storage areas, including any areas where the filtration and chlorinating systems are housed.
the prohibition against such youth setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any of the machines currently listed in ho 12 would be extended to include compactors and balers that are designed to process materials other than paper.
since the enactment of flsa section 13(c)(7) on january 23, 2004, the department's enforcement position has been that the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds employed under the provisions of that section must still be in compliance with all other provisions of reg. 3, including the hours and time of day standards of sec.
in addition, the clc noted that such  minors would be permitted to work up to eight hours a day and up to forty hours  a week at computers, typing or inputting data, during non-school weeks.
the revisions also simplify the section by combining, clarifying, and condensing previous subsections.
in addition to changing the title of ho 4 to accommodate this revision, the department has also added definitions of the terms all occupations in forestry services and all occupations in timber tracts to sec. 570.54(b).
(6) employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors under specified conditions.
in fact, ensuring that  permissible job opportunities for working youth are safe, healthy, and not  detrimental to their education, as required by the statute, produces many  positive benefits in addition to fewer occupational injuries and deaths,  including reduced health and productivity costs that employers may otherwise  incur because of higher accident and injury rates to young and inexperienced  workers.
the department appreciates the concerns  of the fmi and the council, but must reiterate that the number and severity of  occupational injuries suffered by youth who operate or clean power-driven meat
for the reasons set out in the preamble, the department amends  title 29, parts 570 and 579, of the code of federal regulations as follows:  part 570--child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation 0 1.
the regulatory changes that implement these statutory changes do no more than conform the previously-existing regulations to the recent statutory amendments and do not impose any economic costs on employers that are required to comply with the provisions of sections 12 and 13(c) of the flsa.
the term also applies to those  machines which, in addition to paper products, process other material for  disposal.
employers that avail themselves of the provisions of the loading exemption contained in flsa section 13(c)(5) and rely on the accuracy of notices posted by others cannot delegate their compliance obligations imposed by that exemption.
the agreement shall detail the objectives of the work-study program; describe the specific job duties to be performed by the participating minor as well as the number of hours and times of day that the minor will be employed each week; affirm that the participant will receive the minimum number of hours of class-room instruction as required by the state educational agency for the completion of a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum; and affirm that
power-driven woodworking machines shall mean all fixed or  portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting,  shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or  otherwise assembling, pressing or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or  lumber.
even if nada had presented data supporting its statement that power-equipment-assisted motor vehicle washing and polishing poses ``no significant safety or health risks to 14- and 15-year-olds,'' the department notes that such a standard is considerably more lax than the flsa section 3(l) standard the secretary must apply when determining permissible employment opportunities for such youth.
the risks  associated with poultry catching also occur in the catching and cooping of  poultry other than chickens--for example, processors of turkeys and cornish  game hens employ similar methods of moving their products to slaughter.
the  following operations when they do not involve the removal of materials or  refuse directly from a saw table or point of operation: the carrying, moving,  or transporting of materials from one machine to another or from one part of a  plant to another; the piling, stacking, or arranging of materials for feeding  into a machine by another person; and the sorting, tying, bundling, or loading  of materials.
some of the commenters supported the entire proposal as written or suggested only minor modifications.
the clc stated that its  comments are in line with its stated mission and objectives, which include  creating a network for the exchange of information about child labor, providing  a forum and a unified voice on protecting working minors and ending child labor  exploitation, and developing informational and educational outreach to the  public and private sectors to combat child labor abuses and to promote  progressive initiatives and legislation.
the department believes that these additional  requirements, many of which correspond to the criteria established for  operating a wecep under sec. 570.36 (new), will provide adequate protections to  all students who participate in an approved work-study program under the  provisions of sec.
with this type of  machine, an attendant wheels the cart to the dumpster, empties the cart into  the dumpster, and then wheels the cart back to the compactor where it is  reattached.
the department agrees  with the recommendations of both the ywn and clc that the regulatory text be  revised to specifically state that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed as  sign-wavers, promoting particular products, services, or events, except when  performing the sign waving activities directly in front of an establishment  providing the product, service or event.
while a 14- or  15-year old may be a passive passenger in a vehicle, that same minor is not  permitted to ride in a motor vehicle when a significant reason for the minor  being a passenger is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the  transporting--or assisting in the transporting--of other persons or property.
the department believes that  the strict enforcement of such ordinances by the appropriate authorities will  continue to be important supplements to the effectiveness of the federal child  labor laws.
a relative shall mean the parent (or someone standing in place of a  parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker.
nor does the department accept dolwd's recommendation to allow 14- and 15-year-olds to operate certain residential-style clothes washers and dryers.
the department received four comments on this proposal.
the clc commented that the department's proposal that the  supervision received by young workers employed under the provisions of flsa  section 13(c)(7) be close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted is essential in  view of the serious hazards that such youth will face.
* * children under 18 should not be able to work  at heights in timber tracts or tree farms.''
sections 570.58(a)(1) and (a)(2) would be revised to reflect  that in addition to work involved with operating the named equipment, the work  of tending, riding upon, working from, servicing, repairing or disassembling  such equipment would also be prohibited.
ho 5 was amended to permit the employment  of student learners and apprentices, but hos 1 through 4 were not.
the department, when issuing the 2004  final rule, noted that there still remained one class of balers and compactors  that falls outside of the scope of ho 12--those machines that are designed or  used exclusively to process materials other than paper.
in an alphabetical sequence to  comport with guidance provided by the federal register and to include  definitions of the terms chain saw, wood chipper, and reciprocating saw.
the use of such equipment would also be prohibited by ho 10 when the mixer or wand is equipped with knives, blades, or cutting tools designed for use on meat and poultry.
the department appreciates the ywn's recommendation that ho 10 should be expanded to cover seafood processing occupations, but notes that no data was submitted regarding the level of youth employment in that industry or the injury rates experienced by that industry.
the employment of minors under 14 years of age is not permissible under any circumstances if the employment is covered by the child labor provisions and not specifically exempt.
(b) when interpreting these provisions, the  secretary will be guided by the principle that such exemptions should be  narrowly construed and their application limited to those employees who are  plainly and unmistakably within their terms.
the occasional processing of paper or a cardboard box by a machine designed to process other materials would not bring the loading of such machines within the limited exemption provided by section 13(c)(5).
this interpretation dates back to at least the 1940 enactment of ho 2, which prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from serving as outside helpers on motor vehicles.
flsa section 13(d) provides an exemption from the  child labor provisions, as well as the minimum wage and overtime provisions,  for homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of  natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of  the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths).
congress could have chosen to include other standards--earlier versions of those ansi standards the clc now suggests the department should include in ho 12--but it did not.
environmental impact assessment a review of this rule in accordance with the requirements of the national environmental policy act of 1969 (nepa), 42 u.s.c. 4321 et seq.; the regulations of the council on environmental quality, 40 cfr 1500 et seq.; and the departmental nepa procedures
as noted in the nprm and again in this final rule, the department considers this statement to be an endorsement of its administration and enforcement of ho 12 and agreed to continue this important activity.
the department is aware that, given the flsa's mandate that before 14- or 15-year-olds may legally be employed to perform any covered work, the secretary of labor must first determine that the work to be performed does not constitute oppressive child labor, it could choose to publish only a list of permissible occupations and industries, and not provide a list of certain commonly arising prohibited occupations and industries.
the prohibition would not depend on the material or materials being processed and would encompass the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
the  niosh report recommendations are driven by information on high-risk activities  for all workers, not just patterns of fatalities and serious injuries among  young workers.
the red cross, just like  other nationally recognized certifying organizations, spends a great deal of  time and effort formulating, refining, disseminating, and publicizing the  elements and standards of its lifeguard certification program.
the department will carry on these  efforts and will continue to work with both niosh and osha to better educate  employers, employees, and enforcement personnel about the requirements of the  ansi standards.
two commenters, the ywn and the clc, addressed the proposal to incorporate into sec.
the department received several comments supporting the creation of a work-study program that would allow youth to work during the hours school was in session, but opposing that such a program be limited, as the department proposed, to students enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum.
16- and 17-year-olds from employment in most timber tract and forestry service occupations.
[[page 28412]] inventory and cleanup work, involving prolonged stays in freezers or meat coolers, are also prohibited.
a compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper would be defined in sec.
an analysis of the time it will take to prepare the application and written training agreements for a wsp and the associated recordkeeping suggests these educational institutions will each spend an average of about 52.5 hours more to comply with this final rule than might otherwise be spent to establish a similar work- study program.
the occupation of lifeguard, as used in this subpart, entails the duties of rescuing swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring of activities at a swimming pool to prevent accidents, the teaching of water safety, and assisting patrons.
the employment of such minors would still be subject to the time of day and  number of hours standards contained in sec.
kicked back and cut him in his lower throat.
this is because the report also recommended the creation of a new ho that would prohibit all work in construction occupations which, if adopted, would impact the provisions of not only ho 4 but several other hos.
* * (a)(1) that the scrap  paper baler or compactor meets the industry safety standard applicable to the  machine, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and displayed in the  following table.
but the department believes that, by continuing its past practice of carefully reviewing inquiries regarding individual occupations or industries not currently addressed by reg. 3 and then exercising its prosecutorial discretion and issuing enforcement positions that may eventually lead to rulemaking--as evidenced by certain revisions contained in this final rule--it has developed an efficient and effective mechanism which overcomes the limitations of a definitive list.
the department has over the years documented reports of minors, many as young as 10 or 11 years of age, working as part of mobile sales crews, selling such items as candy, calendars, and greeting cards for profit-making companies.
this commenter stated that through door-to-door sales ``many kids learn how to be confident and build communication skills with adults.''
rendering plants means  establishments engaged in the conversion of dead animals, animal offal, animal  fats, scrap meats, blood, and bones into stock feeds, tallow, inedible greases,  fertilizer ingredients, and similar products.
all occupations in timber tracts  means all work performed in or about establishments that cultivate, manage or  sell standing timber.
in administering  the flsa, the department does not consider such individuals, who volunteer or  donate their services, usually on a part-time basis, for public service,  religious, or humanitarian objectives, without contemplation of pay, to be  employees of the religious, charitable, or similar nonprofit corporations that  receive their services.
therefore, the office of management and budget has reviewed this rule.
the ywn also stated that the proposal should prohibit youth employed in artistic endeavors from performing work that would expose them to carcinogenic, toxic, or hazardous substances, or to high heat.
in that regard, the  department is nearing completion of its thorough review of the niosh  recommendations that address the agricultural hazardous occupations orders.
school systems,  employers, and the department will use these records to document the validity  of the wsp and that the 14- and 15-year-old students were employed in  accordance with the special wsp rules.
this includes such equipment as the two- or four- slice ``pop-up'' toasters similar to those manufactured for home use and the conveyor-type bread toaster now often found at self-service breakfast buffets.
the employment of students participating in the work-study program would also most likely be subject to state wage requirements and child labor provisions.
during the remaining week of the four-week cycle, such minor is permitted to work during school hours on no more than two days, and for no more than for eight hours on each of those two days.
gina, among other things, amended flsa section 16(e) so that any person who violates the provisions of sections 12 or 13(c) of the flsa, relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil money penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation.
circumstances necessitating collection:
additional ancillary  lifeguard duties may include checking in and out such items as towels, rings,  watches and apparel.
sections 570.31 through 570.35 are revised to read as follows:
the department has carefully  reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal, but with one  modification concerning recently issued ansi standards and a revision to the  section heading.
the department is also revising the definitions  section in sec.
570.63 that would prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from performing the occupations  of operating or assisting to operate any baler or compactor that is designed or  used to process materials other than paper.
jobs in such areas as state and local governments, banks, insurance companies, advertising agencies, and information technology firms all normally fall outside of the permitted establishments declared in reg. 3.
the department noted in its 2007 nprm that it did not interpret the reg. 3 helper prohibitions as applying to 14- and 15-year-olds who ride inside the enclosed passenger compartment of a motor vehicle when driven by a driver whose employment complies with ho 2 under specified conditions (see 72 fr 19343).
the department received six comments on this proposal.
the term band saw is defined in sec.
the current  ho 10 exemption permitting the killing and processing of rabbits or small game  in areas physically separated from the killing floor would not be changed.
in the 2004 final rule, the secretary certified that standard ansi z245.5-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi-s245.5-1990 and that standard ansi z245.2-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
570.34(l) to permit the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at swimming pools and water amusement parks under certain conditions.
the final rule  became effective on february 14, 2005.
this includes three comments that were submitted as attachments to the comments of the international association of amusement parks and attractions (iaapa).
2d 790 (s.d. iowa 2004)).
the  department agreed with the niosh report recommendation regarding the scope of  the ho and proposed to revise ho 12 to prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from  operating, loading, and unloading, with limited exceptions, all balers and  compactors, regardless of the materials being processed.
570.127 homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen wreaths.
the information provided, which also echoed the department's  enforcement experiences, indicated that such factors as bowl capacity, the  horsepower of the motor, the portability of the machine (light weight and not  permanently wired or ``hardwired'' into the establishment's electrical power  source), and similarity to equipment designed exclusively for home use were all  important criteria.
570.65, the section heading and paragraph (a)(2) are revised,  paragraph (a)(3) is added, and paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows:  sec.
(j) youth peddling, which  entails the selling of goods or services to customers at locations other than  the youth-employer's establishment, such as the customers' residences or places  of business, or public places such as street corners and public transportation  stations.
for  example, a minor may ride in a motor vehicle to reach another work site where  he or she will perform work, to receive special training or instructions while  riding, or to meet other employees or customers of the employer.
sec. 570.33 and 570.34 to clarify and to expand the list of jobs that are either permitted or prohibited for minors who are 14 and 15 years of age.
the department has also long taken the  position that ho 5 prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate  wood chippers to grind tree limbs, branches, and trunks into chips, mulch, or  debris.
general scope of statutory provisions.
under the department's proposal, any employee under the age of 16 whose duties include this core duty--such as a ``junior lifeguard'' or a ``swim-teacher aide''-- or whose employment could place him or her in a situation where the employer would reasonably expect him or her to perform such rescue duties, would be performing the duties of a lifeguard while working in such a position.
the red cross recommended that the department [[page 28419]]  alleviate possible public misunderstanding by deleting ``giving swimming  instructions'' from the list of permitted lifeguard duties.
the  department has also decided to provide a table listing all the applicable ansi  standards in sec. 570.63(c)(1)(iv)(a).
the ho also prevents such minors from performing all occupations involved in the operation or feeding of several power-driven meat processing machines when performed in slaughtering and meat packing establishments, as well as in wholesale, retail, or service establishments.
570.35b would preclude anyone but a student enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum from participating in any work-study program in the future.
the department has learned of occupational injuries to workers operating reciprocating saws to cut materials other than wood.
at the time the nprm was  published, the department certified to this effect to the chief counsel for  advocacy of the u.s. small business administration (sba).
therefore, the department has decided to also incorporate the 2008 ansi standards into this final rule.
for the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered work-study program that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, in the occupations permitted by sec. 570.34, and for the periods and under the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
the usla commented that, since 1980, it has maintained the  position that lifeguards serving at natural environments, whether surf or  non-surf beaches, should be at least 16 years of age.
accordingly, these four newer standards are included in the final rule.
the result  was, as discussed earlier, that the compactor and baler act required that  before 16- and 17-year-olds could load such equipment, the scrap paper baler  had to meet standard ansi z245.5-1990 and the paper box compactor had to meet  standard ansi z245.2-1992.
barring  adoption of her recommendation, she believed the department's enforcement  position to be the ``second best option.''
reports showing that minors were  being injured when operating these machines on materials not covered by an  existing ho led the department to issue the all- encompassing ho 14.
the  undesignated center heading preceding sec.
section 16(a)  provides that any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of  section 15 shall upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine of not more than  $10,000, or to imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
students participating in a valid work-study program would be permitted to work up to eighteen hours a week, a portion of which may be during school hours, in accordance with the following formula that is based upon a continuous four-week cycle.
the report notes that the survey of occupational injuries and illnesses reports that in 1997, food and beverage processing machinery were responsible for 11,737 nonfatal injuries and illness that resulted in days away from work.
the clc recommended that the proposal should also require that the supervision be ``one-on-one'' and that the supervisors of the young workers should be required to have experience within the wood processing industry or that workplace.
repeated violations has two components.
in three of the four weeks, the participant would be permitted to work  during school hours on only one day per week, and for no more than eight hours  on that day.
the proposal was supported by the general manager of shipwreck  island waterpark of panama beach city, florida, whose comments were submitted  by the iaapa.
(3) the criteria to be used in consideration of  applications under this section are the following: (i) eligibility.
finally, the department has determined that the final rule provides sufficient clarity that it is not necessary to adopt the clc's recommended revision to the opening sentence of sec. 570.33 to repeat the statement contained in sec. 570.32 (``employment that is not specifically permitted is prohibited.'').
in addition, the department will not implement its proposal to reserve sec. sec. 570.131 through 570.139, again at the direction of the federal register.
plan no. 6 of 1950, 64 stat.
the ywn, the  afl-cio, and the clc also supported this proposal and recommended that the  prohibitions against youth peddling be extended to the employment of 16- and  17-year-olds.
finally, the department notes that the clc takes exception to the  department not taking any action on the niosh report recommendation regarding  the limited exemption contained in ho 12 for student-learners and apprentices.
(l) catching and  cooping of poultry in preparation for transport or for market.
such youth would not be permitted to perform any of the core functions of a lifeguard nor be employed in a situation where their employers could reasonably expect them to rescue swimmers in danger of drowning.
but because greater clarity and protections can be realized, the department will add atvs to the list of named equipment.
prior to 2000, according to the chapter, 16 years was generally the minimum age at which the red cross would provide such certification.
both the ywn and the clc disagreed with the department's decision not to implement at this time the niosh report recommendation to limit the student-learner and apprentice exemption contained in ho 10 to retail, wholesale, and service industries.
in order to remove any  confusion and increase employer compliance, the department proposed to amend  reg. 3 and create sec. 570.33(l) to specifically prohibit the employment of 14-  and 15-year-old minors in occupations involving the catching and cooping of  poultry for preparation for transport or for market.
the department agrees with the ywn that the word intellectual better comports with the intent of this proposal than the word mental.
570.35a will be redesignated as sec. 570.36 and the proposed sec.
information collection burdens total  number of respondents: 1530 (30 school districts and 1500 employers).
for purposes of the assessment of civil money penalties under 29 cfr part 579, an employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be willful where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the act or showed reckless disregard for the requirements of the act.
the department does not share the ywn's concerns about adding ``a new and unique age cut-off for this one particular job, when all other regulations group 15-year- olds with 14-year-olds.''
since subpart g was last revised,  not only have several hos been amended, but the process for promulgating and  revising the hos has also changed.
the department appreciates the time and effort all of these commenters devoted to their submissions.
the ywn also questioned the  justification for adding a new and unique age cut-off for this one particular  job, when all other regulations group 15-year-olds with 14-year-olds.
the department does not accept the dolwd's recommendation that reg. 3 be revised to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to operate certain weed- eaters because of the potential for injury associated with the operation of such equipment.
the written agreement shall be signed  by the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student.
the ywn also recommended that the proposed definition  of power-driven woodworking machines be revised to permit 16- and 17-year-olds  to use small hand-held battery- operated drills that accommodate bits no larger  than \3/8\'' and hand- held oscillating- or vibrating-type sanders.
over the last ten years,  the department has investigated the serious injuries of several youth that  resulted from the use of chain saws to cut branches and trees, charged  violations under ho 5, and assessed and collected civil money penalties because  of those violations.
the rationale for this  recommendation is that although injury fatality rates in meat products  manufacturing industries are relatively low, rates of disorders due to repeated  trauma are extremely high.
this prohibition has always encompassed the operation or tending of  all power-driven amusement park and recreation establishment rides-- including  elevated slides found at water amusement parks.
the telephone number  for the occupational safety and health administration's docket office is (202)  693-2350 and its web site is located athttp://dockets.osha.gov.
the department proposed to amend the definition of power-driven  woodworking machines to include those machines that process trees, logs, and  lumber in recognition that section 13(c)(7) now permits certain youth 14  through 17 years of age to work in such places of business as sawmills, lath  mills, and shingle mills where trees, logs, and lumber would be processed.
section 570.33(f)(1) (old) furthers this prohibition by banning the employment of minors in occupations in connection with the transportation of property by highway.
they stated that such employment includes the potential for exposure to hazardous and toxic chemicals or to bloodborne pathogens, particularly in medical and dental offices, hospitals and nursing homes, and when youth accept employment with professional janitorial services.
finally, a representative of the coosa valley regional development center requested that 14- and 15-year-olds be permitted to be employed in painting activities because the ``paint products in use today do not contain lead or other hazardous materials.''
the term shall not include other types of shearing machines, using a different form of shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular shears.
these proposed provisions were structured similarly to  those already contained in subpart g that address the earlier flsa exemptions  concerning employment of youth in agriculture (sec. 570.123), in the delivery  of newspapers (sec. 570.124), as actors and performers (sec. 570.125), and by  one's parents (sec. 570.126).
570.34 to only retail, food service, and  gasoline service establishments.
he or she would normally attend, the clc  did not.
for information on the availability of this material at nara, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_ of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
the department also proposed to incorporate into sec.
the prohibitions of the ho do not differentiate  between portable and non-portable equipment, and models designed for use in the  home versus those solely designed for industrial applications.
2010-11434 filed 5-19-10; 8:45 am] billing code  4510-27-p back to top freedom of  information act |  privacy & security statement |   disclaimers |  customer survey |  important web site notices u.s. department of labor | francis perkins building, 200  constitution ave., nw, washington, dc 20210 www.dol.gov  | telephone: 1-866-4-usa-dol (1-866-487-2365) | tty:  1-877-4-889-5627 | contact us
in an attempt to acquire additional data needed to address the remaining nonagricultural niosh recommendations and to pursue certain other issues not explored in the niosh report, the department also published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (anprm) concurrently with the 2007 nprm (see 72 fr 19328).
the department proposed to incorporate them into reg. 3 to promote both clarity and compliance.
since 1961, new, positive, and safe employment opportunities have opened up for youth in industries other than retail, food service, and gasoline service that the existing reg. 3 does not specifically address.
although none of these injuries were life threatening, most were  considered to be serious and many caused the partial loss of digits and will  leave some permanent scarring.
inside or outside places of business shall mean the actual physical location of the establishment employing the youth, including the buildings and surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that establishment.
the clc objected to the department's proposal, stating that it did not have sufficient information on the underlying rationale for the proposed change to adequately comment on it.
expanding the eligible age for employment as a lifeguard at traditional swimming pools could help these communities enhance pool safety by providing a wider and larger applicant pool from which to select qualified candidates, and by increasing lifeguard availability, make shorter shifts an increasingly real probability.''
the term shall not include work in forest nurseries, establishments primarily engaged in growing trees for purposes of reforestation.
to ensure consistency, the department proposed that this single definition of power-driven woodworking machines be included in sec. 570.34(m)
in  order for employers to take advantage of the limited in order for employers to  take advantage exception discussed in this of the limited exception discussed  in section, the scrap paper this section, the paper box compactor baler must  meet one of the must meet one of the following ansi following ansi standards:
the department's enforcement experience supports these findings.
four of the comments do not address  any of the issues raised by the april 17, 2007 nprm and focus solely on topics  raised by the anprm that was published by the department on that same day.
this is one of the few recommendations the  report makes that would relax current prohibitions, and it is made with the  rationale that ``although data show high numbers of injuries associated with  power-driven slicers, the injuries appear to be relatively minor.''
comments were received from trade and professional associations; advocacy and occupational health and safety organizations; employers; federal, state, and local government agencies; representatives of schools and organizations that provide vocational training to youth; and one private citizen.
570.37 to read as follows: sec.
for purposes of the assessment of civil  money penalties under 29 cfr part 579, an employer's violation of section 12 or  section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued  pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be willful where the employer knew  that its conduct was prohibited by the act or showed reckless disregard for the  requirements of the act.
570.35 to reflect that school would not be  considered to be in session for a 14- or 15-year-old minor who has graduated  from high school; or has been excused from compulsory school attendance by the  state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the eighth grade and  his or her employment complies with all the requirements of the state school  attendance law; or has a child to support and appropriate state officers,  pursuant to state law, have waived school attendance requirements for this  minor; or is subject to an order of a state or federal court prohibiting him or  her from attending school; or has been permanently expelled from the local  public school
* * these workers also cut the trees with a chainsaw and drag them from the cutting area and then load them on to a truck.
[[page 28447]] the additional changes being implemented are also expected to have little or no direct cost impact.
she also opined that such dispatchers are not in contact with any power-driven machinery.
compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (m)(1)(iii) and (m)(1)(iv) of this section will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by the u.s. department of labor's occupational safety and health administration (osha) or, in those areas where osha has authorized the state to operate its own occupational safety and health plan, the applicable standards issued by the office charged with administering the state occupational safety and health plan.
for information on the availability of this material at nara, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/ code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
in order to eliminate confusion and provide clarity, the department has added a statement to sec. 570.33(j) noting that the ban on youth peddling does not prohibit a young salesperson from conducting sales for his or her employer on property controlled by the employer that is out of doors but may still properly be considered part of the employer's establishment.
570.103 comparison with wage and hour provisions.
paper box compactor means a powered machine that  remains stationary during operation, used to compact refuse, including paper  boxes, into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
week when school is in session  refers to any week the local public school district where the minor resides  while employed is in session and students are required to attend for at least  one day or partial day.
(3) work in the repair or maintenance of roads, railroads or flumes and work in construction and maintenance of telephone lines, but only if the minors are not engaged in the operation of power-driven machinery, the handling or use of explosives, the felling or bucking of timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, or work on trestles.
dates:  effective dates: this rule is effective july 19, 2010.
(d) cashiering, selling, modeling, art work, work in advertising departments, window trimming, and comparative shopping.
the exemption also places limitations on the  number of trips the 17-year-old may make each day and restricts the driving
570.131  through 570.139 to accommodate any additional statutory amendments to the flsa  child labor provisions that may be enacted.
the 2004 final rule, however, did not change the types of equipment and devices that 14- and 15-year-olds were permitted to, and continue to be permitted to, operate in accordance with sec.
the most recent guidance  came from congress with the enactment of the drive for teen employment act,  public law 105-334, in 1998.
the superintendent of the public or private school system supervising and administering the work-study program shall file with the administrator of the wage and hour division a letter of application for approval of the work-study program as one not interfering with schooling or with the health and well-being of the minors involved and therefore not constituting oppressive child labor.
no comments were received regarding whether  standard ansi z245.5- 2004 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard  ansi z245.5- 1990 and whether standard ansi z245.2-2004 is as protective of the  safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
because the department has, over the years, received requests for clarification as to the meaning of remanufacturing departments, it proposed to add the above definition to ho 4.
the city specifically requested permission to allow such minors to load and unload, onto and from motor vehicles, the light, non-power-driven tools each youth would personally use as part of his or her employment.
participants included representatives of the american camping association, red cross, national safety council, ymca of the usa, council for national cooperation in aquatics, centers for disease control and prevention, u.s. coast guard, boy scouts of america, the national park service, several major municipal lifeguard agencies from throughout the usa, and several medical experts.
students, their parents, and the work-study director sign an agreement defining performance expectations and program support structures.
for the reasons discussed in this preamble, the department has similarly concluded and certified to the sba office of advocacy chief counsel that this final rule is not expected to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities in a manner that would require a final regulatory flexibility analysis.
finally, as mentioned above, such youth should also be permitted to perform certain tasks related to forest fire fighting and [[page 28432]] forest fire prevention, when not performed in conjunction with the extinguishing of a fire, such as the clearing of trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and tasks associated with the operation of a fire fighting base camp.
570.140  are added to read as follows: enforcement sec. 570.140 general.
safety  requirements (ansi z245.5-1997), the american national standard institute's  standard ansi z245.5-2004 american national standard for equipment technology  and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--baling equipment-- safety  requirements for installation, maintenance and operation (ansi z245.5-2004),  and the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.5-2008
finally, as noted above, reg. 3 limits the employment of 14- and  15-year-olds to periods that are outside of school hours and to designated  hours depending upon whether or not school is in session.
in response to the inquiries, the department adopted  an enforcement policy in 2000 that allowed 15-year-olds (but not 14-year-olds)  to be employed at swimming pools owned and operated by state and local  governments or private-sector retail establishments under certain conditions.
list of subjects in 29 cfr part 579 child labor, law enforcement, penalties.
office  work continues to be one of the safest occupations available to young workers.
some employers believe that 14- and 15-year-olds are permitted to be employed in any industry or occupations not expressly prohibited by reg. 3, or that any employer in any industry is permitted to employ such youth in the occupations permitted by sec. 570.34(a) (old).
section 13(c)(7) defines a new entrant into the workforce as an individual who is under the age of 18 and at least the age of 14, and, by statute or judicial order, is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
o. civil money penalties; 29 cfr part 579  section 16(e) of the flsa subjects any person who violates the child labor  provisions of the act to civil money penalties.
absent any specific data on compensation of the persons who will actually perform the work to ensure [[page 28448]] compliance, the dol has estimated hourly costs this rule will impose on wsp sponsor schools by increasing the october 2009 average annual hourly rate for production or nonsupervisory workers on educational and health services payrolls of $19.59 by 40 percent to account for the value of fringe benefits (see the employment situation: december 2009, dol, bureau of labor statistics, january 2010, table b-3,http:// www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/empsit_01082010.pdf).
the report also recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit youth from riding on any part of a forklift as a passenger (including the forks) and from working from forks, platforms, buckets, or cages attached to a moving or stationary forklift.
sec. 570.33(f) and 570.34(b)(8))
the full text of this subsection is set forth in sec.
the kind of work performed in such departments is similar to that done in planing mill departments in that rough lumber is surfaced or made into other finished products.
except, this  exception shall not apply when the mixer is used, with or without attachments,  to process meat or poultry products as prohibited by sec. 570.61(a)(4).
the ywn also recommended that the department specifically list ``bladed blenders used to chop food items such as cookies or candy with ice cream to make ice cream desserts'' as a prohibited machine in the revised sec. 570.33(e) as that subsection already prohibits the operating or tending of food grinders, food choppers, and cutters (see sec.
the  department also proposed to restructure the two definitions in this section to  reflect an alphabetical sequence in accordance with guidance provided by the  federal register.
570.36 (new)) would provide those programs with  limited exemptions from the hours standards contained in sec. 570.35(a) that  are similar to the exemptions provided by the proposed work-study program.
these provisions apply equally whether the volunteer is an  adult or a minor.
the clc reported that its comments are also endorsed by the following organizations: a better world foundation, a minor consideration, american federation of teachers, american federation of school administrators, americans for democratic action, association of farmworker opportunity programs, farmworker justice, international initiative to end child labor, migrant legal action program, national association of state directors of migrant education, national consumers league, ramsay merriam fund, and the united food and commercial workers international union.
in addition, each driver transporting the young workers must hold a state driver's license valid for the type of driving involved and, if the driver is under the age of 18, his or her employment must comply with the provisions of sec. 570.52.
nada also recommended that the word car in sec.
the pra typically requires an agency to provide notice and seek public comments on any proposed collection of information contained in a proposed rule (see 44 u.s.c. 3506(c)(2)(b); 5 cfr 1320.8).
the definition of that term, contained in 29 cfr 541.500, applies regardless of  the age of the [[page 28414]] employee and clearly includes youth peddlers as  described in sec. 570.33(j) (new).
the report notes  that baler and compactor related deaths are not limited to those in which paper  or cardboard is being processed.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------  sec.
the ywn is a  subcommittee of the occupational health and safety section of the american  public health association.
the list of prohibited industries and occupations helps to define and to provide clarity to the list of permitted industries and occupations.
the department believes that despite the lack of comments, 16- and 17-year-olds can safely perform certain tasks within the timber tract, tree farm, and forestry service industries.
the department will continue to study these recommendations.
acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and the piling and burning of slash.
the clc also expressed concerns that the cristo rey network has been operating a work-study program for almost a decade and questioned how much of each youth's pay check goes to cristo rey and how much, if any, goes to the youth.
circular saw shall mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a continuous series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting, and used for sawing materials.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- \1\  january 21, 2009 memorandum for the heads of executive departments and  agencies, available at:http:// edocket.access.gpo.gov/2009/pdf/e9-1777.pdf.
the department also proposed to revise the title of ho 10 to reflect its expansion to the slaughtering of poultry, and the processing, packing, and rendering of poultry and poultry products.
the council also recommended that the department expand the number of hours that such youth may be employed to four hours on any school day; to as late as 8 p.m. on any evening between labor day and may 31st; and as late as 10 p.m. on any evening between june 1st and labor day.
the department believes that  all these additional safety requirements, when coupled with the provisions of  the revised sec. 570.33(i), adequately protect young workers who momentarily  enter freezers.
570.127 homeworkers engaged in the  making of evergreen wreaths.
under the network's model, four students share a single, full-time clerical position with a private employer at a work place screened and selected by the school.
the fmi, council, and afl-cio also supported  the proposal to adopt the department's long-standing enforcement position  permitting 16- and 17-year-olds to operate--but not set-up, adjust, repair,  oil, or clean--certain power-driven pizza dough rollers.
this interpretation  comports with the provision of sec. 570.33(f)(1) (old), which prohibits the  employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in occupations in connection with the  transportation of persons or property by highway.
the rin 1215-ab44 proposal would remove this valuable learning experience from our students.''
the report, in recognition of this gap in coverage, recommends that ho 12 be revised to include such machines because ``balers and compactors used to process other scrap materials such as plastic and aluminum cans pose similar risk of injury from crushing or amputation'' (see niosh report, page 50).
x.  executive order 13045, protection of children e.o. 13045, dated april 23, 1997  (62 fr 19885), applies to any rule that (1) is determined to be ``economically  significant'' as defined in e.o. 12866, and (2) concerns an environmental  health or safety risk that the promulgating agency has reason to believe may  have a disproportionate effect on children.
no  comments were received that identified any tasks in these industries as being  safe for minors to perform.
the term  shall mean and include highlift trucks known under such names as fork lifts,  fork trucks, fork lift trucks, tiering trucks, backhoes, front-end loaders,  skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, bobcat loaders, or stacking trucks, but shall  not mean low-lift trucks or low- lift platform trucks that are designed for the  transportation of but not the tiering of materials.
[[page 28458]] abrasive cutting disc shall mean a machine equipped with a disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting materials.
the department has opined on this matter, in writing, since at least 1993.
examples of permitted machines and devices include, but are not limited to, dishwashers, toasters, dumbwaiters, popcorn poppers, milk shake blenders, coffee grinders, automatic coffee machines, devices used to maintain the temperature of prepared foods (such as warmers, steam tables, and heat lamps), and microwave ovens that are used only to warm prepared food and do not have the capacity to warm above 140 [deg]f. minors are permitted to clean kitchen equipment (not otherwise prohibited), remove oil or grease filters, pour oil or grease through filters, and move receptacles containing hot grease or hot oil, but only when the equipment, surfaces, containers and liquids do not exceed a temperature of 100 [deg]f. minors are also permitted to occasionally enter freezers momentarily to retrieve items in conjunction with restocking or food preparation.
for example, the department investigated the death of a 15-year-old male in 1999 who was employed as a poultry catcher, working in the dark and under red lighting, in arkansas.
the secretary, in order to provide clarity and assist employers in attaining compliance, has listed in sec.
the department proposed to  limit the types of employers that may employ such minors, as well as the  worksites at which such minors may be employed, to those contemplated by the  language of the statute and mentioned by the sponsors of the legislation and  the interested parties that testified at the hearings held by congress prior to  the enactment of the legislation (see, e.g., testimony before senate labor,  health and human services, and education subcommittee of the committee on  appropriations, the employment needs of amish youth, 107th cong.
additional ancillary lifeguard duties may include checking in and out such items as towels, rings, watches and apparel.
sections 570.118 through 570.120  are revised to read as follows: *
570.33(c) (old) and sec.
cristo rey stated ``[m]eeting  those objectives can be quantified in cristo rey's 97+% attendance rate and/ or  in its graduates' own achievements: i.e., of 219 graduates in 2006, 212 were  accepted into colleges including schools such as the university of california  at berkley, the university of illinois, the university of notre dame, the  university of chicago, and wellesley college; and the success continues: of 318  graduates in 2007, 313 will attend college this fall.''
the department wishes to make it clear that the exemption contained in sec. 570.62(b)(1) (new) that permits 16- and 17-year-olds to operate certain lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food mixers would not apply when the equipment is adapted--through the use of various attachments--to perform functions other than mixing, or to process meat or poultry products because of the prohibitions of ho 10 (occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering, meat and poultry packing, processing, or rendering) (see sec.
570.34(b)(7) (old) be expanded  to include ``any freezer or cooler regardless of product, including but not  limited to meat, seafood, poultry or other produce.''
the department, however, does not agree that  such an expansion of positive youth opportunities is improper or in any way  fails to comport with the requirements and spirit of flsa section 3(l).
the ywn, the afl-cio, and the clc also supported this proposal and recommended that the prohibitions against youth peddling be extended to the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds.
since the enactment of flsa section  13(c)(7) on january 23, 2004, the department's enforcement position has been  that the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds employed under the provisions of  that section must still be in compliance with all other provisions of reg. 3,  including the hours and time of day standards of sec.
many machines are adaptable for the baling and  compacting of a wide variety of materials, including paper, aluminum cans,  plastic milk jugs, and general refuse.
for example, a ``mixer'' as  discussed in sec. 570.62(b)(1) would become a ``grinder'' prohibited by ho 10  (see sec. 570.61(a)(4)) when the grinding attachment is in use.
the term also includes establishments which  manufacture or process meat or poultry products, including sausage or sausage  casings from such animals.
the most recent guidance came from congress with the enactment of the drive for teen employment act, public law 105-334, in 1998.
the department proposed to revise reg. 3 by creating sec.
the  department has routinely received inquiries asking whether 14- and 15-year-old  youth may be employed to perform certain mental or artistically creative  activities in industries not specifically permitted by reg. 3.
these four commenters also supported the department's proposal  regarding the cleaning of such equipment.
the clc labeled as a ``wise approach'' the department's proposal to rely on the expertise of osha, or the office charged with administering an osha-authorized state plan where appropriate, to determine if employers are complying with certain of the safety standards established by flsa section 13(c)(7).
as used in this section:  boning occupations means the removal of bones from meat cuts.
in some cases, this may result in a diminution of the risk by  including less risky operations and industries in the employment estimates.
in addition, the department has, as early as 1991, interpreted the prohibition on cleaning such machines as precluding 16- and 17-year-olds from performing the hand or machine washing of parts of and attachments to power-driven meat processing machines, even when the machine was disassembled and reassembled by an adult.
these prohibitions would prevent a 14- or 15-year-old from working  in a factory or workroom as a ``molder'' or ``hand painter'' producing mass  quantities of nearly identical pottery or ceramic items, but when coupled with  this final rule, they would permit the youth to express his or her artistic  talents to shape by hand a unique clay pot or sculpt a piece of art.
in  addition, although this rule impacts the child labor provisions of the flsa and  the employment of adolescents and young adults, it does not impact the  environmental health or safety risks of children.
an individual private  school that was not part of a network, district, or system would also be able  to apply to participate in a work study program.
it  also expressed concerns that employers may have difficulty interpreting the  ansi standards.
when state and federal  requirements differ, the flsa does not supersede any more protective state  child labor requirement and employers must normally comply with the more  stringent standard.
the department is adopting this  proposal as written with one grammatical change.
the department cannot enforce a minimum wage requirement for employees whom the congress has statutorily exempted from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the flsa.
such classroom instruction shall include, every year  the youth participates in the work-study program, training in workplace safety  and state and federal child labor provisions and rules.
the department has successfully defended this enforcement position, most recently in a case where minors were employed to operate a skid-steer loader to clean trailers used to haul livestock.
in  addition, the department proposed to restructure all the definitions in ho 4 in  an alphabetical sequence to comport with guidance provided by the federal  register.
16- and 17-year-olds from being employed in occupations involving the setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning of such pizza-dough rollers.
the department is adopting this proposal as written with one grammatical change.
but when it is determined that an  employer- employee relationship does exist, and the employee is engaged in work  that is subject to the flsa, the minimum age for such employment at a  traditional swimming pool would be 14.
the academic schedules of the students are carefully coordinated so that students do not miss any classes on the days they work and the school year has been extended beyond the standard academic schedule of the local public school to compensate for the time the students spend at work.
as power-driven equipment, atvs were, and continue to be, included in the broad prohibitions of this subsection.
these prohibitions, which include work in manufacturing and processing occupations, the operation of most power- driven equipment, and any duties in work rooms or work places where goods are manufactured or processed, should alleviate many of the concerns raised by the ywn and clc.
nor does the department accept dolwd's recommendation to allow 14- and  15-year-olds to operate certain residential-style clothes washers and dryers.
the clc also made the same three recommendations as the  afl-cio and stated that ``[e]ven if dol's occupational safety and health  administration (osha) has similar rules, these should be incorporated into the  child labor regulations so that a dol wage and hour division inspector could  assert a child labor violation rather than having the employer face two  inspections, one by the wage and hour division and another by osha.''
the clc stated that  ``[t]he dol proposal raises serious questions under the first amendment to the  united states constitution, which forbids the government favoring one religious  sect over another.''
the rule was: (1) reviewed to eliminate drafting errors and ambiguities; (2)  written to minimize litigation; and (3) written to provide a clear legal  standard for affected conduct and to promote burden reduction.
1060-1069 as amended; 29  u.s.c. 201-219. 0 17.
in addition, youth employed in timber  tract, tree farm, and forestry service industries should be permitted to  perform tasks related to forest marketing and forest economics that are not  performed in a forest.
the council noted that frequently ``the academic schedule and attendance requirements followed by public schools do differ, sometimes significantly, from the schedule followed by private schools.
as discussed earlier, congress has added four more exemptions that are not included in the current subpart g.
such youth are prohibited from operating or tending any power-driven machinery,  other than office equipment, and this prohibition has always included automatic  car washers, power-washers, and power-driven scrubbers and buffers.
the department will add atvs to the list of prohibited equipment  presented in the revised sec. 570.33(e) (new) as recommended by the afl-cio and  clc.
the city was  advised that this enforcement policy did not extend to other prohibited  transportation-related work such as the loading or unloading of materials other  than the light hand tools the minors may use on-the-job, such as trash or  garbage, or power-driven equipment such as lawn mowers, edgers, and weed  trimmers--the use of which by this age group is prohibited under reg. 3.
the list also includes the occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning the machines.
expanding the eligible age for employment as a  lifeguard at traditional swimming pools could help these communities enhance  pool safety by providing a wider and larger applicant pool from which to select  qualified candidates, and by increasing lifeguard availability, make shorter  shifts an increasingly real probability.''
the new  regulation requires the implementation of a new paperwork burden with regard to  a wsp.
the  term places of business where machinery is used to process wood products shall  mean such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills,  cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed  making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops.
the occupation of setting up or adjusting a cookie or cracker machine.
for purposes of this exemption, a lightweight, small capacity mixer is one that is not hardwired into the establishment's power source, is equipped with a motor that operates at no more than \1/2\ horsepower, and is equipped with a bowl with a capacity of no more than five quarts.
written participation agreement: the regulations require preparation of a written participation agreement for each student participating in a wsp and that the teacher-coordinator, employer, and student each sign that agreement (see sec.
the employment of such minors  would still be subject to the time of day and number of hours standards  contained in sec.
as used in  this paragraph (m): inside or outside places of business shall mean the actual  physical location of the establishment employing the youth, including the  buildings and surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that  establishment.
only the clc commented on this proposal, expressing its disappointment that the department has decided not to address recommendations regarding the limited exemptions provided for student- learner and apprentices at this time.
570.34(l) would not apply to the time spent as dispatchers or attendants  at an elevated water slide.
the report notes that available data demonstrate that chainsaws specifically contributed to 70 worker deaths between 1992 and 1997 and over 1,600 lost workday injuries.
in addition to affirming the department's position that a skid  loader was a ``high-lift truck'' within the meaning of ho 7, the court also  found that the youths' operation of the equipment violated the ho even though  the youth did not operate or utilize the loader's hoisting device but used the  skid-steer loader as a ``scraper'' (see lynnville transport, inc. v. chao, 316  f. supp.
after carefully considering all the comments, the department has decided to adopt the proposal as originally written, with one modification and minor editorial changes.
the appropriate ansi standards govern not only the manufacture and modification of the equipment, but the operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee training as well.
both niosh occupational injury data and the department's enforcement experience reflect that injuries occur when youth operate balers and compactors that are designed and used to process materials other than paper.
the department is continuing to review all of the remaining niosh report recommendations, but excluded them from immediate consideration in order to keep the size and scope of the 2007 anprm and nprm manageable.
l. 108-199), amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for minors 14 to 18 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
it also raises concerns that the ``host employer'' might not be subject to the same restrictions and requirements as any other employer who hires youth and that students may be replacing a ``regular paid employee.''
[[page 28441]] the communal equipment as  required by flsa section 13(c)(5).
establishments that perform timber estimation and valuation and forest fire prevention and pest control are also included in sic 085.
570.62 its long-standing enforcement position regarding the operation of certain pizza-dough rollers by 16- and 17-year-old workers.
for  purposes of this section, an employer's conduct shall be deemed to be in  reckless disregard of the requirements of the act, among other situations, if  the employer should have inquired further into whether its conduct was in  compliance with the act, and failed to make adequate further inquiry.
that penalty may be doubled, up to  $100,000, when such violation is determined by the department to be a repeated  or willful violation.
the department has also increased the dollar cost  from $13 to $14 to account for increased postage costs since publication of the  nprm.
this section varies the provisions contained in sec.
the department proposed to incorporate the amendment into reg. 3 at sec. 570.34(m), and into sec.
(a) section  15(a)(4) of the act makes any violation of the provisions of sections 12(a) or  12(c) unlawful.
the term all occupations  in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock  mill, as defined by ho 4, specifically excludes work performed in the  planing-mill department or other remanufacturing departments of any sawmill, or  in any planing mill or remanufacturing plant not a part of a sawmill.
this exception does not apply to the setting up,  adjusting, repairing, oiling or cleaning of such pizza-dough rollers.
standard ansi z245.2-2008  (stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and  operations) and standard ansi z245.5- 2008 (baling equipment--safety  requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations).
as used in this section: crane shall mean a power-driven machine  for lifting and lowering a load and moving it horizontally, in which the  hoisting mechanism is an integral part of the machine.
as mentioned, certain modifications to the existing lists  of permissible and prohibited occupations were also [[page 28408]] proposed.
a representative of six flags, inc. also supported the proposal and stated that ``[w]hile we still believe that 15-year-olds could safely work as dispatchers on elevated water elements, we find the proposed changes to be an acceptable compromise.''
the department also proposed to revise reg. 3 at sec. 570.34(o) (new) to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to ride in the enclosed passenger compartments of motor vehicles, except when a significant reason for the minors being passengers in the vehicle is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting--or assisting in the transporting--of other persons or property.
the ywn recommended that the proposed requirements that each seat occupied by a minor be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device and that the employer instruct the minors that such belts or other device must be used so that the employer is required to ensure that the seat belt or other device is actually used.
the definition of that term, contained in 29 cfr 541.500, applies regardless of the age of the [[page 28414]] employee and clearly includes youth peddlers as described in sec. 570.33(j) (new).
570.34(l) to incorporate portions of the current enforcement position.
permitted work of a mental nature would be limited to work that is similar to that performed in an office setting and not involving the use of any power-driven equipment other than office machines.
(e) price marking and tagging by  hand or machine, assembling orders, packing, and shelving.
neither commenter provided any data or  insight regarding how extensively atvs are used by youth in nonagricultural  employment or whether the documented hazards resulted in occupational injuries.
hazardous occupations orders are the means through which occupations are  declared to be particularly hazardous for minors.
the secretary's declarations of what work is not deemed  oppressive for children between the ages of 14 and 16 appear in reg. 3 (29 cfr  570.31-.37).
such employment is very similar to that involved with the operation of logging camps, occupations that 16- and 17-year-olds have been permitted to perform for many years.
for purposes of this exemption, the department proposed that a lightweight, small capacity mixer is one that is not hardwired into the establishment's power source, is equipped with a motor that operates at no more than \1/2\ horsepower, and whose bowl capacity does not exceed five quarts.
these minors are frequently  placed by employers, without adult supervision, at subway entrances, outside  large office buildings, at high-traffic street corners, and on median strips at  busy intersections where they can attract potential customers.
(e) occupations that involve operating, tending, setting up,  adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing any power-driven machinery, including  but not limited to lawn mowers, golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, trimmers,  cutters, weed-eaters, edgers, food slicers, food grinders, food choppers, food  processors, food cutters, and food mixers.
helper shall mean  a person who assists in the operation of a machine covered by this section by  helping place materials into or remove them from the machine.
some of these fatalities involved workers under 18 years of age (see niosh report, page 57).
the department will  evaluate the information to determine if the program meets the requirements  specified in the regulation, in order to respond to the request.
therefore 14- and  15- year-olds are permitted to operate them under the provisions of reg. 3.
a more thorough discussion of each of these exemptions was proposed to be included in sec.
first, the department  has been persuaded by the comments of the forest service and the dolwd that 16-  and 17-year-olds can safely be employed in certain capacities in forest  protection and in the operation of fire fighting base camps.
the pra typically requires an agency to  provide notice and seek public comments on any proposed collection of  information contained in a proposed rule (see 44 u.s.c. 3506(c)(2)(b); 5 cfr  1320.8).
these incorporations by reference were approved by the director of the federal register in accordance with 5 u.s.c. 552(a) and 1 cfr part 51.
one such condition is that the equipment must  meet specific standards issued for balers or for compactors by the american  national standard institute (ansi).
570.35 for the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and administered work experience and career exploration program (wecep).
the clc supported this proposal but again expressed  concern based on its erroneous assumption that such youth could be employed to  paint automobiles.
the report makes several recommendations concerning the establishment, revision, and elimination of apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions, but the rationale for each recommendation either is vague or is not provided.
finally, continuation of this enforcement position facilitates the enforcement of the reg. 3 hours standards by establishing a single, easily determinable standard.
the clc recommended that the department clarify the proposal by specifically adding ``assisting in tasks being performed by the equipment'' to the language of the final rule.
recently, the department adopted an enforcement policy that it would not assert violations of ho 11 when 16- and 17-year-olds operate, assist to operate, setup, adjust, repair, oil, or clean certain small, lightweight, counter-top mixers.
in order to eliminate confusion and provide clarity, the department  has added a statement to sec. 570.33(j) noting that the ban on youth peddling  does not prohibit a young salesperson from conducting sales for his or her  employer on property controlled by the employer that is out of doors but may  still properly be considered part of the employer's establishment.
this exemption overrides the flsa's formerly complete prohibition on the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing occupations contained in section 3(l).
total  number of responses: 3030 (30 wsp applications, 1500 school district written  participation agreements, 1500 employer written participation agreements).
injuries,  and even deaths, have occurred as the result of young children engaging in  youth peddling activities.
when ho 12 was promulgated in 1954, the dangers specifically associated with the operation of scrap paper balers involved being caught in the plungers during the compression process and suffering strains and other injuries while moving the compressed bales.
the prohibitions of ho 14 are based on the equipment and apply regardless of the materials being processed.
the ywn also recommended that  the department specifically list ``bladed blenders used to chop food items such  as cookies or candy with ice cream to make ice cream desserts'' as a prohibited  machine in the revised sec. 570.33(e) as that subsection already prohibits the  operating or tending of food grinders, food choppers, and cutters (see sec.
such minors would be exempt from the ``when school is in session'' hours standards limitations contained in sec.
570.101(c) to include the more recent definition of the term employer and  to correct an erroneous reference to flsa section 13(d).
the department believes that these additional requirements, many of which correspond to the criteria established for operating a wecep under sec. 570.36 (new), will provide adequate protections to all students who participate in an approved work-study program under the provisions of sec.
school systems, employers, and the department will use these records to document the validity of the wsp and that the 14- and 15-year-old students were employed in accordance with the special wsp rules.
the department  appreciates the concerns of the ywn, clc, and usla about lowering the  employment age for lifeguards at traditional swimming pools and certain water  amusement park facilities to 15, but believes that such safeguards as proper  certification in aquatics and water safety by a recognized certification  organization, the prohibition against tending power-driven machinery which  prevents 15- year-olds from working as dispatchers or attendants at the top of  elevated water slides, the osha standards addressing potential exposures to  bloodborne pathogens and chemicals, and the hours and times of day standards  established by sec.
it has decided to adopt the proposal as  written, with one clarifying modification.
the rationale for this recommendation is that although injury fatality rates in meat products manufacturing industries are relatively low, rates of disorders due to repeated trauma are extremely high.
during this process, congress solicited input from the department, niosh, employers, employer associations, and employee associations.
accordingly, the department is incorporating the provisions of the statutory amendments into the final rule without notice and comment.
the department proposed to implement all five of the report recommendations concerning ho 7.
the term  motor vehicle is defined in sec. 570.52(c)(1).
the following occupations involved in the operation of power-driven  hoisting apparatus are particularly hazardous for minors between 16 and 18  years of age: (1) work of operating, tending, riding upon, working from,
the department has always  interpreted the term power-driven machinery very broadly to include machines  driven by electrical, mechanical, water, or other power such as steam or  hydraulic.
the department understands the concerns of both commenters as to the types of tasks young workers would be permitted to perform under the umbrella of ``artistic or creative endeavors'' and notes that it will rely on 29 cfr
the work-study program was implemented to help students offset the costs of a quality college preparatory education and develop important work experience and socialization skills that will allow them to assume leadership roles as adults.
section 570.122 lists the four exemptions from  the flsa child labor provisions that existed when subpart g was last revised.
the crew leaders, who often have ties to regional or national businesses, mistakenly claim that they and their young sales crews are independent contractors.
operating or assisting to operate means all work that involves starting or stopping a machine covered by this section, placing materials into or removing materials from a machine, including clearing a machine of jammed materials, paper, or cardboard, or any other work directly involved in operating the machine.
the fmi found it ``hard to understand why their work hours should be  governed by a school system they have nothing to do with.''
all occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention, in timber tracts, in forestry services, logging, and the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age, except the following when not prohibited by any other section of this subpart: (1) work in offices or in repair or maintenance shops.
in addition, the  student's parent or guardian shall either sign or otherwise provide consent for  the participation agreement to be valid.
this term would also include  establishments that manufacture or process meat products, including poultry,  sausage, or sausage casings.
the  department believes this clarification will provide guidance to employers.
the afl-cio, ywn, clc and six flags all supported the department's decision not to accept the niosh
forestry workers also experienced fatal injuries such as those typically associated with the logging industry; in 26 of the 82 fatalities the worker was struck by a falling object (a tree in all but one instance).
ho 7 defines a manlift as a device intended for the conveyance of persons that consists of platforms or brackets mounted on, or attached to, an endless belt, cable, chain or similar method of suspension; such belt, cable or chain operating in a substantially vertical direction and being supported by and driven through pulleys, sheaves or sprockets at the top and bottom.
the authority citation for part 579 is revised to read as follows: authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 211, 212, 213(c), 216; reorg.
the dolwd recommended that the department focus  on identifying the specific areas and occupations where work is prohibited and  eliminate the specific provisions concerning where work is permitted.
the report also recommends that ho 7  be revised to eliminate the exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds to  operate an electric or air-operated hoist not exceeding one-ton capacity.
such machines  generally consist of a base motor that supports a glass jar.
similarly, a youth could be employed to create unique photographs that  rise to the level of art, but would be prohibited from developing those  photographs and working with the chemicals and solvents commonly used in such  processing activities.
the  department notes the clc's concerns that determining when school is in session  by using each student's individual academic schedule could foster the  development of nonpublic schools or home- schooling programs created primarily  to provide 14- and 15-year-old working children to employers during the hours  they would normally have attended public school.
e. logging occupations and occupations in the operation of any  sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4) (29 cfr  570.54) ho 4 generally prohibits minors 16 and 17 years of age from being  employed in most occupations in logging and in the operation of a sawmill, lath  mill, shingle mill or cooperage stock mill.
this new program  does not in any way negate or preclude schools or employers from participating  in other preexisting or future work-study programs, work experience and/or  career exploration programs, internships, or apprenticeships that also comport  with the provisions of the flsa (whether with the hours standards and time of  day restrictions in sec.
the niosh report recommends that the department not only retain ho 4, but  expand its coverage to include work in the operation of timber tracts (standard  industrial classification (sic) 081) and forestry services (sic 085) because of  the high number of fatalities occurring in such operations (see niosh report,  page 27).
employees at these newly permitted work sites routinely use power-driven  equipment that process materials that may not be included in the current  definition of power-driven woodworking machines contained in ho 5, such as  trees, logs, and lumber.
the compactors and balers safety standards modernization act, public law 104-174 (compactor and baler act), was signed into law on august 6, 1996.
the niosh report did not mention the provisions of sec. 570.34(a)(8) because the report dealt exclusively with hos, which address work that is particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health and well-being of 16- and 17-year-old minors.
a traditional swimming pool, as used in this subpart, would mean a water-tight structure of concrete, masonry, or other approved materials located either indoors or outdoors, used for bathing or swimming and filled with a filtered and disinfected water supply, together with buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection therewith.
the clc  ``welcomed'' the expansion of the prohibitions of ho 12 to include balers and  compactors designed or used to process materials other than paper.
finally, the department appreciates the concerns of both the ywn and  clc that under the guise of ``artistic or creative endeavors'' some employers  have attempted to employ youth in unsafe or unsavory lines of work that, as the  commenters note, jeopardize the morals of the young workers.
* (e) an administrative determination of the  amount of the civil money penalty for a particular violation or particular  violations of section 12 or section 13(c) relating to child labor or any  regulation issued under those sections shall become final 15 days after receipt  of the notice of penalty by certified mail by the person so charged unless such  person has, pursuant to sec.
the ywn opposed this  proposal, stating ``[a]bsent any concrete information on injury data, and on  the specific size, make, or models under consideration as possible examples, we  disagree with this proposal at this time.''
the nprm notified the public that the department intended to update ho 12 to include the 2004 ansi standards for compactors and balers, and no comments were received as to whether the standards identified in the nprm were as protective of minors as the standards listed in the compactor and baler act.
the employment of youth under this section  must comply with the other sections of this subpart, including the hours and  time of day standards established by sec.
by applying each minor's actual school schedule, rather than arbitrarily applying the local public school schedule, job opportunities would be expanded for minors subject to child labor reg. 3 without adversely impacting the school work of such minors.''
however, the department appreciates  the afl-cio's recommendation that ``dol begin gathering the necessary data to  substantiate and justify the need for extension of this coverage for future  proposed regulations as quickly as possible.''
it is also important to note that all the prohibited occupations  detailed in sec. 570.33 (new) would be applicable to the employment of 14- and  15-year-olds, regardless of the industries in which they are employed.
fourteen- and 15-year-olds may conduct sales in such employer's exterior facilities, whether temporary or permanent, as garden centers, sidewalk sales, and parking lot sales, when they are employed by that establishment.
the department notes that the ywn's comment that the temperature reached by espresso makers ``exceeds the temperature limits [[page 28410]] established for prohibiting use of other equipment such as anything related to hot oil that exceeds a temperature of 100 degrees f'' does not comport with either the previous or revised provisions of reg. 3.
the department stated that, based on the comments it received, it would consider adding regulatory provisions to the final rule defining the terms school hours and school is in session as they apply to nonagricultural employment.
as the clc stated,  ``dol's osha experts are familiar with these hazards.''
as discussed earlier, similar clarifying language  was added to sec. 570.34(m)(2).
in addition, a school could apply and receive authorization under sec.
579.1, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: (a) section 16(e), added to the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended, by the fair labor standards amendments of 1974, and as further amended by the fair labor standards amendments of 1989, the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1990, the compactor and balers safety standards modernization act of 1996, and the genetic information nondiscrimination act of 2008, provides for the imposition of civil money
570.61 occupations in the operation of power-driven meat- processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering, meat and poultry packing, processing, or rendering (order 10).
such equipment is often used in  kitchens and by dietary aides at hospitals and nursing homes.
this includes such equipment as the two- or four- slice  ``pop-up'' toasters similar to those manufactured for home use and the  conveyor-type bread toaster now often found at self-service breakfast buffets.
the network provided information that its model is achieving its stated aims.
[[page 28411]] in 2000, the department was requested by a municipality (the city) to review certain aspects of the prohibitions against employing 14- and 15-year-olds to load onto and unload items from motor vehicles.
american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes  and recyclable materials--baling equipment-- safety requirements (ansi  z245.5-2008) for scrap paper balers or the american national standard  institute's standard ansi z245.2-1997 american national standard for equipment  technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--stationary  compactors--safety requirements (ansi z245.2-1997), the american national  standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-2004 american national standard for  equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable  materials--stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation,  maintenance and [[page 28457]] operation (ansi z245.2-2004), and the american  national standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-2008 american national  standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable  materials--stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation,  maintenance and operation (ansi z245.2-2008) for paper box compactors, which  the secretary has certified to be at least as protective of the safety of  minors as standard ansi z245.5-1990 for scrap paper balers or standard ansi  z245.2-1992 for paper box compactors.
a water amusement park means an establishment that not only  encompasses the features of a traditional swimming pool, but may also include  such additional attractions as wave pools; lazy rivers; specialized activities  areas such as baby pools, water falls, and sprinklers; and elevated water  slides.
but because many of the occupations and tasks addressed by the final rule either appear in more than one code or are not included in the codes listed in the report, the department did not use those codes in formulating the definitions used in the final rule.
the proposed definition included a statement that the term manlift shall also include truck- or equipment-mounted aerial platforms commonly referred to as scissor lifts, boom-type mobile elevating work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
this section shall not apply to the operation, including the setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling and cleaning, of lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, models intended for household use.
finally, they may work in timber  cruising, surveying, or logging engineering parties; in the repair or  maintenance of roads, railroads, or flumes; and in forest protection, such as  clearing fire trails or roads, piling and burning slash, maintaining  fire-fighting equipment, constructing and maintaining telephone lines, or  acting as fire lookouts or fire patrolman away from the actual logging  operations--but only if such tasks do not involve the felling or bucking of  timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, the operation of power-driven  machinery, the handling or use of explosives, and working on trestles.
(i) kitchen work and other work involved in preparing and serving food and beverages, including operating machines and devices used in performing such work.
the participants attend 8 hours of training, which follows the red cross's guard start program, and then volunteer at the pool as aides during swim lessons.
every youth shall receive, every school year he or she  participates in the work-study program, at least the minimum number of hours of  classroom instruction, as required by the state educational agency responsible  for establishing such standards, to complete a fully-accredited college  preparatory curriculum.
the department received nine comments on this proposal.
(v) other provisions.
the report also  recommends that the department retain the limited exemption contained in sec.
(2)  any person who repeatedly or willfully violates section 206 or 207 of the flsa,  relating to wages, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,100 for  each such violation.
f. occupations  involved in the operation of power-driven wood working machines (order 5) (29  cfr 570.55) ho 5 generally prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in  occupations involving the operating, setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling,  or cleaning of power-driven woodworking machines.
(b) occupations that the secretary of labor may, pursuant to section 3(l) of the fair labor standards act, find and declare to be hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being.
570.129 limited driving of automobiles and trucks by 17-year- olds.
as discussed previously in the sections dealing with hos 10, 12, and 14 of this preamble, the department proposed to take no action concerning the apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions to any of the hos at this time.
fifteen-year-olds employed as lifeguards are, however, prohibited from entering or working in any mechanical room or chemical storage areas, including any areas where the filtration and chlorinating systems are housed.
c. periods and conditions  of employment (29 cfr 570.35) flsa section 3(l) authorizes the secretary of  labor to provide by regulation for the employment of young workers 14 and 15  years of age in suitable nonagricultural occupations and during periods and  under conditions that will not interfere with their schooling or with their  health and well-being.
this same section  details the terms, conditions, and responsibilities participating states agree  to assume upon receiving authorization to operate a wecep.
the ywn assumed that the department's proposal would also ban the  employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to perform sign waving, ``including holding  or carrying of any type, posing or acting as a sign not directly in front of a  retail establishment, or where no direct supervision exists'' (emphasis in  original).
therefore, the  prohibitions of ho 11 include the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate  even the smallest of counter-top vertical mixers.
the afl-cio and the dolwd  supported this proposal as written.
the transportation of the persons or property does not have to be the primary reason for the trip for this exception to apply.
in addition, the hours standards provisions of sec.
circular  saws and band saws were already covered under ho 5 when used on wood, ho 10  when used on meat, and ho 12 when used on paper products.
the report contends that such manlifts appear  to pose more significant injury risk than those traditionally prohibited by ho  7 (see niosh report, page 36).
it would also include work on tree farms, except those tree farm establishments that meet the definition of agriculture contained in 29 u.s.c. 203(f).
wood chipper shall mean a machine equipped with a feed mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper disc or drum, and a power plant used to reduce to chips or shred such materials as tree branches, trunk segments, landscape waste, and other materials.
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc all  supported the proposed changes to prohibit the employment of young workers in  forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations.
requiring pre-employment certification or training  of youth was not envisioned by congress, especially for a population of young  workers whose formal education ends at such an early age.
570.35(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6).
the niosh report recommended that the department expand ho 7 to prohibit the repairing, servicing, and disassembling of the machines and assisting in tasks being performed by the machines named in the ho.
the exemption, contained in section 13(c)(7) of the flsa,  allows eligible youth, under specific conditions, to be employed inside and  outside of places of business that use machinery to process wood products, but  does not allow such youth to operate or assist in operating power-driven  woodworking machines.
the usla summarized  its comments by stating ``people under the age of 16 should not be permitted to  work as lifeguards at natural environments.''
for  further information contact: arthur m. kerschner, jr., division of enforcement  policy, branch of child labor and special employment enforcement, wage and hour  division, u.s. department of labor, room s- 3510, 200 constitution avenue, nw.,  washington, dc 20210; telephone: (202) 693-0072 (this is not a toll free  number).
the representative of white hat supported the creation  of a work- study program but suggested that charter schools of the type he  represents should not be subjected to the ``bureaucratic requirements'' imposed  by the work-study application process proposed by the department, ``which can  be prohibitive for some smaller schools and which serve to take needed  resources away from educational instruction and helping more students.''
the work of assisting in the operation of a crane, derrick, or hoist would be prohibited because such tasks fall within the scope of tending of equipment.
the school is located in a neighborhood where 20 percent of those attending the local public school drop out annually and the high school graduation rate of the local public school is 55 percent.
the term shall also include truck- or equipment- mounted aerial platforms commonly referred to as scissor lifts, boom- type mobile elevating work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
assisting the operator of the forklift.
l. 108- 199), which amended the flsa by creating  a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain minors 14  through 17 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance  beyond the eighth grade.
ho 14 also prohibits such minors from setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears.
penalties in the following manner: (1)(i) any person who violates the provisions of sections 212 or 213(c) of the flsa, relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed: (a) $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation; or (b) $50,000 with regard to each such violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which penalty may be doubled where the violation is a repeated or willful violation.
the comments submitted in response to the anprm may be reviewed at the federal erulemaking portal athttp://www.regulations.gov, docket identification number whd-2007-0001.
manlift shall mean a device intended for the  conveyance of persons that consists of platforms or brackets mounted on, or  attached to, an endless belt, cable, chain or similar method of suspension;  with such belt, cable or chain operating in a substantially vertical direction  and being supported by and driven through pulleys, sheaves or sprockets at the  top and bottom.
serious injury means: (1) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of  the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (2) permanent  loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or  mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or  other body part; or, (3) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that  causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body  part.
(iv) written participation agreement.
s245.5-1990, and that the new standard ansi z245.2-1997 is as protective  of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
the ywn stated that this proposal benefits one single program and makes the regulations unnecessarily complex.
under the network's model, four students  share a single, full-time clerical position with a private employer at a work  place screened and selected by the school.
the department received six comments on its enforcement position that defines the term school in session as applying to the normal hours of the public school system in the minor employee's district of residence.
570.34(b) (new) to permit the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to perform  work of a mental or artistically creative nature, such as computer programming,  the writing of software, teaching or performing as a tutor, serving as a peer  counselor or teacher's assistant, singing, playing a musical instrument, and  drawing.
the term wood chipper would mean a  machine equipped with a feed mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper  disc or drum, and a power plant used to reduce to chips or shred such materials  as tree branches, trunk segments, landscape waste, and other materials.
likewise, the department has consistently taken the position, starting as early as 1959, that ho 5 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines) prohibits these same minors from using chain saws to cut wood and wood products, including trees and branches.
the report also recommends,  alternatively, that the department consider developing a new ho that would  prohibit all sawing machinery that performs cutting and sawing functions  through direct contact of the cutting surface and the material being processed.
she also addressed the position of water slide dispatcher, stating ``we see no reason or evidence that this is a dangerous job that should be restricted.''
it also raises  concerns that the ``host employer'' might not be subject to the same  restrictions and requirements as any other employer who hires youth and that  students may be replacing a ``regular paid employee.''
both the ywn and clc supported this proposal.
part 579--child labor violations--civil money penalties 0 29.
the department has also long taken the position that ho 5 prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate wood chippers to grind tree limbs, branches, and trunks into chips, mulch, or debris.
the report, in  recognition of this gap in coverage, recommends that ho 12 be revised to  include such machines because ``balers and compactors used to process other  scrap materials such as plastic and aluminum cans pose similar risk of injury  from crushing or amputation'' (see niosh report, page 50).
congress could have chosen to include other  standards--earlier versions of those ansi standards the clc now suggests the  department should include in ho 12--but it did not.
(j) youth peddling, which entails the selling of goods or services to customers at locations other than the youth-employer's establishment, such as the customers' residences or places of business, or public places such as street corners and public transportation stations.
the cristo rey network, which  described itself as ``a non-profit corporation that co-ordinates twelve college  prep high schools across the country,'' self-identified itself as the network  that the department describes in the nprm.
the clc is correct in its interpretation that 14- and 15-year-olds are permitted under sec. 570.34(a)(4) (old) and sec. 570.34(g) (new) to perform errand and delivery work by foot, bicycle, and public transportation for their employers when their employers are not engaged in the business of providing messenger services to others.
as mentioned, certain provisions of sec.
the department decided not to address, in the nprm, the niosh report recommendation to remove the ho 4 exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds to work in the construction of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
the dolwd  recommended that the program should be expanded to include pre-apprenticeship  work training programs, and a representative of the new jersey department of  education (njdoe) recommended that ``determining the educational and  eligibility requirements for such programs be left to state education  agencies.''
this page text size e-mail
packing shakes into bundles when done in conjunction with splitting shakes manually with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover.
section 570.103(c) states that there are only four specific child labor exemptions contained in the flsa, and only one of them, concerning the delivery of newspapers to the consumer, applies to the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the act as well.
they stated that such employment  includes the potential for exposure to hazardous and toxic chemicals or to  bloodborne pathogens, particularly in medical and dental offices, hospitals and  nursing homes, and when youth accept employment with professional janitorial  services.
this same section also permits the assessment of a penalty not to exceed $50,000 with regard to each violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under 18 years of age.
such equipment is often used in kitchens and by dietary aides at hospitals and nursing homes.
as the report recommends that the limited exception contained in ho 12 for apprentices and student-learners be retained, the department's decision not to address that issue is in full agreement with that recommendation.
secretary means the secretary of labor,  u.s. department of labor, or an authorized representative of the secretary.
the department's review of these new standards, which included input from niosh, concluded that the 2008 ansi standards are also as protective as those cited in the compactor and baler act.
but the department believes that,  by continuing its past practice of carefully reviewing inquiries regarding  individual occupations or industries not currently addressed by reg. 3 and then  exercising its prosecutorial discretion and issuing enforcement positions that  may eventually lead to rulemaking--as evidenced by certain revisions contained  in this final rule--it has developed an efficient and effective mechanism which  overcomes the limitations of a definitive list.
reg. 3 limits the hours that 14- and 15-year-olds may work to: (1) outside  school hours; (2) not more than 40 hours in any 1 week when school is not in  session; (3) not more than 18 hours in any 1 week when school is in session;  (4) not more than 8 hours in any 1 day when school is not in session; (5) not  more than 3 hours in any 1 day when school is in session; and (6) between 7  a.m. and 7 p.m. in any 1 day, except during the summer (june 1 through labor  day) when the evening hour will be 9 p.m.
the department does not interpret the helper prohibition as applying  to 14- and 15-year-olds who simply ride inside a motor vehicle as passengers  and, thus, reg. 3 permits a 14- or 15-year-old, under certain circumstances, to  ride inside the enclosed passenger compartment of a motor vehicle operated by a  driver whose employment complies with the conditions specified in ho 2.
the department received four comments concerning the loading of personal hand tools onto motor vehicles at sec. 570.34(k) (new).
the department's  proposal to prohibit youth peddling was not limited to just the attempt to make  a sale or the actual consummation of a sale, but includes such activities  normally associated with and conducted as part of the individual youth  peddler's sales activities, such as the loading and unloading of vans or other  motor vehicles, the stocking and restocking of sales kits and trays, the  exchanging of cash and checks, and the transportation of minors to and from the  various sales areas by the employer.
570.34(b)(6) (old) and sec. 570.33(e)
the clc also supported this proposal with additional comments and recommendations.
the dol has slightly increased the total burden hour estimate from 1585 hours to 1586 to align the data with what appears in the general services administration, regulatory information service center and the omb, office of information and regulatory affairs combined information system (rocis) used to track the burdens imposed by federal government information collections.
in bringing the  regulations into conformity with the statutory amendments, the department is  not exercising any interpretative authority.
the blade perforated his anterior chest wall, right lung, heart, and aorta.
the department appreciates the concerns raised by the red cross that certified lifeguards may not have received the proper training, and therefore the proper certification, to give swimming instruction.
570.65 occupations involving the operation of circular saws, band saws,  guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive  cutting discs (order 14).
for example, the occupational safety and health act of 1970 directed the department of labor to adopt the then-existing ansi standards, rather than delay any activity until the agency promulgated particular occupational safety and health standards (see section 6(a) of the occupational safety and health act, 29 u.s.c. 655(a)).
the department appreciates the concerns of the ywn and clc regarding the use of certain power-driven pizza dough rollers, but again notes that its enforcement experience indicates that when employers properly apply all the provisions of the enforcement position--which have been included in the proposed limited exemption-- 16- and 17-year-olds can safely operate such equipment.
as used in this paragraph (m): inside or outside places of business shall mean the actual physical location of the establishment employing the youth, including the buildings and surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that establishment.
all occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage-stock mill shall mean all work performed in or about any such mill in connection with storing of logs and bolts; converting logs or bolts into sawn lumber, lathers, shingles, or cooperage stock; storing drying, and shipping lumber, laths, shingles, cooperage stock, or other products of such mills; and other work performed in connection with the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage-stock mill.
the term also includes battery- operated machines and tools, but  does not apply to machines or tools driven exclusively by human hand or foot  power.
however, it has cautioned readers about reaching conclusions and expecting revisions to the existing hos based solely on the information in the report.
accordingly, the department issued  an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, that sought  information from the public on this and other issues.
in early 2005, the department, after reviewing  additional information, extended this enforcement position to permit the  employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at all traditional swimming pools  regardless of who owns, operates or manages the establishments, and at those  facilities of water amusement parks that constitute traditional swimming pools.
as discussed previously, in order for an employer to avail itself of the limited exemption contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1) that permits 16- and 17-year-olds under certain conditions to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, the employer must determine that the equipment meets an appropriate ansi standard listed in ho 12.
however, it should be noted that the  exclusion of certain employers by section 3(d) \4\ of the act applies to the  child labor provisions as well as the wage and hours provisions.
the provisions contained in paragraph  (a)(8) of this section that prohibit youth between 16 and 18 years of age from  performing any work that entails entering the sawmill building do not apply to  the employment of a youth who is at least 14 years of age and less than 18  years of age and who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory  school attendance beyond the eighth grade, if: (i)
hazardous occupations order no. 12 generally prohibits minors under 18  years of age from working in occupations involving the operation of  paper-products machines.
(h) all baking and cooking activities except that cooking which is permitted by sec.
employment of certain youth inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.
all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the violation shall be taken into account in determining whether a violation was willful.
570.35 and not involving occupations prohibited  by sec. 570.33 or performed in areas or industries prohibited by sec. 570.33.
570.35, additional conditions that limit the periods during which 14- and 15-year-olds may be employed.
the department  stated that, based on the comments it received, it would consider adding  regulatory provisions to the final rule defining the terms school hours and  school is in session as they apply to nonagricultural employment.
the department has long  interpreted tending to include riding upon the power-driven equipment.
the term shall not include construction sites, portable  sawmills, areas where logging is being performed, or mining operations.
570.34 to identify permitted occupations.
the occupations of operation or assisting to operate any compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper.
the department  received eight comments on this proposal.
thus, the fact that a child's occupation involves the performance of work which is considered exempt from the child labor provisions will not relieve his employer from the requirements of section 12(c) or the producer, manufacturer, or dealer from the requirements of section 12(a) if, during the course of his employment, the child spends any part of his time doing work which is covered but not so exempt. 0 22.
transportation incidents were the most common fatal event  among forestry workers, accounting for 43 of the 82 deaths (see niosh report,  page 30).
the department of labor is revising the regulations to incorporate the 2008 amendment to section 16(e) of the fair labor standards act that substantially increased the maximum permissible civil money penalty an employer may be assessed for child labor violations that cause the death or serious injury of a young worker.
(8) employment of youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or  judicial order, are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth  grade, under specified conditions, in places of business that use power-driven  machinery to process wood products.
the department  also proposed to incorporate into ho 4 the provisions of the consolidated  appropriations act, 2004 (pub.
k.  occupations involved in the operation of circular saws, band saws, and  guillotine shears (order 14) (29 cfr 570.65) ho 14 generally prohibits the  employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in the occupations of operator or helper on  power-driven circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears, except those that  are properly guarded and equipped with devices for full automatic feeding and  ejection.
despite the department's consistent interpretation that 14- and 15- year-olds may not be employed as poultry catchers, employers still have questions concerning how the regulations address such work, and violations still occur.
the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or  cleaning circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating  saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs.
finally, the department proposed to take no action  concerning the niosh report recommendation concerning the apprenticeship and
the proposed definition included a statement that the term manlift  shall also include truck- or equipment-mounted aerial platforms commonly  referred to as scissor lifts, boom-type mobile elevating work platforms, work  assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
as mentioned, the  department proposed to revise this list of permitted occupations by clarifying  it, adding to it, and extending its application to all employment covered by  the flsa, except those employers engaged in mining or manufacturing, or any  industry or occupation prohibited by the proposed sec. 570.33.
the department has incorporated certain provisions of the genetic  information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) into 29 cfr parts 570 and 579  to implement the legislation, which revised the civil monetary penalties that  may be assessed under section 16(e) of the flsa.
accordingly, it cannot adopt the recommendation of the ywn at  this time.
recordkeeping requirements: the regulation requires a school system operating a wsp to keep a copy of the written participation agreement for each student enrolled in the wsp at the student's school.
the drive for teen  employment act, public law 105-334, was signed into law on october 31, 1998.
the term places of business where machinery is used to process wood products shall mean such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops.
employees at these newly permitted work sites routinely use power-driven equipment that process materials that may not be included in the current definition of power-driven woodworking machines contained in ho 5, such as trees, logs, and lumber.
this is  because sec. 570.33(a) (old and new) prohibits the employment of 14- and  15-year-olds in almost all occupations involving processing operations--which  the department has interpreted to include dry cleaning and laundering, the  treating and disposing of waste, the conducting of mass mailings, and the  painting of houses and automobiles.
the economic and social costs associated with the deaths and serious injuries of young workers are substantial.
the afl-cio supported the proposal and suggested that ``abrasive cutting discs'' be added to the list of prohibited equipment.
work in meat coolers and freezers (sec. 570.34(b)(7))
the department  also considered adopting niosh's recommendation that the employment of 16- and  17-year-olds be prohibited in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and  forestry services, but was concerned that such youth may be able to be safely  employed in certain facets or occupations within those industries.
(52.5 hours x $19.59 hourly rate x 1.4 fringe benefits factor.)
these standards are incorporated by reference as they exist on the date of the approval; if any changes are made in these standards which the secretary finds to be as protective of the safety of minors as the current standards, the secretary will publish a notice of the change of standards in the federal register.
from the child labor provisions contained in flsa sections 13(d), 13(c)(5), 13(c)(6), and 13(c)(7).
the clc also noted that the proposal would not prohibit an employer from replacing a permanent worker at an establishment participating in the work-study program with student-workers, as prohibited under the wecep provisions contained in sec.
since  that last revision of subpart g, congress in 1996 amended the flsa at section  16(e) so that any person who violates the provisions of section 12 or section  13(c)(5) relating to child labor, or any regulation issued under section 12 or  section 13(c)(5), shall be subject to a civil money penalty, currently not to  exceed $11,000, for each employee who was the subject of such a violation.
a representative of the pleasant hill recreation and park district (pleasant hill) of pleasant hill, california, expressed concern about how this proposal would affect youth who volunteer in her district's ``junior lifeguard program.''
purpose and  use: wsp application: under the regulations, a local school system shall file a  letter of application requesting the administrator of the wage and hour  division to approve a wsp that permits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds  under conditions that reg. 3 would otherwise prohibit.
the department, in the anprm published on april 17,  2007, requested public comment on the feasibility of one of those  recommendations regarding the creation of a new ho that would prohibit the  employment of youth in construction occupations.
the dolwd stated that ``[t]hese provisions would include that the vehicle shall not be running and must be properly secured with the wheels blocked during any loading and unloading operations.''
killing floor includes a  workroom, workplace where such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep,  lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are immobilized, shackled, or killed,  and the carcasses are dressed prior to chilling.
the department believes by adopting in reg. 3 the identical language contained in ho 2 (see sec. 570.52(b)), it not only provides a high degree of protection to young workers but also avoids potential confusion.
the youth does not operate or  assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines; (iii)
although the statute does not define the terms adult and relative, the department proposed that, for purpose of this exemption, a relative would include a parent (or person standing in place of a parent), a grandparent, an aunt, an uncle, and a sibling; and an adult would be someone who has reached his or her eighteenth birthday.
the ywn referred to comments of the us lifeguarding association and the clc referred to comments of the lifeguard standards association.
as previously mentioned, reg. 3  was revised to reflect the 1961 amendments to the flsa which extended the act's  coverage to include enterprises engaged in commerce or the production of goods  for commerce and thereby brought more working youth employed in retail, food  service, and gasoline service establishments within the protections of the act.
the department agrees with the recommendations of both the ywn and clc that the regulatory text be revised to specifically state that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed as sign-wavers, promoting particular products, services, or events, except when performing the sign waving activities directly in front of an establishment providing the product, service or event.
under the existing regulation, the term does not include  establishments that process only poultry, rabbits, or small game.
the  child labor provisions of the flsa permit 16- and 17- year-olds to work in the  nonagricultural sector without hours or time limitations, except in certain  occupations found and declared by the secretary to be particularly hazardous or  detrimental to the health or well-being of such workers.
the employment of youth under this  section must comply with the other sections of this subpart, including the  hours and time of day standards established by sec.
sec. 570.38 and 570.39, respectively.
the ywn also stated that work as a lifeguard may entail exposure to combative individuals, bloodborne pathogens, and chemicals.
the department believes additional information is needed before it can  determine whether 16- and 17-year-olds who operate hydraulic grease racks are  at risk and notes it requested public comment on this issue in 2007.
this exemption would not apply to tasks performed at locations other than inside or outside the place of business of the employer such as the delivery of items to customers or the installation of items at customers' establishments or residences.
operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking  machines shall mean the operating of such machines, including supervising or  controlling the operation of such machines, feeding material into such  machines, helping the operator feed material into such machines, unloading  materials from such machines, and helping the operator unload materials from  such machines.
currently, 14- and 15-year-olds are prohibited from riding on forklifts because  reg. 3 prohibits such youth from operating or tending hoisting apparatus and  any power-driven machines other than office equipment.
this enforcement position mirrors the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(1), which congress added in 1949, to clarify how these terms apply to the employment of youth in agricultural employment.
the most important of the child  labor provisions are contained in sections 12(a), 12(c), and 3(l) of the act.
signed at washington, dc, this 10th day of may, 2010.
cristo rey noted that the schools in the network provide an option for private education to children who are ``predominantly latino (63%) or african-american (25%) and who are all from economically-disadvantaged families; the average family income of these students is approximately $33,000--far too little to make private education an option absent the work-study program that the schools in the network have pioneered.''
(3) in determining the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the flsa, the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the person charged and the gravity of the violation shall be considered.
participating youths are assigned to assist an instructor, are never  left alone to teach a class, and also help during recreational swims ``by  checking in/out patrons bags/apparel/ belongings.''
the department decided not to  propose implementation of the report recommendation that would allow 16- and  17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers in retail,  wholesale and service industry establishments.
the clc believed that  the proposed approval process is not sufficiently transparent and recommended  that dol be required to publish a notice in the federal register detailing  every work-study program application and invite public comment during a  specified period of 30 or 60 days.
[[page 28442]] reciprocating saws constitute another example of such a machine.
* * (1) the killing and processing of rabbits  or small game in areas physically separated from the killing floor.
no  student shall be assigned to work in any occupation other than one permitted  under sec. 570.34.
expanding this definition thus clarifies that youth are prohibited from  operating or assisting in the operation of wood- processing machinery typically  found in the workplaces covered by the 2004 amendment.
the clc strongly urges dol not to permit children under 18 to do any of this work, much of which is already prohibited.''
already includes provisions that allow the whd [[page 28427]] to grant requests  for special variances from the occupation standards regarding prohibited work,  and that this should be expanded to grant variances from the reg. 3 hours  standards as well.
ho 10 provides a limited exemption that permits the employment of apprentices and student-learners under the conditions prescribed in sec. 570.50(b)
in 1998, the department provided funds to the national institute for  occupational safety and health (niosh) to conduct a comprehensive review of  scientific literature and available data in order to assess current workplace  hazards and the adequacy of the current child labor hos to address them.
reg. 3 identifies a number of occupations and activities that are  specifically prohibited for these minors without regard to the industry or the  type of business in which their employer is engaged (e.g., operating or tending  any power-driven machinery other than office machines, see sec. 570.33(b) (old)  and sec. 570.33(e)
no proposed rule will result directly from that information collection effort, however, the topics discussed in the anprm may be the subject of a future rulemaking.
(7)  peeling of fence posts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, or  similar products, when not done in conjunction with and at the same time and  place as other logging occupations declared hazardous by this section.
derrick shall mean a power-driven apparatus consisting of a  mast or equivalent members held at the top by guys or braces, with or without a  boom, for use with a hoisting mechanism or operating ropes.
the department did not request, nor does it possess, data regarding whether 16- and 17-year-olds can safely operate portable drills or sanders, or what requirements should be imposed to ensure their safe operation by young workers.
o. civil money penalties; 29 cfr part 579 section 16(e) of the flsa subjects any person who violates the child labor provisions of the act to civil money penalties.
the njdoe also stated that the department's proposal to limit participation in the work-study program ``conflicts with the federal no child left behind act, the federal carl d. perkins career and technical education act, the federal individuals with disabilities education act, and state laws and regulations, which require state education agencies and public schools to serve all students and provide all students with comprehensive career education, including opportunities to further explore careers in work-based learning activities.''
citing data from the census of fatal occupational injuries (cfoi), the report identified 82 fatalities of workers between 1992 and 1997 employed in the forestry industry as a whole, which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries and those providing related forest service activities such as cruising and estimating timber, reforestation, fire prevention and fire fighting, pest control, timber valuation, and the gathering of forest products.
flsa section 13(c)(1) states, in relevant part: ``the provisions of section 212 of this title relating to child labor shall not apply to any employee employed in agriculture outside of school hours for the school district where such employee is living while he is so employed, if such employee *
the report also did not consider  potential approaches for decreasing workplace injuries and fatalities that  provide an alternative to a complete ban on employment, such as safety  training, increased supervision, the use of effective personal protective  equipment, and strict adherence to recognized safe working practices.
these are the exemptions for employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to  the consumer and homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed  principally of evergreens.\3\ apart from these two exceptions, none of the  specific exemptions from the minimum wage and/or overtime pay requirements  applies to the child labor provisions.
section 570.129 discusses the relationship of the child labor provisions of the flsa to other laws.
(c) occupations that involve operating, tending, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing hoisting apparatus.
we do not say that there would be many such schools or home-schooling parents, but the mere fact that such outcomes could occur should be reason enough to cause dol to reject this approach.''
safety requirements for installation, maintenance and operation (ansi z245.5-2004), and the american national standard institute's
the  department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the  proposal as originally written with a conforming clarification in sec.
the department proposed to revise the  prohibitions of ho 14 to include chain saws, wood chippers, and reciprocating  saws.
b. occupations that are permitted for minors between 14 and 16 years of age (29 cfr 570.33-.34)
the term does not include larger vehicles such as  buses, tractor-trailers, and heavy- construction equipment--all of which would  generally be considered motor vehicles under reg. 3 and ho 2.
such youth would not be permitted to perform any of the core functions  of a lifeguard nor be employed in a situation where their employers could  reasonably expect them to rescue swimmers in danger of drowning.
ho 7, however, prohibits older youth only from operating high-lift trucks such as forklifts.
the department wishes to address concerns raised by the ywn by stating that it does not consider tattooing or body piercing performed by employees under the age of 16 years to be artistically creative endeavors under sec. 541.302(b).
it also expressed concerns that employers may have difficulty interpreting the ansi standards.
list of subjects in 29 cfr part 570 child labor, child labor occupations, employment, government, incorporation by reference, intergovernmental relations, investigations, labor, law enforcement, minimum age.
[[page 28405]] the 1996 and 1998 amendments and to update certain regulatory standards.
this exception does not apply to the setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling or cleaning of such pizza-dough rollers.
section 570.122 lists the four exemptions from the flsa child labor provisions that existed when subpart g was last revised.
the youth does not operate or assist in the operation of  power-driven woodworking machines; (iii)
the occupations of operator of or  helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines: (i) chain  saws.
the department noted in its 2007 nprm  that it did not interpret the reg. 3 helper prohibitions as applying to 14- and  15-year-olds who ride inside the enclosed passenger compartment of a motor  vehicle when driven by a driver whose employment complies with ho 2 under  specified conditions (see 72 fr 19343).
the report observes that not all machines that perform cutting and sawing  functions fit into ho 14's definitions of circular saw, band saw, or guillotine  shears; for example, abrasive cutting disks do not have visible notches or  teeth, but they perform the same function.
after  carefully reviewing the comments, the department has decided to adopt the  proposal as written.
the occupations of operation or assisting to operate any baler that is designed or used to process materials other than paper.
agency has the meaning given it by 5 u.s.c. 551.
finally, the department proposed to restructure the  definitions section contained at sec.
a  representative of an educational management company called white hat  management, llc (white hat) recommended that the flsa's blanket prohibition  against 14- and 15-year-old being employed in manufacturing occupations should  be relaxed, stating that ``in today's day and age when so many manufacturing  jobs are automated and operated by computers or buttons, that a blanket  prohibition for manufacturing employment hardly seems appropriate.''
participating employers are also required to sign  an agreement defining job duties and expectations.
person includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business  trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
however, the department believes that by continuing the long-standing reg. 3 tradition of publishing lists of those occupations and industries in which such youth may be employed as well as detailed examples of those industries and occupations in which the employment of such youth is prohibited, it can greatly enhance the public's understanding of these important provisions.
the  department received four comments on this proposal.
570.61, old and new).
however, as the report implies, the use of chain saws by 16- and 17-year-olds would not be prohibited when cutting other materials such as metal, concrete, stone, and ice.
fourteen-  and 15-year-olds may conduct sales in such employer's exterior facilities,  whether temporary or permanent, as garden centers, sidewalk sales, and parking  lot sales, when they are employed by that establishment.
(l) catching and cooping of poultry in preparation for transport or for market.
many of the comments concerned a single issue or a cluster of issues impacting a single industry, but two comments were quite extensive and addressed almost every proposal raised by the nprm.
* * sec. 570.118 sixteen-year minimum.
in addition,  pursuant to the president's commitment to openness and transparency,\1\ the  department intends to publish the list of schools authorized to operate a  work-study program on the whd web site.
section 3(l) of the act, which defines the term ``oppressive child  labor,'' is set forth in sec.
section 570.65(b)(6) defines the term guillotine shear to  mean a machine equipped with a moveable blade operated vertically and used to  shear materials.
the report, which makes 35 recommendations concerning the existing nonagricultural hos and recommends the creation of 17 new hos, also incorporated the comments niosh submitted in response to the 1999 nprm.
570.35, this section shall be controlling.
the final rule will  also revise those provisions of 29 cfr part 579 relevant to civil monetary  penalties in order to incorporate the provisions of this recent statutory  amendment into the regulations.
citing data from  the census of fatal occupational injuries (cfoi), the report identified 82  fatalities of workers between 1992 and 1997 employed in the forestry industry  as a whole, which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of  timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries and those providing related forest  service activities such as cruising and estimating timber, reforestation, fire  prevention and fire fighting, pest control, timber valuation, and the gathering  of forest products.
as proposed, the revised sec. 570.33 detailed certain specific occupations prohibited for 14- and 15-year-olds.
the flsa would require that students participating in the work-study program, if covered by the act and not exempt from the minimum wage requirements of section 6, receive the applicable minimum wage for all hours worked.
a copy of the written agreement  for each student participating in the work-study program shall be kept by both  the employer and the school supervising and administering the program for a  period of three years from the date of the student's enrollment in the program.
the department believes that the  standards established by osha to address such potential exposures, which are  continually under agency review, provide vigorous protections to all workers.
the world waterpark association (wwa) supported  the proposal to permit the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at  traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks, but opposed that portion  of the proposal that would prohibit such youth from working as dispatchers or  attendants at the top of elevated water slides.
the department recognizes the importance of these posting requirements in the administration of section 13(c)(5) and addressed this issue in detail in the preamble to the final rule published in the federal register on december 16, 2004 (69 fr 75382).
the compactor and baler act was enacted on august  6, 1996 (pub.
when such an exception is filed with the  office making the assessment, the matter is referred to the chief  administrative law judge, and a formal hearing is scheduled.
broilers, automatic broiler systems, high speed ovens, and rapid toaster  machines used at both quick service and full- service restaurants to toast such  items as buns, bagels, sandwiches, and muffins--all of which operate at high  temperatures, often in excess of 500 [deg]f--are not toasters under sec.
in addition, the pilot program reduced  the number of jobs being occupied by student participants by requiring that  four students share a single full-time position.
(f) the operation of  motor vehicles; the service as helpers on such vehicles except those tasks  permitted by sec. 570.34(k); and the riding on a motor vehicle, inside or  outside of an enclosed passenger compartment, except as permitted by sec.
retail/wholesale or service  establishments include establishments where meat or meat products, including  poultry, are processed or handled, such as butcher shops, grocery stores,  restaurants and quick service food establishments, hotels, delicatessens, and  meat locker (freezer-locker) companies, and establishments where any food  product is prepared or processed for serving to customers using machines  prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
the national automobile dealers association (nada) took  ``strong exception to this `clarification' '' (emphasis in original).
finally, the clc disapproved of the department's decision to  not revisit the limited exemption currently contained in ho 12 for  student-learners and apprentices.
before 1995, the process for promulgating and amending hos included public hearings and advice from committees composed of representatives of employers and employees of the impacted industry and the public, in accordance with the procedures established by subpart d of this part.
the new information collection,  recordkeeping, and reporting requirements subject to the pra being imposed with  the enactment of the new work-study program are discussed above.
water amusement park means an establishment that not only encompasses the features of a traditional swimming pool, but may also include such additional attractions as wave pools; lazy rivers; specialized activities areas such as baby pools, water falls, and sprinklers; and elevated water slides.
the employment of 15-year-olds (but not 14-year- olds) to perform permitted  lifeguard duties at traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks  (including such water park facilities as wave pools, lazy rivers, specialized  activity areas that may include water falls and sprinkler areas, and baby  pools; but not including the elevated areas of power-driven water slides) when  such youth have been trained and certified by the american red cross, or a  similar certifying organization, in aquatics and water safety.
in sec. 570.61, the section heading and paragraphs (a)(4), (a)(7), (b), and (c)(1) are revised to read as follows: sec.
these changes were necessitated by the other revisions made in subpart g. typographical and grammatical errors in the proposed regulatory text were also corrected.
the  department's experience with the pilot work-study program indicates that most  of the jobs occupied by the students were entry-level positions created  especially for the work-study program.
her facility has ``cashiers who are not lifeguard certified, but who help maintain order/cleanliness in the pool area (deck, locker rooms, crowd control during emergency, etc.).
570.37 (previously proposed as sec. 570.35b) of this rule to the omb for approval, and omb approved them under omb control number 1215-0208.
the ywn also stated that the proposal  should prohibit youth employed in artistic endeavors from performing work that  would expose them to carcinogenic, toxic, or hazardous substances, or to high  heat.
accordingly, even if 15-year-old minors have been certified as lifeguards, the provisions of sec.
(old) and  will continue to be permitted by sec. 570.34(i)
the department has carefully considered all the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal as written, with two modifications.
this over-riding of an important safety device required by each of the ansi standards was done to speed up the loading process.
gina also permits a doubling of the civil money penalty up to $100,000 when such violations are determined to be willful or repeated.
the clc correctly stated that another of the department's regulations, 29 cfr 541.302(b), advises this term includes such fields as music, writing, acting, and the graphic arts.
band saw shall mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band having a continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys, and used for sawing materials.
\4\ section 3(d) defines `employer' as including ``any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee and includes a public agency, but does not include any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer) or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization.''
the department now  concurs that employment at such camps, which are purposely located considerable  distances from forest fires, when in compliance with all other hazardous  occupations orders, is not particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health  or well-being of 16- and 17-year-olds.
the term shall include  all types of cranes, such as cantilever gantry, crawler, gantry, hammerhead,  ingot pouring, jib, locomotive, motor-truck, overhead traveling, pillar jib,  pintle, portal, semi-gantry, semi-portal, storage bridge, tower, walking jib,  and wall cranes.
accordingly, adoption of the recommendations of the ywn and afl-cio that ho 7 also prohibit the operation of such equipment would be premature.
this act, among other things, amends section 16(e) of the fair labor standards act by increasing the maximum permissible civil money penalty an employer may be assessed for child labor violations that cause the death or serious injury of a young worker.
the report recommends that ho 11 be relaxed to allow the operation of counter-top models of power-driven bakery machines, comparable to those intended for household use.
compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper means a powered machine that remains stationary during operation, designed or used to compact refuse other than paper or cardboard boxes into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
(4) exceptions from certain of the hours  standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(5) of this section are  provided for the employment of minors who are participating in a work-study  program designed as described in sec.
such light tools would not include items like trash, sales kits, promotion items or items for sale, lawn mowers, or other power-driven lawn maintenance equipment.
moreover, this rule does not change the limitations on the number of hours per day or per week that 14- and 15-year-olds may work when school is not in session.
these changes were  necessitated by the other revisions made in subpart g. typographical and  grammatical errors in the proposed regulatory text were also corrected.
the afl-cio and the clc recommended that all-terrain vehicles (atvs) be added to the list of prohibited machinery because, as the clc reported ``the serious hazards of operating atvs have been extensively documented.''
(7) peeling of fence posts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, or similar products, when not done in conjunction with and at the same time and place as other logging occupations declared hazardous by this section.
the department received three comments on  this proposal.
these accommodations ensure that  students complete a fully accredited, college preparatory curriculum that  exceeds both state and accrediting agency requirements.
pursuant to this authority, the secretary has detailed in sec.
hoist shall mean a  power-driven apparatus for raising or lowering a load by the application of a  pulling force that does not include a car or platform running in guides.
the permitted blenders are identical to models used in  private homes, generally do not operate at more than 600 watts, and have jar  capacities that do not exceed 8 cups (64 ounces).
for example, the section of reg. 3 that prohibits 14- and 15-year-olds  from employment in occupations in connection with warehousing and storage would  be cited as sec. 570.33(f)(2)(old) or sec. 570.33(n)(2)(new).
each committee convened thereafter to study, draft, and implement a new ho developed its own criteria for determining the appropriateness of including apprentice and student- learner exemptions and was not restricted by the determinations made by previous committees.
the department also proposed to revise reg. 3 at sec. 570.34(o) (new) to  permit 14- and 15-year-olds to ride in the enclosed passenger compartments of  motor vehicles, except when a significant reason for the minors being  passengers in the vehicle is for the purpose of performing work in connection  with the transporting--or assisting in the transporting--of other persons or  property.
it felt that the proposal was  so narrowly tailored to one specific program that it could easily bar other  school systems ``that have similar, but not identical, approaches'' from taking  advantage of the program.
section 3(l) of the act, which defines the term ``oppressive child labor,'' is set forth in sec.
sec. 570.33(f) and (k) and  570.34(k) to incorporate the enforcement position that allows 14- and  15-year-olds to be employed to load onto and unload from motor vehicles the  light non-power-driven personal hand tools they use as part of their employment  and to make it available to all covered employers, not just state and local  governments.
(n) occupations in connection with: (1) transportation of  persons or property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means; (2)  warehousing and storage; (3) communications and public utilities; (4)  construction (including demolition and repair); except such office work  (including ticket office) or sales work in connection with paragraphs (n)(1),  (2), (3), and (4) of this section, as does not involve the performance of any  duties on trains, motor vehicles, aircraft, vessels, or other media of  transportation or at the actual site of construction operations.
(ho 4), and sec. 570.55 (ho 5).
cristo rey stated ``[m]eeting those objectives can be quantified in cristo rey's 97+% attendance rate and/ or in its graduates' own achievements: i.e., of 219 graduates in 2006, 212 were accepted into colleges including schools such as the university of california at berkley, the university of illinois, the university of notre dame, the university of chicago, and wellesley college; and the success continues: of 318 graduates in 2007, 313 will attend college this fall.''
the final  rule also provides that 16- and 17-year-olds may perform such fire prevention  tasks as the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance,  and patrolling of fire lines; the maintaining of fire fighting equipment;
person includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
the agreement shall  also be signed or otherwise consented to by the student's parent or guardian.
the representative of morey's pier believed that each minor should be treated individually and that his or her own academic schedule and attendance requirements should be used when determining when school was in session for the minor.
sec. 570.36 and 570.37  [redesignated as sec.
chain saw shall mean a machine that has teeth linked together to form an endless chain used for cutting materials.
each school participating in a work- study program shall designate a teacher-coordinator under whose supervision the program will operate.
civil penalties collected  for violations of section 212 shall be deposited in the general fund of the  treasury.
the ansi standards for scrap paper balers and paper box compactors govern the manufacture and modification of the equipment, the operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee training.
the exception in sec.
for information on  the availability of this material at nara, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/  code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
the door-to-door sales industry employing these  minors generally is composed of a number of crew leaders who, during the course  of a year, operate in many different states.
the clc stated that it is not clear whether such sign waving activities would be prohibited under the department's proposal.
the program was, and continues to be, specifically geared to helping dropout-prone youth become reoriented and motivated toward education and to prepare for the world of work.
the exemption also requires that the youth be supervised by an adult relative or by an adult member of the same religious sect as the youth.
it also prohibits the  occupations of off-bearing from circular saws and from guillotine-action veneer  clippers.
no comments were received regarding the information paperwork  burden estimates.
the department's enforcement experience confirms that employers have many ways of ensuring that, should they wish to take advantage of the limited exception contained in flsa section 13(c)(5), their balers and compactors comply with the appropriate ansi standard.
these standards are incorporated by reference as they exist on the date  of the approval; if any changes are made in these standards which the secretary  finds to be as protective of the safety of minors as the current standards, the  secretary will publish a notice of the change of standards in the federal  register.
in  addition, the teacher-coordinator, the employer and the student would be  required to sign a written participation agreement that details the objectives  of the work-study program, describes the specific job duties to be performed by  the student, and the number of hours and times of day that the student would be  employed each week.
the report notes that in 1997 there were an estimated  13,646 occupational injuries and illnesses resulting in days away from work  among employees in the meat products manufacturing industry.
portable sawmill shall mean a sawmilling operation where no office or repair or maintenance shop is ordinarily maintained, and any lumberyard operated in conjunction with the sawmill is used only for the temporary storage of green lumber.
at least 17 states have rules prohibiting or regulating door-to-door sales by minors.
the department also proposed to revise the definition of high-lift truck to incorporate a long-standing enforcement position that industrial trucks such as skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, and bobcat loaders are high-lift trucks as defined by ho 7.
whd, osha, and niosh then work together to ensure that the appropriate rules are followed and enforced and to learn from each event in the hopes that future tragedies can be prevented.
such 14-year-old employees could not be employed as lifeguards or swim instructors, but could perform such tasks as maintaining the cleanliness of the pool area and locker rooms, signing in and signing out patrons, and checking in and out such items as towels, watches, and apparel.
reg. 3 was promulgated in 1939 under the direction of the chief of the children's bureau, in whom congress vested the original delegation of authority to issue child labor regulations.
the department's enforcement experience indicates that when employers properly apply this limited enforcement position, 16- and 17-year-olds can safely operate pizza-dough rollers.
this same section also permits the assessment of a penalty  not to exceed $50,000 with regard to each violation that causes the death or  serious injury of any employee under 18 years of age.
the regulations concerning nonagricultural  hazardous occupations are contained in subpart e of 29 cfr part 570 (29 cfr  570.50-.68).
the department has decided not to  incorporate into reg. 3 its long- standing enforcement position that a calendar  week--12:01 a.m. sunday through midnight saturday--shall be the framework for  determining if a 14- or 15-year-old has been employed more than 18 hours in any  week when school is in session or more than 40 hours in any week when school is  not is session.
all three commenters provided rationales for adopting this niosh recommendation, which included examples of tasks and exposures commonly associated with such industries that they consider to be hazardous.
sec. 570.36 and 570.37 [redesignated as sec.
in addition, pursuant to the president's commitment to openness and transparency,\1\ the department intends to publish the list of schools authorized to operate a work-study program on the whd web site.
the  department received nine comments on this proposal.
the telephone number for the occupational safety and health administration's docket office is (202) 693-2350 and its web site is located athttp://dockets.osha.gov.
in an attempt to acquire  additional data needed to address the remaining nonagricultural niosh  recommendations and to pursue certain other issues not explored in the niosh  report, the department also published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking  (anprm) concurrently with the 2007 nprm (see 72 fr 19328).
subpart e--occupations particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being 0 7.
570.122 by creating new subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), which will list the exemptions from the child labor provisions contained in flsa sections 13(d), 13(c)(5), 13(c)(6), and 13(c)(7), respectively.
the department has decided to adopt the above proposals as written, with three  exceptions.
finally, as noted above, reg. 3 limits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to periods that are outside of school hours and to designated hours depending upon whether or not school is in session.
these four commenters also supported the department's proposal regarding the cleaning of such equipment.
however, the department believes that by  continuing the long-standing reg. 3 tradition of publishing lists of those  occupations and industries in which such youth may be employed as well as  detailed examples of those industries and occupations in which the employment  of such youth is prohibited, it can greatly enhance the public's understanding  of these important provisions.
band saws were also  covered under ho 11 when used to cut sheet cakes to desired sizes and shapes.
finally, the report recommends that the apprenticeship and student- learner exemption contained in ho 10 be restricted to apply only to 16- and 17-year-olds employed in retail, wholesale, and service industries.
the department's review of standard ansi z245.2-2004 has found it to be as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2- 1992, and the department's review of standard ansi z245.5-2004 has found it be as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.5-1990.
section 570.118  notes that the flsa sets a minimum age of 16 years for employment in  manufacturing or mining, but does not take into account the effects of the 2004  enactment of flsa section 13(c)(7).
congress twice amended the child labor provisions of the flsa in the 1990s.
the  department then multiplied this rate, which includes fringe benefits, by 52.5  hours.
the department has decided not to adopt the council's recommendation to revise  reg. 3 to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to operate table top food processors and  food mixers as no such proposal was contemplated by the nprm and no data has  been received that demonstrates that 14- and 15-year-olds can safely operate  such equipment.
by applying each minor's actual school schedule, rather  than arbitrarily applying the local public school schedule, job opportunities  would be expanded for minors subject to child labor reg. 3 without adversely  impacting the school work of such minors.''
a detailed discussion of the department's review was included in the notice of proposed rulemaking published in the federal register on april 17, 2007 (see 72 fr 19339).
summer school sessions, held in addition to the regularly scheduled school year, are considered to be outside of school hours.
the department appreciates the  concerns raised by the ywn, the afl-cio, and the clc regarding the scope of the  term youth-employer's establishment.
lifeguards may also help to maintain order and cleanliness in the pool and pool areas, give swimming instructions (if, in addition to being certified as a lifeguard, the 15-year-old is also properly certified as a swimming instructor by the american red cross or some other recognized certifying organization), conduct or officiate at swimming meets, and administer first aid.
the term shall also include the following tasks  when performed in conjunction with, or in support of, efforts to extinguish a  forest fire: the piling and burning of slash; the clearing of fire trails or  roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a  fire lookout or fire patrolman; and the maintaining of fire fighting equipment.
the compactor and baler act also provides that any new standard(s) adopted by ansi would also be sufficient for the safety of the scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, if the secretary of labor certifies the new standard(s) to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as the two standards specified in the act.
after reviewing the list of permitted lifeguard duties presented in sec.
in addition, although this rule impacts the child labor provisions of the flsa and the employment of adolescents and young adults, it does not impact the environmental health or safety risks of children.
these prohibitions would prevent a 14- or 15-year-old from working in a factory or workroom as a ``molder'' or ``hand painter'' producing mass quantities of nearly identical pottery or ceramic items, but when coupled with this final rule, they would permit the youth to express his or her artistic talents to shape by hand a unique clay pot or sculpt a piece of art.
the council stated ``[t]he niosh recommendation appears  well-supported'' while the fmi believed the department's position to be  ``surprising as the niosh recommendations are based on the hard data and  analysis that dol asked niosh to provide.''
in addition, sec. 570.33(a)  (old and new) provides additional protections as it prevents the employment of  such youth in work places where goods are manufactured, mined, or otherwise  processed.
based upon the success of the above  enforcement position, the department, in the april 17, 2007 nprm, proposed to  revise and reorganize sec.
clc stated ``dol's osha experts are  familiar with these hazards.''
570.61(a)(7), which  for many years has prohibited 16- and 17-year-olds from handlifting or  handcarrying any carcass or half carcass of beef, pork or horse, to include  carcasses or half carcasses of buffalo and deer.
the  representative of white hat recommended that participants in programs similar  to those of the charter schools he advises should be permitted to work up to  five hours on a school day.
[wais.access.gpo.gov] [docid:fr20my10-11]
the clc also expressed concerns that singing and the playing of musical instruments are often in demand ``in bars, lounges, cabarets, and other places that 14- and 15-year-olds might best avoid.
it also ensures that the  consistent application of these terms for both agricultural and nonagricultural  employment will continue, thereby avoiding confusion among those employers who  offer both agricultural and nonagricultural employment to young workers.
finally, the department notes that the clc takes exception to the department not taking any action on the niosh report recommendation regarding the limited exemption contained in ho 12 for student-learners and apprentices.
the department also proposed, for the sake of brevity and  clarity, not to repeat the list of individual hos as they are already listed in  subpart e of 29 cfr part 570.
sections 570.31 through 570.35  are revised to read as follows:
570.34  occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the department has decided to revise the title of ho 12 to reflect that, under the final rule, it will prohibit occupations involved in the operation of all balers and compactors, including those that do not process any paper products.
the ywn, afl-cio, and clc supported all elements of the  proposal, with additional recommendations.
in addition, the department has updated references made in sec.
web site athttp:/ /www.youthrules.dol.gov/resources.htm.
the department wishes to emphasize that this proposal creates a new, limited, work-study program designed to accommodate the needs of a narrowly defined population--14- and 15-year-old students enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum at a public or private school that has been granted authority to operate such a program by the department.
in addition, this enforcement  position applies only to the operation of the machine.
the department also believes that continuation of this enforcement  position is appropriate as it does not provide any minor or class of minors  with an incentive to leave public school or with an unfair and improper  advantage over public school youth when competing for employment.
the department appreciates the time and  effort all of these commenters devoted to their submissions.
such light tools would not include items like trash, sales  kits, promotion items or items for sale, lawn mowers, or other power-driven  lawn maintenance equipment.
the ywn suggested that the department replace the word mental with intellectual, so that the phrase in the subsection would read ``work of an intellectual or artistically creative nature.''
the proposed revision would be accomplished by adding new subsections to sec.
rendering plants means establishments engaged in the conversion of dead animals, animal offal, animal fats, scrap meats, blood, and bones into stock feeds, tallow, inedible greases, fertilizer ingredients, and similar products.
many of the comments concerned a single issue or a cluster  of issues impacting a single industry, but two comments were quite extensive  and addressed almost every proposal raised by the nprm.
570.111, footnote 21 is revised to read  ``however, section 12(a) contains a provision relieving innocent purchasers  from liability thereunder provided certain conditions are met.
such supervision must be close, direct, constant and uninterrupted.
both the ywn and the clc disagreed with the  department's decision not to implement at this time the niosh report  recommendation to limit the student-learner and apprentice exemption contained  in ho 10 to retail, wholesale, and service industries.
the nrpa also supported establishing a minimum age of 16 for the employment of lifeguards at natural environments.
the department recognizes the importance of these posting requirements in the  administration of section 13(c)(5) and addressed this issue in detail in the  preamble to the final rule published in the federal register on december 16,  2004 (69 fr 75382).
cristo rey noted that  the schools in the network provide an option for private education to children  who are ``predominantly latino (63%) or african-american (25%) and who are all  from economically-disadvantaged families; the average family income of these  students is approximately $33,000--far too little to make private education an  option absent the work-study program that the schools in the network have  pioneered.''
(a) finding and declarations of fact.
the youth is required to use, and uses, personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
accordingly, the department has added the following sentence at the end of sec.
she  questioned whether such employees, who are not employed as lifeguards, must be  at least 16 years of age or be 15 years of age with proper lifeguard  certification.
the concerns of the state directors and the njdoe are unfounded.
the department also proposed to revise sec.
the term inside or outside places of business refers to the distinct physical place of the business, i.e., the buildings and the immediate grounds necessary for the operation of the business.
when the department conducts an investigation of a work-study program participating employer, it will follow its normal investigation procedures to determine if the employer complied with child labor requirements.
the department will also clarify in sec.
the department has revised the regulatory language proposed in the nprm for ho 4 at sec. 570.54(a) to make it clear that the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to perform most jobs in timber tract, forestry service, and tree farm operations are prohibited.
the administrator of the wage and hour division shall approve the application, or give prompt notice of any denial and the reasons therefor.
[[page 28417]] such youngsters' moral health, even if not on their physical health and safety.''
whd, osha, and niosh have, for many  years, shared information among themselves concerning occupational injuries  that have contributed to the deaths of young workers as soon as one of the  parties learned of the death.
the cristo rey network was most  supportive of the proposal and noted that its work-study program meets the  statutory objective of permitting youth employment only ``during periods and  under conditions that will not interfere with their schooling or health and  well being'' as required by flsa section 3(l).
the department also proposed to revise the title of  ho 10 to reflect its expansion to the slaughtering of poultry, and the  processing, packing, and rendering of poultry and poultry products.
570.142, respectively.
the department has incorporated certain provisions of the genetic information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) into 29 cfr parts 570 and 579 to implement the legislation, which revised the civil monetary penalties that may be assessed under section 16(e) of the flsa.
(8) the  following additional exceptions apply to the operation of a permanent sawmill  or the operation of any lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill, but  not to a portable sawmill.
the calendar week would continue to serve as the timeframe for determining whether a minor worked in excess of 18 hours during any week when school was in session or in excess of 40 hours in any week when school was not in session.
the representative of white hat supported the creation of a work- study program but suggested that charter schools of the type he represents should not be subjected to the ``bureaucratic requirements'' imposed by the work-study application process proposed by the department, ``which can be prohibitive for some smaller schools and which serve to take needed resources away from educational instruction and helping more students.''
therefore, this rule is not ``economically significant'' and no  regulatory impact analysis has been prepared.
both the report and the  department's enforcement experience reflect that meat slicers are responsible  for many occupational injuries.
the application shall be filed at least sixty days before the start of the school year and must include information concerning the criteria listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
sec. 570.34(m) and 570.54(c): (i) straightening, marking, or tallying lumber on the dry chain or the dry drop sorter.
we do not say that there would be many such  schools or home-schooling parents, but the mere fact that such outcomes could  occur should be reason enough to cause dol to reject this approach.''
each youth works five full days per  four-week period for the employer at the work place--one eight-hour day once a  week for three weeks, and two eight-hour days every fourth week.
the occasional processing of  paper or a cardboard box by a machine designed to process other materials would  not bring the loading of such machines within the limited exemption provided by  section 13(c)(5).
only the  mandatory provisions (i.e., provisions containing the word ``shall'' or other  mandatory language) of these standards are adopted as standards under this  part.
570.61(a)(4) to incorporate its interpretation that the prohibition against 16- and 17- year-olds cleaning power-driven meat processing machines extends to washing the machine's parts and attachments, even if the machine is disassembled and reassembled by an adult.
the term shall not include the gathering of forest products such as balsam needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss, spanish moss, sphagnum moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of gum, turpentine, and rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of pine gum.
570.35 certain long-standing departmental enforcement positions regarding the application of the hours standards.
the department's replacing of that word with ``operation'' reflects the current usage of the word.
the department appreciates the comments of the afl-cio and the clc concerning the omission of abrasive cutting discs from the list of prohibited equipment contained in ho 14.
environmental impact  assessment a review of this rule in accordance with the requirements of the  national environmental policy act of 1969 (nepa), 42 u.s.c. 4321 et seq.; the  regulations of the council on environmental quality, 40 cfr 1500 et seq.; and  the departmental nepa procedures, 29 cfr part 11, indicates that the rule will  not have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment.
such minors would be exempt from  the ``when school is in session'' hours standards limitations contained in sec.
as stated in the final rule, whd will continue to rely on osha's expertise for guidance when applying the specific occupational health and safety-affecting requirements of flsa section 13(c)(7) (see sec.
this revised definition of power-driven woodworking machines would be included in sec. 570.34(m) of reg. 3 and both sec.
the report's rationale for this recommendation is that available data suggest that there were no fatalities involving such counter-top power-driven machines, and nonfatal injuries requiring time away from work are of moderate severity (see niosh report, page 48).
each minor riding as a passenger in a motor vehicle must have his or her own seat in the passenger compartment; each seat must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device; and the employer must instruct the minors that such belts or other devices must be used.
in addition, the report recommends that the department  continue to emphasize enforcement of portions of the compactor and baler act  requiring that balers and compactors conform to construction and operations  standards that greatly reduce exposure to hazardous energy.
this revision would be accomplished by revising sec. 570.65(a)(2) to prohibit the employment of minors in the occupations of operator of or helper on power-driven chain saws, wood chippers, and reciprocating saws, whether the machines are fixed or portable.
the youth is supervised by an adult relative or by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth; (ii)
in order  to prevent confusion when providing citations in this discussion, the  department will provide, when appropriate, both the current citation (the  citation prior to the effective date of this final rule) and the new citation  (the citation that will apply on and after the effective date of this final  rule).
finally, in 2004, the department investigated the death of a 17-year-old worker who was employed to operate a reciprocating saw to salvage automobile catalytic converters for recycling.
lack of experience in the work place and in assessing risks, and developmental factors--physical, cognitive, and psychological--all contribute to the higher rates of occupational injuries and deaths experienced by young workers.
in some cases, this may result in a diminution of the risk by including less risky operations and industries in the employment estimates.
the authority citation for subpart g continues to read as follows:
for information on the availability of this material at  nara, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_  of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
the ywn and the afl-cio recommended that 14- and 15-year-olds also be  prohibited from using espresso makers because, as the ywn reported, these  machines involve a potential for serious burns.
employment that is not specifically  permitted is prohibited.
in addition, the  department's interpretation of prohibited helper services under sec.
the department proposed to revise sec.
570.34(l)(2) where the term traditional swimming pool is  defined.
copies of these standards are available for purchase from the american national standards institute (ansi), 25 west 43rd st., fourth floor, new york, ny 10036.
the clc also expressed  concerns that the cristo rey network has been operating a work-study program  for almost a decade and questioned how much of each youth's pay check goes to  cristo rey and how much, if any, goes to the youth.
as used in this part and part 580 of this chapter:
a. occupations that are prohibited for the employment of minors between the ages of 14 and 16
expressly authorizes the performance of certain activities by 14- and 15-year-olds in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments, while sec. 570.34(b) details those activities that 14- and 15-year-olds are expressly prohibited from performing in such establishments.
the department appreciates the concerns of the fmi and the council, but must reiterate that the number and severity of occupational injuries suffered by youth who operate or clean power-driven meat slicers do not justify allowing youth to operate or clean such equipment.
operations not considered as off-bearing within the intent of this section include: (i) the removal of material or refuse from a circular saw or guillotine-action veneer clipper where the material or refuse has been conveyed away from the saw table or point of operation by a gravity chute or by some mechanical means such as a moving belt or expulsion roller; and (ii) the following operations when they do not involve the removal of materials or refuse directly from a saw table or point of operation: the carrying, moving, or transporting of materials from one machine to another or from one part of a plant to another; the piling, stacking, or arranging of materials for feeding into a machine by another person; and the sorting, tying, bundling, or loading of materials.
with this type of machine, an attendant wheels the cart to the dumpster, empties the cart into the dumpster, and then wheels the cart back to the compactor where it is reattached.
there are only eight specific child labor exemptions of which only two apply to the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements as well.
the national automobile dealers association (nada) took ``strong exception to this `clarification' '' (emphasis in original).
likewise, the department has consistently taken the position, starting as early  as 1959, that ho 5 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven  woodworking machines) prohibits these same minors from using chain saws to cut  wood and wood products, including trees and branches.
the u.s. department of energy has also reported that in 2002  an adult worker injured his larynx when the reciprocating saw he was operating
the department also proposed to incorporate into reg. 3 its long- standing position that the term week as used in reg. 3 means a standard calendar week of 12:01 a.m. sunday through midnight saturday, not an employer's workweek as defined in 29 cfr 778.105.
collectively, they would not have an  annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a  material way the economy or its individual sectors, productivity, jobs, the  environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or  communities.
tending such equipment  includes assisting in the hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment.
the ywn stated that it ``strongly agrees with this change.''
the department proposed to reserve sec.
these are the exemptions for employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer and homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of evergreens.\3\ apart from these two exceptions, none of the specific exemptions from the minimum wage and/or overtime pay requirements applies to the child labor provisions.
administrator means the administrator of the wage and hour division, u.s. department of labor, and includes an authorized representative designated by the administrator to perform any of the functions of the administrator under this part and part 580 of this chapter.
the youth is required to use, and uses,  personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise  and saw dust.
list of subjects in 29 cfr  part 579 child labor, law enforcement, penalties.
579.2 to include the terms serious injury, repeated violations, and willful violations.
this should be made more explicit by barring youth peddling `in front or around the outside of the establishment.'''
the  revisions in this final rule continue the department of labor's tradition of  fostering permissible and appropriate job opportunities for working youth that  are healthy, safe, and not detrimental to their education.
section  570.34(b)(7) (old) prohibits 14- and 15-year-olds from working in freezers and  meat coolers.
the report states that current injury and fatality surveillance systems do not provide sufficient detail to justify this exemption.
this exception applies only when all the safeguards  detailed in this paragraph are present on the machine, are operational, and  have not been overridden.
finally, the department acknowledges the concerns of pleasant hill which raised the issue of ``junior lifeguard programs'' and the ``volunteer'' participation of youths between the ages of 11 and 14 in such endeavors.
four of the comments do not address any of the issues raised by the april 17, 2007 nprm and focus solely on topics raised by the anprm that was published by the department on that same day.
the benefits of an  employment opportunity in which the children experiencing it are `usually' not  entitled to minimum wage or overtime pay are difficult to understand.''
congress has created four  additional exemptions to the nonagricultural child labor provisions of the flsa  that are not currently reflected in subpart g (the making of wreaths composed  principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens by homeworkers;  the loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors by 16- and  17-year-olds; the limited driving of certain automobiles and trucks by  17-year-olds; and the employment of certain youth between the ages of 14 and 18  years inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery  to process wood products).
570.34(l) to  incorporate portions of the current enforcement position.
570.33(b) (old) and sec. 570.33(e)
the blade perforated his  anterior chest wall, right lung, heart, and aorta.
section 570.127 contains a general discussion of the enforcement of the flsa child labor provisions.
the term includes such services as timber cruising,  surveying, or logging-engineering parties; estimating timber; timber valuation;  forest pest control; forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention as defined  in this section; and reforestation.
except, the provisions  of this subsection shall not apply to the operation of those lightweight, small  capacity, portable, countertop mixers discussed in sec. 570.62(b)(1) of this  chapter when used as a mixer to process materials other than meat or poultry.
k. occupations involved in the operation of circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears (order 14) (29 cfr 570.65) ho 14 generally prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in the occupations of operator or helper on power-driven circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears, except those that are properly guarded and equipped with devices for full automatic feeding and ejection.
although the report notes that there was almost no data specific to workers 16 and 17 years of age, the cfoi identifies 35 deaths in timber tract operations for all age groups between 1992 and 1997 and 39 deaths in forestry service operations for all age groups during the same period.
the director of the labor standards and safety division of the alaska state department of labor and workforce [[page 28409]] development (dolwd) also supported the consolidation and listing of prohibited equipment with some exceptions.
while a 14- or 15-year old may be a passive passenger in a vehicle, that same minor is not permitted to ride in a motor vehicle when a significant reason for the minor being a passenger is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting--or assisting in the transporting--of other persons or property.
all occupations in logging shall mean all work performed in connection with the felling of timber; the bucking or converting of timber into logs, poles, piles, ties, bolts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, fence posts, or similar products; the collecting, skidding, yarding, loading, transporting and unloading of such products in connection with logging; the constructing, repairing and maintaining of roads, railroads, flumes, or camps used in connection with logging; the moving, installing, rigging, and maintenance of machinery or equipment used in logging; and other work performed in connection with logging.
instead of a fork or a platform, the lifting device may consist of a ram, scoop, shovel, crane, revolving fork, or other attachments for handling specific loads.
as discussed earlier, congress has added four more exemptions that are not  included in the current subpart g.
as power-driven equipment, atvs were, and continue to be, included in the  broad prohibitions of this subsection.
the term would also include the following tasks when performed in conjunction with, or in support of, efforts to extinguish a fire: the piling and burning of slash; the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and tasks associated with the operation of a temporary fire fighting base camp.
sic 083 encompasses those establishments primarily engaged in growing trees for purposes of reforestation or in gathering forest products.
(2) in the case of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are employed to perform sports-attending services at professional sporting events, i.e., baseball, basketball, football, soccer, tennis, etc., the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section shall not apply, provided that the duties of the sports-attendant occupation consist of pre- and post-game or practice setup of balls, items and equipment; supplying and retrieving balls, items and equipment during a sporting event; clearing the field or court of debris, moisture, etc., during play; providing ice, drinks, towels, etc., to players during play; running errands for trainers, managers, coaches, and players before, during, and after a sporting event; and returning and/or storing balls, items and equipment in club house or locker room after a sporting event.
the department continues to issue full-time student subminimum wage certificates to such employers under flsa section 14(b) because of their retail character.
(3) exceptions from certain  of the hours standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this  section are provided for the employment of minors who are enrolled in and  employed pursuant to a school-supervised work-experience and career exploration  program as detailed in sec.
chief  administrative law judge means the chief administrative law judge, office of  administrative law judges, u.s. department of labor, 800 k street, nw., suite  400, washington, dc 20001-8002.
the afl-cio and the dolwd supported this proposal as written.
when state and federal requirements differ, the flsa does not supersede any more protective state child labor requirement and employers must normally comply with the more stringent standard.
the effect of  these orders is to raise the minimum age for employment to 18 years in the  occupations covered.
as an estimated one-third of  work-related injuries are seen in emergency departments, it is likely that  approximately 146,000 youth sustain work-related injuries and illnesses each  year.
although section 13(c)(7) permits the employment of certain youth  inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process  wood products, it does so only if the youth do not operate or assist in the  operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
collectively, they would not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy or its individual sectors, productivity, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities.
in regards to the nonagricultural youth provisions, it stated  that ``it does not appear that protection of youth workers is at the heart of  some of the proposed changes, but rather the needs of industry and special  interest groups.''
as an estimated one-third of work-related injuries are seen in emergency departments, it is likely that approximately 146,000 youth sustain work-related injuries and illnesses each year.
that same office recommended that such youth be permitted to  operate certain small, residential-sized washing machines and dryers when all  safety equipment is properly installed.
[[page 28458]] abrasive cutting disc shall mean a machine  equipped with a disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting  materials.
this exemption necessitates that the department revise both reg. 3 and ho 4.
for example, ho 10 prohibits a minor from operating a meat slicer in a restaurant to cut cheese or vegetables.
570.35 certain  long-standing departmental enforcement positions regarding the application of  the hours standards.
the term also includes establishments which manufacture or process meat or poultry products, including sausage or sausage casings from such animals.
the department  received six comments concerning the revision of the list of permitted  occupations and/or the expansion of the list to include establishments other  than retail, food service, and gasoline service.
in 1998, the interstate labor standards association created a subcommittee to work towards ending door-to-door sales by children and recommended that the department of labor act as a national clearinghouse regarding information concerning door-to-door sales operations.
570.32 effect of this subpart.
[rules and regulations] [page 28403-28461] from the federal register online via gpo access [wais.access.gpo.gov] [docid:fr20my10-11]
while the department agrees with the clc that it is unlikely that many such schools or home-schooling programs would materialize, it does note that the emergence of schools that were designed to allow migrant children to work on farms during the daylight hours when the local public school was in session, was an impetus for the 1949 amendment to the flsa that codified this very same enforcement position as it relates to agricultural employment.
although the report notes that there was almost no data specific to  workers 16 and 17 years of age, the cfoi identifies 35 deaths in timber tract  operations for all age groups between 1992 and 1997 and 39 deaths in forestry  service operations for all age groups during the same period.
570.120 to reflect the 1995 change in the process for issuing and  revising hos.
secretary's determinations concerning the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the employer will be held responsible  for any violations of the flsa or the child labor regulations.
recently, the department  adopted an enforcement policy that it would not assert violations of ho 11 when  16- and 17-year-olds operate, assist to operate, setup, adjust, repair, oil, or  clean certain small, lightweight, counter-top mixers.
v. executive order 12866; regulatory flexibility this final rule is being  treated as a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of e.o. 12866  because of its importance to the public and the department's priorities.
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc supported the proposal to expand the scope of ho 10 to prohibit the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in or about places where such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are killed, butchered, or processed and where sausage and sausage casings are manufactured or processed.
in addition to affirming the department's position that a skid loader was a ``high-lift truck'' within the meaning of ho 7, the court also found that the youths' operation of the equipment violated the ho even though the youth did not operate or utilize the loader's hoisting device but used the skid-steer loader as a ``scraper'' (see lynnville transport, inc. v. chao, 316 f. supp.
the regulatory changes that  implement these statutory changes do no more than conform the  previously-existing regulations to the recent statutory amendments and do not  impose any economic costs on employers that are required to comply with the  provisions of sections 12 and 13(c) of the flsa.
week means a fixed and  regularly recurring period of 168 hours-- seven consecutive 24-hour  periods--that is identical to the workweek the employer establishes for the  employee under sec.
the department appreciates the  comments of the afl-cio and the clc concerning the omission of abrasive cutting  discs from the list of prohibited equipment contained in ho 14.
in 2004 ansi adopted standard ansi z245.2-2004  (stationary compactors--safety requirements for installation, maintenance, and  operations) and standard ansi z245.5-2004 (baling equipment--safety  requirements for installation, maintenance, and operations).
it states  that the department did not address the niosh report's third recommendation  dealing with ho 12 regarding the importance of enforcing the requirements of  flsa section 13(c)(5) that balers and compactors being loaded by 16- and  17-year-olds meet the designated ansi standards.
section 3(d) defines `employer' as including ``any person acting directly or  indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee and  includes a public agency, but does not include any labor organization (other  than when acting as an employer) or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or  agent of such labor organization.''
it is important to note that this requirement of close, direct, and uninterrupted supervision, just like the requirement that youth not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machinery, applies to the employment of 16- and 17-year- olds as well as 14- and 15-year-olds.
as the clc stated, ``dol's osha experts are familiar with these hazards.''
it added that, for these reasons, other  organizations like the ymca do not certify lifeguards until age 16 and thus  ``dol's argument that this proposal ties dol enforcement practice to  `standards' in the industry is not accurate.''
it is  the department's intention that this relationship will continue to grow and  accommodate additional partnering opportunities as they arise.
this over-riding of an  important safety device required by each of the ansi standards was done to  speed up the loading process.
six  flags expressed the same concern regarding its ability to use its payroll  tracking system as a compliance tool and recommended that the department allow  employers to use any reasonable system such as labor tracking and payroll  monitoring tools that complement their record keeping systems.
it does not  include work that involves cutting, scraping, or trimming meat from cuts  containing bones.
the word ``operations'' was the word used by the department when ho 8 was first enacted in 1950 and its use was appropriate for the time.
section 570.102 is revised to read as follows: sec. 570.102.
570.35 and the prohibited occupation  standards contained in sec.
579.5, sections  (a) and (e), to note that flsa section 16(e) references both sections 12 and  13(c) when discussing the types of child labor violations that are subject to  the assessment of civil money penalties.
an employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be repeated for purposes of this section: (1) where the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible official of the wage and hour division or otherwise authoritatively, that the employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the act; or, (2) where a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or reversed by such appellate tribunal.
* (c) another distinction is that the exemptions provided by the act from the minimum wage and/or overtime provisions are more numerous and differ from the exemptions granted from the child labor provisions.
the cristo rey network was most supportive of the proposal and noted that its work-study program meets the statutory objective of permitting youth employment only ``during periods and under conditions that will not interfere with their schooling or health and well being'' as required by flsa section 3(l).
for the sake of both brevity and clarity, the department proposed not to repeat in sec.
after the 2007 nprm was published, ansi adopted two new  standards related to balers and compactors:
the ywn recommended that the proposed requirements  that each seat occupied by a minor be equipped with a seat belt or similar  restraining device and that the employer instruct the minors that such belts or  other device must be used so that the employer is required to ensure that the  seat belt or other device is actually used.
570.33(b) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in occupations  involving the operation or tending of power-driven machinery, except office  machines.
sec. 570.33(b), 570.34(a)(6), and 570.34(b)(6)--all of which address power-driven machinery--into a single paragraph located at sec. 570.33(e)
as discussed earlier, similar clarifying language was added to sec. 570.34(m)(2).
the department has similarly  concluded for the same reasons noted above that this rule is not a ``major  rule'' under the small business regulatory enforcement fairness act of 1996 (5  u.s.c. 801 et seq.).
that penalty may be doubled up to $100,000 if the violation is determined to be a repeated or willful violation.
for these reasons, the department does  not agree with the ywn's understanding that the existing regulation prohibits  14- and 15-year- olds from operating blenders that create ice cream desserts as  the department has previously opined that this equipment is a type of ``milk  shake blender'' which has long been permitted by sec.
to protect young workers from hazardous employment, the flsa provides for a minimum age of 18 years in occupations found and declared by the secretary to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or well-being for minors 16 and 17 years of age.
the nprm published in the federal register on april 17, 2007 (72 fr 19337) invited comments on the information collection burdens imposed by these regulations.
570.128 is added to read as follows: sec.
in three of the four weeks, the participant  is permitted to work during school hours on only one day per week, and for no  more than for eight hours on that day.
the clc stated that ``[w]hat is particularly troubling-- and what dol does not indicate in its preamble to the proposed regulation--is that the only school system that appears to qualify for the proposed program is a private roman catholic system.''
but the department considers it appropriate that the school district sponsoring the work- study assist the employer in the both achieving and monitoring the compliance of the work-study program.
the incorporation by  reference of american national standards institute standards in the regulations  is approved by the director of the federal register as of july 19, 2010.
the ywn  recommended that, for work of an artistic nature, certain locations such as  tattoo and body piercing establishments should be excluded due to the potential  for exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
g. occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus (order 7) (29 cfr 570.58) ho 7 generally prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from employment in occupations that involve the work of: (1) operating an elevator, crane, derrick, hoist, or high-lift truck except such youth may operate unattended automatic operation passenger elevators and electric or air operated hoists not exceeding one ton capacity; (2) riding on a manlift or on a freight elevator, except a freight elevator operated by an assigned operator; and (3) assisting in the operation of a crane, derrick or hoist performed by crane hookers, crane chasers, hookers-on, riggers, rigger helpers, and like occupations.
section 13(c)(7) overrides the heretofore complete prohibition on the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing occupations contained in section 3(l) of the flsa.
the department also considered adopting niosh's recommendation that the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds be prohibited in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forestry services, but was concerned that such youth may be able to be safely employed in certain facets or occupations within those industries.
these provisions mirror the requirements  of the drive for teen employment act as contained in ho 2.
[[page 28440]] standards institute or visit a designated osha office to view them.
the afl-cio supported the  proposal but suggested that employers be required to keep the door open while  the minor was inside the freezer, that the freezer door be equipped with an  emergency release mechanism to ensure the youth can escape if the door is  mistakenly shut, and that the employer provide unobstructed entry to and egress  from the freezer.
(new)), requiring that the door be kept open while  they are inside the freezer could be unnecessarily burdensome in that, for  energy efficiency and food sanitation, most freezers are equipped with  self-closing doors.
the u.s. department of energy has also reported that in 2002 an adult worker injured his larynx when the reciprocating saw he was operating kicked back and cut him in his lower throat.
before 14- and 15-year-olds may legally perform work covered by  the flsa, the act requires that the work itself be exempt, or that the  secretary determines that the work to be performed does not constitute  oppressive child labor.
the  term shall include all types of hoists, such as base mounted electric, clevis  suspension, hook suspension, monorail, overhead electric, simple drum, and  trolley suspension hoists.
supervised  means that the youth's on-the-job activities must be directed, monitored,  overseen, and controlled by certain named adults.
except, this exception shall not apply when the mixer is used, with or without attachments, to process meat or poultry products as prohibited by sec. 570.61(a)(4).
as used in this part and part 580 of this chapter: act means  the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended (52 stat.
the niosh  report recommends that ho 14 be expanded to cover other machines, such as chain  saws, that perform cutting and sawing functions through direct contact between  the cutting surfaces and the materials.
subpart e--occupations particularly hazardous for the employment of minors  between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being 0
the wwa also disagreed with the department's position that working as a dispatcher or attendant at the top of an elevated water slide constitutes tending of power-driven machinery under the provisions of reg. 3 where there are no mechanized conveyance systems or emergency ride controls at the top.
accordingly, the  department has revised the regulatory language in sec. 570.54(a)(2).
moreover, the amendment's strong safety-affecting requirements that such youth not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines, use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and sawdust, and be protected from wood particles and other flying debris within the workplace, should significantly reduce potential costs resulting from accidents and injuries to minors on the job.
loading of personal hand tools onto motor vehicles and riding on motor vehicles (sec.
finally, on may 21, 2008, after publication of the nprm, the genetic  information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina), public law 110-233, was  signed into law.
any costs that might result from  using older employees to perform the previously permitted tasks would be more  than offset by reduced health and productivity costs resulting from accidents  and injuries to minors on the job.
the dolwd recommended that 14- and 15-year-olds should be permitted to operate weed eaters that use monofilament line (but not weed eaters that use metal blades) provided adequate eye and hearing protection are in place.
[[page 28403]]  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
chief administrative law judge means the chief administrative law judge, office of administrative law judges, u.s. department of labor, 800 k street, nw., suite 400, washington, dc 20001-8002.
the clc commented that ``[if] the school day schedules established by private schools and by parents of home-schooled children could determine when children being educated in those settings governed here, there would be nothing in the dol child labor regulations that would prevent such a school or parent from setting a schedule that would permit children to work during the hours that the public school system is in session.
this is because the report also recommended the creation of a new ho  that would prohibit all work in construction occupations which, if adopted,  would impact the provisions of not only ho 4 but several other hos.
as supported by the provisions of the compactor and baler act, the final rule expanded the coverage of ho 12 to include those balers and paper box compactors that process other materials in addition to paper products.
the department  proposed to revise ho 4 to incorporate the provisions of section 13(c)(7) in  the same manner, and using the same definitions and interpretations, as it  proposed when discussing revisions to reg. 3, above.
the clc described private messenger services as those that ``have standing contracts with law firms, accounting firms, and other types of businesses'' to deliver documents or packages.
in  accordance with requirements of the paperwork reduction act (pra), 44 u.s.c.  3501 et seq., and its attendant regulations, 5 cfr part 1320, the department  seeks to minimize the paperwork burden for individuals, small businesses,  educational and nonprofit institutions, federal contractors, state, local and  tribal governments, and other persons resulting from the collection of  information by or for the agency.
(a) section 15(a)(4) of the act makes any violation of the provisions of sections 12(a) or 12(c) unlawful.
570.54 forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations, timber tract occupations, forestry service occupations, logging occupations, and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4).
* * sec. 570.31 secretary's determinations concerning the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the department agreed with the niosh report recommendation regarding the scope of the ho and proposed to revise ho 12 to prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from operating, loading, and unloading, with limited exceptions, all balers and compactors, regardless of the materials being processed.
the term reciprocating saw would mean a machine equipped with a moving blade that alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used for sawing materials.
the department is also revising sec.
the department appreciates the report's recommendation to continue emphasizing enforcement of portions of the compactor and baler act requiring that balers and compactors conform to construction and operations standards that greatly reduce exposure to hazardous energy.
570.34 of this subpart.
some of these fatalities  involved workers under 18 years of age (see niosh report, page 57).
the ywn stated that this proposal benefits one single  program and makes the regulations unnecessarily complex.
this  provision is designed to prevent such youth from being injured by contact with  the machines' sharp blades and cutting surfaces.
the department received comments from the  ywn and clc on this proposal.
the department appreciates the  concerns of those commenters who recommended that the ban on youth peddling  should be extended to all youth under the age of 18 years, but considers such a  change too substantive to adopt without additional rulemaking.
band saw shall mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band  having a continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys,  and used for sawing materials.
reports of  children being abandoned, suffering injuries from violence and motor vehicle  crashes, and being exposed to the elements have been substantiated.
prior to 2000, according to the chapter,  16 years was generally the minimum age at which the red cross would provide  such certification.
it also ensures that the consistent application of these terms for both agricultural and nonagricultural employment will continue, thereby avoiding confusion among those employers who offer both agricultural and nonagricultural employment to young workers.
in sec. 570.103, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: sec.
such 14-year-old employees could not be  employed as lifeguards or swim instructors, but could perform such tasks as  maintaining the cleanliness of the pool area and locker rooms, signing in and  signing out patrons, and checking in and out such items as towels, watches, and  apparel.
(2) work in the construction, operation,  repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters, including logging  camps and fire fighting base camps.
a representative of the  national association of state directors of career technical education  consortium (state directors) apparently believed that the adoption of the  proposal contained in sec.
the department proposed to include its long-standing interpretation that prohibits 14- and 15-year-olds riding outside of motor vehicles in reg. 3 at sec. 570.33(f)
the provisions of gina and the impact they have on this rulemaking are more fully discussed later in section o of this preamble.
the department proposed to change the name of ho 8 from occupations involved in the operations of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (order 8) to occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (order 8).
sec. 570.36 and  570.37 and redesignating existing sec.
(e) price marking and tagging by hand or machine, assembling orders, packing, and shelving.
the report also recommends that  the department remove the current exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds  to work in the construction of living and administrative quarters of logging  camps.
several states  have advised the department that wecep serves its targeted audience well,  helping those who are not academically oriented stay in school and complete  their high school educations.
additional lifeguard duties may include checking in and out items such as towels and personal items such as rings, watches and apparel.
this is because sec. 570.33(a) (old and new) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in almost all occupations involving processing operations--which the department has interpreted to include dry cleaning and laundering, the treating and disposing of waste, the conducting of mass mailings, and the painting of houses and automobiles.
the term includes such services as timber cruising, surveying, or logging-engineering parties; estimating timber; timber valuation; forest pest control; forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention as defined in this section; and reforestation.
the changes affecting the types of occupations and industries in which 14- and 15-year-olds may or may not be employed, as well as the periods and conditions of such employment (reg. 3 occupations and hours standards), are largely clarifications of existing provisions or enforcement positions, though new occupations involving work of an intellectual or creative nature, lifeguarding, and the loading of personal hand tools onto motor vehicles, are being added to the list of permitted occupations.
in its document 5108, weed trimmers can throw objects and injure eyes, the u.s. consumer product safety commission estimated that, in 1989, there were approximately 4,600 injuries associated with power lawn trimmers or edgers that required emergency room treatment.
the dolwd supported this proposal and noted that alaska state regulations restrict any worker under the age of 18 from working in door-to-door sales.
the department, however, does not agree that such an expansion of positive youth opportunities is improper or in any way fails to comport with the requirements and spirit of flsa section 3(l).
supervised by an adult relative or is  supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the  youth, as a term, has several components.
portable sawmill shall mean a  sawmilling operation where no office or repair or maintenance shop is  ordinarily maintained, and any lumberyard operated in conjunction with the  sawmill is used only for the temporary storage of green lumber.
the clc stated that ``most distressing is the fact that dol gives no indication of what the red cross training requires.''
in response to information  presented by several restaurants and employer associations, the department  adopted an enforcement position in 1990 that it would not assert a violation of  ho 11 when a 16- or 17- year-old employee operated a pizza-dough roller, a type  of dough sheeter, when the machine: (1) is constructed with safeguards  contained in the basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from  being caught in the in-running point of the rollers; (2) has gears that are  completely enclosed; and (3) has microswitches that disengage the machinery if  the backs or sides of the rollers are removed.
570.37 (new) to operate a work-study program for just one student, one  group of students, or, as in the case of the cristo rey network, the entire  student body.
the nprm notified the public that the department  intended to update ho 12 to include the 2004 ansi standards for compactors and  balers, and no comments were received as to whether the standards identified in  the nprm were as protective of minors as the standards listed in the compactor  and baler act.
that same section defines power-driven woodworking  machines to mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and  used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling,  wire stitching, fastening, or otherwise assembling, pressing, or printing wood  or veneer.
traditional swimming pool means a water tight structure of concrete, masonry,  or other approved materials located either indoors or outdoors, used for  bathing or swimming and filled with a filtered and disinfected water supply,  together with buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection  therewith, excluding elevated ``water slides.''
however,  because this rule is not ``economically significant'' as defined in section  3(f)(1) of e.o. 12866, it does not require a full economic impact analysis  under section 6(a)(3)(c) of the order.
in addition to  the regularly scheduled visits to the workplaces the teacher-coordinator is  required to make, the department suggests that such things as frequent  interactions with the work-study program students, program assessments and  evaluations completed by the students and the employers, and surprise or  unscheduled visits to the workplaces can all contribute to the operation of a  safe, compliant, and positive work-study program.
only  the clc commented on this proposal, incorrectly referring to it as ``correcting  a typographical error.''
this  exemption would not apply to tasks performed at locations other than inside or  outside the place of business of the employer such as the delivery of items to  customers or the installation of items at customers' establishments or  residences.
although, as mentioned  above, some employers would need to replace younger workers with older workers,  the impact would be minimal as relatively few minors are currently employed to  perform these occupations.
the ywn referred to comments of the us  lifeguarding association and the clc referred to comments of the lifeguard  standards association.
the afl-cio supported the proposal as written.
the department notes the clc's concerns that determining when school is in session by using each student's individual academic schedule could foster the development of nonpublic schools or home- schooling programs created primarily to provide 14- and 15-year-old working children to employers during the hours they would normally have attended public school.
in addition, because atvs are motor vehicles as defined by sec. 570.52(c) (old and new), 14- and 15-year-olds would be prohibited from operating such equipment under sec.
(ix) manual loading of bundles of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars, provided that the employer has on file a statement from a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy certifying the [[page 28454]] minor capable of performing this work without injury to himself, except minors under 16 years of age may not load bundles of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars as they are prohibited from loading and unloading goods or property onto or from motor vehicles, railroad cars, or conveyors by sec. 570.33(k) of this part.
although both the ywn and  clc stated that they did not support enactment of flsa section 13(c)(7), they  strongly supported the department's efforts to ensure that the regulations  provide adequate protections for youths who are now permitted to be employed  inside and outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood  products.
for example, the section of reg. 3 that prohibits 14- and 15-year-olds from employment in occupations in connection with warehousing and storage would be cited as sec. 570.33(f)(2)(old) or sec. 570.33(n)(2)(new).
the employment of a 14- or  15-year-old who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory school  attendance beyond the eighth grade inside or outside places of business where  machinery is used to process wood products
in addition, the ywn would require  that the driver of the vehicle transporting the minors have a valid driver's  license.
the term is not intended to denote those operations in sawmills where  rough lumber is cut to dimensions.
although the ywn supported the proposals that school  should also not be considered in session for a youth who (1) has a child to  support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law, have waived  school attendance requirements for that minor, or (2) has been permanently  expelled from the local public school
the clc objected to the department's proposal, stating that it did not  have sufficient information on the underlying rationale for the proposed change  to adequately comment on it.
in a different investigation, another 17-year-old lost his right index
minors under 16 years of age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides performing such tasks as maintaining order, directing patrons as to when to depart the top of the slide, and ensuring that patrons have begun their ``ride'' safely.
the department, in the april 17, 2007 nprm, based on its determination that there was sufficient
since publication of the nprm, the department has received inquiries from public schools and private schools (not part of the cristo rey network) about establishing work-study programs under sec.
all occupations in forestry services shall mean all work involved in the  support of timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and  marketing, and forest protection.
the ywn opposed this proposal, stating ``[a]bsent any concrete information on injury data, and on the specific size, make, or models under consideration as possible examples, we disagree with this proposal at this time.''
j. occupations involved in the operation of paper-products machines, scrap paper balers, and paper box compactors (order 12) (29 cfr 570.63)
the report notes that substantial numbers of fatalities  occur among workers who are passengers on forklifts, riding on the forks, or  working from the raised forklift attachments (see niosh report, page 36).
such students may, in accordance with 29 cfr 531.40, make a voluntary  assignment of their wages to a third party.
the department proposed to revise  subpart g to accommodate not only the statutory and regulatory changes that  have occurred, but to reflect the proposed revisions to part 570 made by the  nprm and discussed earlier in this document.
such machines generally consist of a base motor that supports a glass jar.
the clc also recommended that the proposed sec. 570.33 include an introductory statement reinforcing the principle detailed in sec.
a strict adherence to reg. 3 requirements would not permit the employment of a 14- or 15- year-old in any of these scenarios, even though talented and motivated youth could safely and successfully perform these tasks without interfering with their schooling or health and well-being.
579.1(a) to incorporate the [[page 28445]] provisions of section 16(e) of the  flsa as revised by gina.
570.54, logging occupations and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4).
there is, thus, no corresponding environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement.
sic 083 encompasses those establishments primarily engaged in growing  trees for purposes of reforestation or in gathering forest products.
any other provisions of the  program providing safeguards ensuring that the employment permitted under this  section will not interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their  health and well-being may also be submitted for use in considering the  application.
fourteen- and 15-year-olds could not be employed to clean such work  places, even after hours, because of whd's long-standing interpretation that a  work place retains its character--and child labor continues to be  prohibited--even at times when nothing is being mined, processed, or  manufactured.
the current sec. 570.34(a) expressly authorizes the performance of certain  activities by 14- and 15-year-olds in retail, food service, and gasoline  service establishments, while sec. 570.34(b) details those activities that 14-  and 15-year-olds are expressly prohibited from performing in such  establishments.
such  equipment required that the worker place the ice cream, milk, and flavorings in  a stainless steel mixing cup that generally has a maximum capacity of 20  ounces.
the record on which reg. 3 was based included hearings where advocates of  children expressed concern over the need for children to avoid fatigue, so as  not to deplete the energy required for their school work.
the forest service did, however, recommend that the proposal be revised to permit such youth to work in forest protection-type activities, which it sees as non- hazardous, such as clearing fire trails or roads, maintaining fire fighting equipment, and acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman.
the exemption also prohibits  the minor from performing any driving involving the towing of vehicles; route  deliveries or route sales; the transportation for hire of property, goods, or  passengers; urgent, time-sensitive deliveries; or the transporting of more than  three passengers at any one time.
any administrative determination by the  secretary of the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the flsa shall  be final, unless within 15 days after receipt of notice thereof by certified  mail the person charged with the violation takes exception to the determination  that the violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred, in which event  final determination of the penalty shall be made in an administrative  proceeding after opportunity for hearing in accordance with section 554 of  title 5, united states code, and regulations to be promulgated by the  secretary.
accordingly, the department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, to solicit public comment on this important issue.
operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines shall mean the operating of such machines, including supervising or controlling the operation of such machines, feeding material into such machines, helping the operator feed material into such machines, unloading materials from such machines, and helping the operator unload materials from such machines.
the provisions of section 16(e)(1)(a)(ii) of the fair labor standards act, regarding the assessment of civil penalties not to exceed $50,000 with regard to each violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, apply only to those violations that occur on or after may 21, 2008.
with regard to cooking and the use of kitchen equipment, the department notes that it implemented new rules concerning the types of cooking that may be performed by 14- and 15-year-olds in its final rule published in the federal register on december 16, 2004 (69 fr 75382).
the department, during its meetings held after the release of the report with various stakeholders, including representatives of the full-service and quick-service restaurant industries, sought to identify which types of mixers could be operated safely in the workplace by 16- and 17-year-olds.
the incorporation by reference of american national standards institute standards in the regulations is approved by the director of the federal register as of july 19, 2010.
the  term also includes the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling,  or cleaning such machines.
the report notes that while these large specialized balers are generally found in facilities that specialize in processing scrap and waste materials, smaller general-purpose portable machines that serve the same functions are marketed for use in businesses such as grocery stores, hotels, restaurants, and hospitals.
the department agrees with the clc that the  adoption of this proposal will allow 14- and 15-year-olds to be employed to  perform office work for such employers as accounting firms, advertising  agencies, and insurance companies; and that such youth could, under the proper  circumstances, work as many as eight hours in a day and forty hours in a week  when school is not in session.
the wage and hour division has consulted with representatives of the department's occupational safety and health administration (osha) and will defer to that agency's expertise and guidance when determining whether an employer is in compliance with the safety provisions of this exemption--i.e., whether a workplace barrier is appropriate to the potential hazard, whether a sufficient distance has been maintained from machinery in operation, and whether the youth is exposed to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
since subpart g was last revised, not only have several hos been amended, but the process for promulgating and revising the hos has also changed.
the report also  recommends that the department remove the limited exemption for apprentices and  student-learners contained in ho 16 (occupations in roofing operations and on  or about a roof) and ho 17, and retain the same exemption as it applies to ho 5  (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines)  and ho 8 (occupations involved in the operation of power-
the department's administration of this enforcement position permitting the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds by state and local governments has had extremely positive results.
not included in the definition of a traditional swimming pool would be such natural environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, quarries, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
reg. 3, originally promulgated in 1939, was revised to reflect the 1961 amendments to the flsa, which extended the act's coverage to include enterprises engaged in commerce or the production of goods for commerce and thereby brought more working youth employed in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments within the protections of the act.
570.33(j): prohibited youth peddling also includes such promotion activities as  the holding, wearing, or waving of signs, costumes, sandwich boards, or  placards in order to attract potential customers, except when performed inside  of, or directly in front of, the employer's establishment providing the  product, service, or event being advertised.
the ywn disagreed with the proposal, stating that sec.
the niosh report also made 14  recommendations that impact the current agricultural hos and recommended the  creation of 17 new hos.
the suggested methods of  confirmation are purely discretionary; no work-study participating school  district will be penalized for not adopting them.
the term includes such services as timber  cruising, surveying, or logging-engineering parties; estimating timber; timber  valuation; forest pest control; forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention  as defined in this section; and reforestation.
these provisions mirror the requirements of the drive for teen employment act as contained in ho 2.
the department also proposed to reformat the definitions section contained in ho 7 to reflect an alphabetical sequence in accordance with guidance provided by the federal register.
broilers, automatic broiler systems, high speed ovens, and rapid toaster machines used at both quick service and full- service restaurants to toast such items as buns, bagels, sandwiches, and muffins--all of which operate at high temperatures, often in excess of 500 [deg]f--are not toasters under sec.
years of age (29 cfr 570.31-.34) section 3(l) of the flsa defines oppressive child labor to expressly prohibit children under the age of 16 from performing any work other than that which the secretary of labor permits, by order or regulation, upon [[page 28407]] finding that it does not interfere with their schooling or health and well-being (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l), see also 29 cfr 570.117-.119).
the department notes that although niosh did not include injury data specific to the operation of abrasive cutting discs, niosh did report that the potential contact with the moving disk of an abrasive cutting tool does put operators at risk.
section 570.127 is revised to read as follows: sec.
as discussed previously in the sections dealing with hos 10 and 12, the department proposed to take no action concerning the apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions to certain hos at this time.
the clc ``welcomed'' the expansion of the prohibitions of ho 12 to include balers and compactors designed or used to process materials other than paper.
n. miscellaneous matters, 29 cfr part 570
the department has also included in this definition the ywn's recommended  clarifying statement that school should be considered to be in session during  any week when school attendance is [[page 28425]] required for any portion of a  day.
the ywn and the clc opposed this proposal and both, apparently, support the comments submitted by the usla, although this is not clear.
the department would also note that, as mentioned by the clc, 14-  and 15-year-olds have been permitted to be employed by hospitals and nursing  homes for many years.
the  limitations on the number of hours that participating students may be employed  (see sec. 570.37(c) (new)), though in line with those established by the cristo  rey network, constitute the absolute maximum number of hours that participants  may be employed.
although flsa section  13(c)(7) does not impact the prohibitions of ho 5 because eligible youth are  still prevented from operating power-driven woodworking machinery, it does  expand the types of workplaces where certain youth may be employed to include  sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, and cooperage stock mills as well as other  workplaces the department's final rule includes under reg. 3 and ho 4.
rules that limit permissible job activities for working youth to those that are safe do not, by themselves, impose significant added costs on employers, in our view.
this rule is not subject to e.o. 12630, because it does not involve implementation of a policy ``that has takings implications'' or that could impose limitations on private property use.
in addition to changing the title of ho 4 to  accommodate this revision, the department has also added definitions of the  terms all occupations in forestry services and all occupations in timber tracts  to sec. 570.54(b).
the department appreciates the support and concerns of the commenters.
the department believes that by continuing to reference certain common prohibited machinery by name, both clarity and compliance will be increased.
willful violations under this section has several components.
the report, citing  cfoi data, reflects that there were 99 worker deaths associated with truck  mounted bucket or basket hoists between 1992 and 1997 (see niosh report, page  37).
this includes three comments that  were submitted as attachments to the comments of the international association  of amusement parks and attractions (iaapa).
the department appreciates and understands the commenters' concerns about the potential occupational exposure of young workers to hazardous and toxic chemicals or to bloodborne pathogens.
the clc, ywn, and afl-cio expressed disappointment that the department did not adopt niosh's alternative recommendation that the department rewrite hos 5, 8, and 12, which respectively address machines that work with wood, metal, and paper, by merging them into a single or multiple hos which address the function of the machines rather than the material processed (see niosh report, page 31).
these special rules currently apply only in  the designated types of business.
the telephone number for  the occupational safety and health administration's docket office is (202)  693-2350 and its web site is located athttp://dockets.osha.gov.
niosh notes that  work in sic 083, forest nurseries and gathering of forest products, is  associated with very small numbers of fatalities and should not be prohibited  by ho 4.
for example, ho 10 prohibits a minor from operating a  meat slicer in a restaurant to cut cheese or vegetables.
the department agreed with the niosh report recommendation that ho 4  should be expanded to cover work in forest fire fighting and forest fire  prevention because of the risks inherent in those occupations.
the department notes that the exemption from minimum wage and overtime contained in section 13(a)(1) for outside salespeople does not apply to individuals employed solely to wave signs or wear placards, sandwich boards, or costumes to attract potential customers as such promotion work is not performed in conjunction with sales actually made by those individuals (see sec. 541.503).
* * had the highest lifetime risk of fatal injury of any industry, at 47 deaths per 1,000 workers based on an analysis of national traumatic occupational fatality surveillance system data for 1990 and 1991.
570.62(b)(2) would apply only when all the safeguards detailed above are present on the machines, are operational, and have not been overridden.
not only is the operation of such power-driven machinery prohibited by sec.
the department  is aware that permitting 15-year-olds to be employed as lifeguards at such  water amusement park facilities as lazy rivers, wave pools, and the splashdown  pools of elevated slides could be construed as allowing these youth to tend  power-driven machinery.
it will not have a significant adverse effect on the supply,  distribution or use of energy.
but the employer (tenant) must exercise due vigilance, for should the notice be inaccurate or incomplete--i.e., the baler or compactor fails to meet the appropriate ansi standard, or the notice fails to fully identify the appropriate ansi standard--the burden of compliance remains with the employer (tenant) of any youth who loaded the equipment.
(a) findings and declaration of  fact.
the ywn agreed with this proposal with the  added requirements that ``[w]ritten permission from parent or legal guardian is  required to permit employer to transport 14- and 15-year-olds and a copy of  written permission must be maintained by employer'' and ``[a] minor cannot be  abandoned at worksite without adult supervision.''
cfoi data reflect that during the period of 1994-2004, 15- year-olds experienced an occupational fatality rate of 4.7 fatalities per 100,000 workers--a rate that was greater than that experienced by all workers aged 15 and older.
[[page 28439]] finger while putting recyclables into an industrial waste  compactor by hand.
section 570.129 discusses the relationship of the child labor provisions of  the flsa to other laws.
the regulatory changes in (new) sec. 570.140 and  part 579 implement the recent legislation that revised the civil monetary  penalties that may be assessed under section 16(e) of the flsa.
the department is evaluating the alternative recommendation made by  the report that it consider developing a new ho that combines the sawing  machinery covered under ho 14 with other specialized machinery that performs  cutting and sawing functions through direct contact of the cutting surface and  the material.
the drive for teen employment act, public law 105-334, was signed into law on october 31, 1998.
at least 17 states have  rules prohibiting or regulating door-to-door sales by minors.
the comments centered around the following elements of the proposal: (1) whether 15 should be the minimum age for employment as a lifeguard at a traditional swimming pool or water amusement park; (2) whether 16 should be the minimum age for employment as a lifeguard at natural environments such as lakes, rivers, and oceanside beaches; and (3) whether 15-year-olds should be prohibited from being employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides.
the  niosh report notes that the fatality rate for adolescents aged 16 and 17 was  5.1 per 100,000 full-time equivalent workers for the 10-year period 1980-89
the public messenger goes between two parties, neither of whom is necessarily known to the messenger.
this modification is discussed in more detail further in the section  of this preamble that addresses ho 11.
the traditionally prohibited occupations and industries would, after adoption  of the proposal, be contained in a revised sec. 570.33, and all the permitted  occupations and industries would be contained in a revised sec.
the term compensation would not include the small prizes, trophies,  or other awards of minimal value that the eleemosynary organization may give a  volunteer in recognition of his or her fund raising efforts.
14- and 15- year-old minors may and may not be employed under reg. 3.
similar alternative recommendations were made regarding ho 5  (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines)  and ho 8 (occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming,  punching, and shearing machines).
the proposal stated that the calendar week would continue to serve as the timeframe for determining whether a minor worked in excess of 18 hours during any week when school was in session or in excess of 40 hours in any week when school was not in session.
places of business where  machinery is used to process wood products shall mean such permanent workplaces  as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and  cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops,  and pallet shops.
(6) employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load,  but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors  under specified conditions.
the clc recommended that the department amend its proposed revision to read ``has been permanently expelled from the local public school he or she would normally attend, unless the child is required, by state or local law or ordinance, or by court order, to attend another school.''
the department does not believe it is  appropriate to overturn the long-standing prohibitions against 14- and  15-year-olds being employed in construction or processing occupations by  accepting the recommendation of the coosa valley regional development center to  allow such youth to perform painting activities.
another example would be that 14- and 15-year-olds would be permitted to  sculpt, but would be prohibited from welding and soldering or any functions  that expose them to heat, or to height or other existing restrictions.''
[[page 28424]] position that the term ``week'' as used in reg. 3 means a standard calendar week of 12:01 a.m. sunday through midnight saturday, not an employer's workweek as defined in 29 cfr 778.105.
helping those who are not academically oriented stay in school and complete their high school educations.
as previously discussed, the  department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the  nprm, that requested information from the public on this issue.
m. subpart g--general statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended (29 cfr 570.101-570.129) subpart g discusses the meaning and scope of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
(new) generally preclude the employment of such youth as poultry catchers.
the department received five comments regarding this proposal.
the department believes this  long-standing important safety-affecting interpretation requiring compliance  with ho 2 should be included in the regulatory language.
this  difference is due to differences in how initial departmental efforts and rocis  dealt with rounding issues.
section 570.33(f)(1) (old) furthers  this prohibition by banning the employment of minors in occupations in  connection with the transportation of property by highway.
the red cross recommended that the department [[page 28419]] alleviate possible public misunderstanding by deleting ``giving swimming instructions'' from the list of permitted lifeguard duties.
a member of  the same religious sect or division as the youth refers to an individual who  professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth  professes membership.
570.36 and 570.37 as sec.
570.131 through 570.139 to accommodate any additional statutory amendments to the flsa child labor provisions that may be enacted.
570.65, the section heading and paragraph (a)(2) are revised, paragraph (a)(3) is added, and paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: sec.
the niosh statistics show that, despite the fact that workers aged 15 through 17 are generally restricted from employment in hazardous occupations such as mining, motor-vehicle driving, logging, sawmilling, and construction, they have a higher rate of injuries requiring emergency room treatment than any other age group except 18- and 19-year-olds (who are not restricted from performing such work).
in addition, each driver transporting the young workers must hold a  state driver's license valid for the type of driving involved and, if the  driver is under the age of 18, his or her employment must comply with the  provisions of sec. 570.52.
permitted duties for 15-year-olds include the use of a ladder to access and descend from the lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools to clean the pool and pool area; and the testing and recording of water quality for temperature and/or ph levels, using all of the tools of the testing process including adding chemicals to the test water sample.
section 570.35a establishes the criteria that must be met in order for states to apply for and receive authorization to operate a wecep.
the department proposed to implement the report's recommendation by creating a new sec. 570.62(b)(1)
is a part, has clearly stated in sec. 570.33(b) for many years that 14- and  15-year-olds may not be employed in ``occupations which involve the operation  or tending of hoisting apparatus or of any power-driven machinery other than  office machines'' (emphasis added).
the report, entitled national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh) recommendations to the u.s. department of labor for changes to hazardous orders (hereinafter referred to as the niosh report or the report), was issued in july of 2002.
in three of the four weeks, the participant would be permitted to work during school hours on only one day per week, and for no more than eight hours on that day.
these revisions are necessitated by the expansion of the prohibitions of ho 10 to include the processing of such animals.
the department also proposed to revise the title of ho 14 to reflect its application to the additional pieces of machinery and to change the word operations to operation.
the clc stated ``[a]ny reasonable person who has seen such couriers rushing through city streets, dodging cars, pedestrians, and other cyclists to deliver important documents, would shudder to think that 14- and 15- year-olds would be able to do this work, if dol's proposal becomes the final regulation.''
the seventeen hos were adopted individually during the  period of 1939 through 1963.
570.37 work-study  program.
any person who violates the  provisions of sections 212 or 213(c) of the flsa, relating to child labor, or  any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil  penalty not to exceed: (a) $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of  such a violation; or (b) $50,000 with regard to each such violation that causes  the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which  penalty may be doubled where the violation is a repeated or willful violation.
older working youth share similar risks.
no employer or employer association, when commenting  on the 1999 or the 2007 nprm, reported that it was difficult or expensive to  determine that their balers and/or compactors met or failed to meet the  appropriate ansi standards.
the department associates no additional costs for  the workplace observation requirement to ensure compliance with the flsa child  labor provisions, because such monitoring will normally be conducted when  school staff visit the workplace to see whether educational objectives are  being met.
minors less than 16 years of age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides-- employees who maintain order, direct patrons as to when to depart the top of the slide, and ensure that patrons have safely begun their ride--because such work constitutes ``tending'' as used in reg. 3.
other machines are intended specifically for processing a single product, such as metals.
this final rule revises the child labor regulations to incorporate statutory amendments to the fair labor standards act and to update and clarify the regulations that establish protections for youth employed in nonagricultural occupations.
finally, the report also recommended that the department retain the limited exemption contained in sec.
the ywn also suggested  that the department should clearly state in the final rule that school is  considered to be in session during any week in which school attendance is  required for one or more days.
such agreements shall be made available upon request to the representatives of  the administrator of the wage and hour division for inspection, transcription,  and/or photocopying.
the department also believes that continuation of this enforcement position is appropriate as it does not provide any minor or class of minors with an incentive to leave public school or with an unfair and improper advantage over public school youth when competing for employment.
traditional swimming pool means a water tight structure of concrete, masonry, or other approved materials located either indoors or outdoors, used for bathing or swimming and filled with a filtered and disinfected water supply, together with buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection therewith, excluding elevated ``water slides.''
since 1961, new, positive, and safe  employment opportunities have opened up for youth in industries other than  retail, food service, and gasoline service that the existing reg. 3 does not  specifically address.
all students are required to participate in the work-study program, beginning with their freshman year and ending at graduation.
moreover, the amendment's strong safety-affecting  requirements that such youth not operate or assist in the operation of  power-driven woodworking machines, use personal protective equipment to prevent  exposure to excessive levels of noise and sawdust, and be protected from wood  particles and other flying debris within the workplace, should significantly  reduce potential costs resulting from accidents and injuries to minors on the  job.
although, as mentioned above, some employers would need to replace younger workers with older workers, the impact would be minimal as relatively few minors are currently employed to perform these occupations.
section 570.129 is redesignated as sec.
accordingly, it cannot adopt the recommendation of the ywn at this time.
[[page 28405]] the 1996 and 1998 amendments and to update certain regulatory  standards.
the department also recognizes the concerns of the ywn and clc  over the department's decision not to limit the student-learner and apprentice  exemption contained in ho 10 at this time.
in order to prevent confusion when providing citations in this discussion, the department will provide, when appropriate, both the current citation (the citation prior to the effective date of this final rule) and the new citation (the citation that will apply on and after the effective date of this final rule).
the occupations of operation or  assisting to operate any compactor that is designed or used to process  materials other than paper.
the implementation of revised subpart g of the child labor regulations,  general statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair  labor standards act of 1938, as amended, to incorporate all the changes made by  the agency since this subpart was last revised in 1971, will simply provide  compliance guidance on the child labor provisions detailed in earlier subparts  of 570 and therefore imposes no economic costs.
(iv) abrasive cutting  discs.
the  department proposed to revise sec.
the department also proposed to restructure the two definitions in this section to reflect an alphabetical sequence in accordance with guidance provided by the federal register.
these youth are often transported by crew leaders in vans, which fail to meet proper safety and insurance requirements, to areas quite distant from their home neighborhoods.
the  department continues to issue full-time student subminimum wage certificates to  such employers under flsa section 14(b) because of their retail character.
he  also stated that limiting participation in the proposed work-study program to  students enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum ``can also have the  unintended consequence of denying extended work hours and compensation from  those who need it the most, the undereducated.''
section 570.119 discusses those occupations in which
executive order 13132;
a school-supervised and school-administered  work-study program shall meet the educational standards established and  approved by the state educational agency in the respective state.
the term shall not include the gathering of forest  products such as balsam needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss,  spanish moss, sphagnum moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of  gum, turpentine, and rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of  pine gum.
in the final rule issued in 2004, the department stated that it would  publish a notice in the federal register when the secretary made any such  certifications.
nonfatal injuries  requiring time away from work are of moderate severity (see niosh report, page  48).
the department believes the hazards  associated with the activities of extinguishing a forest fire warrant this  prohibition and has clarified the definition of all occupations in forest fire  fighting and forest fire prevention to note that such work is prohibited not  only in all forest and timber tract locations, but also in logging operations,  and sawmill operations, including all buildings located within such areas.
this section will also note that summer school sessions, held in  addition to the regularly scheduled school year, are considered to be outside  of school hours.
570.31 secretary's determinations concerning the employment of minors 14  and 15 years of age.
570.54, logging occupations and occupations in the operation of  any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4).
when ho 12 was promulgated in 1954, the dangers specifically associated with  the operation of scrap paper balers involved being caught in the plungers  during the compression process and suffering strains and other injuries while  moving the compressed bales.
the department received six comments concerning the revision of the list of permitted occupations and/or the expansion of the list to include establishments other than retail, food service, and gasoline service.
the usla further commented that this position was also reached by participants at a national conference held in 1980 which issued a report entitled ``guidelines for establishing open-water recreational beach standards.''
the niosh report also made 14 recommendations that impact the current agricultural hos and recommended the creation of 17 new hos.
sec. 570.33(f) and (k) and 570.34(k) to incorporate the enforcement position that allows 14- and 15-year-olds to be employed to load onto and unload from motor vehicles the light non-power-driven personal hand tools they use as part of their employment and to make it available to all covered employers, not just state and local governments.
the department does not believe it is appropriate to overturn the long-standing prohibitions against 14- and 15-year-olds being employed in construction or processing occupations by accepting the recommendation of the coosa valley regional development center to allow such youth to perform painting activities.
the department has also replaced the words firefighting and firelines in the final rule with the words fire fighting and fire lines.
sec. 570.33 occupations that are prohibited to minors 14 and 15 years of age.
such efforts impact the safety of all workers, not just those  under the age of 18.
as mentioned,  certain provisions of sec.
the occupations of setting up, adjusting,  repairing, oiling, or cleaning any of the machines listed in paragraphs (a)(1),  (2), and (3) of this section.
student- learner exemption to ho 12 at this time.
in addition, the  department has, as early as 1991, interpreted the prohibition on cleaning such  machines as precluding 16- and 17-year-olds from performing the hand or machine  washing of parts of and attachments to power-driven meat processing machines,  even when the machine was disassembled and reassembled by an adult.
one  commenter, the national children's center for rural and agricultural health and  safety, did not address any specific proposal but expressed concerns that the  department has not yet implemented the niosh report recommendations for  agricultural hos.
a representative of the pleasant hill recreation and  park district (pleasant hill) of pleasant hill, california, expressed concern  about how this proposal would affect youth who volunteer in her district's  ``junior lifeguard program.''
accordingly, the newer standards  were incorporated into ho 12.
the department proposed to revise reg. 3 at sec.
when a civil money penalty is assessed against an employer for a child labor violation, the employer has the right, within 15 days after receipt of the notice of such penalty, to file an exception to the determination that the violation or violations occurred.
one such condition is that the vehicle be  equipped with a seat belt for the driver and any passengers and that the young  driver's employer has instructed the youth that the seat belts must be used  when driving the vehicle.
570.63 that would prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from performing the occupations of operating or assisting to operate any baler or compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper.
these minors are frequently placed by employers, without adult supervision, at subway entrances, outside large office buildings, at high-traffic street corners, and on median strips at busy intersections where they can attract potential customers.
we note, as reported by the clc, that osha, which is the recognized expert in occupational safety and health issues, already has in place important safety standards addressing emergency release mechanisms, panic bars, and unobstructed paths in the workplace--and that these standards protect all workers, not just those under the age of 16.
an employer's violation of section  12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued  pursuant to such sections, shall be deemed to be willful for purposes of this  section where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the act or  showed reckless disregard for the requirements of the act.
these prohibitions, which include work in  manufacturing and processing occupations, the operation of most power- driven  equipment, and any duties in work rooms or work places where goods are  manufactured or processed, should alleviate many of the concerns raised by the  ywn and clc.
the department does, however, address the issue of older youth operating certain counter-top mixers later in this final rule with regard to ho 11.
the united states  lifesaving association (usla), which described itself as america's nonprofit,  professional association of beach lifeguards and open water rescuers, reported  that it ``works to reduce the incidence of death and injury in the aquatic  environment through public education, promulgation of national lifeguard  standards, training programs, promotion of high levels of lifeguard readiness,  and other means.''
570.34, except upon approval of a variation by the administrator of the wage and hour division in acting on the program application of the state educational agency.
they create steam at a temperature that ``clearly exceeds the temperature limits established for prohibiting use of other equipment such as anything related to hot oil that exceeds a temperature of 100 degrees f.'' a representative of the billings, montana job service also questioned how the department's proposal addresses the employment of youth who operate espresso machines.
* * capable of [[page 28434]] tiering loaded pallets or skids one above the other.''
(m)(1) employment inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products.
although, as noted, the ho prohibits the use of several different  power-driven bakery machines, the thrust of the report's recommendation  involves food mixers.
however, wecep, by design, does little to help those students who wish to use work experience, and the wages such experiences generate, as a means to realize their academic potential and acquire a college education.
this interpretation dates back to at least the 1940 enactment of ho 2,  which prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from serving as outside helpers on motor  vehicles.
nor can it  ban certain employment for young workers solely because the employees engaged  in such employment are exempt from the flsa's minimum wage and/or overtime  requirements.
the term applies to such machines whether they are used in establishments that manufacture converted paper or pulp products, or in any other type of manufacturing or nonmanufacturing establishment.
(2)  this section shall not apply to the operation of pizza-dough rollers, a type of  dough sheeter, that: have been constructed with safeguards contained in the  basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in  the in-running point of the rollers; have gears that are completely enclosed;  and have microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of  the rollers are removed.
d. work-study programs effective november 5, 1969, reg. 3 was amended to provide a variance from some of the provisions of sec.
such youth may not work during the hours school is in  session--unless participating in a state sponsored wecep--and may not work more  than three hours on a day the local public school is in session.
the department appreciates the comments of the ywn, afl-cio, and clc and has decided to adopt the proposal with slight modifications designed for clarification.
applying those definitions  to civil money penalties under 29 cfr part 579, an employer's violation of  section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any  regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be repeated: (1)  where the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the  act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections,  provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible  official of the wage and hour division or otherwise authoritatively, that the  employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the act; or (2) where  a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously  violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any  regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which  has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with  jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or  reversed by such appellate tribunal.
one commenter, the international association of amusement parks and attractions, included comments from three of its member organizations along with its submission.
the department's proposal to prohibit youth peddling was not limited to just the attempt to make a sale or the actual consummation of a sale, but includes such activities normally associated with and conducted as part of the individual youth peddler's sales activities, such as the loading and unloading of vans or other motor vehicles, the stocking and restocking of sales kits and trays, the exchanging of cash and checks, and the transportation of minors to and from the various sales areas by the employer.
a new rin has been assigned to the wage and hour division.
the department proposed to revise ho 4 to incorporate the provisions of section 13(c)(7) in the same manner, and using the same definitions and interpretations, as it proposed when discussing revisions to reg. 3, above.
570.33-.35, as a painter of portraits but not as a painter of automobiles or  houses.
the benefits of an employment opportunity in which the children experiencing it are `usually' not entitled to minimum wage or overtime pay are difficult to understand.''
h. occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering, meat packing or processing, or rendering (order 10) (29 cfr 570.61) ho 10 generally prohibits 16- and 17-year-olds from being employed in all occupations in or about slaughtering, meat packing or processing establishments, and rendering plants.
however, the list of prohibited occupations is not intended to identify every prohibited occupation, but rather only to provide examples of those prohibited occupations that have historically been the most common sources of violations or concern.
the department disagrees with the clc's comment that it failed  to address niosh's third recommendation and notes that the recommendation  clearly reads that the department should ``continue to emphasize enforcement  positions of the compactor and baler act requiring balers to conform to  construction and operational standards that greatly reduce exposure to  hazardous energy.''
, she noted that her facility has ``swim  instructors who are certified by the american red cross as water safety  instructors, but are not lifeguard certified.''
participating schools and employers may choose to adopt some other schedule of work hours that comport with the established maxima--such as one four-hour day or one six-hour day each workweek; or two eight- hour days each weekend; or three hours a day at the end of each of three school days, as long as those hours comply with end-of-day hours standards established by sec. 570.35(a)(6).
the provisions of this exemption, which are contained in ho 12 (sec. 570.63) include that the scrap paper baler or compactor meet an applicable standard established by the american national standards institute (ansi) and identified in the statute, or a more recent ansi standard that the secretary of labor has found, incorporated by reference (see sec. 570.63), and declared to be as protective of the safety of young workers as the ansi standard named in the statute.
the report, entitled national institute for occupational  safety and health (niosh) recommendations to the u.s. department of labor for  changes to hazardous orders (hereinafter referred to as the niosh report or the  report), was issued in july of 2002.
the department received five comments on this proposal.
this interpretation comports with the provision of sec. 570.33(f)(1) (old), which prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in occupations in connection with the transportation of persons or property by highway.
one 16-year-old who was riding on the tines  of a forklift suffered especially serious injuries to his liver and pancreas as  a result of being pinned against a wall when the driver was unable to stop the  forklift.
the department proposed to revise the term slaughtering and meat packing establishments contained in sec. 570.61(b)
(h)  all baking and cooking activities except that cooking which is permitted by  sec. 570.34(c).
570.35(a)(1)  and (a)(5) for the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are enrolled  in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered  work-study program that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this  section, in the occupations permitted by sec. 570.34, and for the periods and  under the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
nada stated that vehicle washing ``anecdotally is known as the classic entry-level dealership employment activity *
this final rule revises the child labor regulations to incorporate  statutory amendments to the fair labor standards act and to update and clarify  the regulations that establish protections for youth employed in  nonagricultural occupations.
administrative law judge means a person appointed as provided in 5 u.s.c. 3105 and subpart b of part 930 of title 5 of the cfr, and qualified to preside at hearings under 5 u.s.c. 554-557.
the ho was created because of the  extremely high numbers of occupational fatalities and injuries that were  experienced by workers of all ages in these industries.
such criteria, which must be consistent with the established national policy of balancing the benefits of employment opportunities for youth with the necessary and most effective safety protections, will also be of value as the department considers creating new hos.
since the  last revision of subpart g in 1971, congress has passed several amendments to  the flsa and the department has revised other subparts of 29 cfr part 570 that  are not currently reflected in subpart g.
the loading onto motor vehicles and  the unloading from motor vehicles of the light, non-power-driven, hand tools  and personal protective equipment that the minor will use as part of his or her  employment at the work site; and the loading onto motor vehicles and the  unloading from motor vehicles of personal items such as a back pack, a lunch  box, or a coat that the minor is permitted to take to the work site.
(i) work in freezers and meat coolers and all work in the  preparation of meats for sale except as permitted by sec. 570.34(j).
for the reasons  discussed in this preamble, the department has similarly concluded and  certified to the sba office of advocacy chief counsel that this final rule is  not expected to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of  small entities in a manner that would require a final regulatory flexibility
the agreement shall also be signed or otherwise consented to by the student's parent or guardian.
this exemption overrides the flsa's formerly complete  prohibition on the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in manufacturing  occupations contained in section 3(l).
the department believes that the teacher-coordinator  occupies an ideal position to both help the employer attain and maintain  compliance with the all the requirements of work-study program and assist the  department's enforcement efforts by confirming that compliance.
finally, in 2004,  the department investigated the death of a 17-year-old worker who was employed  to operate a reciprocating saw to salvage automobile catalytic converters for  recycling.
(7) employment of 17-year-olds to perform limited  driving of cars and trucks during daylight hours under specified conditions.
hide cellar includes a workroom or workplace where hides are graded, trimmed, salted, and otherwise cured.
the department has not been contacted by any  organizations using those names in regards to this proposal.
570.117 and its provisions are discussed in sec.
this revised  list will be contained in sec.
such  recommendations do not comport with the flsa's statutory directive that 14- and  15-year-olds may not be employed in manufacturing or mining occupations and may  only hold such employment that the secretary has determined, by regulation or  order, does not constitute oppressive child labor (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l)).
so that the term also includes places where poultry  are killed, butchered, or processed.
the department appreciates the concerns of certain  commenters that 15-year-olds should be permitted to be employed as dispatchers  or attendants at the top of elevated water slides, but believes that  continuation of its long-held position that such employment constitutes the  prohibited tending of power-driven equipment--just as it is for attendants on  roller coasters, merry-go-rounds, and ski-lifts--is both prudent and proper.
the report, citing cfoi data, reflects that there were 99 worker deaths associated with truck mounted bucket or basket hoists between 1992 and 1997 (see niosh report, page 37).
two of the commenters made  recommendations that are beyond the purview of the department as they would  require changes to the statute.
this rule is not subject to e.o. 13211.
neither commenter provided any data or insight regarding how extensively atvs are used by youth in nonagricultural employment or whether the documented hazards resulted in occupational injuries.
manlift shall mean a device intended for the conveyance of persons that consists of platforms or brackets mounted on, or attached to, an endless belt, cable, chain or similar method of suspension; with such belt, cable or chain operating in a substantially vertical direction and being supported by and driven through pulleys, sheaves or sprockets at the top and bottom.
in other cases, the risk may be exaggerated by including more dangerous operations/industries in the injury, illness, or fatality estimates.
the  department proposed to incorporate the amendment into reg. 3 at sec. 570.34(m),  and into sec.
the proposed prohibition concerning the employment of youth in  forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention would apply to all forest  locations and buildings located within the forest, not just where logging or  sawmilling takes place.
the term supervised refers to the requirement that the youth's  on-the-job activities be directed, monitored, overseen, and controlled by a  specified named adult.
the department's enforcement experience led it to incorporate into the regulations certain long-standing enforcement positions involving the definitions of remanufacturing departments of sawmills (ho 4), high- lift trucks (ho 7), and the cleaning of power-driven meat processing equipment (ho 10).
in addition, the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor must include an on-off switch incorporating a key-lock or other system and the control of the system must be maintained in the custody of employees who are at least 18 years of age.
[[page 28420]] requirements contained in reg. 3, will end when the minor reaches his or her 16th birthday.
often, these inquiries involved students who are especially  gifted or career oriented in a particular field.
despite  the department's consistent interpretation that 14- and 15- year-olds may not  be employed as poultry catchers, employers still have questions concerning how  the regulations address such work, and violations still occur.
poultry catching and cooping the department has long taken  the position that 14- and 15-year- olds may not be employed to catch and coop  poultry in preparation for transportation or for market because it is a  ``processing'' occupation prohibited by sec. 570.33(a) (old and new).
the secretary's declarations of what forms of labor are not deemed oppressive for children between the ages of 14 and 16 appear in reg. 3 (29 cfr 570.31-.37) (old).
as noted in the nprm, the department believes that before any changes to the existing student-learner and apprentice exemptions are made, it is important to consider and develop criteria for determining when student-learner and apprentice exemptions are appropriate.
570.35(a)(2), (a)(4), and (a)(6).
the proposal required that each minor must have his or her own seat  in the passenger compartment, each seat must be equipped with a seat belt or  similar restraining device, and the employer must instruct the minors that such  belts or other devices must be used.
typically, a crew leader  attempts to saturate a particular area with sales crews, make as many sales as  possible, and then quickly move to a new location.
it is difficult  to argue that the red cross is not the ``industry standard'' when it estimates  that about 90% of all lifeguards in the usa have received training through its  lifeguard training program.
570.119 to better explain the purpose of sec.
the department proposed to allow  public and private school districts or systems to apply to the administrator of  the wage and hour division for approval to operate a work-study program that  would permit certain 14- and 15-year-olds to work during school hours and up to  eight hours on a school day under specific circumstances.
these specific  conditions, which are contained in ho 2 (sec. 570.52), include that the  automobile or truck may not exceed 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, the  driving must be restricted to daylight hours, the vehicle must be equipped with  a seat belt or similar restraining device for the driver and for any  passengers, and the employer must instruct the employee that such belts or  other devices must be used.
in fact, depending upon the facts of each situation and the  degree of control the school exercises over the employment of the participating  student, it is possible that the student would be considered to be jointly  employed by the host- employer and the youth's school under the flsa (see 29  cfr part 791).
sec. 570.33 and 570.34(b) (old)).
this legislation added section 13(c)(6) to the flsa, which permits 17-year-olds to perform certain limited on-the-job driving under very specific conditions.
the hearings included a staff study that documented many abuses that had  occurred in this industry, including indentured servitude, physical and sexual  abuse, and criminal activity.
even though, under this rule, 14- and 15-year-olds may only occasionally enter freezers momentarily to retrieve items (see sec. 570.33(i)
the youth is protected from wood  particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate
the term would also include the following tasks when performed in  conjunction with, or in support of, efforts to extinguish a fire: the piling  and burning of slash; the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction,  maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire lookout or fire  patrolman; and tasks associated with the operation of a temporary fire fighting  base camp.
the teacher-coordinator shall generally supervise and coordinate the work and educational aspects of the program and make regularly scheduled visits to the workplaces of the participating students to confirm that minors participating in the work-study program are employed in compliance with all applicable provisions of this part and section 6 of the fair labor standards act.
the director of  human capital management of the u.s. department of agriculture's forest service  stated that the forest service applauded the department of labor's proposal  that would prohibit 16- and 17-year- olds from performing fire fighting duties.
as used in this section: off-bearing shall mean the removal of  material or refuse directly from a saw table or from the point of operation.
the flsa, as amended, includes other exemptions from the minimum wage and overtime provisions that impact jobs often performed by young workers, such as those contained in section 13(a)(3)
the ywn supported the proposal as written.
flsa section 3(d) was amended in 1966, and the provisions of that amendment are  not reflected in subpart g.
[[page 28404]] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- department of labor wage and hour division 29 cfr parts 570 and 579 rin 1215-ab57 rin 1235-aa01 child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation agency: wage and hour division, labor.
the representative of pleasant hill also noted that youth aged 11 to 14 years of age participate in her facility's junior lifeguard program.
the fmi described itself as a conductor of ``programs in research, education, industry relations and public affairs on behalf of its 1,500 member companies-- food retailers and wholesalers--in the united states and around the world.''
the department, in the anprm published on april 17, 2007, requested public comment on the feasibility of one of those recommendations regarding the creation of a new ho that would prohibit the employment of youth in construction occupations.
executive order  12988, civil justice reform analysis
1060, as amended; 29  u.s.c. 201, et seq.).
in order to utilize the  reg. 3 wsp provisions, sec. 570.37(b)(2) requires a local public or private  school system to file with the administrator of the wage and hour division an  application for approval of a wsp as one that does not interfere with the  schooling or health and well-being of the minors involved.
(4) exceptions from certain of the hours standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(5) of this section are provided for the employment of minors who are participating in a work-study program designed as described in sec.
the red cross objected to the department including the task of ``giving swimming instructions'' in the list of duties that 15-year-olds may perform because the red cross lifeguard training course does not include training on how to give swimming instructions.
the students receive at least the applicable federal and state minimum wages, and applicable taxes are withheld and reported by their respective employers.
the employer must also post a notice on the machine that states, among  other things, which applicable ansi standard the machine meets.
the department proposed revisions of the child labor regulations to implement the 2004 legislation, address 25 of the remaining 29 niosh report recommendations dealing with existing nonagricultural hazardous occupations orders, and revise and/or clarify the permitted and prohibited occupations and industries and conditions and periods of employment established for 14- and 15-year-olds by reg. 3, in an nprm published in the federal register on april 17, 2007 (72 fr 19337).
it advised the department that 100 percent of the students of the 2003 graduating class of one of its schools were accepted into college.
the council submitted no data to substantiate this comment.
an  analysis of the time it will take to prepare the application and written  training agreements for a wsp and the associated recordkeeping suggests these  educational institutions will each spend an average of about 52.5 hours more to  comply with this final rule than might otherwise be spent to establish a  similar work- study program.
finally, the department acknowledges the  recommendations of the dolwd, the council, and the representative of white hat  regarding the relaxation of certain of the hours and time of day restrictions  of reg. 3 to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to work more hours on a school day or  in a school week, or later into the evening.
the clc,  when commenting on the department's inquiry regarding whether employers of  working youth should be given greater flexibility, stated ``[t]here is no need  for dol to bend over backwards to try to assure that children have the absolute  maximum opportunity to squeeze every possible minute of the day into the three  hours that they can work during a school day.
the youth is supervised by an adult relative of the youth or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth; (ii)
the  department carefully considered all the comments and has decided to adopt the  proposal with one clarifying modification.
the national council of chain restaurants (council), the representative of morey's pier, and the fmi supported defining the term school in session by following the academic schedule and attendance requirements of each minor, rather than that of the local public school.
it is important to note that the functions of such mixers, as well as how they are addressed by ho 10 and ho 11, change when different ``attachments'' are used.
the department has not been contacted by any organizations using those names in regards to this proposal.
the  department does not agree with the clc's comment that the dol gives no  indication of what red cross training requires and the ywn's comment that this  proposal is not ``tied to standards in the industry.''
finally, the clc noted that the statute did not  require woodworking establishments that employ youth under the provisions of  flsa section 13(c)(7) to report all work-related accidents and deaths of such  workers to the department.
the department is  including this information in both sec. 570.62(b)(1) and sec. 570.61(a)(4)) to  avoid confusion and facilitate compliance.
the current ho 10 exemption permitting the killing and processing of rabbits or small game in areas physically separated from the killing floor would not be changed.
the term wood chipper would mean a machine equipped with a feed mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper disc or drum, and a power plant used to reduce to chips or shred such materials as tree branches, trunk segments, landscape waste, and other materials.
youth may conduct sales in such employer exterior facilities, whether temporary or permanent, as garden centers, sidewalk sales, and parking lot sales, when employed by that establishment.
a copy of the information collection request can be obtained at http:// www.reginfo.gov or by contacting the wage and hour division as shown in the for further information contact section of this preamble.
as used in this section: all occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention shall include the controlling and extinguishing of fires, the wetting down of areas or extinguishing of spot fires, and the patrolling of burned areas to assure the fire has been extinguished.
because the department has, over the years, received requests for  clarification as to the meaning of remanufacturing departments, it proposed to  add the above definition to ho 4.
the report notes that the survey of  occupational injuries and illnesses reports that in 1997, food and beverage  processing machinery were responsible for 11,737 nonfatal injuries and illness  that resulted in days away from work.
the existing reg. 3 prohibits employers such as state and  local governments, banks, insurance companies, advertising agencies, and  information technology firms from employing 14- and 15-year-old workers in any  jobs other than those that occur in those discrete operations or divisions that  could be characterized as retail, food service, or gasoline service  establishments.
all three also expressed their disappointment that although the department considered adopting niosh's recommendation that the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds be prohibited in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forestry services, it did not do so.
because of changes in the workplace, the introduction of new processes and technologies, the emergence of new types of businesses where young workers may find employment opportunities, the existence of differing federal and state standards, and divergent views on how best to balance scholastic requirements and work experiences, the department has long been reviewing the criteria for permissible child labor employment.
these specialized metal balers and compactors, which process such items as cars, radiators, and siding, may share similar designs and operating procedures with those compactors and balers that process only paper products or process other materials in addition to paper products.
reg. 3 identifies a number of occupations or activities that are  specifically permitted for the employment of youth 14 and 15 years of age in  retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
comments  were received from trade and professional associations; advocacy and  occupational health and safety organizations; employers; federal, state, and  local government agencies; representatives of schools and organizations that  provide vocational training to youth; and one private citizen.
570.35a will be  redesignated as sec. 570.36 and the proposed sec.
the term operation includes setting-up, adjusting,  repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines, regardless of the product being  processed by the machine.
poultry catching and cooping the department has long taken the position that 14- and 15-year- olds may not be employed to catch and coop poultry in preparation for transportation or for market because it is a ``processing'' occupation prohibited by sec. 570.33(a) (old and new).
such a reporting plan would allow an assessment as to whether the revision should be rescinded or further refined to best protect working youth (see niosh report, page 48).
the department received five  comments addressing this proposal.
it did not want the public mistakenly to believe that participation in the proposed work-study program would be limited to private schools, public schools, or any particular religious or nonreligious sect.
[[page 28451]]  particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from  machinery in operation; and (iv)
the department appreciates the concerns of both the ywn and  the clc that the proposed work-study program, unlike the wecep, does not  prohibit participating employers from displacing a worker already employed in  the employer's establishment with a student (see sec. 570.36(e) (new)).
the department believes this clarification will provide guidance to employers.
an adult shall mean an individual who is at least eighteen years  of age.
permitted duties for 15-year-olds would include the use of  a ladder to access and descend from the lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools  to clean the pool and pool area; and the testing and recording of water quality  for temperature and/or ph levels, using all of the tools of the testing process  including adding chemicals to the test water sample.
the department issued a final rule on april 17, 1995 (60 fr 19336) that  deleted subpart d and placed the process of promulgating and revising hos  solely under the provisions of the administrative procedure act (apa), 5 u.s.c.  551 et seq., which governs departmental rulemaking.
the ywn  stated that it ``strongly agrees with this change.''
although the exemption allows certain youths between the ages of 14 and 18  years to be employed inside and outside of places of business that use  power-driven machines to process wood products, it does so only if such youths  do not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
the department  issued a final rule on december 16, 2004 (69 fr 75382), which revised ho 12 to  incorporate the provisions of the compactor and baler act.
by agency > whd whd final rules child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation; final rule [5/20/2010] [ pdf] fr doc 2010-11434
the department notes that it is exploring the feasibility of adopting niosh's alternative recommendation that certain power-driven equipment be prohibited based on function rather than on the material being processed.
before 1995, the process for promulgating  and amending hos included public hearings and advice from committees composed  of representatives of employers and employees of the impacted industry and the  public, in accordance with the procedures established by subpart d of this  part.
)  (new) and the prohibition against employment in occupations in connection with  the transportation of property contained in sec.
both commenters supported the proposal, but made  additional recommendations.
the world waterpark association (wwa) supported the proposal to permit the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks, but opposed that portion of the proposal that would prohibit such youth from working as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides.
employers of wsp participants are also required to keep a  copy of the written participation agreement for each student employed.
also in 2000, a municipality contacted the department inquiring whether it could legally employ such youth as lifeguards at its city-owned swimming pools.
in  addition, such youth have been permitted to be employed, and have been safely  employed, as janitors at many retail and food service establishments over the  years, including department stores, hotels, amusement parks, restaurants, and  large discount stores.
l. 110-233) was enacted into law.
in addition, the department proposed to expand the ho that prohibits youth from operating power-driven circular saws, band saws, and guillotine shears to also prohibit the operation of power-driven chain saws, wood chippers, and reciprocating saws.
(o) work in connection with riding inside passenger compartments of motor vehicles except as prohibited by sec. 570.33(f) or sec. 570.33(j), or when a significant reason for the minor being a passenger in the vehicle is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting--or assisting in the transporting of--other persons or property.
such minors may perform work in offices or repair or maintenance shops.
as the stated purposes of  the hours standards limitations include the protection of young workers from  exhaustion and the preservation of time for rest and family relations, no more  than 3 hours of work is permitted on any day when school is in session.
he or she would normally attend.
such minors would  not be permitted to load or unload such jobsite- related equipment as barriers,  cones, or signage.
the rule does not  have ``substantial direct effects on one or more indian tribes, on the  relationship between the federal government and indian tribes, or on the  distribution of power and responsibilities between the federal government and  indian tribes.''
they specifically mentioned and questioned the efficacy of permitting youth employment in particular industries and employment situations.
the department firmly believes  that the limited and public exercise of its prosecutorial discretion is an  efficient and legal tool available to the secretary in the administration of  the child labor provisions of the flsa.
just like in 1960 when ho 14 was first issued, the department is receiving  reports of injuries and deaths, such as the ones described in the preceding  paragraphs, of youth operating power-driven machines that may be prohibited  when used to process certain types of materials and not prohibited when  processing other types of materials.
after carefully reviewing the comments, the department has decided to adopt the proposal as written.
it was the department's  intention to qualify in the final rule which occupations, if any, would be  permitted for 16- and 17-year- olds after the comments were reviewed.
the department proposed to revise the title of ho 4 to reflect these changes.
the department will evaluate the information to determine if the program meets the requirements specified in the regulation, in order to respond to the request.
a school-supervised and school-administered work-study program shall meet the educational standards established and approved by the state educational agency in the respective state.
the department will add atvs to the list of prohibited equipment presented in the revised sec. 570.33(e) (new) as recommended by the afl-cio and clc.
the council commented that it believes table top food processors and food mixers pose little risk of harm to the safety and well-being of 14- and 15-year-olds and questions why the department continues to prohibit such youth from operating them (see sec.
in addition, the ywn would require that the driver of the vehicle transporting the minors have a valid driver's license.
in order to provide clarification, the department proposed to incorporate this long-standing interpretation into the regulations at sec. 570.33(i) (new).
570.33 certain prohibited occupations that, over  the years, have been the frequent subject of questions or violations.
the appropriate  ansi standards govern not only the manufacture and modification of the  equipment, but the operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee  training as well.
the wwa echoed the concerns of the fmi and asked that the proposed rule be amended to allow employers to calculate hours worked so that saturday and sunday hours may be included within the same workweek.
only the clc commented on this proposal, incorrectly referring to it as ``correcting a typographical error.''
penalties in the following manner: (1)(i)
(reg. 3), sec. 570.54
570.35 and not involving occupations prohibited by sec. 570.33 or performed in areas or industries prohibited by sec. 570.33.
the list of prohibited industries and  occupations helps to define and to provide clarity to the list of permitted  industries and occupations.
the department agrees with several commenters who noted that  applying the same definition of the term week for determining compliance with  the minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions of the flsa would make  it much easier for employers to use their payroll systems as tools and tracking  systems for implementing and maintaining compliance with the child labor  requirements.
the authority citation for subpart e continues to read as follows:  authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 212, 213(c).
in addition, gina also permits the assessment of a civil money penalty not to exceed $50,000 with regard to each violation that caused the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years.
the term shall not include construction sites, portable sawmills, areas where  logging is being performed, or mining operations.
it will further be noted that the act provides various specific exemptions from the foregoing provisions which are set forth and discussed in sec.
the nprm published in the federal register on april 17, 2007 (72 fr  19337) invited comments on the information collection burdens imposed by these  regulations.
the approval expires on may 31, 2013, unless  extended by omb.
properly certified 15-year-old lifeguards may, however, be stationed at the ``splashdown pools'' located at the bottom of the elevated water slides to perform those permitted duties listed in this subsection.
when such an exception is filed with the office making the assessment, the matter is referred to the chief administrative law judge, and a formal hearing is scheduled.
the clc stated that a child permanently expelled from public school  might still be required, under state or local law or perhaps court order, to  attend some other school.
(a) section  13(c)(5) of the flsa provides for an exemption from the child labor provisions  for the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload,  certain power-driven scrap paper balers and paper box compactors under certain  conditions.
the department has long interpreted the term cars and trucks as used in sec. 570.34(a)(8) to include station wagons, suvs, and passenger vans.
the iaapa, which describes itself as the largest international trade  association for permanently-situated amusement facilities worldwide, supported  this proposal.
as  mentioned, section 3(l) of the flsa expressly prohibits children under the age  of 16 from performing any work other than that which the secretary of labor  permits, by order or regulation, upon finding that it does not interfere with  their schooling or health and well-being (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l)).
the network  envisioned the work-study program as an integral part of the academic program,  yielding benefits on many different levels.
(the information collection requirements  contained in sec.
subpart c--employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age (child labor reg. 3) sec.
the occupation of lifeguard, as used in this subpart,  entails the duties of rescuing swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring  of activities at a swimming pool to prevent accidents, the teaching of water  safety, and assisting patrons.
570.35 hours of work and conditions of employment permitted for minors 14 and  15 years of age.
finally, pursuant to guidance provided by the federal register, the department is issuing the proposed sec.
the department is also revising the definitions section in sec.
(new)), requiring that the door be kept open while they are inside the freezer could be unnecessarily burdensome in that, for energy efficiency and food sanitation, most freezers are equipped with self-closing doors.
570.34(b)(7) (old) be expanded to include ``any freezer or cooler regardless of product, including but not limited to meat, seafood, poultry or other produce.''
the fmi stated ``[w]e strongly object to this change, which would create an administrative nightmare, and see no reason for it.''
these smaller general- purpose machines  operate in essentially the same manner as the larger machines and present  similar risks of injury.
the niosh report recommended that the department  expand ho 7 to prohibit the repairing, servicing, and disassembling of the  machines and assisting in tasks being performed by the machines named in the  ho.
the inquiries have concerned such jobs as a computer programmer and computer applications demonstrator for a college, print and runway model, and musical director at a church or school.
the report also recommends that the department remove the current exemption that permits 16- and 17-year-olds to work in the construction of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
sec. 570.33 and 570.34.
in 1998, the department provided funds to the national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh) to conduct a comprehensive review of scientific literature and available data in order to assess current workplace hazards and the adequacy of the current child labor hos to address them.
the city was advised that this enforcement policy did not extend to other prohibited transportation-related work such as the loading or unloading of materials other than the light hand tools the minors may use on-the-job, such as trash or garbage, or power-driven equipment such as lawn mowers, edgers, and weed trimmers--the use of which by this age group is prohibited under reg. 3.
in response to information presented by several restaurants and employer associations, the department adopted an enforcement position in 1990 that it would not assert a violation of ho 11 when a 16- or 17- year-old employee operated a pizza-dough roller, a type of dough sheeter, when the machine: (1) is constructed with safeguards contained in the basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in the in-running point of the rollers; (2) has gears that are completely enclosed; and (3) has microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of the rollers are removed.
congress also provided the secretary of labor with flexibility when administering flsa section 13(c)(5) by allowing balers and compactors to meet any additional standards adopted by ansi if certified by the secretary to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as the standards contained in the compactor and baler act.
it is  important to note that in those rare instances when the catching activities  would be agricultural in nature, such as where poultry catchers are employed  solely by a farmer on a farm to catch poultry raised by that farmer, the  catchers would be subject to the agricultural child labor provisions contained  in flsa sections 13(c)(1) and (2).
the department proposed to revise subpart g to accommodate not only the statutory and regulatory changes that have occurred, but to reflect the proposed revisions to part 570 made by the nprm and discussed earlier in this document.
the council submitted no data to  substantiate this comment.
reg. 3 also incorporates by reference all of the  prohibitions contained in the hazardous occupations orders (29 cfr 570.50-.68),  which identify occupations that are ``particularly hazardous'' and, therefore,  prohibited for 16- and 17-year-olds (e.g., occupations involved in the  operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines, see  sec. 570.33(e) (old) and sec. 570.33(b) (new)).
forestry workers  also experienced fatal injuries such as those typically associated with the  logging industry; in 26 of the 82 fatalities the worker was struck by a falling  object (a tree in all but one instance).
in addition, the following exceptions do not apply to work which entails entering the sawmill building, except for those minors whose employment meets the requirements of the limited exemptions discussed in sec.
finally, a representative of the coosa valley regional development center  requested that 14- and 15-year-olds be permitted to be employed in painting  activities because the ``paint products in use today do not contain lead or  other hazardous materials.''
in addition, some of this prohibited equipment, when used to process meat or mix batter--with or without the use of special ``attachments''--may not be operated by employees under the age of 18 because of the prohibitions of ho 10 or ho 11, respectively.
circular saws and band saws were already covered under ho 5 when used on wood, ho 10 when used on meat, and ho 12 when used on paper products.
the regulations concerning nonagricultural hazardous occupations are contained in subpart e of 29 cfr part 570 (29 cfr 570.50-.68).
570.63, the section heading and paragraphs (a)(2), (b) are revised, paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) are added, and paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(a) is revised to read as follows: sec.
as the stated purposes of the hours standards limitations include the protection of young workers from exhaustion and the preservation of time for rest and family relations, no more than 3 hours of work is permitted on any day when school is in session.
(d) programs shall be in force and effect for a period to be determined by the administrator of the wage and hour division, but in no case shall be in effect for longer than two school years from the date of their approval by the administrator of the wage and hour division.
it expressed concerns that office equipment, such as  large paper shredders and data processing machines with exposed moving parts,  may present hazards to young workers.
the american journal of forensic  medicine and pathology (volume 28, no. 4, december 2001) reports on the death  of a 32-year-old male who lost his balance and fell on the blade of an electric  reciprocating saw he was using to trim branches.
as previously mentioned, reg. 3 was revised to reflect the 1961 amendments to the flsa which extended the act's coverage to include enterprises engaged in commerce or the production of goods for commerce and thereby brought more working youth employed in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments within the protections of the act.
any student  14 or 15 years of age, enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum, whom  authoritative personnel from the school attended by the youth identify as being  able to benefit from the program shall be able to participate.
young workers have been  killed or seriously injured while operating wood chippers.
only the ywn and clc commented on the department's proposal to clarify the reg. 3 limitation that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed to work more than three hours on any one day when school is in session by adding the phrase ``including fridays.''
the  department's enforcement experience supports these findings.
those conditions included that the youth be trained and certified in aquatics and water safety by the red cross or by some similarly recognized certifying organization, and that the youth work under conditions acceptable to the red cross or some similarly recognized certifying organization.
the report specifically notes the risk  of falls and electrocution being linked with such equipment.
(a) specific  exemptions from the child labor requirements of the act are provided for: (1)  employment of children in agriculture outside of school hours for the school  district where they live while so employed; (2) employment of employees engaged  in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer; (3) employment of children as  actors or performers in motion pictures or in theatrical, radio, or television  productions; (4) employment by a parent or a person standing in a parent's  place of his own child or a child in his custody under the age of sixteen years  in any occupation other than manufacturing, mining, or an occupation found by  the secretary to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children  between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years or detrimental to their health  or well-being.
the department appreciates the concerns of certain commenters that 15-year-olds should be permitted to be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides, but believes that continuation of its long-held position that such employment constitutes the prohibited tending of power-driven equipment--just as it is for attendants on roller coasters, merry-go-rounds, and ski-lifts--is both prudent and proper.
570.34(a) to be performed in additional industries, rather than just in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
just like in 1960 when ho 14 was first issued, the department is receiving reports of injuries and deaths, such as the ones described in the preceding paragraphs, of youth operating power-driven machines that may be prohibited when used to process certain types of materials and not prohibited when processing other types of materials.
reciprocating saw shall mean a machine equipped with  a moving blade that alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used  for sawing materials.
both the report and the department's enforcement experience reflect that meat slicers are responsible for many occupational injuries.
the department has also replaced the words firefighting and  firelines in the final rule with the words fire fighting and fire lines.
the department submitted  the information collections contained in sec.
the department, for this very reason, did not specifically  identify the cristo rey network in the nprm.
the department believes that implementation of the final rule would not reduce the overall number of safe, positive, and legal employment opportunities available to young workers.
in these situations, the department has determined that it is not necessary for every employer (tenant) that wishes to take advantage of the loading exemption to post a notice on
in regards to the nonagricultural youth provisions, it stated that ``it does not appear that protection of youth workers is at the heart of some of the proposed changes, but rather the needs of industry and special interest groups.''
the department  notes that the niosh report, after carefully reviewing the available data, did  not include youth peddling as one of the 17 occupations warranting the creation  of a new hazardous occupations order (ho).
the department proposed to revise ho 4 to add a prohibition on the employment  of youth 16 and 17 years of age in forest fire fighting and forest fire  prevention occupations to the current prohibitions on logging occupations, and  occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or  cooperage stock mill.
the department notes that the already existing wecep (see sec.
during the remaining week of the  four-week cycle, such minor is permitted to work during school hours on no more  than two days, and for no more than for eight hours on each of those two days.
nada stated that nowhere in the regulatory history of sec. 570.34(a)(8) or in the niosh report has any suggestion been made that power-equipment-assisted motor vehicle cleaning, washing, and polishing activities pose ``significant safety or health risks to 14- and 15-year-olds.''
the regulatory changes in (new) sec. 570.140 and part 579 implement the recent legislation that revised the civil monetary penalties that may be assessed under section 16(e) of the flsa.
the clc supported this proposal but again expressed concern based on its erroneous assumption that such youth could be employed to paint automobiles.
for similar reasons, the department did not  identify the municipalities that inquired about the employment of youth by  state and local governments and as lifeguards, which led to the department's  enforcement positions on those topics.
the department appreciates the concerns of the ywn, clc, and usla about lowering the employment age for lifeguards at traditional swimming pools and certain water amusement park facilities to 15, but believes that such safeguards as proper certification in aquatics and water safety by a recognized certification organization, the prohibition against tending power-driven machinery which prevents 15- year-olds from working as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides, the osha standards addressing potential exposures to bloodborne pathogens and chemicals, and the hours and times of day standards established by sec.
the  department proposed to revise reg. 3 at new sec.
1321-373 and 112 stat.
------------------------------------------------------------------------ (2) the notice shall completely identify the appropriate ansi standard.
lack of experience in the work place and in  assessing risks, and developmental factors--physical, cognitive, and  psychological--all contribute to the higher rates of occupational injuries and  deaths experienced by young workers.
the clc  recommended that the proposal clarify where young employees of retail  establishments may legally make sales.
this rule is not subject to e.o.  13045 because it is not economically significant as defined in e.o. 12866.
one such condition is that the vehicle be equipped with a seat belt for the driver and any passengers and that the young driver's employer has instructed the youth that the seat belts must be used when driving the vehicle.
such confirmation shall be noted in any letters of application filed by  the superintendent of the public or private school system in accordance with  paragraph (b)(2) of this section when seeking continuance of its work-study  program.
the department also wishes to assure both the ywn and clc that employers participating in the work-study program authorized by sec.
for purposes of this exception, impermissible duties include grounds or field maintenance such as grass mowing, spreading or rolling tarpaulins used to cover playing areas, etc.; cleaning and repairing equipment; cleaning locker rooms, showers, lavatories, rest rooms, team vehicles, club houses, dugouts or similar facilities; loading and unloading balls, items and equipment from team vehicles before and after a sporting event; doing laundry; and working in concession stands or other selling and promotional activities.
the department has also moved the definition of portable sawmill contained within sec. 570.54(a)(2) (old) to the definitions section (sec. 570.54(b) (new)).
permitted duties for 15-year-olds would include the use of a ladder to access and descend from the lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools to clean the pool and pool area; and the testing and recording of water quality for temperature and/or ph levels, using all of the tools of the testing process including adding chemicals to the test water sample.
* * (3) occupations other than those permitted under sec.
the term public in this context refers to the customers being served and not the nature of the ownership of the firm.
the ywn not only disagreed with the proposal but suggested that the current prohibitions detailed at sec.
in order for employers to take advantage of the limited
this exemption, as detailed in the compactor and baler act, would apply only to certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, as currently defined in sec. 570.63(b).
the department has interpreted  the reg. 3 prohibition regarding service as helpers on a motor vehicle to  preclude youth under the age of 16 from riding anywhere outside the passenger  compartment of the motor vehicle.
the facilities manager or owner, or the  owner of the equipment, may make the necessary postings and satisfy each  employer's (tenant's) posting obligations under the exemption.
because these ansi standards are copyright-protected, the  department cannot include them in the regulations or reproduce them for  distribution to the public.
nancy j. leppink, deputy administrator, wage and  hour division. 0
finally, they may work in timber cruising, surveying, or logging engineering parties; in the repair or maintenance of roads, railroads, or flumes; and in forest protection, such as clearing fire trails or roads, piling and burning slash, maintaining fire-fighting equipment, constructing and maintaining telephone lines, or acting as fire lookouts or fire patrolman away from the actual logging operations--but only if such tasks do not involve the felling or bucking of timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, the operation of power-driven machinery, the handling or use of explosives, and working on trestles.
the journal noted that the  victim had been drinking beer while trimming the branches.
hoist shall mean a power-driven apparatus for raising or lowering a load by the application of a pulling force that does not include a car or platform running in guides.
intimidation by crew leaders is commonly reported.
the department accepted those  recommendations and proposed no revisions to these hos.
the clc also supported this proposal with additional comments and  recommendations.
this is also true for poultry processing which is  not encompassed in the existing ho.
i. occupations involved in the operation of  bakery machines (order 11) (29 cfr 570.62) ho 11 generally prohibits the  employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in occupations involved in the operation of  power-driven bakery machines.
he stated ``such a rule would cripple career technical education (cte) programs that have work-based learning opportunities embedded within the curriculum.''
(c) part 579 of this  chapter, child labor violations--civil money penalties, provides for the  issuance of the notice of civil money penalties for any violation of flsa  sections 12 or 13(c) relating to child labor.
(5) employment of homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen  wreaths, including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products  used in making such wreaths.
for example, the department has encountered a situation involving the employment of very young females as ``taxi-dancers'' who were recruited and paid by bars and nightclubs to dance with male patrons, often late into the evening.
the dolwd recommended that 14- and 15-year-olds  should be permitted to operate weed eaters that use monofilament line (but not  weed eaters that use metal blades) provided adequate eye and hearing protection  are in place.
the youth was electrocuted shortly after midnight when he bumped into  a fan while performing his ``catching'' duties.
it is the  department's position that section 13(c)(7)'s prerequisite that the youth is  ``required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to  excessive levels of noise and saw dust'' includes the youth's actual use of  such equipment and not just the employer's obligation to mandate such use.
the department also decided not to propose  implementation at this time of the report recommendation concerning limiting  the current apprenticeship and student-learner exemption contained in ho 10 to  retail, wholesale and service industries.
although originally proposed as an experimental program, reg. 3 was amended to make the wecep a permanent exception.
two commenters, the ywn and  the clc, addressed the proposal to incorporate into sec.
not included in the definition  of a traditional swimming pool would be such natural environment swimming  facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, quarries, reservoirs, wharfs,  piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
section 570.54 is revised to  read as follows: sec.
the proposed revisions to subpart g were as follows: 1.
570.33 certain prohibited occupations that, over the years, have been the frequent subject of questions or violations.
guillotine shears are covered under hos 5, 8, 10 and 12 when used on wood,  metal, meat, and paper products, respectively.
the department proposed to limit the types of employers that may employ such minors, as well as the worksites at which such minors may be employed, to those contemplated by the language of the statute and mentioned by the sponsors of the legislation and the interested parties that testified at the hearings held by congress prior to the enactment of the legislation (see, e.g., testimony before senate labor, health and human services, and education subcommittee of the committee on appropriations, the employment needs of amish youth, 107th cong.
in response to the inquiries, the department adopted an enforcement policy in 2000 that allowed 15-year-olds (but not 14-year-olds) to be employed at swimming pools owned and operated by state and local governments or private-sector retail establishments under certain conditions.
although section 13(c)(7) permits the employment of certain youth inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products, it does so only if the youth do not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
* * (4) all occupations involved in the operation or feeding of the following power-driven machines, including setting-up, adjusting, repairing, or oiling such machines or the cleaning of such machines or the individual parts or attachments of such machines, regardless of the product being processed by these machines (including, for example, the slicing in a retail delicatessen of meat, poultry, seafood, bread, vegetables, or cheese, etc.): meat patty forming machines, meat and bone [[page 28456]] cutting saws, poultry scissors or shears; meat slicers, knives (except bacon-slicing machines), headsplitters, and guillotine cutters; snoutpullers and jawpullers; skinning machines; horizontal rotary washing machines; casing-cleaning machines such as crushing, stripping, and finishing machines; grinding, mixing, chopping, and hashing machines; and presses (except belly-rolling machines).
though  cognizant of the limitations of the report, the department places great value  on the information and analysis provided by niosh.
the previous sec. 570.54(a)(1)(iii) specifically excluded  from the list of logging tasks deemed to be particularly hazardous to young  workers who work in timber cruising, surveying or logging-engineering parties;  work in the repair or maintenance of roads, railroads, or flumes; and work in  forest protection, such as clearing fire trails or roads, piling and burning  slash, maintaining fire-fighting equipment, constructing and maintaining  telephone lines, or acting as fire look-out or fire patrolman away from the  actual logging operation.
the report shows that a substantial number of deaths and injuries are associated with operating and assisting in tasks performed by power-driven hoisting apparatus, including deaths of youth (see niosh report, page 36).
failure to meet the requirements of this section may result  in withdrawal of the approval.
579.1, paragraph (a) is  revised to read as follows: (a) section 16(e), added to the fair labor  standards act of 1938, as amended, by the fair labor standards amendments of  1974, and as further amended by the fair labor standards amendments of 1989,  the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1990, the compactor and balers safety  standards modernization act of 1996, and the genetic information  nondiscrimination act of 2008, provides for the imposition of civil money
a local chapter of the american red  cross (chapter) first raised this issue in 2000.
unfunded mandates reform act for purposes of the unfunded mandates reform act of 1995, 2 u.s.c. 1532, this rule does not include any federal mandate that may result in excess of $100 million in expenditures by state, local and tribal governments in the aggregate or by the private sector.
the forest  service also noted that it ``currently uses 16- and 17-year-old job corps  employees and private contractors in our fire camps to perform such tasks as  building platforms for tents, stocking commissary items, performing timekeeping  activities and providing food services.''
consistent with its enforcement position, the department exercised its prosecutorial discretion, as authorized by 29 u.s.c. 216(e), and declined to cite reg. 3 occupations violations for the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds by state and local governments as long as that employment fell within the occupations authorized by reg. 3 (sec. 570.34(a) (old)) and did not involve any of the tasks or occupations prohibited by reg. 3 (sec.
in fact, depending upon the facts of each situation and the degree of control the school exercises over the employment of the participating student, it is possible that the student would be considered to be jointly employed by the host- employer and the youth's school under the flsa (see 29 cfr part 791).
section 570.128 is redesignated as  sec. 570.141 and a new sec.
for the reasons set out in the preamble, the department amends title 29, parts 570 and 579, of the code of federal regulations as follows: part 570--child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation 0 1.
the sic industry group of forestry services encompasses  establishments primarily engaged in performing, on a contract or fee basis,  services related to timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and  marketing, as well as other forestry services not contained in another sic such  as timber cruising, forest fire fighting, and reforestation.
as  niosh stated, ``[t]his relatively small difference in rates is cause for  concern because youth under age 18 are employed less frequently in especially  hazardous jobs.''
(n) work in  connection with cars and trucks if confined to the following: dispensing  gasoline and oil; courtesy service; car cleaning, washing and polishing by  hand; and other occupations permitted by this section, but not including work  involving the use of pits, racks, or lifting apparatus, or involving the  inflation of any tire mounted on a rim equipped with a removable retaining  ring.
the clc also cited additional  ansi standards that touch upon equipment used in the waste disposal and  recycling industries and questioned why these are not incorporated into ho 12.
the  department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the  proposal with certain clarifying modifications.
the department issued a final rule on april 17, 1995 (60 fr 19336) that deleted subpart d and placed the process of promulgating and revising hos solely under the provisions of the administrative procedure act (apa), 5 u.s.c. 551 et seq., which governs departmental rulemaking.
this enforcement position permitted such employment at swimming pools operated by hotels, amusement parks, cities, and state- owned universities, but did not permit such employment at pools operated by non-public and non-retail establishments such as apartment houses, country clubs, private schools, home-owner associations, and private health clubs.
the  term chain saw would mean a machine that has teeth linked together to form an  endless chain used for cutting materials.
the employment of such minors would still  be governed by the remaining provisions of reg. 3, including the daily, weekly,  morning, and evening hours standards limitations contained in sec.
* * (a)(1) that the scrap paper baler or compactor meets the industry safety standard applicable to the machine, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and displayed in the following table.
a representative of six flags, inc. also supported the proposal  and stated that ``[w]hile we still believe that 15-year-olds could safely work  as dispatchers on elevated water elements, we find the proposed changes to be  an acceptable compromise.''
the niosh report recommends that the department  retain, as currently issued, ho 3 (coal mining occupations), ho 13 (occupations  involved in the manufacture of brick, tile, and kindred products), ho 15  (occupations involved in wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking occupations),  and ho 17 (occupations in excavation operations).
570.34(a)(7) (old) and sec. 570.34(i) (new) and minors generally must be at  least 16 years of age to operate them.
operator shall  mean a person who operates a machine covered by this section by performing such  functions as starting or stopping the machine, placing materials into or  removing them from the machine, or any other functions directly involved in  operation of the machine.
hide cellar includes a workroom or workplace where hides are  graded, trimmed, salted, and otherwise cured.
in addition, the department proposed to revise the definition of manlift so that, as recommended by the report, it incorporates those pieces of equipment that perform the same functions as manlifts but that do not currently fall within the prohibitions of the ho.
any administrative determination by the secretary of the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the flsa shall be final, unless within 15 days after receipt of notice thereof by certified mail the person charged with the violation takes exception to the determination that the violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred, in which event final determination of the penalty shall be made in an administrative proceeding after opportunity for hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, united states code, and regulations to be promulgated by the secretary.
the term does not include larger vehicles such as buses, tractor-trailers, and heavy- construction equipment--all of which would generally be considered motor vehicles under reg. 3 and ho 2.
that penalty may be doubled, up to $100,000, when such violation is determined by the department to be a repeated or willful violation.
570.62, paragraph (a)(2) is revised, and a new paragraph (b) is added, to read as follows: sec.
the term retail/wholesale or service establishments, as defined in ho 10, includes establishments where meat or meat products are processed or handled, such as butcher shops, grocery stores, restaurants, quick service establishments, hotels, delicatessens, and meat locker (freezer-locker) companies, and establishments where any food product is prepared or processed for serving to customers using machines prohibited by the ho.
the department received four comments addressing the proposal regarding riding on motor vehicles.
most recently, the department investigated the death of a 16-year-old grocery store worker in new york who was crushed to death by a baler that had been jerry-rigged to operate while the door to the loading chamber was open.
as an outgrowth of this proposal, it stated that ``it  would make sense either for the wage and hour division to enforce osha in this  context by issuing osha citations that assert osha violations, or for the wage  and hour division investigator to notify osha of an osha violation and direct  osha to investigate the matter as well for osha violations.
the  department has defined abrasive cutting disc to mean a machine equipped with a  disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting materials.
executive order 12630, constitutionally protected property rights
accordingly, to meet the requirements of this legislation, the department proposed to revise reg. 3 to permit the employment of qualifying 14- and 15-year-olds inside and outside of places of business where manufacturing (the processing of wood products by machinery) takes place, subject to specified conditions and limitations.
(b)  work of an intellectual or artistically creative nature such as, but not  limited to, computer programming, the writing of software, teaching or  performing as a tutor, serving as a peer counselor or teacher's assistant,  singing, the playing of a musical instrument, and drawing, as long as such  employment complies with all the other provisions contained in sec.
in addition, such youth have been permitted to be employed, and have been safely employed, as janitors at many retail and food service establishments over the years, including department stores, hotels, amusement parks, restaurants, and large discount stores.
the clc recommended that the proposal clarify where young employees of retail establishments may legally make sales.
the department also proposed to reformat, in an  alphabetical sequence, all the definitions found in sec. 570.61(b) to comport  with guidance provided by the federal register.
in response to the 1994 anprm issued by the department, calls for banning  door-to-door sales by those under 18 years of age were received from the  national consumers league, the defense for children international, usa, and the  food and allied service trades department, afl-cio.
revise paragraph (c)(3) introductory text of newly redesignated sec.
the fmi, council, afl-cio, and ywn all supported adoption of the department's enforcement position allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to operate--including setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, and cleaning--lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power- driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, those models intended for household use.
this legislation amended the flsa by adding subsection 13(c)(5), which permits 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors only when certain conditions are met.
the compactors and balers safety standards modernization act, public law  104-174 (compactor and baler act), was signed into law on august 6, 1996.
the department addressed six of those recommendations in the 2004 final rule published december 16, 2004 (see 69 fr 75382).
[[page 28455]] to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris  or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation; and (iv)
as supported by the provisions of the  compactor and baler act, the final rule expanded the coverage of ho 12 to  include those balers and paper box compactors that process other materials in  addition to paper products.
this provision does not prohibit a young salesperson from  conducting sales for his or her employer on property controlled by the employer  that is out of doors but may properly be considered part of the employer's  establishment.
the revisions the department proposed to sec. 570.54(a)(1) (old) that removed paragraph (iii) of that subsection evidenced the department's intention to prohibit
although gina does not define the terms repeated violations and willful  violations, those terms already have been defined by the wage and hour division  (see 29 cfr 578.3(b) and (c)), and are currently applied, pursuant to section  16(e) of the act, in the assessment of civil money penalties for repeated and  willful violations of sections 6 and 7 of the flsa.
this section shall  not apply to the operation, including the setting up, adjusting, repairing,  oiling and cleaning, of lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top  power-driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, models intended for  household use.
the department is continuing  to review all of the remaining niosh report recommendations, but excluded them  from immediate consideration in order to keep the size and scope of the 2007  anprm and nprm manageable.
570.34(l)(2) to reflect that 15-year-olds may be employed as swimming instructors only when they have been certified to perform both lifeguard and swimming instruction by the red cross or some other recognized certifying organization.
gina, among other things, amended flsa section 16(e) so that any  person who violates the provisions of sections 12 or 13(c) of the flsa,  relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections,  shall be subject to a civil money penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each  employee who was the subject of such a violation.
accordingly, the department proposed to amend the  definition of power- driven woodworking machines to include those machines that  process trees, logs, and lumber.
the fmi commented that most of its  members already have systems in place based on their own workweeks that  automatically check hours worked to make sure minors do not exceed their  allowable hours.
the determination of the amount of any civil money penalty becomes final if no exception is taken to the administrative assessment thereof, or if no exception is filed to the decision and order of the administrative law judge.
serious injury means: (1) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (2) permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or, (3) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
in the report, niosh itself recognized the confines of its methodology and included appropriate caveats about the limitations of the available data and gaps in research.
the department does not agree with the clc's comment that the dol gives no indication of what red cross training requires and the ywn's comment that this proposal is not ``tied to standards in the industry.''
the afl- cio and ywn agreed with the department's proposal to amend the definition of power-driven woodworking machines to include those machines that process trees, logs, and lumber.
the most important of the child labor provisions are contained in sections 12(a), 12(c), and 3(l) of the act.
the term includes work performed in timber culture, timber tracts, timber-stand improvement, and forest fire fighting and fire prevention.
the department has revised the regulatory language proposed  in the nprm for ho 4 at sec. 570.54(a) to make it clear that the employment of  16- and 17-year-olds to perform most jobs in timber tract, forestry service,  and tree farm operations are prohibited.
this proposal, however, would not prevent a 16- or 17-year-old from operating a commercial dishwasher to run a self-contained rack containing parts of or attachments to a power-driven meat processing machine through the dishwasher so long as the youth does not actually handle or touch the machine parts or attachments.
therefore, no initial regulatory flexibility analysis was required.
the clc took issue with the department's statement that assisting in tasks being performed by the machines would constitute tending--an activity prohibited by the proposal.
579.2 to include the terms serious injury, repeated violations,  and willful violations.
guillotine shear shall mean a machine equipped with a  moveable blade operated vertically and used to shear materials.
although this is  evidenced by the department's compliance and enforcement guidance and the  structure of the nprm, it was not explicitly stated in the proposed rule.
the department received six  comments in response to this proposal.
a more thorough discussion of  each of these exemptions was proposed to be included in sec.
this enforcement position  applies only when all the safeguards detailed above are present on the machine,  are operational, and have not been overridden.
the occupations of operating or  assisting in the operation of and the term power-driven woodworking machines  are well-established in the regulations, including in sec.
total number of responses: 3030 (30 wsp applications, 1500 school district written participation agreements, 1500 employer written participation agreements).
as previously explained, any job not  specifically permitted is prohibited.
the clc believed that such publicizing will remind all american youth, their parents, and their employers ``of the grave dangers that these machines represent to working children.''
the youth is supervised by  an adult relative or by an adult member of the same religious sect or division  as the youth; (ii)
the ywn supported the proposal with additional requirements.
the clc  noted that many of these chemicals pose risks of both short-term and long-term  effects on the human body and also are extremely flammable, and hence pose  significant fire and explosion hazards.
specifically, the department believes  school districts sponsoring a wsp will incur the greatest additional costs.
this  proposal would be accomplished by revising sec.
only the mandatory provisions (i.e., provisions containing the word ``shall'' or other mandatory language) of these standards are adopted as standards under this part.
the report notes that there were 712 non-fatal injuries  and illnesses in 1997, with a median of 11 days away from work, associated with  work with mixers, blenders, and whippers (see niosh report, page 49).
the brief comments of the afl-cio  stated that it ``strongly supports the dol's proposal to extend prohibitions to  include operating, loading and unloading balers and compactors designed or used  to process materials other than paper.''
(k) loading and unloading of goods or property onto or from motor vehicles, railroad cars, or conveyors, except the loading and unloading of personal non-power-driven hand tools, personal protective equipment, and personal items to and from motor vehicles as permitted by sec. 570.34(k).
gina amended flsa section 16(e) to define serious  injury as (1) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses  (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (2) permanent loss or  substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental  faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other  body part; or (3) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes  loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
the  department's enforcement experience led it to incorporate into the regulations  certain long-standing enforcement positions involving the definitions of  remanufacturing departments of sawmills (ho 4), high- lift trucks (ho 7), and  the cleaning of power-driven meat processing equipment (ho 10).
niosh reports on its web site (see http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/youth) that in 2007, an estimated 48,600  work-related injuries and illnesses among youth 15 to 17 years of age were  treated in hospital emergency departments.
this  study was commissioned to provide the secretary with another tool to use in her  ongoing review of the child labor provisions, and of the hazardous occupations  orders in particular.
16- and 17-year-olds from operating or tending aerial platforms and other manlifts such as scissor lifts, boom-type mobile elevating work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
this proposal, however, would not prevent a 16- or 17-year-old from  operating a commercial dishwasher to run a self-contained rack containing parts  of or attachments to a power-driven meat processing machine through the  dishwasher so long as the youth does not actually handle or touch the machine  parts or attachments.
finally, the department is well aware of the importance of keeping all stakeholders informed of its compliance assistance initiatives and enforcement findings, and of serious occupational injuries involving youth.
the department also proposed, for the sake of brevity and clarity, not to repeat the list of individual hos as they are already listed in subpart e of 29 cfr part 570.
under this final rule, properly certified 15-year-olds could be employed at such pools as lifeguards.
jobs in such areas as state and local governments, banks,  insurance companies, advertising agencies, and information technology firms all  normally fall outside of the permitted establishments declared in reg. 3.
with regard to  cooking and the use of kitchen equipment, the department notes that it  implemented new rules concerning the types of cooking that may be performed by  14- and 15-year-olds in its final rule published in the federal register on  december 16, 2004 (69 fr 75382).
lifeguards may also help to maintain order and cleanliness in the pool  and pool areas, give swimming instructions (if, in addition to being certified  as a lifeguard, the 15-year-old is also properly certified as a swimming  instructor by the american red cross or some other recognized certifying  organization), conduct or officiate at swimming meets, and administer first  aid.
youth peddling the department proposed to amend reg. 3 and create sec. 570.33(j) to ban the employment of 14- and 15-year-old minors in occupations involving youth peddling, also referred to as ``door-to-door sales'' and ``street sales.''
the usla commented that, since 1980, it has maintained the position that lifeguards serving at natural environments, whether surf or non-surf beaches, should be at least 16 years of age.
she also opined that such dispatchers are not in contact with any  power-driven machinery.
[[page 28443]] driven  metal forming, punching, and shearing machines).
the department also notes, as it has stated previously in this final rule, that its limited and public exercise of its prosecutorial discretion is an efficient and permissible tool available to the secretary in the administration of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
the department firmly believes that the limited and public exercise of its prosecutorial discretion is an efficient and legal tool available to the secretary in the administration of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
l. additional  recommendations of the report
additional applicable standards are the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.5-1997 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--baling equipment--safety requirements (ansi z245.5-1997), the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.5-2004 american national standard for equipment technology and operations for wastes and recyclable materials--baling equipment--
finally, as mentioned above, such youth should also be  permitted to perform certain tasks related to forest fire fighting and [[page  28432]] forest fire prevention, when not performed in conjunction with the  extinguishing of a fire, such as the clearing of trails or roads; the  construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire  lookout or fire patrolman; and tasks associated with the operation of a fire  fighting base camp.
d. work-study  programs effective november 5, 1969, reg. 3 was amended to provide a variance  from some of the provisions of sec.
the proposal required that each minor must have his or her own seat in the passenger compartment, each seat must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device, and the employer must instruct the minors that such belts or other devices must be used.
during the remaining week of the four-week cycle, such minor would be permitted to work during school hours on no more than two days, and for no more than eight hours on each of those two days.
examples of industries or activities included in sic 083 are the gathering of balsam needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss, spanish moss, sphagnum moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of gum, turpentine, and rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of pine gum.
she also addressed the position of water slide dispatcher, stating ``we  see no reason or evidence that this is a dangerous job that should be  restricted.''
[[page 28404]]  -----------------------------------------------------------------------  department of labor wage and hour division 29 cfr parts 570 and 579 rin  1215-ab57 rin 1235-aa01 child labor regulations, orders and statements of  interpretation agency: wage and hour division, labor.
the department also proposed to revise ho 4 to include all the definitions necessitated by the incorporation of the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) as discussed earlier in this document.
the national recreation and park association  (nrpa), which described itself as ``a non-profit organization seeking to  enhance public park facilities and expand recreation opportunities,'' supported  the adoption of the proposed change in regulations that would revise reg. 3 in  order to ``conditionally allow'' 15-year-olds to be employed at traditional  swimming pools and water parks.
[[page  28426]] meet the educational needs of people in many economically challenged  areas throughout the country.
the dolwd supported the proposal provided adequate safety provisions were in place.
the department also believes that the  certification process as proposed by the department, which again is similar to  that required of wecep applicants, provides sufficient transparency without  requiring publication in the federal register or public comment.
the list  of occupations in sec. 570.33 is not exhaustive.
this revised definition  of power-driven woodworking machines would be included in sec. 570.34(m) of  reg. 3 and both sec.
ansi is a national organization that  coordinates the development of voluntary, [[page 28438]] consensus standards in  a wide range of areas, including product and worker safety.
instead, these subsections state  that the minors are permitted to ``clean kitchen equipment (not otherwise  prohibited), remove oil or grease, pour oil or grease through filters, and move  receptacles containing hot grease or hot oil, but only when the equipment  surfaces, containers, and liquids do not exceed a temperature of 100 [deg]f.''
the department also proposed to revise ho 4  to include all the definitions necessitated by the incorporation of the  provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) as discussed earlier in this document.
the clc stated that it welcomes the change as this work is plainly too hazardous for 14- and 15-year-olds to perform.
the department has always interpreted the term power-driven machinery very broadly to include machines driven by electrical, mechanical, water, or other power such as steam or hydraulic.
the exemption concerning the employment of  homeworkers who make wreaths, contained in flsa section 13(d), is an exemption  from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the act as well as its child  labor provisions.
tending such equipment includes assisting in the  hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment.
the provisions of this exemption are contained in subpart c of this part (sec. 570.34(m)) and ho 4 (sec. 570.54).
the  docket id for the nprm that generated these comments is whd-2007-0002.
(c) employment of minors enrolled in a program approved  pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be confined to not more than  18 hours in any one week when school is in session, a portion of which may be  during school hours, in accordance with the following formula that is based  upon a continuous four-week cycle.
the exemption contained in sec. 570.58(a)(1) permitting youth to  operate and ride inside passenger elevators would be retained, but the  exemption that currently allows 16- and 17-year-olds to operate an electric or  air-operated hoist not exceeding one ton capacity would be eliminated as per  the report recommendation.
the occupations of operating or assisting in the operation of and the term power-driven woodworking machines are well-established in the regulations, including in sec.
the department also decided not to propose implementation at this time of the report recommendation concerning limiting the current apprenticeship and student-learner exemption contained in ho 10 to retail, wholesale and service industries.
paper box compactor means a powered machine that remains stationary during operation, used to compact refuse, including paper boxes, into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
intimidation by  crew leaders is commonly reported.
the limited exemption provided by flsa section 13(c)(5) and contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1), which allows 16- and 17-year-old workers, under specific conditions, to load but not operate or unload certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, would remain.
570.140 are added to read as follows: enforcement sec. 570.140 general.
additional  applicable standards are the american national standard institute's standard  ansi z245.5-1997 american national standard for equipment technology and  operations for wastes and recyclable materials--baling equipment--
these sections would be redesignated as sec.
the department received an inquiry on this issue after the publication of the proposal.
the word ``operations'' was the word used by the  department when ho 8 was first enacted in 1950 and its use was appropriate for  the time.
even if nada had presented data  supporting its statement that power-equipment-assisted motor vehicle washing  and polishing poses ``no significant safety or health risks to 14- and  15-year-olds,'' the department notes that such a standard is considerably more  lax than the flsa section 3(l) standard the secretary must apply when  determining permissible employment opportunities for such youth.
[[page 28436]]  report's recommendation to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed  power-driven meat and food slicers in retail, wholesale and service industry  establishments.
for such employment to comply with reg. 3, the employee would have to be at least 15 years of age and be properly certified.
, she noted that her facility has ``swim instructors who are certified by the american red cross as water safety instructors, but are not lifeguard certified.''
for example, clerical work, cashiering, and clean-up work are  authorized, whereas ``all work requiring the use of ladders, scaffolds, or  their substitutes'' is prohibited.
each school participating in a work- study program shall  designate a teacher-coordinator under whose supervision the program will  operate.
the clc noted that although the proposed sec. 570.34(b)  contains the statement that artistically creative work is limited to work in a  recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor, it does not define the term  artistic or creative endeavor.
although not defined in the regulations, the department has, since at least 1942, considered the term remanufacturing departments to mean those departments of a sawmill where lumber products such as boxes, lawn furniture, and the like are remanufactured from previously cut lumber.
because sign wavers and those hired to  wave or hold up other products, or wear placards, sandwich boards, or costumes  to attract potential customers are exposed to many of the same dangers  associated with youth peddling, the following sentence has been added to sec.
all occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention, in  timber tracts, in forestry services, logging, and the operation of any sawmill,  lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill are particularly hazardous for  the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age, except the following  when not prohibited by any other section of this subpart: (1) work in offices  or in repair or maintenance shops.
tty/tdd callers may dial toll-free (877) 889-5627 to obtain  information or request materials in alternative formats.
the term motor vehicle is defined in sec. 570.52(c)(1).
both commenters supported the proposal, but made additional recommendations.
the department notes that, because the flsa does not cover individuals who volunteer to perform services for state or local government agencies when the provisions in section 3(e)(4) are met, this proposal would not prohibit 16- and 17-year-old volunteers from donating their forest fire fighting services to state and local governments.
under ho 7, 16- and 17-year-olds may currently perform such work, except they  may not assist in the operation of a crane, derrick, or hoist as defined by the  ho.
the department, when issuing the 2004 final rule, noted that there still remained one class of balers and compactors that falls outside of the scope of ho 12--those machines that are designed or used exclusively to process materials other than paper.
lifeguards may also help to maintain order and  cleanliness in the pool and pool areas, give swimming instructions, conduct or  officiate at swimming meets, and administer first aid.
sections 570.58(a)(1) and (a)(2) would be revised to reflect that in addition to work involved with operating the named equipment, the work of tending, riding upon, working from, servicing, repairing or disassembling such equipment would also be prohibited.
accordingly, the newer standards were incorporated into ho 12.
the exemption, contained at section 13(c)(7) of the flsa, overrides the ho 4 prohibition against 16- and 17-year-olds performing any work in the sawmill industry that entails entering the sawmill building by permitting certain youth to be employed inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products.
the nrpa also supported establishing a minimum  age of 16 for the employment of lifeguards at natural environments.
the child labor provisions of the flsa permit 16- and 17- year-olds to work in the nonagricultural sector without hours or time limitations, except in certain occupations found and declared by the secretary to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or well-being of such workers.
(j) cleaning vegetables and fruits, and the wrapping, sealing, labeling, weighing, pricing, and stocking of items, including vegetables, fruits, and meats, when performed in areas physically separate from a freezer or meat cooler.
the usla noted that the participants at this conference, which used a consensus-based process to issue its recommendations, considered such factors as the physical and cultural parameters of the natural environments to be guarded; the psychological and physiological stresses of public safety employment; the lack of physical stamina, maturity, and experience of those under 16 years of age; and the varying levels of supervision provided young lifeguards.
the clc also cited additional ansi standards that touch upon equipment used in the waste disposal and recycling industries and questioned why these are not incorporated into ho 12.
over sixty percent of that number, 7,280  injuries and illnesses, were caused by food slicers.
570.34(a)(8) (old) by clarifying that 14- and 15-year-olds may perform car cleaning, washing, and polishing, but only by hand (see sec. 570.34(n) (new)).
the department is slightly modifying the proposed revisions to sec.
this was evidenced by the revisions to ho 2 published on  december 16, 2004 (see 69 fr 75382, see also sec. 570.52(b)) necessitated by  the enactment of flsa section 13(c)(6), which permits limited on-the-job  driving by 17-year-olds under certain conditions, but not by 16-year-olds.
wage  and hour division  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 29 cfr  parts 570 and 579 child labor regulations, orders and statements of  interpretation; final rule
570.36  and 570.37 as sec.
the department is  incorporating the new requirements of this amendment into its regulations.
retail/wholesale or service establishments include establishments where meat or meat products, including poultry, are processed or handled, such as butcher shops, grocery stores, restaurants and quick service food establishments, hotels, delicatessens, and meat locker (freezer-locker) companies, and establishments where any food product is prepared or processed for serving to customers using machines prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
the ywn also recommended that the proposed definition of power-driven woodworking machines be revised to permit 16- and 17-year-olds to use small hand-held battery- operated drills that accommodate bits no larger than \3/8\'' and hand- held oscillating- or vibrating-type sanders.
in addition, such minors would be permitted to load onto and unload  from motor vehicles any personal protective equipment they themselves will use  at the work site and any personal items such as backpacks, lunch boxes, and  coats their employers allow them to take to the work site.
the whd occasionally receives requests for  clarification from employers seeking to lengthen the work shifts of younger  employees on nights that do not precede a school day.
570.65(c) that permits  apprentices and student-learners to perform, under specific guidelines, tasks  that would otherwise be prohibited by ho 14.
the chapter inquired as to whether reg. 3 would permit the  employment of 15-year- olds as lifeguards.
properly certified 15-year-old lifeguards, however, may be stationed at the ``splashdown pools'' located at the bottom of the elevated water slides to perform traditional lifeguard duties.
federalism this rule does not have federalism implications as outlined in e.o. 13132 regarding federalism.
accordingly, these newer  standards were incorporated into ho 12.
accordingly, 14- and 15-year-olds generally have been  prohibited from loading and unloading any property (not just ``goods'') onto  and from motor vehicles, including the light personal hand tools they use in  performing their duties.
written  participation agreement: the school system administering the wsp and each  applicable employer shall separately maintain a copy of the written  participation agreement for each student.
when congress enacted the flsa in 1938, it created section 13(a)(1), which provides a complete exemption from the minimum wage and overtime provisions for employees employed in the capacity of outside salesman.
579.5  determining the amount of the penalty and assessing the penalty.
``a hoisted load weighing  less than one ton has the potential to cause injury or death as a result of  falling, or being improperly rigged or handled.
telephone: 1-866-4-usa-dol (1-866-487-2365) | tty: 1-877-4-889-5627 | contact us
scrap paper baler means a powered machine used to compress paper and  possibly other solid waste, with or without binding, to a density or form that  will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a  disposable or reusable container.
the occupation of setting up or  adjusting a cookie or cracker machine.
3 dealing with power-driven machinery into a single, new subsection located at sec. 570.33(e) and to expand the list of prohibited machinery, with certain caveats.
it also commented that it found it difficult to construct reasons that differentiate the natural environment from the pool environment, given that many of the reasons for establishing a minimum age of 16 years for employment as a lifeguard at a natural environment facility are equally applicable at traditional pools.
the department followed this interpretation when it amended ho 12 and added standards ansi z245.5-1997 and ansi z245.2-1997 in 2004 (see 69 fr 75396) and again when promulgating this final rule.
the term compensation would not include the small prizes, trophies, or other awards of minimal value that the eleemosynary organization may give a volunteer in recognition of his or her fund raising efforts.
the department received an inquiry after the publication of the nprm asking why ponds and quarries, places where swimming often occurs, were not specifically listed as natural environment swimming facilities in sec.
the consolidated appropriations act, 2004, public law  108-199, sec. 108, which was signed into law on january 23, 2004, amended the  flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for minors  14 to 18 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond  the eighth grade.
this legislation added section 13(c)(6) to the flsa which prohibits minors under 17 years of age from driving automobiles and trucks on public roadways on the job and establishes the conditions and criteria for 17-year-olds to drive automobiles and trucks on public roadways on the job.
in 1999, the department investigated the death of a young poultry  processing worker in arkansas and the serious injury of a similarly employed  minor in missouri who injured both of his legs when he slipped and fell into an  auger.
570.37 (new), the participating school district  and employers share the burden of ensuring that the employment of work- study  program participants is in compliance with the flsa.
* * * (7) all occupations involving the handlifting or handcarrying any carcass or half carcass of beef, pork, horse, deer, or buffalo, or any quarter carcass of beef, horse, or buffalo.
570.34 occupations that may be performed by  minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the exemption, contained in section 13(c)(7) of the flsa, allows eligible youth, under specific conditions, to be employed inside and outside of places of business that use machinery to process wood products, but does not allow such youth to operate or assist in operating power-driven woodworking machines.
the clc is correct in its interpretation that 14- and 15-year-olds  are permitted under sec. 570.34(a)(4) (old) and sec. 570.34(g) (new) to perform  errand and delivery work by foot, bicycle, and public transportation for their  employers when their employers are not engaged in the business of providing  messenger services to others.
in addition, these  standards are available for inspection at the national archives and records  administration (nara).
the employment of 15-year-olds (but not 14-year- olds) to perform permitted lifeguard duties at traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks (including such water park facilities as wave pools, lazy rivers, specialized activity areas that may include water falls and sprinkler areas, and baby pools; but not including the elevated areas of power-driven water slides) when such youth have been trained and certified by the american red cross, or a similar certifying organization, in aquatics and water safety.
the department's proposed wsp, unlike the cristo  rey model, requires annual classroom instruction in workplace safety and state  and federal child labor provisions and rules (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(ii)), the  oversight of a designated teacher-coordinator required to make visits to the  students' workplaces (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iii)), the completion of a detailed  written participation agreement (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iv)), and a rigorous  certification process.
* * (4)  all occupations involved in the operation or feeding of the following  power-driven machines, including setting-up, adjusting, repairing, or oiling  such machines or the cleaning of such machines or the individual parts or  attachments of such machines, regardless of the product being processed by  these machines (including, for example, the slicing in a retail delicatessen of  meat, poultry, seafood, bread, vegetables, or cheese, etc.): meat patty forming  machines, meat and bone
(i) work in freezers and meat coolers and all work in the preparation of meats for sale except as permitted by sec. 570.34(j).
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- sec.
in order to remove any confusion and increase employer compliance, the department proposed to amend reg. 3 and create sec. 570.33(l) to specifically prohibit the employment of 14- and 15-year-old minors in occupations involving the catching and cooping of poultry for preparation for transport or for market.
570.101(c) to include the more recent definition of the term employer and to correct an erroneous reference to flsa section 13(d).
sec. 570.33 occupations that are prohibited to minors  14 and 15 years of age.
they may  work in the peeling of fence posts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood,  cordwood, or similar products when not done in conjunction with and at the same  time and place as other logging occupations declared hazardous by ho 4.
the ywn reported that, in formulating its comments, it tried to use the following principles: the regulations should protect youth from significant hazards; where possible, the regulations should be kept clear and consistent, limiting the number of exceptions or exemptions, thus fostering better compliance and more effective enforcement; and, the regulations should allow youth to do a broad variety of different types of potentially rewarding work.
also included would be ``public use'' waste receptacles--often found at airports and other large complexes--that include compaction equipment that allow the public to dispose of refuse and then automatically processed the waste at predetermined intervals.
the exception to this rule is where there  is some discrete operation or division that could legitimately be characterized  as such an establishment and therefore would be subject to these rules (e.g.,  minors employed in a food service operation at a city park or a publicly owned  sports stadium).
the provisions of this exemption are  contained in subpart c of this part (sec. 570.34(m)) and ho 4 (sec. 570.54).
the provisions contained in paragraph (a)(8) of this section that prohibit youth between 16 and 18 years of age from performing any work that entails entering the sawmill building do not apply to the employment of a youth who is at least 14 years of age and less than 18 years of age and who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, if: (i)
(old and new), permitting 16- and  17-year-olds to be employed in certain sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or  cooperage stock mill occupations.
this approach seems to us to give  far more emphasis to work experiences for 14- and 15-year-olds than to their  education.''
ansi is a national organization that coordinates the development of voluntary, [[page 28438]] consensus standards in a wide range of areas, including product and worker safety.
on may 21, 2008, the genetic information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) (pub.
the authority citation for part 579 is  revised to read as follows:
570.33 occupations that are prohibited to  minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the national recreation and park association (nrpa), which described itself as ``a non-profit organization seeking to enhance public park facilities and expand recreation opportunities,'' supported the adoption of the proposed change in regulations that would revise reg. 3 in order to ``conditionally allow'' 15-year-olds to be employed at traditional swimming pools and water parks.
accordingly, the department has revised the regulatory language in sec. 570.54(a)(2).
the clc, which has more than 30 member organizations, described itself as the largest grouping in the united states of advocates for the protection of the safety, health, and education of working children.
the department has decided not to incorporate into reg. 3 its long- standing enforcement position that a calendar week--12:01 a.m. sunday through midnight saturday--shall be the framework for determining if a 14- or 15-year-old has been employed more than 18 hours in any week when school is in session or more than 40 hours in any week when school is not is session.
the report recommends that this exemption no  longer be applicable to the employment of such minors in meat products  manufacturing industries.
such youth may not ride in the bed of a  pick-up truck, on the running board of a van, or on the bumper of a refuse  truck.
g. occupations involved in the operation of power-driven  hoisting apparatus (order 7) (29 cfr 570.58) ho 7 generally prohibits 16- and  17-year-olds from employment in occupations that involve the work of: (1)
because the department believes that the health, well-being, and educational opportunities of 14- and 15-year-olds who are academically oriented are not placed at risk by participation in structured work- study programs such as the network's model--and are in fact enhanced by such participation--it proposed that reg. 3 be revised to accommodate such programs.
579.5, paragraphs (a) and (e) are revised to read as follows: sec.
minors less than 16 years of  age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated  water slides-- employees who maintain order, direct patrons as to when to  depart the top of the slide, and ensure that patrons have safely begun their  ride--because such work constitutes ``tending'' as used in reg. 3.
web  site athttp:/ /www.youthrules.dol.gov/resources.htm.
in fact, ensuring that permissible job opportunities for working youth are safe, healthy, and not detrimental to their education, as required by the statute, produces many positive benefits in addition to fewer occupational injuries and deaths, including reduced health and productivity costs that employers may otherwise incur because of higher accident and injury rates to young and inexperienced workers.
working  in the dark, with the only illumination provided by ``red lights'' which the  fowl cannot see, and in poorly ventilated rooms, is not uncommon.
sec. 570.33(b), 570.34(a)(6), and  570.34(b)(6)--all of which address power-driven machinery--into a single  paragraph located at sec. 570.33(e)
it is well established that several characteristics of youth place adolescent workers at increased risk of injury and death.
it is the department's position that section 13(c)(7)'s prerequisite that the youth is ``required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust'' includes the youth's actual use of such equipment and not just the employer's obligation to mandate such use.
570.34 to only retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
a traditional swimming pool,  as used in this subpart, would mean a water-tight structure of concrete,  masonry, or other approved materials located either indoors or outdoors, used  for bathing or swimming and filled with a filtered and disinfected water  supply, together with buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection  therewith.
the council also recommended that the department expand  the number of hours that such youth may be employed to four hours on any school  day; to as late as 8 p.m. on any evening between labor day and may 31st; and as  late as 10 p.m. on any evening between june 1st and labor day.
water amusement park means an  establishment that not only encompasses the features of a traditional swimming  pool, but may also include such additional attractions as wave pools; lazy  rivers; specialized activities areas such as baby pools, water falls, and  sprinklers; and elevated water slides.
even though, under this rule, 14- and 15-year-olds may only  occasionally enter freezers momentarily to retrieve items (see sec. 570.33(i)
the department's proposed wsp, unlike the cristo rey model, requires annual classroom instruction in workplace safety and state and federal child labor provisions and rules (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(ii)), the oversight of a designated teacher-coordinator required to make visits to the students' workplaces (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iii)), the completion of a detailed written participation agreement (see sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iv)), and a rigorous certification process.
the council stated ``[t]he niosh recommendation appears well-supported'' while the fmi believed the department's position to be ``surprising as the niosh recommendations are based on the hard data and analysis that dol asked niosh to provide.''
flsa section 3(l) establishes a minimum age of 16 years for most  nonagricultural employment but allows the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds  in occupations other than manufacturing and mining, if the secretary of labor  determines such employment is confined to periods that will not interfere with  the minor's schooling and conditions that will not interfere with the minor's  health and well-being.
congressional  hearings and the department's enforcement experience have shown that the  problems associated with children performing door- to-door sales and street  sales are numerous.
the department has long recognized the importance of, and the benefits  resulting from, osha and whd working together to share enforcement expertise  and information, and to leverage compliance assistance initiatives.
the fmi commented that most of its members already have systems in place based on their own workweeks that automatically check hours worked to make sure minors do not exceed their allowable hours.
the ho prohibits, with certain exceptions discussed below, the loading, operating, and unloading of scrap paper balers, including paper box balers and compacting machines, and other power-driven machines used in the remanufacture or conversion of paper or pulp into a finished product.
the department has previously opined that espresso makers and  cappuccino makers are types of automatic coffee machines and
the  department, in its 2007 nprm, specifically requested public comments as to  which occupations or tasks within the timber tract, tree farm, and forestry  service industries, if any, are not particularly hazardous or detrimental to  the health and well-being of youth (see 72 fr 19351).
part 580 of this chapter, civil money penalties-- procedures for assessing and contesting penalties, describes the administrative process for assessment and resolution of the civil money penalties.
gina, among other things, amended flsa section 16(e) to provide that any person who violates the provisions of sections 12 or 13(c) of the flsa, relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil money penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation.
as noted in the nprm and again in this final rule, the  department considers this statement to be an endorsement of its administration  and enforcement of ho 12 and agreed to continue this important activity.
the  department proposed to combine sec.
acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and the piling and burning of  slash.
employment that is not specifically permitted is prohibited.
while the department appreciates the remaining safety-affecting recommendations made by the ywn, clc, and dolwd, it believes the provisions of the original proposal, when coupled with other existing state and federal provisions dealing with the safe operation of motor vehicles, will provide ample protections to young workers.
congress also provided the secretary of labor with  flexibility when administering flsa section 13(c)(5) by allowing balers and  compactors to meet any additional standards adopted by ansi if certified by the  secretary to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as the standards  contained in the compactor and baler act.
570.35, does not interfere with their schooling or with their health and well-being and shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor.
the clc, when commenting on the department's inquiry regarding whether employers of working youth should be given greater flexibility, stated ``[t]here is no need for dol to bend over backwards to try to assure that children have the absolute maximum opportunity to squeeze every possible minute of the day into the three hours that they can work during a school day.
the department sought public comments about this issue in the anprm that was published concurrently with the nprm on april 17, 2007 (72 fr 19328).
the department agreed with the niosh report recommendation that ho 4 should be expanded to cover work in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention because of the risks inherent in those occupations.
570.102 and in footnote 21, which is cited in sec.
home-schooled youth would be able to participate in  work-study programs operated by local public schools in the same manner many  currently participate in team sports programs, band, and other extracurricular  activities.
(ix) manual loading of bundles of shingles  or shakes into trucks or railroad cars, provided that the employer has on file  a statement from a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy certifying the  [[page 28454]] minor capable of performing this work without injury to himself,  except minors under 16 years of age may not load bundles of shingles or shakes  into trucks or railroad cars as they are prohibited from loading and unloading  goods or property onto or from motor vehicles, railroad cars, or conveyors by  sec. 570.33(k) of this part.
the limited exemption contained in section 13(c)(7) applies only to certain youth--new entrants into the workforce--and only when certain additional criteria are met.
the city advised the department that, even with the adoption of the  enforcement position that permits state and local governments to employ minors  under certain conditions, it was being forced to abandon a youth-employment  program that provided 14- and 15-year-olds with certain jobs because of the  prohibition against loading materials into vehicles.
* * using machetes  and pruning shears *
(2) compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by the u.s. department of labor's occupational safety and health administration (osha) or, in those areas where osha has authorized the state to operate its own occupational safety and health plan, the applicable standards issued by the office charged with administering the state occupational safety and health plan. 0
this rule is not subject to e.o. 13045 because it is not economically significant as defined in e.o. 12866.
the term shall not include work performed in the  planing-mill department or other remanufacturing departments of any sawmill or  remanufacturing plant not a part of a sawmill.
it believes  that encouraging employers to create such multiple employment opportunities for  youth who qualify for participation in the work-study program warrants this  flexibility.
the seventeen hos were adopted individually during the period of 1939 through 1963.
ho 7 defines a manlift as a device intended for  the conveyance of persons that consists of platforms or brackets mounted on, or  attached to, an endless belt, cable, chain or similar method of suspension;  such belt, cable or chain operating in a substantially vertical direction and  being supported by and driven through pulleys, sheaves or sprockets at the top  and bottom.
the nprm proposed to continue to  allow the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds in all those retail, food  service, and gasoline service establishment occupations in which they are  currently permitted to be employed.
570.35 combine to provide adequate protections to these young workers.
in certain situations, such as at shopping malls, industrial parks, office buildings, or military bases, multiple employers may have access to and use ``community'' balers and compactors that the facilities manager or owner has made available to the tenants or contractors.
the work of assisting in the operation of a crane, derrick, or  hoist would be prohibited because such tasks fall within the scope of tending  of equipment.
the department received five comments addressing this proposal.
the effect of these orders is to raise the minimum age for employment to 18 years in the occupations covered.
a water amusement park means an establishment that not only encompasses the features of a traditional swimming pool, but may also include such additional attractions as wave pools; lazy rivers; specialized activities areas such as baby pools, water falls, and sprinklers; and elevated water slides.
the ho was created because of the extremely high numbers of occupational fatalities and injuries that were experienced by workers of all ages in these industries.
flsa section 11(c) requires all employers covered by the flsa to make, keep, and preserve records of their employees' wages, hours, and other conditions and practices of employment.
such minors would not be permitted to load or unload safety equipment such as barriers, cones, or signage.
(4) every public or private school district having students in a  work-study program approved pursuant to these requirements, and every employer  employing students in a work-study program approved pursuant to these  requirements, shall comply with the following: (i) permissible occupations.
in fact, employment opportunities for 14- and 15-year-olds would increase with creation, for example, of a limited exemption for certain work-study programs, allowing youth to be employed in work of an intellectual or creative nature, and allowing youth to be employed in those permitted occupations listed in sec.
because very little  substantive information was received, the department withdrew the anprm on  february 24, 2010.
under sec. 570.33(j) as originally  proposed, a retail establishment that sets up an outside sales center to sell  such things as garden supplies, plants, outdoor furniture, portable grills,  christmas trees, etc., that participates in a retailer association neighborhood  ``sidewalk sale'' event, or that routinely displays its wares outside its  building may question whether it could use its young sales staff in such  endeavors.
the department has long interpreted the  term cars and trucks as used in sec. 570.34(a)(8) to include station wagons,  suvs, and passenger vans.
[[page 28442]] reciprocating saws  constitute another example of such a machine.
this revised list will be contained in sec.
the youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood
flsa section 16(e) now states that any person who violates the provisions of flsa sections 12 or 13(c), relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation.
the  department has restated this position numerous times in response to written  requests and has included this position in its field operations handbook since  at least 1992.
the clc stated that its comments are in line with its stated mission and objectives, which include creating a network for the exchange of information about child labor, providing a forum and a unified voice on protecting working minors and ending child labor exploitation, and developing informational and educational outreach to the public and private sectors to combat child labor abuses and to promote progressive initiatives and legislation.
there has also been some confusion among employers as to what constitutes a milk shake blender under reg. 3.
[[page 28406]] data available, addressed 25 of the remaining 29 niosh report recommendations dealing with the existing nonagricultural hazardous occupations orders.
the department is aware of the death of an adult plumber in minnesota in 2002 who was killed when the blade of the reciprocating saw he was using to rough-in plumbing entered his head near his eye.
the fmi reported that its retail membership is composed of large  multi-store chains, regional firms and independent supermarkets.
in addition, flsa section 3(e)(4)(a) excludes from the definition of ``employee'' individuals who volunteer to perform services for public agencies.
for similar reasons, the department did not identify the municipalities that inquired about the employment of youth by state and local governments and as lifeguards, which led to the department's enforcement positions on those topics.
these hazardous occupations orders (hos) apply on either an  industry basis, specifying the occupations in a particular industry that are  prohibited, or an occupational basis, irrespective of the industry in which the  work is performed.
in 1987, the permanent subcommittee on  investigations of the committee on governmental affairs of the united states  senate held hearings on the exploitation of young adults in door-to-door sales.
the niosh report did not mention the provisions  of sec. 570.34(a)(8) because the report dealt exclusively with hos, which  address work that is particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health and  well-being of 16- and 17-year-old minors.
it also prohibits the occupations of off-bearing from circular saws and from guillotine-action veneer clippers.
the  department is aware that, given the flsa's mandate that before 14- or  15-year-olds may legally be employed to perform any covered work, the secretary  of labor must first determine that the work to be performed does not constitute  oppressive child labor, it could choose to publish only a list of permissible  occupations and industries, and not provide a list of certain commonly arising  prohibited occupations and industries.
part iv  department of labor  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
the department proposed to revise reg. 3 to [[page 28421]] include definitions of these terms along with the specific prohibition against operating or assisting in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
the public messenger goes between two parties, neither of whom  is necessarily known to the messenger.
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc all supported the proposed changes to prohibit the employment of young workers in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations.
section  570.33(c) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds in the  operation of motor vehicles or service as helpers on such vehicles.
no comments were received that identified any tasks in these industries as being safe for minors to perform.
the term also applies to those machines which, in addition to paper products, process other material for disposal.
all  occupations in forestry services shall mean all work involved in the support of  timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and marketing, and  forest protection.
[redesignated as sec. 570.36] 0 4.
reg. 3 identifies a number of occupations or activities that are specifically permitted for the employment of youth 14 and 15 years of age in retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
for a discussion of this provision, see sec.
the wwa opined that ``[it] is a universally accepted position of the aquatic community that a lifeguard's first responsibility is to prevent accidents and injuries by enforcing rules and educating patrons * *
an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not  required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a  currently valid omb control number (see 5 cfr 1320.6).
although, as noted, the ho prohibits the use of several different power-driven bakery machines, the thrust of the report's recommendation involves food mixers.
injuries, and even deaths, have occurred as the result of young children engaging in youth peddling activities.
first, the department has been persuaded by the comments of the forest service and the dolwd that 16- and 17-year-olds can safely be employed in certain capacities in forest protection and in the operation of fire fighting base camps.
the concentration or distillation of these products, when carried out in the forest, is also included [[page 28430]] in this industry.
(3) exceptions from certain of the hours standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section are provided for the employment of minors who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised work-experience and career exploration program as detailed in sec.
the clc stated that it  ``welcomes'' the proposed inclusion of chain saws, wood chippers, and  reciprocating saws but also ``sees no reason for dol's failure to include  abrasive cutting discs as well.''
employment of  certain youth inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven  machinery to process wood products.
it is well  established that several characteristics of youth place adolescent workers at  increased risk of injury and death.
a representative of morey's pier of wildwood, new jersey, whose comments were submitted by the iaapa, supported the proposal to allow the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks.
the loading onto motor vehicles and the unloading from motor vehicles of the light, non-power-driven, hand tools and personal protective equipment that the minor will use as part of his or her employment at the work site; and the loading onto motor vehicles and the unloading from motor vehicles of personal items such as a back pack, a lunch box, or a coat that the minor is permitted to take to the work site.
reg. 3 was promulgated in 1939  under the direction of the chief of the children's bureau, in whom congress  vested the original delegation of authority to issue child labor regulations.
if fatalities result  from recognized illegal activities, such as working with fireworks or a  power-driven circular saw, the best strategy for preventing future injuries may  not be to revise the regulations but to increase compliance with existing laws  through public awareness initiatives, targeted compliance assistance efforts,  and stepped-up enforcement activities.
for example, the  department has encountered a situation involving the employment of very young  females as ``taxi-dancers'' who were recruited and paid by bars and nightclubs  to dance with male patrons, often late into the evening.
570.62(b)(2) would apply only when all the  safeguards detailed above are present on the machines, are operational, and  have not been overridden.
[[page 28461]] violation of section 215(a)(2) of the flsa, to be paid to the secretary.
prohibited machines include those indoor- types of  power-driven trash compactors equipped with built-in carts that detach from the  compactor to facilitate disposal of the compacted waste.
in addition, the student's parent or guardian shall either sign or otherwise provide consent for the participation agreement to be valid.
as used in this paragraph (l): permitted lifeguard duties include the rescuing  of swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring of activities at poolside to  prevent accidents, the teaching of water safety, and providing assistance to  patrons.
(1) school is not considered to be in session, and exceptions from the hours limitations standards listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section are provided, for any youth 14 or 15 years of age who: (i) has graduated from high school; (ii) has been excused from compulsory school attendance by the state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the eighth grade and his or her employment complies with all the requirements of the state school attendance law; (iii)
in addition, the report recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit 16-  and 17-year-olds from employment involving certain commonly used  manlifts--especially aerial platforms--that do not meet the current definition  of manlift contained in the ho.
the ywn and afl-cio suggested that  ho 7 be expanded to prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from working with hydraulic  grease racks, though the ywn recommended that an exception be made to permit  automotive repair students in cooperative education programs who have been  properly trained and receive appropriate supervision to ``work around these  racks'' but not to operate them.
no comments were received opposing this proposal.
the department believes that before  any changes to the existing exemptions are made, it is important to first  consider and develop criteria for determining when apprenticeship and  student-learners exemptions are appropriate.
in that regard, the department is nearing completion of its thorough review of the niosh recommendations that address the agricultural hazardous occupations orders.
the department has  carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to implement the proposal as  written with two minor modifications.
section 13(c)(7) allows the employment of certain 14- and 15-year-olds inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products as discussed above.
as mentioned, the department proposed to revise this list of permitted occupations by clarifying it, adding to it, and extending its application to all employment covered by the flsa, except those employers engaged in mining or manufacturing, or any industry or occupation prohibited by the proposed sec. 570.33.
the department proposed to amend the definition of power-driven woodworking machines to include those machines that process trees, logs, and lumber in recognition that section 13(c)(7) now permits certain youth 14 through 17 years of age to work in such places of business as sawmills, lath mills, and shingle mills where trees, logs, and lumber would be processed.
\1\ january 21, 2009 memorandum for the heads of executive departments and agencies, available at:http:// edocket.access.gpo.gov/2009/pdf/e9-1777.pdf.
such  youth may work up to 23 hours in any one week when school is in session and not  more than 3 hours in any day when school is in session, any portion of which  may be during school hours.
the department proposed to revise this section to incorporate the changes necessitated by the adoption of flsa section 13(c)(7) and to reflect the proposed revisions to sec.
accordingly,  even if 15-year-old minors have been certified as lifeguards, the provisions of  sec.
the teacher-coordinator shall generally supervise and coordinate the  work and educational aspects of the program and make regularly scheduled visits  to the workplaces of the participating students to confirm that minors  participating in the work-study program are employed in compliance with all  applicable provisions of this part and section 6 of the fair labor standards  act.
the apprenticeship and student  learner exemptions contained in certain hos were developed relatively  independently of each other as each ho was adopted.
these activities are normally performed in environments and under  conditions that present risks of injury and illness to young workers.
the department has added language to sec. 570.54(a) to make it clear that the limited exceptions to ho 4 listed in that paragraph do not include any work that would be prohibited by any other ho contained in subpart
the term permitted lifeguard duties does not include the operation or tending of power- driven equipment including power-driven elevated water slides often found at water amusement parks and some swimming pools.
this should be made more explicit by barring youth peddling `in  front or around the outside of the establishment.'''
participants included  representatives of the american camping association, red cross, national safety  council, ymca of the usa, council for national cooperation in aquatics, centers  for disease control and prevention, u.s. coast guard, boy scouts of america,  the national park service, several major municipal lifeguard agencies from  throughout the usa, and several medical experts.
570.35 for the employment of minors 14 and  15 years of age enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and  administered work experience and career exploration program (wecep).
three titanium plates were permanently implanted into the minor's skull.
the determination of the amount of any  civil money penalty becomes final if no exception is taken to the  administrative assessment thereof, or if no exception is filed to the decision  and order of the administrative law judge.
since receiving the report,  the department has conducted a detailed review and has met with various  stakeholders to evaluate and prioritize each recommendation for possible  regulatory action consistent with the established national policy of balancing  the benefits of employment opportunities for youth with the necessary and  appropriate safety protections.
the clc  strongly urges dol not to permit children under 18 to do any of this work, much  of which is already prohibited.''
the rule was: (1) reviewed to eliminate drafting errors and ambiguities; (2) written to minimize litigation; and (3) written to provide a clear legal standard for affected conduct and to promote burden reduction.
the department is incorporating the new requirements of this amendment into its regulations.
each participating school would be required to name a teacher- coordinator to supervise the work-study program, make regularly scheduled visits to the students' work sites, and ensure that participants are employed in compliance with the minimum wage and child labor provisions of the flsa.
compliance with the provisions of paragraphs  (m)(1)(iii) and (m)(1)(iv) of this section will be accomplished when the  employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing  standards issued by the u.s. department of labor's occupational safety and  health administration (osha) or, in those areas where osha has authorized the  state to operate its own occupational safety and health plan, the applicable  standards issued by the office charged with administering the state  occupational safety and health plan.
in the case of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are employed to perform  sports-attending services at professional sporting events, i.e., baseball,  basketball, football, soccer, tennis, etc., the requirements of paragraphs  (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section shall not apply, provided that the duties  of the sports-attendant occupation consist of pre- and post-game or practice  setup of balls, items and equipment; supplying and retrieving balls, items and  equipment during a sporting event; clearing the field or court of debris,  moisture, etc., during play; providing ice, drinks, towels, etc., to players  during play; running errands for trainers, managers, coaches, and players  before, during, and after a sporting event; and returning and/or storing balls,  items and equipment in club house or locker room after a sporting event.
youth peddling does not include  the activities of persons who, as volunteers and without compensation, sell  goods or services on behalf of eleemosynary organizations or public agencies.
this revision would also expand the current prohibitions involving quarter carcasses of beef and horse to include buffalo.
570.35 combine to provide adequate protections to these  young workers.
the representative of morey's pier recommended that the term workweek should be defined, but not necessarily by the calendar.
the proposed prohibition concerning the employment of youth in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention would apply to all forest locations and buildings located within the forest, not just where logging or sawmilling takes place.
the final rule became effective on february 14, 2005.
the national council of chain restaurants (council), the  representative of morey's pier, and the fmi supported defining the term school  in session by following the academic schedule and attendance requirements of  each minor, rather than that of the local public school.
section 570.127 contains a  general discussion of the enforcement of the flsa child labor provisions.
* * * (7) all occupations involving the handlifting or handcarrying any  carcass or half carcass of beef, pork, horse, deer, or buffalo, or any quarter  carcass of beef, horse, or buffalo.
gina, effective may 21, 2008,  increased the maximum civil money penalty that may be assessed for violations  that cause the death or serious injury of a minor from $11,000 to $50,000.
and expand the list of examples of prohibited equipment to include power- driven trimmers, weed-eaters, edgers, golf carts, food processors, and food mixers.
the  department also proposed to revise the definition of high-lift truck to  incorporate a long-standing enforcement position that industrial trucks such as  skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, and bobcat loaders are high-lift trucks as  defined by ho 7.
the ywn is a subcommittee of the occupational health and safety section of the american public health association.
in addition, the department proposed to restructure all the definitions in ho 4 in an alphabetical sequence to comport with guidance provided by the federal register.
the exemption also places limitations on the number of trips the 17-year-old may make each day and restricts the driving
for purposes of this exemption, the department proposed  that a lightweight, small capacity mixer is one that is not hardwired into the  establishment's power source, is equipped with a motor that operates at no more  than \1/2\ horsepower, and whose bowl capacity does not exceed five quarts.
wood chipper shall mean a machine equipped with a feed  mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper disc or drum, and a power plant  used to reduce to chips or shred such materials as tree branches, trunk  segments, landscape waste, and other materials.
sec. 570.31 secretary's  determinations concerning the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age.
for example, the afl-cio noted that ``[w]orking in the forest  industry can involve working at heights *
[[page 28412]] inventory and cleanup work, involving  prolonged stays in freezers or meat coolers, are also prohibited.
the temperature of 100[deg] f, when presented in sec. 570.34(a)(7) (old) and sec. 570.34(i) (new), does not apply to the operation of kitchen equipment or to such permitted activities as cooking with certain grills or deep fryers.
the ho also prohibits the  employment of such youth in the occupation of setting up or adjusting a  ``cooky'' or cracker machine.
the consolidated appropriations act, 2004, public law 108-199, sec. 108, which was signed into law on january 23, 2004, amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for minors 14 to 18 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
the department has decided to adopt the above proposals as written, with three exceptions.
the term shall include both passenger and  freight elevators (including portable elevators or tiering machines), but shall  not include dumbwaiters.
however, the department appreciates the afl-cio's recommendation that ``dol begin gathering the necessary data to substantiate and justify the need for extension of this coverage for future proposed regulations as quickly as possible.''
(iii) teacher-coordinator.
after  carefully reviewing the comments, the department has decided to continue its  long-standing enforcement position that school hours are defined by the hours  that the local public school district where the minor resides when employed is  in session, and to add this definition to sec. 570.35(b) to avoid confusion and  to simplify both compliance and enforcement of the hours standards of reg. 3.
the afl-cio strongly urges dol not to permit children under 18 to do any of this work.
the department agrees  with the ywn that the word intellectual better comports with the intent of this  proposal than the word mental.
the term shall  not include other types of shearing machines, using a different form of  shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular shears.
scrap paper baler means a powered machine used to compress paper and possibly other solid waste, with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable container.
her facility has ``cashiers who  are not lifeguard certified, but who help maintain order/cleanliness in the  pool area (deck, locker rooms, crowd control during emergency, etc.).
the telephone number for ansi is (212) 642-4900 and its web site is located at http://www.ansi.org.
although neither the flsa nor reg. 3 defines the terms school hours and school is in session as they apply to nonagricultural employment, the department has developed and applied a long-standing enforcement position that these terms refer to the normal hours of the public school system in the child's district of residence.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal as originally written with a conforming clarification in sec.
civil penalties collected for violations of section 212 shall be deposited in the general fund of the treasury.
both the ywn and the clc supported this proposal.
the term includes work performed in timber culture,  timber tracts, timber-stand improvement, and forest fire fighting and fire  prevention.
the clc noted that the niosh report recommended that ho 7 prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from employment that, among other things, included ``assisting in tasks being performed'' by the power-driven hoisting equipment.
570.105 to 570.111,  inclusive.
in addition, as niosh was tasked with examining issues within the framework of the current hos only, the report did not consider the extent to which fatalities occur despite existing hos, occupational safety and health administration (osha) standards, or state laws prohibiting the activity.
however, such tasks are permitted only when not performed in conjunction  with extinguishing a forest fire.
these standards are also  available for inspection at the occupational safety and health administration's  docket office, room n-2625, u.s. department of labor, 200 constitution avenue,  nw., washington, dc 20210, or any of its regional offices.
standard z245.5-1990....
2010-11434 filed 5-19-10; 8:45 am] billing code 4510-27-p back to top freedom of information act | privacy & security statement | disclaimers | customer survey | important web site notices u.s. department of labor | francis perkins building, 200 constitution ave., nw, washington, dc 20210 www.dol.gov |
under the proposed rule, no youth under 15 years of age, whether properly  certified or not, could legally perform any portion of the lifeguard duties  detailed above as part of his or her flsa covered employment.
similarly, witnesses  stressed that early morning and late evening work hours, which interfered with  sleep and often fostered exhaustion, were unhealthful for children and also  diminished the time that children should have spent with the family (see in the  matter of proposed regulation relating to the employment of minors between 14  and 16 years of age under the fair labor standards act, official report of the  proceedings before the children's bureau, february 15, 1939, at 19, 21, 34,  82).
570.36 to read as follows: sec.
the department received no comments opposing adoption of this portion of the proposal.
the brief comments of the afl-cio stated that it ``strongly supports the dol's proposal to extend prohibitions to include operating, loading and unloading balers and compactors designed or used to process materials other than paper.''
solicitor of labor means the solicitor, u.s. department of labor, and includes attorneys designated by the solicitor to perform functions of the solicitor under this part and part 780 of this chapter.
wecep was created to provide a carefully planned work experience and career exploration program for 14- and 15-year-old youth who can benefit from a career-oriented educational program designed especially to meet the participants' needs, interests, and abilities.
the department decided not to propose implementation of the report recommendation that would allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers in retail, wholesale and service industry establishments.
reports of children being abandoned, suffering injuries from violence and motor vehicle crashes, and being exposed to the elements have been substantiated.
for example, clerical work, cashiering, and clean-up work are authorized, whereas ``all work requiring the use of ladders, scaffolds, or their substitutes'' is prohibited.
the  afl-cio, ywn, and clc all expressed concern about this proposal, stating that  such sweeping changes would allow 14- and 15- year-olds to work in many more  industries, and they recommended that the department conduct further analysis.
the report notes that investigations of baler-related incidents show that failure to maintain machinery in safe operating condition contributes to fatalities and serious injuries and that neither adult supervisors nor young workers may fully appreciate the risks posed by uncontrolled hazardous energy.
the  department has long interpreted this term to mean that type of equipment that  was generally found in snack bars and lunch counters when reg. 3 was issued and  used to prepare a ``to-order'' milk shake for an individual customer.
sawmills, planing mills, and millwork *
570.34(l)(2) to reflect that 15-year-olds may be employed as swimming  instructors only when they have been certified to perform both lifeguard and  swimming instruction by the red cross or some other recognized certifying  organization.
the term operation includes setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines, regardless of the product being processed by the machine.
570.33 (old), they  are prohibited.
finally, the clc also questioned, as did the ywn, if the ``host employers'' or the cristo rey high school would be considered the actual employers of the youth under the flsa.
curing cellar includes a workroom or workplace which is primarily devoted to the preservation and flavoring of meat, including poultry, by curing materials.
loading of personal hand tools onto motor vehicles and  riding on motor vehicles (sec.
570.34(a)(7) (old) once the final rule becomes effective.
splitting  shakes manually from precut and split blocks with a froe and mallet, except  inside the mill building or cover.
reg. 3 sets forth the employment standards for 14- and  15-year-olds.
the provisions of gina and the impact they have on this  rulemaking are more fully discussed later in section o of this preamble.
the department has long recognized the importance of, and the benefits resulting from, osha and whd working together to share enforcement expertise and information, and to leverage compliance assistance initiatives.
this subpart concerns the employment of  youth between 14 and 16 years of age in nonagricultural occupations; standards  for the employment of minors in agricultural occupations are detailed in  subpart e-1.
(old) and will continue to be permitted by sec. 570.34(i)
570.62(b)(2) that will permit such youth to operate--but not set-up, adjust, repair, oil, or clean--those power- driven pizza-dough rollers that: (1) are constructed with safeguards contained in the basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in the in-running point of the rollers; (2) have gears that are completely enclosed; and (3) have microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of the rollers are removed.
the department notes that, because the flsa does not  cover individuals who volunteer to perform services for state or local  government agencies when the provisions in section 3(e)(4) are met, this  proposal would not prohibit 16- and 17-year-old volunteers from donating their  forest fire fighting services to state and local governments.
570.54 (ho 4) and sec.
ho 4 currently provides  exemptions that allow 16- and 17-year-olds to perform some occupations within  the logging industries.
each youth works five full days per four-week period for the employer at the work place--one eight-hour day once a week for three weeks, and two eight-hour days every fourth week.
all of the facts and  circumstances surrounding the violation shall be taken into account in  determining whether a violation was willful.
570.55(b) to mean all fixed or portable  machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping,  forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening, or otherwise  assembling, pressing, or printing wood or veneer.
the  department proposed to revise reg. 3 to [[page 28421]] include definitions of  these terms along with the specific prohibition against operating or assisting  in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
(2) work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters, including logging camps and fire fighting base camps.
in addition, when a school system files a letter of application to renew an existing work-study program, it will be required to note that the teacher-coordinator has confirmed that the employment of students in the work-study program has been in compliance with the child labor and minimum wage provisions of the flsa.
artistically creative work  would be limited to work in a recognized field of artistic or creative  endeavor.
the representative of white hat recommended that participants in programs similar to those of the charter schools he advises should be permitted to work up to five hours on a school day.
this is because historically such facilities, when open  to the general public, have been considered to have a retail concept.
541.302(b)--which limits the scope of this term to such fields as music, writing, acting, and the graphic arts--for guidance.
the report states: ``construction work has high risks for fatal and  nonfatal injuries and should not be exempted in the construction of living or  administrative quarters at logging sites or mills'' (see niosh report, page  27).
this new program does not in any way negate or preclude schools or employers from participating in other preexisting or future work-study programs, work experience and/or career exploration programs, internships, or apprenticeships that also comport with the provisions of the flsa (whether with the hours standards and time of day restrictions in sec. 570.35 or the special wecep rules in sec.
the prohibition would not depend on the material or materials being  processed and would encompass the occupations of setting-up, adjusting,  repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
[[page 28406]] data available, addressed 25 of the  remaining 29 niosh report recommendations dealing with the existing  nonagricultural hazardous occupations orders.
section 570.34(b)(8)  (old) prohibits the employment of such youth by retail, food service, and  gasoline service establishments to load or unload goods to and from trucks,  railroad cars, or conveyors.
----------------------------------------------------------------------- summary:
the department also proposed to remove the language that limited the application of sec.
the chapter inquired as to whether reg. 3 would permit the employment of 15-year- olds as lifeguards.
``a hoisted load weighing less than one ton has the potential to cause injury or death as a result of falling, or being improperly rigged or handled.
the clc assumed that the  youth-employer's establishment ``means inside or directly outside the  establishment, but not away from the establishment, such as on a street corner  or parking lot.
in addition, the pilot program reduced the number of jobs being occupied by student participants by requiring that four students share a single full-time position.
the department's preliminary review of these new standards, which included input from niosh, indicated that the standards are as protective as those cited in the compactor and baler act and should be included in ho 12 along with the older standards.
reg. 3 also incorporates by reference all of the prohibitions contained in the hazardous occupations orders (29 cfr 570.50-.68), which identify occupations that are ``particularly hazardous'' and, therefore, prohibited for 16- and 17-year-olds (e.g., occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines, see sec. 570.33(e) (old) and sec. 570.33(b) (new)).
the afl-cio, ywn, and clc all expressed concern about this proposal, stating that such sweeping changes would allow 14- and 15- year-olds to work in many more industries, and they recommended that the department conduct further analysis.
the network is an association of  private, not-for-profit college preparatory high schools that strive to
the department of labor  is revising the regulations to incorporate the 2008 amendment to section 16(e)  of the fair labor standards act that substantially increased the maximum  permissible civil money penalty an employer may be assessed for child labor  violations that cause the death or serious injury of a young worker.
(2) any person who repeatedly or willfully violates section 206 or 207 of the flsa, relating to wages, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,100 for each such violation.
the report also recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit youth from  riding on any part of a forklift as a passenger (including the forks) and from  working from forks, platforms, buckets, or cages attached to a moving or  stationary forklift.
since 1999, the whd has investigated at least three incidents where youth under 18 years of age were seriously injured while riding on forklifts being operated by other employees.
standard z245.2-2004.
as noted in the nprm, the department did not propose any revisions to those standards.
all three commenters provided rationales for  adopting this niosh recommendation, which included examples of tasks and  exposures commonly associated with such industries that they consider to be  hazardous.
there are indications, as reported by state and local governments and reflected in whd enforcement findings, that when such youth are employed under the guidelines established by the enforcement position, that employment does not interfere with their schooling or with their health and well- being, and thus is in accordance with the directive of the flsa.
ho 5 prohibits the employment of  16- and 17-year-olds to operate reciprocating saws that are used or designed  for cutting wood, but the same piece of equipment is permitted when used or  designed exclusively to cut materials other than wood, such as metal.
the department also proposed to change the word cooky  in sec. 570.62(a)(2) to cookie to reflect the more common spelling of that  word.
the department proposed to combine sec.
[[page 28459]] sec. 570.120 eighteen-year minimum.
the authority citation for subpart g  continues to read as follows:
and (2) that the term tending includes assisting in the hoisting  tasks being performed by the equipment, to add clarity as recommended by the  clc.
the department appreciates the report's recommendation to continue emphasizing  enforcement of portions of the compactor and baler act requiring that balers  and compactors conform to construction and operations standards that greatly  reduce exposure to hazardous energy.
570.104 and its terms are discussed in sec.
power-driven  woodworking machines shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven  by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing,  nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing  or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
the ywn also recommended that the department not use the term ``eleemosynary'' in the regulations but replace it with ``plain english words, such as `non-profit, religious or charitable organizations' to assure understanding by all parties.''
the department notes that when such programs do not involve an employer-employee relationship, they fall outside the provisions of the flsa.
repairing, servicing, or disassembling an elevator, crane, derrick, hoist, or  high-lift truck, except operating or riding inside an unattended automatic  operation passenger elevator.
currently, the work of repairing, servicing,  disassembling, and tending the machines covered by ho 7 is prohibited to 14-  and 15-year-olds under reg. 3 at sec. 570.33(b) (old) and sec.
such discs were mentioned in the niosh report as cutting  equipment that falls outside the prohibitions of ho 14.
section 579.2 is revised to read as follows: sec.
section 570.34(a)(7) (old) specifically includes automatic coffee machines on the list of equipment that 14- and 15-year-olds may operate (see sec. 570.34(i)
570.37 (previously proposed as  sec. 570.35b) of this rule to the omb for approval, and omb approved them under  omb control number 1215-0208.
the forest service also noted that it ``currently uses 16- and 17-year-old job corps employees and private contractors in our fire camps to perform such tasks as building platforms for tents, stocking commissary items, performing timekeeping activities and providing food services.''
570.34(a)(8) (old) be replaced with the words motor vehicles so such youth may  be permitted to wash additional types of motor vehicles such as suvs, station  wagons, and vans.
the ywn  recommended that the department eliminate the reference to between june 1st and  labor day and replace it with the actual calendar of each public school, noting  that an increasing number of school districts have year- round schedules.
the report notes that investigations of baler-related incidents show that failure to maintain machinery in safe operating condition contributes to fatalities and serious injuries and that neither adult supervisors nor young workers may fully appreciate the risks posed by uncontrolled hazardous energy (see niosh report, page 50).
the telephone number for ansi is (212)  642-4900 and its web site is located athttp:// www.ansi.org.
the department has carefully reviewed all the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with certain modifications that will clarify the final rule.
a relative shall mean the parent (or someone standing in place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker.
section 570.128 deals with a provision of flsa section 12(a) that relieves from liability a purchaser who ships or delivers for shipment in commerce goods acquired in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the producer, manufacturer, or dealer that the goods were produced in compliance with section 12 and that were acquired for value without notice of any violation.
the department proposed to revise footnote 4 of sec.
such a reporting plan would allow  an assessment as to whether the revision should be rescinded or further refined  to best protect working youth (see niosh report, page 48).
as noted in the nprm, the  department did not propose any revisions to those standards.
the fmi found it ``hard to understand why their work hours should be governed by a school system they have nothing to do with.''
the cup was then positioned on the machine so that the single spindle--with an aeration disk or disks mounted at the bottom--could blend the milk shake.
570.35 restrict the number of hours and times of day that 14- and 15-year-olds  may be employed in any flsa-covered work, including artistic or creative  endeavors.
570.33(c)  (old), since at least the mid-1950s, has included the loading and unloading of  materials from motor vehicles when the purpose of the operation of the vehicle  is the transportation of such materials.
the exemption, contained in section  13(c)(7) of the flsa, allows eligible youth, under specific conditions, to be  employed by businesses that use machinery to process wood products, but does  not allow such youth to operate or assist in operating power-driven woodworking  machines.
the term is not intended to denote those operations in sawmills where rough lumber is cut to dimensions.
the term also includes  establishments that manufacture or process meat products or sausage casing from  such animals.
it reported that about one-third of those injuries were to the eye.
[[page 28411]] in 2000, the department was requested  by a municipality (the city) to review certain aspects of the prohibitions  against employing 14- and 15-year-olds to load onto and unload items from motor  vehicles.
the  department received four comments concerning the loading of personal hand tools  onto motor vehicles at sec. 570.34(k) (new).
congress twice amended the child labor provisions of the flsa in the  1990s.
570.54 forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention  occupations, timber tract occupations, forestry service occupations, logging  occupations, and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill,  shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (order 4).
prohibited activities associated with youth peddling not only include  the attempt to make a sale or the actual consummation of a sale, but also the  preparatory and concluding tasks normally performed by a youth peddler in  conjunction with his or her sales such as the loading and unloading of vans or  other motor vehicles, the stocking and restocking of sales kits and trays, the  exchanging of cash and checks with the employer, and the transportation of  minors to and from the various sales areas by the employer.
the regulatory  information number (rin) identified for this rulemaking changed with the  publication of the 2010 spring regulatory agenda due to an organizational  restructuring.
the secretary, in promulgating this final rule, hereby certifies that standard ansi z245.2-2004 and standard ansi z245.2-2008 are as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992 and that standard ansi z245.5-2004 and standard ansi z245.5-2008 are as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi z245.5-1990.
the department is aware of  the death of an adult plumber in minnesota in 2002 who was killed when the  blade of the reciprocating saw he was using to rough-in plumbing entered his  head near his eye.
guillotine shears are covered under hos 5, 8, 10 and 12 when used on wood, metal, meat, and paper products, respectively.
the wwa  also disagreed with the department's position that working as a dispatcher or  attendant at the top of an elevated water slide constitutes tending of  power-driven machinery under the provisions of reg. 3 where there are no  mechanized conveyance systems or emergency ride controls at the top.
the clc recommended that the department amend its  proposed revision to read ``has been permanently expelled from the local public  school he or she would normally attend, unless the child is required, by state  or local law or ordinance, or by court order, to attend another school.''
the youth was electrocuted shortly after midnight when he bumped into a fan while performing his ``catching'' duties.
the department believes that in order to ensure these youth receive the degree of protection from injury congress intended, the supervision of the minors must be close, direct, and uninterrupted.
repeated violations  has two components.
the department published  a notice of proposed rulemaking (nprm) in the federal register on november 30,  1999 (64 fr 67130), inviting comments on revisions of regulations to implement
the department enforced all the other provisions of reg. 3, including the restrictions on hours of work, with respect to the employment of such minors.
performing work in connection with the transportation of other persons or property does not have to be the primary reason for the trip for this prohibition to apply.
the clc stated that it is not clear whether such sign  waving activities would be prohibited under the department's proposal.
570.33, 570.34, and 570.35.
the term also includes the occupations of setting-up, adjusting,  repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
controversies regarding young children conducting commercial sales of items, often on a ``door-to-door'' basis, are not new.
purpose and use: wsp application: under the regulations, a local school system shall file a letter of application requesting the administrator of the wage and hour division to approve a wsp that permits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds under conditions that reg. 3 would otherwise prohibit.
570.63(c)(2) that permits apprentices and student-learners to perform, under specific guidelines, tasks that would otherwise be prohibited by ho 12.
therefore, this rule is not ``economically significant'' and no regulatory impact analysis has been prepared.
the department believes that  in order to ensure these youth receive the degree of protection from injury  congress intended, the supervision of the minors must be close, direct, and  uninterrupted.
most of these blenders were free standing counter-top models while others were incorporated into other equipment such as milk dispensers.
the result was, as discussed earlier, that the compactor and baler act required that before 16- and 17-year-olds could load such equipment, the scrap paper baler had to meet standard ansi z245.5-1990 and the paper box compactor had to meet standard ansi z245.2-1992.
however, it has cautioned readers about reaching conclusions and expecting  revisions to the existing hos based solely on the information in the report.
the department will add backhoes and  front- end loaders to the examples of high-lift trucks contained in sec.
in addition, for purposes of this  section, an employer's conduct shall be deemed knowing, among other situations,  if the employer received advice from a responsible official of the wage and  hour division to the effect that the conduct in question is not lawful.
the niosh report  recommends that ho 10 be expanded to prohibit work in all meat products  manufacturing industries including those engaged in the processing of sausages  and/or other prepared meat products and those engaged in poultry slaughtering  and/or processing (see niosh report, page 41).
this same section details the terms, conditions, and responsibilities participating states agree to assume upon receiving authorization to operate a wecep.
as previously discussed, the department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, that requested information from the public on this issue.
even though reg. 3 for many years has prohibited the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to operate any power-driven equipment other than office machines, the department routinely receives inquiries as to the status of these individual pieces of equipment under reg. 3.
the department notes that, since publishing the nprm, it has investigated the serious injuries of at least ten more young workers who operated or cleaned such equipment.
these standards are also available  for inspection at the occupational safety and health administration's docket  office, room n-2625, u.s. department of labor, 200 constitution avenue, nw.,  washington, dc 20210, or any of its regional offices.
the dolwd also  recommended that an exception be granted allowing such youth ``to be employed  in logging camp support positions such as cook, janitor, etc.''
sec. 570.36 and 570.37 and redesignating existing sec.
it is important to note that this requirement of close, direct,  and uninterrupted supervision, just like the requirement that youth not operate  or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machinery, applies to  the employment of 16- and 17-year- olds as well as 14- and 15-year-olds.
the report also recommends that ho 10 be revised to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers in retail, wholesale and service industry establishments.
the department has made minor, nonsubstantive changes to the proposed sec.
the department has also included in this definition the ywn's recommended clarifying statement that school should be considered to be in session during any week when school attendance is [[page 28425]] required for any portion of a day.
as per the provisions of sec. 570.61(a)(4), it would not matter if products other than meat--such as vegetables or cheese--were being processed.
the department has long interpreted this term to mean that type of equipment that was generally found in snack bars and lunch counters when reg. 3 was issued and used to prepare a ``to-order'' milk shake for an individual customer.
(g) errand and delivery work by foot, bicycle,  and public transportation.
at such a hearing,  the employer or an attorney retained by the employer may present such  witnesses, introduce such evidence and establish such facts as the employer  believes will support the exception.
the department notes that the niosh report, after carefully reviewing the available data, did not include youth peddling as one of the 17 occupations warranting the creation of a new hazardous occupations order (ho).
accordingly, a 16-year minimum age is required for employment in such messenger services.
although neither the  flsa nor reg. 3 defines the terms school hours and school is in session as they  apply to nonagricultural employment, the department has developed and applied a  long-standing enforcement position that these terms refer to the normal hours  of the public school system in the child's district of residence.
the previous sec. 570.54(a)(1)(iii) specifically excluded from the list of logging tasks deemed to be particularly hazardous to young workers who work in timber cruising, surveying or logging-engineering parties; work in the repair or maintenance of roads, railroads, or flumes; and work in forest protection, such as clearing fire trails or roads, piling and burning slash, maintaining fire-fighting equipment, constructing and maintaining telephone lines, or acting as fire look-out or fire patrolman away from the actual logging operation.
the department received comments from the ywn and clc on this proposal.
as used here, the terms youth peddling, door-to-door-sales, and street sales do not include legitimate fund-raising activities by eleemosynary organizations such as cookie sales conducted by the girl scouts of america or school fund-raising events where the [[page 28413]] students are truly volunteers and are not promised compensation for the sales they make.
however, it should be noted that the exclusion of certain employers by section 3(d) \4\ of the act applies to the child labor provisions as well as the wage and hours provisions.
the whd occasionally receives requests for clarification from employers seeking to lengthen the work shifts of younger employees on nights that do not precede a school day.
because youth peddlers typically qualify as outside sales employees under flsa section 13(a)(1), they are usually exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the flsa (see 29 cfr 541.500).
[[page 28455]] to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation; and (iv)
if the  equipment does not meet the requirements of an applicable ansi standard, or if  the employer failed to make such a determination, or if any other requirement  of the limited exemption contained in flsa section 13(c)(5) was not met, a  violation of ho 12 has most likely occurred.
the city specifically  requested permission to allow such minors to load and unload, onto and from  motor vehicles, the light, non-power-driven tools each youth would personally  use as part of his or her employment.
(g) outside window washing that involves working from window sills,  and all work requiring the use of ladders, scaffolds, or their substitutes.
that penalty may be  doubled up to $100,000 if the violation is determined to be a repeated or  willful violation.
570.35 and the prohibited occupation standards contained in sec.
section 570.54 is revised to read as follows: sec.
it would not likely result in: (1) an annual effect on the  economy of $100 million or more; (2) a major increase in costs or prices for  consumers, individual industries, federal, state, or local government agencies,  or geographic regions; or (3) significant adverse effects on competition,  employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of  u.s.-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or  export markets.
a copy of the information collection request can be obtained at http:// www.reginfo.gov or by contacting the wage and hour division as shown in  the for further information contact section of this preamble.
accordingly, a 16-year minimum age is required for employment in such messenger  services.
therefore, the prohibitions of ho 11 include the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate even the smallest of counter-top vertical mixers.
specifically, the department is revising sec.
because the  department believes that the health, well-being, and educational opportunities  of 14- and 15-year-olds who are academically oriented are not placed at risk by  participation in structured work- study programs such as the network's  model--and are in fact enhanced by such participation--it proposed that reg. 3  be revised to accommodate such programs.
the department did not propose to prohibit, and the final rule does not prohibit, 14- and 15-year-olds from operating espresso machines as recommend by the ywn, the afl-cio, and the representative of the billings, montana job service.
supervised means that the youth's on-the-job activities must be directed, monitored, overseen, and controlled by certain named adults.
(new), the laundering of clothes and other  materials generally constitutes a ``processing occupation'' which is prohibited  under sec.
also included would be ``public use'' waste receptacles--often  found at airports and other large complexes--that include compaction equipment  that allow the public to dispose of refuse and then automatically processed the  waste at predetermined intervals.
section 570.128 is redesignated as sec. 570.141 and a new sec.
the ywn recommended that such sign waving activities also be  prohibited along public roads and grassy areas or median areas next to public  streets or traffic.
reg. 3 limits the hours  and times of day that such minors may work and identifies occupations that are  either permitted or prohibited for such minors.
but the department believes that the overall predominance of their responsibility to perform the core life-saving duty of rescuing patrons who are in the water, which they have been properly trained and certified to perform, outweighs the minimum, isolated, and sporadic amount of tending such lifeguards may potentially be called upon to do when stationed at wave pools, lazy rivers, and splashdown pools.
the red cross, just like other nationally recognized certifying organizations, spends a great deal of time and effort formulating, refining, disseminating, and publicizing the elements and standards of its lifeguard certification program.
570.34(a)(7) (old) and sec. 570.34(i) (new) and minors generally must be at least 16 years of age to operate them.
this difference is due to differences in how initial departmental efforts and rocis dealt with rounding issues.
the term shall not include work  in forest nurseries, establishments primarily engaged in growing trees for  purposes of reforestation.
for purposes of this section, an employer's conduct shall be deemed to be in reckless disregard of the requirements of the act, among other situations, if the employer should have inquired further into whether its conduct was in compliance with the act, and failed to make adequate further inquiry.
there has been some confusion about this over the years.
``by requiring the use of a sunday to saturday midnight week,  employers would be forced to check hours worked manually, making it more likely  that mistakes would be made.''
in addition, such data  for youth 16 and 17 years of age tend to be mixed with that of older workers  whose employment is not subject to the child labor provisions of the flsa.
the employment of 15-year-olds (but not 14-year-olds) as  lifeguards the department proposed to revise reg. 3 at sec.
the facilities manager or owner, or the owner of the equipment, may make the necessary postings and satisfy each employer's (tenant's) posting obligations under the exemption.
it includes work on tree farms, except those tree farm establishments that meet the definition of agriculture contained in 29 u.s.c. 203(f).
section 13(c)(7) of the flsa provides a  limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain youths between  the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or judicial order, are excused from  compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, that permits their  employment inside and outside of places of business that use power- driven  machinery to process wood products.
he also stated that limiting participation in the proposed work-study program to students enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum ``can also have the unintended consequence of denying extended work hours and compensation from those who need it the most, the undereducated.''
the department believes by adopting in reg. 3 the  identical language contained in ho 2 (see sec. 570.52(b)), it not only provides  a high degree of protection to young workers but also avoids potential  confusion.
16- and 17-year-olds from  operating or tending aerial platforms and other manlifts such as scissor lifts,  boom-type mobile elevating work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry  pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
570.33-.35, as a painter of portraits but not as a painter of automobiles or houses.
the dolwd also suggested that the  federal regulations on the number of hours that 14- and 15-year-olds may work  should be amended to be consistent with the more permissive standards  established in alaska.
the department, in the april 17, 2007 nprm, based on its determination  that there was sufficient
the department proposed revisions of the  child labor regulations to implement the 2004 legislation, address 25 of the  remaining 29 niosh report recommendations dealing with existing nonagricultural  hazardous occupations orders, and revise and/or clarify the permitted and  prohibited occupations and industries and conditions and periods of employment  established for 14- and 15-year-olds by reg. 3, in an nprm published in the  federal register on april 17, 2007 (72 fr 19337).
accordingly, these newer standards were incorporated into ho 12.
the modifications to the list of  prohibited occupations are as follows: 1.
it is difficult to argue that the red cross is not the ``industry standard'' when it estimates that about 90% of all lifeguards in the usa have received training through its lifeguard training program.
the department continues to be concerned about issues involving injuries to workers resulting from flying objects, burns, fuel safety, and improper ergonomics.
the ywn, afl-cio, and clc supported all elements of the proposal, with additional recommendations.
(b) when interpreting these provisions, the secretary will be guided by the principle that such exemptions should be narrowly construed and their application limited to those employees who are plainly and unmistakably within their terms.
the use of such  equipment would also be prohibited by ho 10 when the mixer or wand is equipped  with knives, blades, or cutting tools designed for use on meat and poultry.
no student shall participate in  the work-study program until there has been made a written agreement signed by  the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student.
properly certified 15-year-old lifeguards, however,  may be stationed at the ``splashdown pools'' located at the bottom of the  elevated water slides to perform traditional lifeguard duties.
the employment of certain youth by places of business where machinery is used to process wood products the provisions of the consolidated appropriations act, 2004, amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain minors 14 through 17 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
flsa section 11(c) requires all employers covered by the  flsa to make, keep, and preserve records of their employees' wages, hours, and  other conditions and practices of employment.
the regulatory information number (rin) identified for this rulemaking changed with the publication of the 2010 spring regulatory agenda due to an organizational restructuring.
580.6 filed with the secretary an exception to the determination that the violation or violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred.
x. executive order 13045, protection of children e.o. 13045, dated april 23, 1997 (62 fr 19885), applies to any rule that (1) is determined to be ``economically significant'' as defined in e.o. 12866, and (2) concerns an environmental health or safety risk that the promulgating agency has reason to believe may have a disproportionate effect on children.
these smaller general- purpose machines operate in essentially the same manner as the larger machines and present similar risks of injury.
affecting the reg. 3 occupations standards and both hos 4 and 5, this statutory provision would be available to a very small number of minors and therefore is expected to have little or no economic impact.
pulling lumber from the dry chain, except minors under 16 years of age may not pull lumber from the dry chain as such youth are prohibited from operating or tending power-driven machinery by sec. 570.33(e) of this part.
operator shall mean a person who operates a machine covered by this section by performing such functions as starting or stopping the machine, placing materials into or removing them from the machine, or any other functions directly involved in operation of the machine.
in recognition that the ho now covers poultry processing.
(h) clean up work, including the use of vacuum cleaners and floor waxers, and the maintenance of grounds, but not including the use of power-driven mowers, cutters, trimmers, edgers, or similar equipment.
remanufacturing department  shall mean those departments of a sawmill where lumber products such as boxes,  lawn furniture, and the like are remanufactured from previously cut lumber.
570.34(a)(7) (old)  and sec.
the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the flsa, when  finally determined, may be: (i) deducted from any sums owing by the united  states to the person charged; (ii) recovered in a civil action brought by the  secretary in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which litigation the  secretary shall be represented by the solicitor of labor; or (iii) ordered by  the court, in an action brought for a violation of section 215(a)(4) or a  repeated or willful
the department considers  the issuance of this rule to be an important and necessary step in its ongoing  review of the criteria for permissible child labor employment, a review which  strives to balance the potential benefits of transitional, staged employment  opportunities for youth with the necessary protections for their education,  health and safety.
(a) specific exemptions from the child labor requirements of the act are provided for: (1) employment of children in agriculture outside of school hours for the school district where they live while so employed; (2) employment of employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer; (3) employment of children as actors or performers in motion pictures or in theatrical, radio, or television productions; (4) employment by a parent or a person standing in a parent's place of his own child or a child in his custody under the age of sixteen years in any occupation other than manufacturing, mining, or an occupation found by the secretary to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years or detrimental to their health or well-being.
in accordance with requirements of the paperwork reduction act (pra), 44 u.s.c. 3501 et seq., and its attendant regulations, 5 cfr part 1320, the department seeks to minimize the paperwork burden for individuals, small businesses, educational and nonprofit institutions, federal contractors, state, local and tribal governments, and other persons resulting from the collection of information by or for the agency.
these proposed provisions were structured similarly to those already contained in subpart g that address the earlier flsa exemptions concerning employment of youth in agriculture (sec. 570.123), in the delivery of newspapers (sec. 570.124), as actors and performers (sec. 570.125), and by one's parents (sec. 570.126).
elevator shall mean any power-driven hoisting or lowering mechanism equipped with a car or platform which moves in guides in a substantially vertical direction.
in  addition, the nrpa commented that ``[l]ocal park and recreation agencies have a  great need to find qualified, capable, and certified lifeguards to work in  their outdoor pools, indoor pools, water amusement park facilities, and natural  bodies of water.
derrick shall mean a power-driven apparatus consisting of a mast or equivalent members held at the top by guys or braces, with or without a boom, for use with a hoisting mechanism or operating ropes.
the  department received an inquiry on this issue after the publication of the  proposal.
it states that the department did not address the niosh report's third recommendation dealing with ho 12 regarding the importance of enforcing the requirements of flsa section 13(c)(5) that balers and compactors being loaded by 16- and 17-year-olds meet the designated ansi standards.
gina  also permits a doubling of the civil money penalty up to $100,000 when such  violations are determined to be willful or repeated.
because of the complexity of the issue and in the hopes of obtaining additional information, the department requested public comment on this recommendation in the anprm that [[page 28433]] was published in conjunction with, and on the same day as, the nprm.
(d) work performed in or about boiler or engine rooms or in  connection with the maintenance or repair of the establishment, machines, or  equipment.
these comprehensive  comments were submitted by the young workers health and safety network (ywn)  and the child labor coalition (clc).
570.35, shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor within the meaning of the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended.
the dolwd stated it was in agreement with
accordingly, 14- and 15-year-olds generally have been prohibited from loading and unloading any property (not just ``goods'') onto and from motor vehicles, including the light personal hand tools they use in performing their duties.
accordingly, the department  issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, to  solicit public comment on this important issue.
the  term does not include the stacking of materials by an employee in an area  nearby or adjacent to the machine where such employee does not place the  materials into the machine.
the  report also recommends that ho 10 be revised to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to  operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers in retail, wholesale and  service industry establishments.
it should  also be noted that section 13(d) of the flsa already provides an exemption from  the act's minimum wage, overtime, and child labor provisions to any homeworker  engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine,  cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of the evergreens or other  forest products used in making such wreaths).
typically, a crew leader attempts to saturate a particular area with sales crews, make as many sales as possible, and then quickly move to a new location.
the  department received three comments on this proposal.
the fmi stated  ``[w]e strongly object to this change, which would create an administrative  nightmare, and see no reason for it.''
the clc believed that the proposed approval process is not sufficiently transparent and recommended that dol be required to publish a notice in the federal register detailing every work-study program application and invite public comment during a specified period of 30 or 60 days.
it described itself as an informal network of public  health professionals, advocates, and government agency staff that includes  individuals from academia, public health, labor law enforcement, health and  safety consultation and/or enforcement, labor organizations, and educators.
of those limitations, the following are worth noting.
the ywn and the afl-cio recommended that 14- and 15-year-olds also be prohibited from using espresso makers because, as the ywn reported, these machines involve a potential for serious burns.
the revision would permit 15-year-olds, but not 14-year-olds, to be employed as lifeguards, performing lifeguard duties, at traditional swimming pools and certain areas of amusement water parks operated by all types of employers, if the minors have been trained and certified by the red cross or a similarly recognized certifying organization.
the secretary's declarations of what work is not deemed oppressive for children between the ages of 14 and 16 appear in reg. 3 (29 cfr 570.31-.37).
these exemptions, which do not apply to work performed in a portable sawmill or that entails the young worker entering the sawmill building, permit 16- and 17-year-olds employed in occupations in the operation of sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, or cooperage stock mills to work in offices or in repair or maintenance shops; to straighten, mark, or tally lumber on the dry chain or the dry drop sorter; pull lumber from the dry chain; to clean up the lumberyard; to pile, handle, or ship cooperage stock in yards or storage sheds other than operating of or assisting in the operation of power-driven equipment; to perform clerical work in the yards or shipping sheds, such as done by ordermen, tally-men, and shipping clerks; to perform clean-up work outside shake and shingle mills, except when the mill is in operation; to split shakes manually from precut and split blocks with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover; to pack shakes into bundles when done in conjunction with splitting shakes manually with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover; and to manually load bundles of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars, provided that the employer has on file a statement from a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy certifying the minor capable of performing this work without injury to himself.
as mentioned above, the nprm proposed to revise sec. 570.127 and redesignate it as sec. 570.140.
570.55 occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines (order 5).
working in the dark, with the only illumination provided by ``red lights'' which the fowl cannot see, and in poorly ventilated rooms, is not uncommon.
570.122 to 570.130, inclusive.
this enforcement  position permitted such employment at swimming pools operated by hotels,  amusement parks, cities, and state- owned universities, but did not permit such  employment at pools operated by non-public and non-retail establishments such  as apartment houses, country clubs, private schools, home-owner associations,  and private health clubs.
the revisions in this final rule continue the department of labor's tradition of fostering permissible and appropriate job opportunities for working youth that are healthy, safe, and not detrimental to their education.
section 570.35a establishes the criteria that must be met in order for states  to apply for and receive authorization to operate a wecep.
the afl-cio supported the proposal  as written.
the clc commented that ``[w]orking in the forestry industry can involve working at heights *
performing work in connection  with the transportation of other persons or property does not have to be the  primary reason for the trip for this prohibition to apply.
the director of the labor standards and safety  division of the alaska state department of labor and workforce [[page 28409]]  development (dolwd) also supported the consolidation and listing of prohibited  equipment with some exceptions.
some questions have recently been raised concerning the appropriateness of this position, but the department has been consistent in its application when the equipment is used to process wood and trees.
baler that is designed or used to process materials other than paper means a powered machine designed or used to compress materials other than paper and cardboard boxes, with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable container.
with respect to employment in occupations other  than manufacturing and mining and in accordance with the provisions of flsa  section 13(c)(7), the secretary is authorized to issue regulations or orders  lowering the age minimum to 14 years where he or she finds that such employment  is confined to periods that will not interfere with the minors' schooling and  to conditions that will not interfere with their health and well-being.
the department notes that the exemption from minimum wage and  overtime contained in section 13(a)(1) for outside salespeople does not apply  to individuals employed solely to wave signs or wear placards, sandwich boards,  or costumes to attract potential customers as such promotion work is not  performed in conjunction with sales actually made by those individuals (see  sec. 541.503).
in 2000, the  department investigated the death of a 14-year- old member of a tree-trimming  crew who was dismembered when he became entangled in branches he was feeding  into a drum-type wood chipper.
such supervision must be close, direct, constant and  uninterrupted.
some of the hos, specifically hos 5, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 17, contain limited exemptions that permit the employment of 16- and 17-year-old apprentices and student-learners under particular conditions to perform work otherwise prohibited to that age group.
in response to the 1994 anprm issued by the department, calls for banning door-to-door sales by those under 18 years of age were received from the national consumers league, the defense for children international, usa, and the food and allied service trades department, afl-cio.
the clc did, however, recommend that the seat  restraining devices should ``be required to be manufacturer-issued and not  homemade, and the employer should be required to `ensure,' and not just  `instruct' that the restraining devices be used by the children.''
570.36  to read as follows: sec.
579.5 determining the amount of the penalty and assessing the penalty.
flsa section 3(l) establishes a minimum age of 16 years for most nonagricultural employment but allows the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds in occupations other than manufacturing and mining, if the secretary of labor determines such employment is confined to periods that will not interfere with the minor's schooling and conditions that will not interfere with the minor's health and well-being.
the  secretary, in order to provide clarity and assist employers in attaining  compliance, has listed in sec.
the students  receive at least the applicable federal and state minimum wages, and applicable  taxes are withheld and reported by their respective employers.
``for example, 14- and 15-year-olds would be permitted to work on a  pottery wheel, but would be prohibited from applying certain glazes and would  be prohibited from any work on or around the high heats of a pottery kiln.
the ywn recommended that, for work of an artistic nature, certain locations such as tattoo and body piercing establishments should be excluded due to the potential for exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
the youth must  also be protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the  workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood  particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from  machinery in operation.
the ywn also endorsed the niosh report recommendation that more intensive surveillance of pertinent injuries and deaths resulting from the operation of power-driven bakery machines be conducted should the department adopt these proposals.
subscribe to e-mail updates advanced search a to z index | site map | faqs | dol forms | about dol | contact us secretary of labor hilda l. solis print
the  department has added language to sec. 570.54(a) to make it clear that the  limited exceptions to ho 4 listed in that paragraph do not include any work  that would be prohibited by any other ho contained in subpart e. the department  also added clarifying statements to sec. 570.54(a)(8) regarding the types of  work that 14-year-olds employed under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7)  may perform inside a sawmill.
standards:  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
in an alphabetical sequence to comport with guidance provided by the federal register and to include definitions of the terms chain saw, wood chipper, and reciprocating saw.
the niosh report recommendations are driven by information on high-risk activities for all workers, not just patterns of fatalities and serious injuries among young workers.
the department wishes to address concerns raised by  the ywn by stating that it does not consider tattooing or body piercing  performed by employees under the age of 16 years to be artistically creative  endeavors under sec. 541.302(b).
requiring pre-employment certification or training of youth was not envisioned by congress, especially for a population of young workers whose formal education ends at such an early age.
the department cannot enforce a  minimum wage requirement for employees whom the congress has statutorily  exempted from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the flsa.
similarly, a youth could be employed to create unique photographs that rise to the level of art, but would be prohibited from developing those photographs and working with the chemicals and solvents commonly used in such processing activities.
summary of comments a total of 28 comments were received and are available for review at the federal erulemaking portal athttp://www.regulations.gov.
the employment of students  participating in the work-study program would also most likely be subject to  state wage requirements and child labor provisions.
as previously noted, the  department expects 30 school districts will have a wsp.
the term is not  intended to denote those operations in sawmills where rough lumber is cut to  dimensions.
the concerns of the state directors and the  njdoe are unfounded.
the revision of several of  the nonagricultural hos--implementing specific recommendations made by niosh or  that arise from the department's enforcement experience--will, in all but one  instance involving the use of certain counter-top mixers (ho 11), require  employers to assign older workers to perform tasks that previously may have  been performed by 16- and 17-year-olds.
section 570.35a also includes provisions that allow the administrator of the wage and hour division discretion to grant requests for special variances from the occupation standards established by sec.
under the network  model, students do not work more than eight hours a day, before 7 a.m. or after  7 p.m., and are transported to and from their jobs by the school.
with these  safeguards, such employment is found not to interfere with the schooling of the  minors or with their health and well-being and therefore is not deemed to be  oppressive child labor.
the reason for this recommendation that the clc makes here is that if there are osha violations that give rise to child labor violations, then the adults who work with the woodworking machinery are subject to the same workplace hazards as the children.''
such prohibited equipment often have containers  or mixing chambers that exceed a 20-ounce capacity--some can accommodate up to  60 quarts.
the department did not propose to change any of these hours and time-of-day limitations, but wished to foster both understanding of, and compliance with, these provisions by incorporating into the regulations certain long-standing departmental enforcement positions and interpretations.
therefore, the department has revised the  proposed regulatory language at sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iii) to emphasize the role of  the teacher-coordinator in confirming that the employment of the work-study  program participant complies with the child labor and minimum wage requirements  of the flsa.
the department's 2004 final rule addressed six  of the recommendations.
the department received six comments that addressed its proposal to incorporate into reg. 3 its long-standing
the calendar week would continue to serve as the timeframe for  determining whether a minor worked in excess of 18 hours during any week when  school was in session or in excess of 40 hours in any week when school was not  in session.
all occupations in the operation of  any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage-stock mill shall mean all  work performed in or about any such mill in connection with storing of logs and  bolts; converting logs or bolts into sawn lumber, lathers, shingles, or  cooperage stock; storing drying, and shipping lumber, laths, shingles,  cooperage stock, or other products of such mills; and other work performed in  connection with the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or  cooperage-stock mill.
it would not likely result in: (1) an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; (2) a major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual industries, federal, state, or local government agencies, or geographic regions; or (3) significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of u.s.-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets.
* * these workers also cut the trees with a chainsaw and  drag them from the cutting area and then load them on to a truck.
under sec. 570.33(j) as originally proposed, a retail establishment that sets up an outside sales center to sell such things as garden supplies, plants, outdoor furniture, portable grills, christmas trees, etc., that participates in a retailer association neighborhood ``sidewalk sale'' event, or that routinely displays its wares outside its building may question whether it could use its young sales staff in such endeavors.
such discs were mentioned in the niosh report as cutting equipment that falls outside the prohibitions of ho 14.
570.140 and to revise it to include the department's authority to assess civil money penalties against persons who violate the child labor provisions of the act. 8.
these and other settings could cause untoward effects on
the ywn also endorsed the niosh  report recommendation that more intensive surveillance of pertinent injuries  and deaths resulting from the operation of power-driven bakery machines be  conducted should the department adopt these proposals.
the  department also proposed to incorporate into reg. 3 its long- standing position  that the term week as used in reg. 3 means a standard calendar week of 12:01  a.m. sunday through midnight saturday, not an employer's workweek as defined in  29 cfr 778.105.
the clc,  ywn, and afl-cio expressed disappointment that the department did not adopt  niosh's alternative recommendation that the department rewrite hos 5, 8, and  12, which respectively address machines that work with wood, metal, and paper,  by merging them into a single or multiple hos which address the function of the  machines rather than the material processed (see niosh report, page 31).
the department published a notice of proposed rulemaking (nprm) in the federal register on november 30, 1999 (64 fr 67130), inviting comments on revisions of regulations to implement
the department received no  comments raising concerns about the initial certification.
(c) occupations that involve  operating, tending, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing  hoisting apparatus.
therefore, no initial  regulatory flexibility analysis was required.
congressional hearings and the department's enforcement experience have shown that the problems associated with children performing door- to-door sales and street sales are numerous.
section 570.58(a)(3) would be  eliminated because its provisions would now be contained in the revised sec.
the term public in this context refers  to the customers being served and not the nature of the ownership of the firm.
for these reasons, the department does not agree with the ywn's understanding that the existing regulation prohibits 14- and 15-year- olds from operating blenders that create ice cream desserts as the department has previously opined that this equipment is a type of ``milk shake blender'' which has long been permitted by sec.
since receiving the report, the department has conducted a detailed review and has met with various stakeholders to evaluate and prioritize each recommendation for possible regulatory action consistent with the established national policy of balancing the benefits of employment opportunities for youth with the necessary and appropriate safety protections.
in addition, the nrpa commented that ``[l]ocal park and recreation agencies have a great need to find qualified, capable, and certified lifeguards to work in their outdoor pools, indoor pools, water amusement park facilities, and natural bodies of water.
the department carefully considered this request and, again using its prosecutorial discretion, decided that it would not assert a violation of the child labor provisions when 14- and 15- year-old employees of state and local governments loaded and unloaded the light non-power-driven hand tools--such as rakes, hand-held clippers, and spades--that they personally use as part of their employment.
the clc noted that many of these chemicals pose risks of both short-term and long-term effects on the human body and also are extremely flammable, and hence pose significant fire and explosion hazards.
although the cristo rey network work- study model was reviewed by the department, the proposed work-study program differs considerably from that model.
this is one of the few recommendations the report makes that would relax current prohibitions, and it is made with the rationale that ``although data show high numbers of injuries associated with power-driven slicers, the injuries appear to be relatively minor.''
such supervision must be close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted.
the term shall include all types of cranes, such as cantilever gantry, crawler, gantry, hammerhead, ingot pouring, jib, locomotive, motor-truck, overhead traveling, pillar jib, pintle, portal, semi-gantry, semi-portal, storage bridge, tower, walking jib, and wall cranes.
the following occupations, which is not an exhaustive list, constitute oppressive child labor within the meaning of the fair labor standards act when performed by minors who are 14 and 15 years of age: (a) manufacturing, mining, or processing occupations, including occupations requiring the performance of any duties in work rooms or work places where goods are manufactured, mined or otherwise processed, except as permitted in sec.
the department interprets this provision as permitting it to incorporate only more recent versions of standard ansi z245.5-1990 and standard ansi z245.2- 1992--the two standards contained in the original legislation.
(i) kitchen work and other work involved in preparing and serving  food and beverages, including operating machines and devices used in performing  such work.
the full text of this subsection is set forth  in sec.
this  enforcement position mirrors the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(1), which  congress added in 1949, to clarify how these terms apply to the employment of  youth in agricultural employment.
570.34(l) to permit  the employment of 15-year-olds as lifeguards at swimming pools and water  amusement parks under certain conditions.
a local chapter of the american red cross (chapter) first raised this issue in 2000.
the department addressed six of those  recommendations in the 2004 final rule published december 16, 2004 (see 69 fr  75382).
these are the types of milk shake blenders that 14- and 15- year-olds may operate under reg. 3.
nancy j. leppink, deputy administrator, wage and hour division. 0
it is important to note that sec.
the clc described  private messenger services as those that ``have standing contracts with law  firms, accounting firms, and other types of businesses'' to deliver documents  or packages.
school hours refers to the hours that  the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is in  session during the regularly scheduled school year.
the hearings included a staff study that documented many abuses that had occurred in this industry, including indentured servitude, physical and sexual abuse, and criminal activity.
1060-1069 as amended; 29 u.s.c. 201-219. 0 17.
the secretary has also set  forth, in sec.
(a) section 13(c)(5) of the flsa provides for an exemption from the child labor provisions for the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload, certain power-driven scrap paper balers and paper box compactors under certain conditions.
* *  * sec. 570.118 sixteen-year minimum.
that same office recommended that such youth be permitted to operate certain small, residential-sized washing machines and dryers when all safety equipment is properly installed.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to implement the proposal as written with two minor modifications.
section 12(a) provides that no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or deliver for shipment in interstate or foreign commerce any goods produced in an establishment in or about which oppressive child labor was employed within 30 days before removal of the goods.
permitted duties  for 15-year-olds include the use of a ladder to access and descend from the  lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools to clean the pool and pool area; and the  testing and recording of water quality for temperature and/or ph levels, using  all of the tools of the testing process including adding chemicals to the test  water sample.
in addition, gina also permits the assessment of a civil money  penalty up to $50,000 with regard to each violation that caused the death or  serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years.
federalism this rule does not have federalism  implications as outlined in e.o. 13132 regarding federalism.
so that the term also includes places where poultry are killed, butchered, or processed.
570.36 work experience and career exploration program.
the niosh statistics show that, despite the fact that workers aged 15  through 17 are generally restricted from employment in hazardous occupations  such as mining, motor-vehicle driving, logging, sawmilling, and construction,  they have a higher rate of injuries requiring emergency room treatment than any  other age group except 18- and 19-year-olds (who are not restricted from  performing such work).
the ywn supported the  proposal as written.
the final rule also included the secretary's certification, as permitted by the compactor and baler act, that the new standard ansi z245.5-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard ansi-
the rule does not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government.
the department has created a new 29 cfr 570.37 that  describes the conditions that allow the employment of 14- and  15-year-olds--pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered  work-study program (wsp)--under conditions reg. 3 otherwise prohibits.
since that last revision of subpart g, congress in 1996 amended the flsa at section 16(e) so that any person who violates the provisions of section 12 or section 13(c)(5) relating to child labor, or any regulation issued under section 12 or section 13(c)(5), shall be subject to a civil money penalty, currently not to exceed $11,000, for each employee who was the subject of such a violation.
while operating the saw, the vehicle upon which he was using the saw fell on him and crushed him to death.
such students may, in accordance with 29 cfr 531.40, make a voluntary assignment of their wages to a third party.
therefore, the department has revised the proposed regulatory language at sec. 570.37(b)(3)(iii) to emphasize the role of the teacher-coordinator in confirming that the employment of the work-study program participant complies with the child labor and minimum wage requirements of the flsa.
for example, the department investigated the employment of a 17-year-old who had both legs amputated in a large industrial baler machine at a recycling center.
instead of a fork or a  platform, the lifting device may consist of a ram, scoop, shovel, crane,  revolving fork, or other attachments for handling specific loads.
ho 7,  however, prohibits older youth only from operating high-lift trucks such as  forklifts.
four commenters, the food marketing institute (fmi),  six flags, the wwa, and the representative of morey's pier, opposed the  proposal.
570.120 eighteen-year minimum.
finally, the clc disapproved of the department's decision to not revisit the limited exemption currently contained in ho 12 for student-learners and apprentices.
since 1995, the promulgation  and amendment of the hazardous occupations orders have been effectuated under  the administrative procedure act (apa), 5 u.s.c. 551 et seq.
the regulation also requires that the student's parent or  guardian sign the training agreement, or otherwise give consent to the  agreement, in order for it to be valid.
baler that is  designed or used to process materials other than paper means a powered machine  designed or used to compress materials other than paper and cardboard boxes,  with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and  transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable  container.
the  department, as discussed above, proposed to redesignate this section as sec.
no comments were received regarding the information paperwork burden estimates.
in addition, when serving as dispatchers or attendants at the top of an elevated water slide, minors under 16 years of age are not performing, nor can they reasonably be expected to perform, the core lifeguard duty of rescuing swimmers because they are so far removed from the splash- down area of the slide.
the american federation of labor and  congress of industrial organizations (afl-cio), while submitting its own  comments, also endorsed those submitted by the clc.
the department believes that all these additional safety requirements, when coupled with the provisions of the revised sec. 570.33(i), adequately protect young workers who momentarily enter freezers.
the department proposed to amend sec.
these prohibitions are designed to protect young  workers from the hazards associated with loading docks, motor vehicles, and  receiving departments; strains from lifting and moving heavy items; and falls  and falling items.
a. occupations  that are prohibited for the employment of minors between the ages of 14 and 16
the  exemption, contained at section 13(c)(7) of the flsa, allows eligible youth to  work inside and outside of places of businesses that use machinery to process  wood products, subject to specified limitations.
the  importance of this recommendation was poignantly demonstrated by the august  2008 death of a 17-year-old in georgia who was crushed to death when a one-ton  electrical inverter box fell from a fork lift.
whd, osha, and niosh then work together to ensure  that the appropriate rules are followed and enforced and to learn from each  event in the hopes that future tragedies can be prevented.
the report is available for review on the department's youthrules!
570.37 (new) would indeed be the employer of the youth under the flsa and held  to all the act's minimum wage, overtime, record keeping, and child labor  provisions--unless subject to a specific exemption or exception--as would any  other employer.
the cristo rey network, which described itself as ``a non-profit corporation that co-ordinates twelve college prep high schools across the country,'' self-identified itself as the network that the department describes in the nprm.
(3) the criteria to be used in consideration of applications under this section are the following: (i) eligibility.
1060, as amended; 29 u.s.c. 201, et seq.).
570.35, does not interfere with their schooling or with their  health and well-being and shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor.
this rule was drafted and reviewed in accordance with e.o. 12988 and will not unduly burden the federal court system.
it is the department's intention that this relationship will continue to grow and accommodate additional partnering opportunities as they arise.
the term shall not include the gathering of forest products such  as balsam needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss, spanish moss,  sphagnum moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of gum, turpentine,  and rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of pine gum.
since this section's inception, the department has interpreted it to mean that such youth are prohibited from working as dairy stock clerks, meat clerks, deli clerks, produce clerks, or frozen-food stock clerks where their duties would require them to enter and remain in the freezer or meat cooler for prolonged periods.
sec. 570.35(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),  and (a)(6).
[[page 28441]] the communal equipment as required by flsa section 13(c)(5).
accordingly, adoption of the recommendations of the ywn and afl-cio that ho 7  also prohibit the operation of such equipment would be premature.
the term power-driven woodworking  machines has long been defined in sec.
(a) office and clerical work, including the operation of office machines.
the fmi and the council both recommended that the department reconsider and adopt the niosh recommendation that would allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate and feed power-driven meat and food slicers.
f. occupations involved in the operation of power-driven wood working machines (order 5) (29 cfr 570.55) ho 5 generally prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in occupations involving the operating, setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning of power-driven woodworking machines.
570.34, for the periods and under the conditions specified in sec.
because of the complexity of the issue and in the hopes of obtaining additional  information, the department requested public comment on this recommendation in  the anprm that [[page 28433]] was published in conjunction with, and on the  same day as, the nprm.
the department continues to be  concerned about issues involving injuries to workers resulting from flying  objects, burns, fuel safety, and improper ergonomics.
the  term reciprocating saw would mean a machine equipped with a moving blade that  alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used for sawing  materials.
administrator means  the administrator of the wage and hour division, u.s. department of labor, and  includes an authorized representative designated by the administrator to  perform any of the functions of the administrator under this part and part 580  of this chapter.
part iv department of labor -----------------------------------------------------------------------
they may work in the peeling of fence posts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, or similar products when not done in conjunction with and at the same time and place as other logging occupations declared hazardous by ho 4.
they may work in the feeding and care of animals.
in the 2004 final rule, the secretary certified that standard ansi  z245.5-1997 is as protective of the safety of minors as standard  ansi-s245.5-1990 and that standard ansi z245.2-1997 is as protective of the  safety of minors as standard ansi z245.2-1992.
the  department has decided to add abrasive cutting discs to the list of machines  prohibited by ho 14 because it would be in keeping with the niosh  recommendation and will provide important protections to working youth.
the dolwd also suggested that the federal regulations on the number of hours that 14- and 15-year-olds may work should be amended to be consistent with the more permissive standards established in alaska.
revisions to ho 12 to prohibit the employment of minors in the operation of  balers and compactors not currently covered by the ho, and the expansion of ho  14 to add additional power-driven equipment to the list of equipment minors may  not operate, are also the result of niosh report recommendations.
the employment of such minors would still be governed by the remaining provisions of reg. 3, including the daily, weekly, morning, and evening hours standards limitations contained in sec.
the department proposed to implement the report recommendation to expand the application of ho 10 to prohibit the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in all meat products manufacturing industries, including those engaged in the processing of sausages and/or other prepared meat products and those engaged in poultry slaughtering and/or processing.
the  department once again notes that it has requested public comment on the issue  of exemptions for student-learners and apprentices in the anprm that was  published in conjunction with, and on the same day as, the nprm.
* (c) another distinction is  that the exemptions provided by the act from the minimum wage and/or overtime  provisions are more numerous and differ from the exemptions granted from the  child labor provisions.
she noted that the junior lifeguard program is an important tool for recruiting and developing future lifeguards.
the department has also included certain countertop blenders used to make beverages such as milk shakes, fresh fruit drinks, and smoothies within the term milk shake blender as used in reg. 3.
the department believes this revision to be nothing more than a clarification of its long-standing interpretation of the regulations.
another example would be that 14- and 15-year-olds would be permitted to sculpt, but would be prohibited from welding and soldering or any functions that expose them to heat, or to height or other existing restrictions.''
additionally, this document  revises the child labor regulations in response to a statutory amendment  enacted by the congress that permits certain youth between 14 and 18 years of  age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade  to be employed under specific conditions inside and outside places of business  that use machinery to process wood products.
cooking is also permitted with deep fryers that are equipped with  and utilize a device which automatically lowers the baskets into the hot oil or  grease and automatically raises the baskets from the hot oil or grease.
the department  proposed to revise the term slaughtering and meat packing establishments  contained in sec. 570.61(b)
the department appreciates the comments  of the ywn, afl-cio, and clc and has decided to adopt the proposal with slight  modifications designed for clarification.
the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs.
although both the ywn and clc stated that they did not support enactment of flsa section 13(c)(7), they strongly supported the department's efforts to ensure that the regulations provide adequate protections for youths who are now permitted to be employed inside and outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood products.
the term inside or outside places of business  refers to the distinct physical place of the business, i.e., the buildings and  the immediate grounds necessary for the operation of the business.
the department also proposed to reformat the  definitions section contained in ho 7 to reflect an alphabetical sequence in  accordance with guidance provided by the federal register.
* * these workers also cut the trees  with a chainsaw and drag them from the cutting area to a truck and then load  them on to a truck.
(new) and sec. 570.34(i)
an individual private school that was not part of a network, district, or system would also be able to apply to participate in a work study program.
570.62(b)(2) that will permit such youth to operate--but not set-up, adjust,  repair, oil, or clean--those power- driven pizza-dough rollers that: (1) are  constructed with safeguards contained in the basic design so as to prevent  fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in the in-running point of the  rollers; (2) have gears that are completely enclosed; and (3) have  microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of the rollers  are removed.
the njdoe also stated that the department's proposal to limit  participation in the work-study program ``conflicts with the federal no child  left behind act, the federal carl d. perkins career and technical education  act, the federal individuals with disabilities education act, and state laws  and regulations, which require state education agencies and public schools to  serve all students and provide all students with comprehensive career  education, including opportunities to further explore careers in work-based  learning activities.''
as used in this section: applicable ansi standard means the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.5-1990 american national standard for refuse collection, processing, and disposal--baling equipment--safety requirements (ansi s245.5-1990) for scrap paper balers or the american national standard institute's standard ansi z245.2-1992 american national standard for refuse collection, processing, and disposal equipment--stationary compactors--safety requirements (ansi z245.2- 1992) for paper box compactors.
(d)  cashiering, selling, modeling, art work, work in advertising departments,  window trimming, and comparative shopping.
[[page  28440]] standards institute or visit a designated osha office to view them.
sawmills,  planing mills, and millwork *
controversies regarding young children conducting  commercial sales of items, often on a ``door-to-door'' basis, are not new.
the department also proposed  that the term adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth  would mean an adult who professes membership in the same religious sect or  division to which the youth professes membership.
artistically creative work is limited to work in a  recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor.
the 2004 final rule, however, did not change the  types of equipment and devices that 14- and 15-year-olds were permitted to, and  continue to be permitted to, operate in accordance with sec.
ho 4 also provides exemptions at sec. 570.54(a)
total dollar cost burden: $14.
the  revisions the department proposed to sec. 570.54(a)(1) (old) that removed  paragraph (iii) of that subsection evidenced the department's intention to  prohibit
artistically creative work would be limited to work in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor.
for example, the department  investigated the employment of a 17-year-old who had both legs amputated in a  large industrial baler machine at a recycling center.
the department believes that before any changes to the existing exemptions are made, it is important to consider and develop criteria for determining when apprenticeship and student-learner exemptions are appropriate.
although  originally proposed as an experimental program, reg. 3 was amended to make the  wecep a permanent exception.
the youth is required to use, and uses, personal protective equipment to  prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
that would include an [[page 28437]] exemption allowing the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to operate-- including setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, and cleaning-- lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, those models intended for household use.
for the  sake of both brevity and clarity, the department proposed not to repeat in sec.
the report also recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit work  from truck-mounted bucket or basket hoists commonly termed ``bucket trucks'' or  ``cherry pickers'' because worker fatalities are associated with work from such  equipment (see niosh report, page 36).
the department, as discussed above, proposed to redesignate this section as sec.
the department's 2004 final rule addressed six of the recommendations.
some questions have recently been raised concerning the appropriateness  of this position, but the department has been consistent in its application  when the equipment is used to process wood and trees.
lifeguards may also help to maintain order and cleanliness in the pool and pool areas, give swimming instructions, conduct or officiate at swimming meets, and administer first aid.
(8) the following additional exceptions apply to the operation of a permanent sawmill or the operation of any lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill, but not to a portable sawmill.
* * equipped with a power-  operated lifting device *
multi-state chain restaurant  companies, requested that the proposed sec. 570.33(e) include additional  language which would emphasize that 14- and 15-year- olds would continue to be  permitted to operate all those pieces of kitchen equipment listed in sec.
section 16(a) provides that any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of section 15 shall upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000, or to imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
570.35 hours of work and  conditions of employment permitted for minors 14 and 15 years of age.
the rule does not  have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the  national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and  responsibilities among the various levels of government.
before a 14-  or 15-year-old may legally perform work covered by the flsa, the act requires  that the work itself be exempt, or that the secretary of labor has determined  that the work to be performed does not constitute oppressive child labor.
prohibited youth peddling also includes such promotion activities as the holding, wearing, or waving of signs, merchandise, costumes, sandwich boards, or placards in order to attract potential customers, except when performed inside of, or directly in front of, the employer's establishment providing the product, service, or event being advertised.
the genetic information  nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina) (pub.
the clc noted that although the proposed sec. 570.34(b) contains the statement that artistically creative work is limited to work in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor, it does not define the term artistic or creative endeavor.
this term would also include establishments that manufacture or process meat products, including poultry, sausage, or sausage casings.
for example, the afl-cio noted that ``[w]orking in the forest industry can involve working at heights *
regulatory revisions many of the revisions being made by this final rule will result in the redesignation of several sections and subsections of the regulations.
although the greatest number of these injuries and illnesses occurred in meat packing [[page 28435]] plants (5,526), establishments that produce sausages and prepared meats experienced 4,147 injuries and illnesses, and poultry slaughtering and processing establishments experienced 3,937 that same year (see niosh report, page 43).
in order to utilize the reg. 3 wsp provisions, sec. 570.37(b)(2) requires a local public or private school system to file with the administrator of the wage and hour division an application for approval of a wsp as one that does not interfere with the schooling or health and well-being of the minors involved.
the authority citation for part 570 subpart c is revised to read as follows:  authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 212, 213(c).
in addition,  each driver transporting the young workers must hold a state driver's license  valid for the type of driving involved and, if the driver is under the age of  18, his or her employment must comply with the provisions of sec. 570.52.
in addition, some of this prohibited equipment, when used to process  meat or mix batter--with or without the use of special ``attachments''--may not  be operated by employees under the age of 18 because of the prohibitions of ho  10 or ho 11, respectively.
however, because this rule is not ``economically significant'' as defined in section 3(f)(1) of e.o. 12866, it does not require a full economic impact analysis under section 6(a)(3)(c) of the order.
the department received six comments in response to this proposal.
part 580 of this chapter, civil  money penalties-- procedures for assessing and contesting penalties, describes  the administrative process for assessment and resolution of the civil money  penalties.
the council commented  that it believes table top food processors and food mixers pose little risk of  harm to the safety and well-being of 14- and 15-year-olds and questions why the  department continues to prohibit such youth from operating them (see sec.
(c) part 579 of this chapter, child labor violations--civil money penalties, provides for the issuance of the notice of civil money penalties for any violation of flsa sections 12 or 13(c) relating to child labor.
any other provisions of the program providing safeguards ensuring that the employment permitted under this section will not interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being may also be submitted for use in considering the application.
the proposed revisions to subpart  g were as follows: 1.
but because many of the occupations and  tasks addressed by the final rule either appear in more than one code or are  not included in the codes listed in the report, the department did not use  those codes in formulating the definitions used in the final rule.
the clc commented that ``dol's approach here hardly comports with its stated  desire to balance `the benefits of employment opportunities with the necessary  and appropriate safety protections' (72 fr 19337).
* * had the 14th highest lifetime risk of 5.8 deaths per 1,000 workers'' (see niosh report, page 28).
it serves the best interests of the 14- and 15-year- old parent, as well as the young parent's child, for the parent to complete his or her education, thus realizing a long-term benefit of increased and better employment in the future.''
such classroom instruction shall include, every year the youth participates in the work-study program, training in workplace safety and state and federal child labor provisions and rules.
finally, the clc also  questioned, as did the ywn, if the ``host employers'' or the cristo rey high  school would be considered the actual employers of the youth under the flsa.
in any event, the direct, incremental costs that would be imposed by this rule are expected to be minimal.
the american red cross (red cross), which has been developing and implementing lifeguard training and certification programs since 1914, stated that it is ``comfortable'' with the department's proposal with one small change.
the  department notes that, since publishing the nprm, it has investigated the  serious injuries of at least ten more young workers who operated or cleaned  such equipment.
paperwork reduction act
the report states: ``stationary saws and hand-held saws, including chain saws,  continue to be the source of substantial numbers of fatalities as well as  nonfatal injuries which may be unusually severe'' (see niosh report, page 56).
in addition, a school could apply and receive authorization under  sec.
the ywn also  stated that work as a lifeguard may entail exposure to combative individuals,  bloodborne pathogens, and chemicals.
570.35 relating to the reg. 3 hours standards are  varied for youth enrolled in and employed pursuant to an approved wecep.
the report is correct that this current definition of manlift does  not include, and therefore does not prohibit,
the ywn  praised the enforcement benefits that would arise from having only one standard  in each school district, thereby avoiding multiple schedules that would create  unworkable and needlessly complex enforcement standards.
570.59, the section heading is revised to read as follows: sec. 570.59 occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (order 8).
although this is evidenced by the department's compliance and enforcement guidance and the structure of the nprm, it was not explicitly stated in the proposed rule.
the list  also includes the occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or  cleaning the machines.
such employers can consult with the manufacturer of the equipment, the supplier of the equipment, the owner of the equipment if the equipment is leased, industry and/or employer associations, osha, and safety engineering consultants.
(a) the  administrative determination of the amount of the civil penalty for each  employee who was the subject of a violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of  the act relating to child labor or of any regulation under those sections will  be based on the available evidence of the violation or violations and will take  into consideration the size of the business of the person charged and the  gravity of the violations as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this  section.
the core and defining duty of a lifeguard is the rescuing of swimmers in danger of drowning, often by entering the water and physically bringing the swimmer to safety.
power-driven woodworking machines shall mean all fixed or portable machines or  tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming,  surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise  assembling, pressing, or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
the department also proposed to clarify the  hours restriction contained in sec. 570.35(a)(5), which limits the employment  of 14- and 15-year-olds in nonagricultural employment to no more than 3 hours  on a day when school is in session, by adding a statement that this restriction  also applies to fridays.
sec. 570.36 and 570.37 as sec.
the clc opposed this  proposal and reiterated its concerns about the department's use of its  prosecutorial discretion to establish enforcement positions in the  administration and enforcement of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
the risks associated with poultry catching also occur in the catching and cooping of poultry other than chickens--for example, processors of turkeys and cornish game hens employ similar methods of moving their products to slaughter.
in addition, the hours standards provisions of sec. 570.35 restrict the number of hours and times of day that 14- and 15-year-olds may be employed in any flsa-covered work, including artistic or creative endeavors.
solicitor of labor means the solicitor, u.s. department of labor, and  includes attorneys designated by the solicitor to perform functions of the  solicitor under this part and part 780 of this chapter.
the department carefully considered this  request and, again using its prosecutorial discretion, decided that it would  not assert a violation of the child labor provisions when 14- and 15- year-old  employees of state and local governments loaded and unloaded the light  non-power-driven hand tools--such as rakes, hand-held clippers, and  spades--that they personally use as part of their employment.
the department notes that it is exploring the feasibility of  adopting niosh's alternative recommendation that certain power-driven equipment  be prohibited based on function rather than on the material being processed.
[[page 28424]]  position that the term ``week'' as used in reg. 3 means a standard calendar  week of 12:01 a.m. sunday through midnight saturday, not an employer's workweek  as defined in 29 cfr 778.105.
but the department is concerned that  such a system may not give the proper emphasis to obtaining an education and  would make employer compliance and whd enforcement more difficult and more  complicated than necessary, given the broad variety of daily school schedules  that each young employee could have.
finally, with regard to the clc's comment regarding wages, the fact that youth who conduct door-to-door sales usually are exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the flsa in no way detracts from the department's stated objective to develop updated, realistic health and safety standards for today's young workers that are consistent with the established national policy of balancing the benefits of employment opportunities for youth with the necessary and appropriate safety protections.
finally, the ywn believed that some artistically creative work may ``push the envelope on exploitative labor and/or prove detrimental to the morals of youth.''
in  the report, niosh itself recognized the confines of its methodology and  included appropriate caveats about the limitations of the available data and  gaps in research.
the department is incorporating the child labor  civil money penalty provisions of the gina amendments into this final rule  without prior notice and opportunity for public comment because it has for good  cause found, pursuant to the administrative procedure act, 5 u.s.c. 553(b)(b),  that these procedural requirements are unnecessary with respect to these  particular regulatory changes.
finally, the report also recommended that the department  retain the limited exemption contained in sec.
also, available occupational injury, illness, fatality, and employment data on the specific operations in the specific industries covered by the niosh report recommendations tend to be combined with data on other operations and/or industries.
finally, the department is also revising sec.
the united states lifesaving association (usla), which described itself as america's nonprofit, professional association of beach lifeguards and open water rescuers, reported that it ``works to reduce the incidence of death and injury in the aquatic environment through public education, promulgation of national lifeguard standards, training programs, promotion of high levels of lifeguard readiness, and other means.''
570.37 work-study program.
accordingly, the department is  incorporating the provisions of the statutory amendments into the final rule  without notice and comment.
the  department notes that the ywn's comment that the temperature reached by  espresso makers ``exceeds the temperature limits [[page 28410]] established for  prohibiting use of other equipment such as anything related to hot oil that  exceeds a temperature of 100 degrees f'' does not comport with either the  previous or revised provisions of reg. 3.
the clc stated that even in the absence of such a  reporting requirement, the department can play an important role by publicizing  not only the hazards of working in such places of business, but also the  results of any child labor investigations involving woodworking machines.
ansi standard z245.5-2008....
because these ansi standards are copyright-protected, the department cannot include them in the regulations or reproduce them for distribution to the public.
over sixty percent of that number, 7,280 injuries and illnesses, were caused by food slicers.
the term shall not include work performed in the planing-mill department or other remanufacturing departments of any sawmill or remanufacturing plant not a part of a sawmill.
additionally, this document revises the child labor regulations in response to a statutory amendment enacted by the congress that permits certain youth between 14 and 18 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade to be employed under specific conditions inside and outside places of business that use machinery to process wood products.
* * * * sec. 570.118 sixteen-year minimum.
except for civil penalties collected for violations of section 212 of the flsa, sums collected as penalties pursuant to section 216(e) of the flsa shall be applied toward reimbursement of the costs of determining the violations and assessing and collecting such penalties, in accordance with the provision of section 202 of the act entitled ``an act to authorize the department of labor to make special statistical studies upon payment of the cost thereof and for other purposes'' (29 u.s.c. 9a).
since october 1999, the department has investigated at least 36 injuries  of young workers that were caused by operating or cleaning power-driven meat  slicers.
the term supervised refers to the requirement that the youth's on-the-job activities be directed, monitored, overseen, and controlled by a specified named adult.
executive order 13211, energy supply
in  fact, as discussed earlier, weed-eaters are among the equipment the department  is adding as an example of power-driven machinery such youth are prohibited  from operating (see sec. 570.33(e) (new)).
the compactor and baler act was enacted on august 6, 1996 (pub.
the term shall  include all types of derricks, such as a-frame, breast, chicago boom, gin-pole,  guy, and stiff-leg derrick.
an employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of  the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such  sections shall be deemed to be repeated for purposes of this section: (1) where  the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act  relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections,  provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible  official of the wage and hour division or otherwise authoritatively, that the  employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the act; or, (2) where  a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously  violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any  regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which  has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with  jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or  reversed by such appellate tribunal.
the traditionally prohibited occupations and industries would, after adoption of the proposal, be contained in a revised sec. 570.33, and all the permitted occupations and industries would be contained in a revised sec.
this study was commissioned to provide the secretary with another tool to use in her ongoing review of the child labor provisions, and of the hazardous occupations orders in particular.
finally, the department  is well aware of the importance of keeping all stakeholders informed of its  compliance assistance initiatives and enforcement findings, and of serious  occupational injuries involving youth.
(g) outside window washing that involves working from window sills, and all work requiring the use of ladders, scaffolds, or their substitutes.
the costs imposed by  this rule should not be significant for any single entity, and they do not  affect a substantial number of small entities in a way that would require an  analysis under the regulatory flexibility act.
a new application for approval must be filed at the end of that period.
in an  attempt to obtain such additional information, the department requested public  comment on this subject in the 2007 anprm.
570.33 occupations that are prohibited to minors 14 and 15 years of age.
this same issue was mentioned by  pleasant hill, which noted that it had swimming instructors who were properly  certified by the red cross but were not certified as lifeguards.
for purposes of this exemption, a lightweight, small capacity  mixer is one that is not hardwired into the establishment's power source, is  equipped with a motor that operates at no more than \1/2\ horsepower, and is  equipped with a bowl with a capacity of no more than five quarts.
570.33(b) (old) prohibits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in occupations involving the operation or tending of power-driven machinery, except office machines.
in recognition that the ho now covers  poultry processing.
nada  stated that vehicle washing ``anecdotally is known as the classic entry-level  dealership employment activity *
the employment of youth under this section must comply with the other sections of this subpart, including the hours and time of day standards established by sec.
the report specifically notes the risk of falls and electrocution being linked with such equipment.
the department believes that only a few minors have obtained employment in such occupations since the amendment was enacted and doubts that the number will increase.
the clc stated that ``[t]he dol proposal raises serious questions under the first amendment to the united states constitution, which forbids the government favoring one religious sect over another.''
under the network model, students do not work more than eight hours a day, before 7 a.m. or after 7 p.m., and are transported to and from their jobs by the school.
the ywn, clc, and afl-cio supported the proposal to consolidate those subsections of reg.
the clc also raised concerns as to whether dol would ``be  able to assure that no violations occur under this system'' and of ``the  secrecy of the approval process that dol would adopt.''
it does not include a workroom or workplace solely where  meats are smoked.
the other provisions of reg. 3,  including the restrictions on hours of work contained at sec. 570.35(a), would  [[page 28418]] continue to apply to the employment of 15-year-old lifeguards.
this  section, however, does not prohibit the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds  whose duties require them to occasionally enter freezers only momentarily to  retrieve items as permitted by sec. 570.34(i).
the department has  carefully reviewed all the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with  certain modifications that will clarify the final rule.
one  private citizen, who submitted his comment to the electronic docket for the  anprm published on april 17, 2007, was the only commenter to oppose the  proposal.
ansi standard  z245.5-1997....
the department believes additional information is needed before it can determine whether 16- and 17-year-olds who operate hydraulic grease racks are at risk and notes it requested public comment on this issue in 2007.
the employment of such minors would still be subject to the time of day and number of hours standards contained in sec.
the ywn, clc,  and afl-cio supported the proposal to consolidate those subsections of reg.
both niosh  occupational injury data and the department's enforcement experience reflect  that injuries occur when youth operate balers and compactors that are designed  and used to process materials other than paper.
it does not include work that involves cutting, scraping, or trimming meat from cuts containing bones.
fifteen-year-olds employed  as lifeguards would, however, be prohibited from entering or working in any  mechanical rooms or chemical storage areas, including any areas where the  filtration and chlorinating systems are housed.
the youth would have to be enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum and must receive, every year they participate in the work- study program, at least the minimum number of hours of class room instruction required by the applicable state educational agency responsible for establishing such standards.
the ansi standards for scrap paper balers  and paper box compactors govern the manufacture and modification of the  equipment, the operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee  training.
this prohibition has always encompassed the operation or tending of all power-driven amusement park and recreation establishment rides-- including elevated slides found at water amusement parks.
the department has also included certain countertop  blenders used to make beverages such as milk shakes, fresh fruit drinks, and  smoothies within the term milk shake blender as used in reg. 3.
the department proposed to redesignate this section as  sec.
the department also proposed to continue to permit youth 14- and 15-years of age to perform those occupations involving processing, operating of machines, and working in rooms where processing and manufacturing take place, that are currently permitted under sec. 570.34(a) (old), as referenced in sec.
the following tasks in forest fire prevention provided none of these tasks may be performed in conjunction with or in support of efforts to extinguish a forest fire: the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; the piling and burning of slash; the maintaining of fire fighting equipment; and acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman.
seventeen orders, published in subpart e of this part,  have thus far been issued under the flsa and are now in effect.
work of a mental or artistically creative nature the department has routinely received inquiries asking whether 14- and 15-year-old youth may be employed to perform certain mental or artistically creative activities in industries not specifically permitted by reg. 3.
the dolwd stated  that ``[t]hese provisions would include that the vehicle shall not be running  and must be properly secured with the wheels blocked during any loading and  unloading operations.''
guillotine shear shall mean a machine equipped with a moveable blade operated vertically and used to shear materials.
both of these commenters, along with the afl-cio, made additional recommendations to the proposal.
this legislation added section 13(c)(6) to the flsa which prohibits minors  under 17 years of age from driving automobiles and trucks on public roadways on  the job and establishes the conditions and criteria for 17-year-olds to drive  automobiles and trucks on public roadways on the job.
this revision would be  accomplished by revising sec. 570.65(a)(2) to prohibit the employment of minors  in the occupations of operator of or helper on power-driven chain saws, wood  chippers, and reciprocating saws, whether the machines are fixed or portable.
the department has opined, as early as 1989, that the term public messenger service involves that delivery service rendered to a company which takes messages, small parcels, etc. from one party for delivery to another party.
such prohibited equipment often have containers or mixing chambers that exceed a 20-ounce capacity--some can accommodate up to 60 quarts.
(vi) clean-up work outside  shake and shingle mills, except when the mill is in operation.
this provision does not prohibit a young salesperson from conducting sales for his or her employer on property controlled by the employer that is out of doors but may properly be considered part of the employer's establishment.
the written participation agreement  shall be structured to ensure that the quality of the student's education, as  well as his or her safety and well-being, are not compromised.
the on-off switch of the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor  must be maintained in an off position when the machine is not in operation.
both the ywn and clc  supported this proposal.
accordingly, the department is revising the proposed sec. 570.140 (as redesignated as discussed in paragraph 7 above) to incorporate the provisions of gina.
moreover, this rule does not change the limitations on the number of hours per  day or per week that 14- and 15-year-olds may work when school is not in  session.
though the department did not propose specific regulatory language regarding these terms when it published the nprm, it did seek information from the public regarding whether such regulatory provisions would be appropriate, including whether: (1) the department should continue to use the hours of operation of the local public school where a minor resides to determine when he or she may legally be employed, even when that minor does not attend that local public school or, for whatever reason, may actually have attendance requirements that differ from those of the rest of the students attending that local school; (2) the flsa's requirement that such a minor only be employed under conditions and during periods that will not interfere with his or her schooling or health and well-being would be equally or better served if it were based on the minor's own actual academic schedule; and (3) using the academic schedule and attendance requirements of each minor when determining when school was in session for that minor would provide working youths greater opportunities and flexibility when seeking safe, positive and legal employment.
since the last revision of subpart g in 1971, congress has passed several amendments to the flsa and the department has revised other subparts of 29 cfr part 570 that are not currently reflected in subpart g.
the  department has over the years documented reports of minors, many as young as 10  or 11 years of age, working as part of mobile sales crews, selling such items  as candy, calendars, and greeting cards for profit-making companies.
it is important to note that the clc is incorrect in its  assumption that this proposal would permit the employment of 14- and  15-year-olds by messenger service firms that ``have standing contracts with law  firms, accounting firms, and other types of businesses'' to deliver documents  or small packages.
the  department proposed to revise this section to incorporate the changes  necessitated by the adoption of flsa section 13(c)(7) and to reflect the  proposed revisions to sec.
the clc also was concerned that the ansi standards are copyright- protected and  that employers must either purchase them from the american national
the ywn recommended that such sign waving activities also be prohibited along public roads and grassy areas or median areas next to public streets or traffic.
in addition, youth employed in timber tract, tree farm, and forestry service industries should be permitted to perform tasks related to forest marketing and forest economics that are not performed in a forest.
there has also been some confusion among  employers as to what constitutes a milk shake blender under reg. 3.
as used in this section: off-bearing shall mean the removal of material or refuse directly from a saw table or from the point of operation.
sec. 570.33 and 570.34 to clarify and to expand the  list of jobs that are either permitted or prohibited for minors who are 14 and  15 years of age.
570.35 or the special wecep rules in sec.
as discussed previously in the  sections dealing with hos 10, 12, and 14 of this preamble, the department  proposed to take no action concerning the apprenticeship and student-learner  exemptions to any of the hos at this time.
570.55, paragraph  (b) is revised to read as follows: sec.
except as described below,  other types of blenders, mixers, and ``blixers''--used for a variety of food  preparation operations including the blending of milk shakes--continue to be  prohibited to that age group.
the department also proposed to revise and redesignate the sections of subpart g currently dealing with general enforcement
several states have advised the department that wecep serves its targeted audience well,
unlike the machines currently listed in sec. 570.65(a)(1), the prohibition  would not be lifted if the chain saws, wood chippers, or reciprocating saws  were equipped with full automatic feed and ejection-devices--devices that are  almost never found on such equipment.
the department notes that  when rules are clearly written and adequately explained, public understanding  and compliance follow.
but because greater clarity and protections can be realized,  the department will add atvs to the list of named equipment.
(vii) splitting shakes manually from precut and split blocks with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover.
the  department has learned of occupational injuries to workers operating  reciprocating saws to cut materials other than wood.
the department appreciates the concerns raised by the ywn, the afl-cio, and the clc regarding the scope of the term youth-employer's establishment.
furthermore, the 16-year-age minimum for employment is applicable to employment in all other occupations unless otherwise provided by regulation or order issued by the secretary.
these  agreements shall be maintained for 3 years from the date of the student's  [[page 28446]] enrollment in the wsp (see sec. 570.37(b)(4)(ii)).
a member of the same religious sect or division as the youth refers to an individual who professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.
[[page 28461]] violation of section 215(a)(2) of the flsa,  to be paid to the secretary.
(c) is fourteen years of age or older.''
the council supported the  proposal as written.
the department appreciates the concerns of those commenters who recommended that the ban on youth peddling should be extended to all youth under the age of 18 years, but considers such a change too substantive to adopt without additional rulemaking.
the act sets a 16-year-age minimum for  employment in manufacturing or mining occupations, although under flsa section  13(c)(7), certain youth between the ages of 14 and 18 may, under specific  conditions, be employed inside and outside of places of business that use  power-driven machinery to process wood products.
570.54(a)(1)(ii) permits youth to perform such work.
(f) bagging and  carrying out customers' orders.
they are often required to work many hours on school nights and late into the evening.
expanding this definition thus clarifies that youth are prohibited from operating or assisting in the operation of wood- processing machinery typically found in the workplaces covered by the 2004 amendment.
this enforcement position applies only when all the safeguards detailed above are present on the machine, are operational, and have not been overridden.
(5) work related to forest marketing and forest economics when performed away from the forest.
this exception applies only when all the safeguards detailed in this paragraph are present on the machine, are operational, and have not been overridden.
supplementary information:
these standards have been incorporated into these regulations by reference by the federal register as discussed in sec.
furthermore, section 13(c)(7) permits the employment of a new entrant inside or outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood products only if the youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation, and is required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
but the department is concerned that such a system may not give the proper emphasis to obtaining an education and would make employer compliance and whd enforcement more difficult and more complicated than necessary, given the broad variety of daily school schedules that each young employee could have.
the ho also prevents such  minors from performing all occupations involved in the operation or feeding of  several power-driven meat processing machines when performed in slaughtering  and meat packing establishments, as well as in wholesale, retail, or service  establishments.
the second modification clarifies the role of the teacher-coordinator.
and (2) that the term tending includes assisting in the hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment, to add clarity as recommended by the clc.
(k) loading and unloading of goods or property onto or from motor vehicles,  railroad cars, or conveyors, except the loading and unloading of personal  non-power-driven hand tools, personal protective equipment, and personal items  to and from motor vehicles as permitted by sec. 570.34(k).
the ywn recommended that the department eliminate the reference to between june 1st and labor day and replace it with the actual calendar of each public school, noting that an increasing number of school districts have year- round schedules.
the clc stated that adoption of this proposal would allow 14- and 15-year-olds to perform office work for such employers as accounting firms, advertising agencies, mass mailing businesses, insurance companies, and many similar businesses.
in 1999, the department investigated the death of a young poultry processing worker in arkansas and the serious injury of a similarly employed minor in missouri who injured both of his legs when he slipped and fell into an auger.
the report is correct that this current definition of manlift does not include, and therefore does not prohibit,
in bringing the regulations into conformity with the statutory amendments, the department is not exercising any interpretative authority.
section 13(c)(7) of the flsa provides a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or judicial order, are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, that permits their employment inside and outside of places of business that use power- driven machinery to process wood products.
the reason for this  recommendation that the clc makes here is that if there are osha violations  that give rise to child labor violations, then the adults who work with the  woodworking machinery are subject to the same workplace hazards as the  children.''
executive order 12630, constitutionally  protected property rights
570.34(a) (old) and all the prohibited occupations contained in sec. 570.34(b) (old) that currently apply only to retail, food service, and gasoline service establishments.
nor can it ban certain employment for young workers solely because the employees engaged in such employment are exempt from the flsa's minimum wage and/or overtime requirements.
i. occupations involved in the operation of bakery machines (order 11) (29 cfr 570.62) ho 11 generally prohibits the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in occupations involved in the operation of power-driven bakery machines.
flsa section 13(d) provides an exemption from the child labor provisions, as well as the minimum wage and overtime provisions, for homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths).
neither the council nor the fmi commented on the department's proposal regarding the cleaning of power-driven meat processing equipment.
she recommended that  the prohibitions involving the use of ladders and scaffolds by this age group  be retained.
fourteen- and 15-year-olds could not be employed to clean such work places, even after hours, because of whd's long-standing interpretation that a work place retains its character--and child labor continues to be prohibited--even at times when nothing is being mined, processed, or manufactured.
it believes that encouraging employers to create such multiple employment opportunities for youth who qualify for participation in the work-study program warrants
the report also recommends, alternatively, that the department consider developing a new ho that would prohibit all sawing machinery that performs cutting and sawing functions through direct contact of the cutting surface and the material being processed.
the administrator shall have discretion to grant requests for special  variations if the applicant demonstrates that the activity will be performed  under adequate supervision and training (including safety precautions) and that  the terms and conditions of the proposed employment will not interfere with the  health or well-being or schooling of the minor enrolled in an approved program.
three titanium plates were permanently implanted into the minor's  skull.
the door-to-door sales industry employing these minors generally is composed of a number of crew leaders who, during the course of a year, operate in many different states.
although the exemption allows certain youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years to be employed inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machines to process wood products, it does so only if such youths do not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines.
the red cross objected to the department  including the task of ``giving swimming instructions'' in the list of duties  that 15-year-olds may perform because the red cross lifeguard training course  does not include training on how to give swimming instructions.
however, the list of prohibited occupations is not  intended to identify every prohibited occupation, but rather only to provide  examples of those prohibited occupations that have historically been the most  common sources of violations or concern.
this cooperation will continue after the adoption of the final rule.
as stated in the  final rule, whd will continue to rely on osha's expertise for guidance when  applying the specific occupational health and safety-affecting requirements of  flsa section 13(c)(7) (see sec.
(c) cooking with electric or  gas grills which does not involve cooking over an [[page 28450]] open flame  (note: this provision does not authorize cooking with equipment such as  rotisseries, broilers, pressurized equipment including fryolators, and cooking  devices that operate at extremely high temperatures such as ``neico  broilers'').
570.112  and 570.113.
the department also proposed to reformat, in an alphabetical sequence, all the definitions found in sec. 570.61(b) to comport with guidance provided by the federal register.
the current sec. 570.65(a)(2) would be redesignated as sec. 570.65(a)(3) and revised to reflect that 16- and 17-year-olds could not be employed in occupations involving the setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning of any of the equipment covered by the ho.
the  department believes additional information is needed before it can address such  a broad recommendation that would impact all construction occupations.
the report notes that while these large specialized  balers are generally found in facilities that specialize in processing scrap  and waste materials, smaller general-purpose portable machines that serve the  same functions are marketed for use in businesses such as grocery stores,  hotels, restaurants, and hospitals.
niosh notes that work in sic 083, forest nurseries and gathering of forest products, is associated with very small numbers of fatalities and should not be prohibited by ho 4.
high-lift truck shall mean a power-driven industrial type of truck used for lateral transportation that is equipped with a power-operated lifting device usually in the form of a fork or platform capable of tiering loaded pallets or skids one above the other.
this  legislation added section 13(c)(5) to the flsa, permitting minors 16 and 17  years of age to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and  paper box compactors when certain requirements are met.
570.34(a)(8)  (old) to include all motor vehicles.
she stated that prohibiting this age group from painting activities restricts their employment activities.
this commenter stated that through door-to-door sales ``many kids  learn how to be confident and build communication skills with adults.''
curing cellar includes a workroom or workplace which is  primarily devoted to the preservation and flavoring of meat, including poultry,  by curing materials.
the other provisions of reg. 3, including the restrictions on hours of work contained at sec. 570.35(a), would [[page 28418]] continue to apply to the employment of 15-year-old lifeguards.
by removing this subsection, the department removes the exception for timber tract and forestry service occupations.
[castillo et al. 1994], while the rate for adults aged 18 and older was 6.1.
the ywn assumed that the department's proposal would also ban the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds to perform sign waving, ``including holding or carrying of any type, posing or acting as a sign not directly in front of a retail establishment, or where no direct supervision exists'' (emphasis in original).
the economic and social costs associated with the deaths  and serious injuries of young workers are substantial.
section 570.58(a)(3) would be eliminated because its provisions would now be contained in the revised sec. 570.58(a)(1).
the minor was not operating the forklift at the time of his death but was serving as a ``spotter'' and assisting the operator of the forklift.
(f) the operation of motor vehicles; the service as helpers on such vehicles except those tasks permitted by sec. 570.34(k); and the riding on a motor vehicle, inside or outside of an enclosed passenger compartment, except as permitted by sec.
the term shall not  include construction sites, portable sawmills, areas where logging is being  performed, or mining operations.
it will further be noted that the act  provides various specific exemptions from the foregoing provisions which are  set forth and discussed in sec.
helper shall mean a person who assists in the operation of a machine covered by this section by helping place materials into or remove them from the machine.
the  concentration or distillation of these products, when carried out in the  forest, is also included [[page 28430]] in this industry.
participating schools and employers may choose to adopt some  other schedule of work hours that comport with the established maxima--such as  one four-hour day or one six-hour day each workweek; or two eight- hour days  each weekend; or three hours a day at the end of each of three school days, as  long as those hours comply with end-of-day hours standards established by sec.
these special rules currently apply only in the designated types of business.
570.63(b) to mean a  powered machine designed or used to compress materials other than paper or  cardboard boxes, with or without binding, to a density or form that will  support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a  disposable or reusable container.
the prohibition would include the catching and cooping of all poultry, not just chickens.
as used in this section: boning occupations means the removal of bones from meat cuts.
finally, pursuant to guidance provided by the federal register, the department  is issuing the proposed sec.
the department recognizes niosh's extensive research efforts in compiling and reviewing this data.
such confirmation shall be noted in any letters of application filed by the superintendent of the public or private school system in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section when seeking continuance of its work-study program.
instead, these subsections state that the minors are permitted to ``clean kitchen equipment (not otherwise prohibited), remove oil or grease, pour oil or grease through filters, and move receptacles containing hot grease or hot oil, but only when the equipment surfaces, containers, and liquids do not exceed a temperature of 100 [deg]f.'' the department has decided not to adopt the council's recommendation to revise reg. 3 to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to operate table top food processors and food mixers as no such proposal was contemplated by the nprm and no data has been received that demonstrates that 14- and 15-year-olds can safely operate such equipment.
operators place the glass jar on top of the base, place the ingredients in the  jar, affix the lid to the jar, press the appropriate button or switch, and  blend the product.
as  used in this section: outside school hours means such periods as before and  after school hours, holidays, summer vacations, weekends, and any other day or  part of a day when school is not in session as determined by the local public  school district in which the minor resides when employed.
570.34 in the final rule.
the employment of certain youth by places of business where  machinery is used to process wood products
they may work in the construction, operation, repair, or  maintenance of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
in addition, such data for youth 16 and 17 years of age tend to be mixed with that of older workers whose employment is not subject to the child labor provisions of the flsa.
the representative of pleasant hill also noted that youth aged  11 to 14 years of age participate in her facility's junior lifeguard program.
in addition, the ywn recommended that the department amend the first sentence of proposed sec. 570.33(j) to prohibit sales by youth ``in front or around the outside of retail establishments'' as ``many youth peddle wares outside grocery stores, large chain or box stores, etc.''
furthermore, the employer must also post a notice on the scrap paper baler or  paper box compactor that conveys certain information, including the  identification of the applicable ansi standard that the equipment meets, that  16- and 17-year-old employees may only load the scrap paper baler or paper box  compactor, and that no employee under the age of 18 may operate or unload the  scrap paper baler or paper box compactor.
in administering the flsa, the department does not consider such individuals, who volunteer or donate their services, usually on a part-time basis, for public service, religious, or humanitarian objectives, without contemplation of pay, to be employees of the religious, charitable, or similar nonprofit corporations that receive their services.
the department did not request, nor does it possess, data  regarding whether 16- and 17-year-olds can safely operate portable drills or  sanders, or what requirements should be imposed to ensure their safe operation  by young workers.
neither the council nor the fmi  commented on the department's proposal regarding the cleaning of power-driven  meat processing equipment.
therefore, the department requested in the nprm that the public provide information that would help it identify which occupations or tasks within the timber tract, tree farm, and forestry services industries are not particularly hazardous to youth.
the department has defined abrasive cutting disc to mean a machine equipped with a disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting materials.
(the information collection requirements contained in sec.
* * subpart g--general statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended 0 16.
supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth has several components.
the term  applies to such machines whether they are used in establishments that  manufacture converted paper or pulp products, or in any other type of  manufacturing or nonmanufacturing establishment.
such recommendations do not comport with the flsa's statutory directive that 14- and 15-year-olds may not be employed in manufacturing or mining occupations and may only hold such employment that the secretary has determined, by regulation or order, does not constitute oppressive child labor (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l)).
the clc stated that it believes it is ``ill-advised to excuse 14- and 15-year-olds from compulsory school attendance on the basis of parental status.
this subpart concerns the employment of youth between 14 and 16 years of age in nonagricultural occupations; standards for the employment of minors in agricultural occupations are detailed in subpart e-1.
slicers do not justify allowing youth to operate or clean such equipment.
although the cristo rey network work- study model was  reviewed by the department, the proposed work-study program differs  considerably from that model.
it expressed concerns that office equipment, such as large paper shredders and data processing machines with exposed moving parts, may present hazards to young workers.
office work continues to be one of the safest occupations available to young workers.
the report  also recommends that the department retain the exemption contained in ho 14  that permits 16- and 17-year-old apprentices and student learners to perform  work that would be otherwise prohibited by the ho.
for such employment to comply with reg. 3, the employee would have to be at  least 15 years of age and be properly certified.
the department has decided to revise the  title of ho 12 to reflect that, under the final rule, it will prohibit  occupations involved in the operation of all balers and compactors, including  those that do not process any paper products.
* * vehicle cleaning, washing, and polishing activities commonly involve small portable power-washers and hand-tool buffers'' (emphasis in the original).
indeed, non-public schools could be established by organizations whose prime  goal is to provide 14- and 15-year-old working children to employers during  normal business hours in the middle of the day, rather than to make sure that  the children are in school during the hours when they are most alert and  receptive to classroom instruction.
the crew leaders, who often have  ties to regional or national businesses, mistakenly claim that they and their  young sales crews are independent contractors.
under the proposal, all occupations in forest fire  fighting and forest fire prevention would include the controlling and  extinguishing of fires, the wetting down of areas or extinguishing of spot  fires, and the patrolling of burned areas to ensure the fire has been  extinguished.
the employment of minors under 14  years of age is not permissible under any circumstances if the employment is  covered by the child labor provisions and not specifically exempt.
elevator shall mean any power-driven hoisting or  lowering mechanism equipped with a car or platform which moves in guides in a  substantially vertical direction.
questions of interpretation and/or enforcement of regulations issued by this agency or referenced in this final rule may be directed to the nearest wage and hour division district office.
week when school is in session refers to any week the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is in session and students are required to attend for at least one day or partial day.
the department also notes, as  it has stated previously in this final rule, that its limited and public  exercise of its prosecutorial discretion is an efficient and permissible tool  available to the secretary in the administration of the child labor provisions  of the flsa.
in addition, the report recommends that ho 7 be expanded to prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from employment involving certain commonly used manlifts--especially aerial platforms--that do not meet the current definition of manlift contained in the ho.
the department received eleven comments in response to this proposal.
in addition, the clc interpreted this proposal as having a major impact on messenger services.
sec. 570.33 and 570.34 as discussed above.
the information provided, which also echoed the department's enforcement experiences, indicated that such factors as bowl capacity, the horsepower of the motor, the portability of the machine (light weight and not permanently wired or ``hardwired'' into the establishment's electrical power source), and similarity to equipment designed exclusively for home use were all important criteria.
flsa section 16(e) now states that any person  who violates the provisions of flsa sections 12 or 13(c), relating to child  labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to  a civil penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of  such a violation.
such slides, which often reach  heights of over 40 feet, rely on power-driven machinery that pump water to the  top of the slides which facilitates the descents of the riders to the  ``splash-down'' areas at the base of the slides.
participating youth would also be  required to receive annual classroom instruction in workplace safety and child  labor provisions.
the exemption also prohibits the minor from performing any driving involving the towing of vehicles; route deliveries or route sales; the transportation for hire of property, goods, or passengers; urgent, time-sensitive deliveries; or the transporting of more than three passengers at any one time.
questions of  interpretation and/or enforcement of regulations issued by this agency or  referenced in this final rule may be directed to the nearest wage and hour  division district office.
in 2003, the department became aware of a non-profit network of  private schools, hereafter referred to as the network, that was operating a  corporate work-study program for its students.
the  afl- cio and ywn agreed with the department's proposal to amend the definition  of power-driven woodworking machines to include those machines that process  trees, logs, and lumber.
the department issued a final rule on december 16, 2004 (69 fr 75382), which revised ho 12 to incorporate the provisions of the compactor and baler act.
the exemption, contained in section 13(c)(7) of the flsa, allows eligible youth, under specific conditions, to be employed by businesses that use machinery to process wood products, but does not allow such youth to operate or assist in operating power-driven woodworking machines.
the department appreciates the concerns of the one employer  and two employer associations that recommended that an employee's own academic  schedule and individual attendance requirements should be used to determine  when school is in session for that minor and recognizes how such a position  could be seen as a means of providing minors with more work experiences while  addressing employer staffing problems.
the department received four comments addressing the  proposal regarding riding on motor vehicles.
the  department also proposed to revise sec.
as mentioned above, the nprm proposed to revise sec. 570.127 and redesignate it  as sec. 570.140.
in an attempt to obtain such additional information, the department requested public comment on this subject in the 2007 anprm.
the ywn also noted that ``back hoes'' and ``front-end-loaders'' would fall within the definition of high-lift trucks and recommended, for the sake of clarity, that the department specifically name them in the revised sec. 570.58(b).
assisting in tasks being performed by the machines would be tending the  machines.
finally, the ywn, afl-cio, and the clc all encouraged the department to revise its proposal and accept the niosh recommendation to prohibit the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds in the constructing and repairing of living or administrative quarters of logging camps.
inside or outside places of business shall mean the actual physical  location of the establishment employing the youth, including the buildings and  surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that establishment.
slaughtering and meat packing  establishments means places in or about which such animals as cattle, calves,  hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are killed,  butchered, or processed.
because very little substantive information was received, the department withdrew the anprm on february 24, 2010.
72, 76; secretary of labor's order no. 09-2009 (nov. 16, 2009): delegation of  authorities and assignment of responsibilities to the administrator, wage and  hour division, 74 fr 58836; 104 stat.
the revision would  permit 15-year-olds, but not 14-year-olds, to be employed as lifeguards,  performing lifeguard duties, at traditional swimming pools and certain areas of  amusement water parks operated by all types of employers, if the minors have  been trained and certified by the red cross or a similarly recognized  certifying organization.
school hours refers to the hours that the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is in session during the regularly scheduled school year.
a new application for approval must be filed at the  end of that period.
properly certified 15-year-olds would be permitted to be employed as lifeguards at most of these water park features.
570.65(b)(5) to mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band having a  continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys, and used  for sawing materials.
supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same  religious sect or division as the youth has several components.
* * subpart g--general  statements of interpretation of the child labor provisions of the fair labor  standards act of 1938, as amended 0 16.
no comments were  received opposing this proposal.
it advised the department that 100 percent of the  students of the 2003 graduating class of one of its schools were accepted into  college.
operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines  includes operating such machines, including supervising or controlling the  operation of such machines, feeding material into such machines, helping the  operator feed material into such machines, unloading materials from such  machines, and helping the operator unload materials from such machines.
the youth must also be protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation.
570.34(l)(2) where the term traditional swimming pool is defined.
a  representative of morey's pier of wildwood, new jersey, whose comments were  submitted by the iaapa, supported the proposal to allow the employment of  15-year-olds as lifeguards at traditional swimming pools and water amusement  parks.
slaughtering and meat packing establishments means places in or about which such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are killed, butchered, or processed.
students, their parents, and the  work-study director sign an agreement defining performance expectations and  program support structures.
the child labor provisions of the fair labor standards act (flsa) establish a minimum age of 16 years for employment in nonagricultural occupations, but the secretary of labor is authorized to provide by regulation for 14- and 15-year-olds to work in suitable occupations other than manufacturing or mining, and during periods and under conditions that will not interfere with their schooling or health and well-being.
the  department appreciates the ywn's recommendation that ho 10 should be expanded  to cover seafood processing occupations, but notes that no data was submitted  regarding the level of youth employment in that industry or the injury rates  experienced by that industry.
finally, the ywn believed that some artistically creative work may ``push the  envelope on exploitative labor and/or prove detrimental to the morals of  youth.''
(2) compliance with  the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section will be  accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the  applicable governing standards issued by the u.s. department of labor's  occupational safety and health administration (osha) or, in those areas where  osha has authorized the state to operate its own occupational safety and health  plan, the applicable standards issued by the office charged with administering  the state occupational safety and health plan. 0 9.
he stated ``such a rule would cripple career technical  education (cte) programs that have work-based learning opportunities embedded  within the curriculum.''
the department proposed to revise footnote 4 of  sec.
this revision also necessitates a change to sec.
in order for employers to take advantage exception discussed in this of the limited exception discussed in section, the scrap paper this section, the paper box compactor baler must meet one of the must meet one of the following ansi following ansi standards: standards: ------------------------------------------------------------------------
the term chain saw would mean a machine that has teeth linked together to form an endless chain used for cutting materials.
the proposed revision to sec. 570.119 would contain the general prohibition against the employment of minors under 14 years of age under any circumstances that is currently included at the end of sec.
circumstances  necessitating collection:
the employment (including suffering or permitting to work) by an employer of minors 14 and 15 years of age in occupations detailed in sec.
the administrator shall have discretion to grant requests for special variations if the applicant demonstrates that the activity will be performed under adequate supervision and training (including safety precautions) and that the terms and conditions of the proposed employment will not interfere with the health or well-being or schooling of the minor enrolled in an approved program.
570.37 (new), the participating school district and employers share the burden of ensuring that the employment of work- study program participants is in compliance with the flsa.
570.105 to 570.111, inclusive.
ho 4 currently provides exemptions that allow 16- and 17-year-olds to perform some occupations within the logging industries.
ho 4  also provides exemptions at sec. 570.54(a)
the department notes that it  is not imposing any recordkeeping burdens on the employers or the school  districts beyond those proposed in the 2007 nprm, therefore no additional  estimates of costs or burdens will be incurred that [[page 28429]] must be  accounted for pursuant to the paperwork reduction act and regulatory  flexibility act.
often, these inquiries involved students who are especially gifted or career oriented in a particular field.
* * equipped with a power- operated lifting device *
in 2001, the department investigated the serious injury of a 17-year-old who suffered a fractured skull when the wood chipper he was feeding ``spit out''
(old) and sec. 570.34(i)
the clc did, however, recommend that the seat restraining devices should ``be required to be manufacturer-issued and not homemade, and the employer should be required to `ensure,' and not just `instruct' that the restraining devices be used by the children.''
570.129 [redesignated as sec.
in addition, when a school system files a letter of application to  renew an existing work-study program, it will be required to note that the  teacher-coordinator has confirmed that the employment of students in the  work-study program has been in compliance with the child labor and minimum wage  provisions of the flsa.
the written participation agreement shall be structured to ensure that the quality of the student's education, as well as his or her safety and well-being, are not compromised.
the department was able to quickly put an end to this unacceptable employment by not only enforcing the child labor and minimum wage provisions of the flsa, but by partnering with local law enforcement authorities to ensure that city and state laws addressing community standards were enforced.
the additional  occupations the department proposed to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to perform  are discussed below: 1.
(1) school is not considered to be in  session, and exceptions from the hours limitations standards listed in  paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section are provided, for any youth 14  or 15 years of age who: (i) has graduated from high school; (ii) has been  excused from compulsory school attendance by the state or other jurisdiction  once he or she has completed the eighth grade and his or her employment  complies with all the requirements of the state school attendance law; (iii)  has a child to support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law,  have waived school attendance requirements for this minor; (iv) is subject to  an order of a state or federal court prohibiting him or her from attending  school; or (v) has been permanently expelled from the local public school he or  she would normally attend, unless the youth is required, by state or local law
authority: 29 u.s.c. 203(l), 211, 212, 213(c), 216;  reorg.
the old rin was assigned to the employment standards administration, which no longer exists.
this legislation added section 13(c)(6) to the  flsa, which permits 17-year-olds to perform certain limited on-the-job driving  under very specific conditions.
all those occupations in which 14- and 15- year-olds may be employed when the work is performed outside school hours and is confined to other specified limits.
580.6 filed with the secretary an exception to the  determination that the violation or violations for which the penalty is imposed  occurred.
when a civil money penalty is assessed against an employer for a  child labor violation, the employer has the right, within 15 days after receipt  of the notice of such penalty, to file an exception to the determination that  the violation or violations occurred.
such work would include, for example, delivering items to a customer or  assisting passengers with the loading and unloading of their luggage in  conjunction with the operation of an airport shuttle van.
the report also recommends that the department retain the limited exemption contained in sec.
under the proposed rule, no youth under 15 years of age, whether properly certified or not, could legally perform any portion of the lifeguard duties detailed above as part of his or her flsa covered employment.
an incomplete or inaccurate posting by the facilities manager or owner will not relieve an employer from being charged with a violation of ho 12 or assessed a child labor civil money penalty.
the department  received three comments on this proposal.
[[page 28431]] the niosh recommendations, except that it believed that 16- and 17- year-olds, after completion of the ten-hour construction safety and health course certified by osha, could safely be employed to work in the construction of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
the other provisions of sec. 570.35 (limiting employment to no more than 8 hours a day on any one day school is not in session, and no more than 40 hours in any one week when school is not in session) remain applicable to the employment of wecep participants.
the department  proposed to include its long-standing interpretation that prohibits 14- and  15-year-olds riding outside of motor vehicles in reg. 3 at sec. 570.33(f)
in addition, the clc noted that such minors would be permitted to work up to eight hours a day and up to forty hours a week at computers, typing or inputting data, during non-school weeks.
a strict adherence to reg. 3  requirements would not permit the employment of a 14- or 15- year-old in any of  these scenarios, even though talented and motivated youth could safely and  successfully perform these tasks without interfering with their schooling or  health and well-being.
the  ywn reported that, in formulating its comments, it tried to use the following  principles: the regulations should protect youth from significant hazards;  where possible, the regulations should be kept clear and consistent, limiting  the number of exceptions or exemptions, thus fostering better compliance and  more effective enforcement; and, the regulations should allow youth to do a  broad variety of different types of potentially rewarding work.
the department proposed to revise the title of ho 4 to  reflect these changes.
all students are required to  participate in the work-study program, beginning with their freshman year and  ending at graduation.
because youth often overcome the effects of those  characteristics that initially place them at increased risk of injury and death  in the workplace only through the maturation process, it is believed that  requiring older workers to perform those tasks that present greater risks to  younger workers actually eliminates injuries and deaths--rather than delaying  them or transferring them to the older workers.
the iaapa, which describes itself as the largest international trade association for permanently-situated amusement facilities worldwide, supported this proposal.
niosh reports on its web site (see http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/youth) that in 2007, an estimated 48,600 work-related injuries and illnesses among youth 15 to 17 years of age were treated in hospital emergency departments.
section 570.55 lists, when discussing the prohibited occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines, such activities as supervising or controlling the operation of the machines, feeding materials into such machines, and helping the operator feed material into such machines.
the clc noted that the niosh report  recommended that ho 7 prohibit 16- and 17-year-olds from employment that, among  other things, included ``assisting in tasks being performed'' by the  power-driven hoisting equipment.
the exemption, contained at section 13(c)(7) of the flsa, allows eligible youth to work inside and outside of places of businesses that use machinery to process wood products, subject to specified limitations.
weceps may, however, be tailored to meet the needs of other students as well.
since publication of the 2007 nprm, the department has  received several inquiries regarding how these posting requirements impact  employers of youth who do not own or control the baler or compactor that is  available for use by their employees.
(4) every public or private school district having students in a work-study program approved pursuant to these requirements, and every employer employing students in a work-study program approved pursuant to these requirements, shall comply with the following: (i) permissible occupations.
this proposal was developed and offered solely  with the intent, as stated earlier in this section, of providing reasonable and  structured accommodations within reg. 3 so that academically oriented 14- and  15-year-olds could begin their pursuit of college educations through work-study  programs.
since 1995, the promulgation and amendment of the hazardous occupations orders have been effectuated under the administrative procedure act (apa), 5 u.s.c. 551 et seq.
the  department proposed to amend sec.
(e) occupations that involve operating, tending, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing any power-driven machinery, including but not limited to lawn mowers, golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, trimmers, cutters, weed-eaters, edgers, food slicers, food grinders, food choppers, food processors, food cutters, and food mixers.
570.122 by creating new subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h), which will list the  exemptions from the child labor provisions contained in flsa sections 13(d),  13(c)(5), 13(c)(6), and 13(c)(7), respectively.
the department is also adding to that section its long-standing position that outside school hours means such periods as before and after school hours, holidays, summer vacations, weekends, and any other day or part of a day when the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is not in session.
for the same reason, the department has decided  not to accept the council's recommendation that sec. 570.33(e) be revised to  emphasize that youth will continue to be permitted to operate
the department also wishes to assure both the ywn and clc  that employers participating in the work-study program authorized by sec.
crews often work from late afternoon to late at night as that is when most of the potential customers are likely to be at home.
this approach seems to us to give far more emphasis to work experiences for 14- and 15-year-olds than to their education.''
(m) public  messenger service.
regarding the types of work that 14-year-olds employed under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) may perform inside a sawmill.
with respect to employment in occupations other than manufacturing and mining and in accordance with the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7), the secretary is authorized to issue regulations or orders lowering the age minimum to 14 years where he or she finds that such employment is confined to periods that will not interfere with the minors' schooling and to conditions that will not interfere with their health and well-being.
for the exemption to apply, the youth must also be required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and sawdust.
any such unlawful act or practice may be enjoined by the united states district courts under section 17 upon court action, filed by the secretary pursuant to section 12(b) and, if willful will subject the offender to the criminal penalties provided in section 16(a) of the act.
the  department did not propose to prohibit, and the final rule does not prohibit,  14- and 15-year-olds from operating espresso machines as recommend by the ywn,  the afl-cio, and the representative of the billings, montana job service.
the report states: ``stationary saws and hand-held saws, including chain saws, continue to be the source of substantial numbers of fatalities as well as nonfatal injuries which may be unusually severe'' (see niosh report, page 56).
it also commented that it found  it difficult to construct reasons that differentiate the natural environment  from the pool environment, given that many of the reasons for establishing a  minimum age of 16 years for employment as a lifeguard at a natural environment  facility are equally applicable at traditional pools.
the department  notes that although niosh did not include injury data specific to the operation  of abrasive cutting discs, niosh did report that the potential contact with the  moving disk of an abrasive cutting tool does put operators at risk.
likewise,  a 14- or 15-year-old could be employed, with all the safeguards of sec.
570.35,  shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor within the meaning of the fair  labor standards act of 1938, as amended.
570.37 (new) to operate a work-study program for just one student, one group of students, or, as in the case of the cristo rey network, the entire student body.
the department accepted those recommendations and proposed no revisions to these hos.
during enforcement actions involving employers who avail themselves of the limited exemption contained in sec. 570.63(c)(1), the department routinely confirms whether the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor being loaded by 16- or 17-year-olds meets the requirements of the applicable ansi standard, as determined and declared by the employer.
j. occupations involved in the operation of paper-products  machines, scrap paper balers, and paper box compactors (order 12) (29 cfr  570.63)
the department proposed  that compliance with the safety and health provisions discussed in the previous  paragraph will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the  requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by osha or, in those  areas where osha has authorized the state to operate its own occupational  safety and health plan, the applicable standards issued by the office charged  with administering the state occupational safety and health plan.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments of the ywn, afl- cio, and clc.
in addition, gina also  permits the assessment of a civil money penalty not to exceed $50,000 with  regard to each violation that caused the death or serious injury of any  employee under the age of 18 years.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal, but with one modification concerning recently issued ansi standards and a revision to the section heading.
l. 108-199),  amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor  provisions for minors 14 to 18 years of age who are excused from compulsory  school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
such minors would not be permitted to load or unload such jobsite- related equipment as barriers, cones, or signage.
(old) because it references  sec.
the department proposed to implement the report  recommendation to expand the application of ho 10 to prohibit the employment of  16- and 17-year-olds in all meat products manufacturing industries, including  those engaged in the processing of sausages and/or other prepared meat products  and those engaged in poultry slaughtering and/or processing.
after carefully reviewing the comments, the department has decided to implement the proposal as written with the following modifications.
rules that limit permissible job activities  for working youth to those that are safe do not, by themselves, impose  significant added costs on employers, in our view.
the  occupations of operation or assisting to operate any baler that is designed or  used to process materials other than paper.
the  secretary's declarations of what forms of labor are not deemed oppressive for  children between the ages of 14 and 16 appear in reg. 3 (29 cfr 570.31-.37)
the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the flsa, when finally determined, may be: (i) deducted from any sums owing by the united states to the person charged; (ii) recovered in a civil action brought by the secretary in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which litigation the secretary shall be represented by the solicitor of labor; or (iii) ordered by the court, in an action brought for a violation of section 215(a)(4) or a repeated or willful
although the statute does not define the terms adult and  relative, the department proposed that, for purpose of this exemption, a  relative would include a parent (or person standing in place of a parent), a  grandparent, an aunt, an uncle, and a sibling; and an adult would be someone  who has reached his or her eighteenth birthday.
cooking is also permitted with deep fryers that are equipped with and utilize a device which automatically lowers the baskets into the hot oil or grease and automatically raises the baskets from the hot oil or grease.
this was evidenced by the revisions to ho 2 published on december 16, 2004 (see 69 fr 75382, see also sec. 570.52(b)) necessitated by the enactment of flsa section 13(c)(6), which permits limited on-the-job driving by 17-year-olds under certain conditions, but not by 16-year-olds.
this modification does not change the content of the department's original proposal.
the department proposed to  revise sec.
he or she would normally attend, the clc did not.
but the department believes that these changes are important as they are essential to fulfilling its charge of keeping working youth safe by prohibiting occupations that are particularly hazardous or detrimental to their health or well-being.
while the impact that these regulatory changes will have on  most affected entities has already been discussed, even those entities that are  most heavily impacted should each spend an average of less than $1500 to comply  with the new requirements of this rule.
the clc recommended  that the department clarify the proposal by specifically adding ``assisting in  tasks being performed by the equipment'' to the language of the final rule.
based upon the success of the above enforcement position, the department, in the april 17, 2007 nprm, proposed to revise and reorganize sec.
the fmi stated that adopting the hours of the local public school when defining the term school is in session would ``make no sense'' for the many young people who do not go to public schools.
in addition, in order to be employed inside or outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products, the new entrant must be supervised by an adult relative or an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the entrant.
in addition to the regularly scheduled visits to the workplaces the teacher-coordinator is required to make, the department suggests that such things as frequent interactions with the work-study program students, program assessments and evaluations completed by the students and the employers, and surprise or unscheduled visits to the workplaces can all contribute to the operation of a safe, compliant, and positive work-study program.
the limitations on the number of hours that participating students may be employed (see sec. 570.37(c) (new)), though in line with those established by the cristo rey network, constitute the absolute maximum number of hours that participants may be employed.
finally, the department acknowledges the concerns of pleasant hill which raised  the issue of ``junior lifeguard programs'' and the ``volunteer'' participation  of youths between the ages of 11 and 14 in such endeavors.
the  clc believed that such publicizing will remind all american youth, their  parents, and their employers ``of the grave dangers that these machines  represent to working children.''
this act, among other things, amends section 16(e) of the fair  labor standards act by increasing the maximum permissible civil money penalty  an employer may be assessed for child labor violations that cause the death or  serious injury of a young worker.
the report recommends that ho 11 be relaxed to allow the  operation of counter-top models of power-driven bakery machines, comparable to  those intended for household use.
supervised refers to the requirement that the youth's on-the-job activities be directed, monitored, and controlled by certain named adults.
section 570.65(b)(6) defines the term guillotine shear to mean a machine equipped with a moveable blade operated vertically and used to shear materials.
this proposal was developed and offered solely with the intent, as stated earlier in this section, of providing reasonable and structured accommodations within reg. 3 so that academically oriented 14- and 15-year-olds could begin their pursuit of college educations through work-study programs.
to clarify that the limited exemption to ho 11 which permits 16- and 17-year-olds to operate certain lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food mixers (see sec. 570.62(b)(1)) would not apply when the equipment is adapted--through the use of various attachments--to perform functions other than mixing, or to process meat or poultry products because of the prohibitions of ho 10.
because of changes in the workplace, the introduction of new  processes and technologies, the emergence of new types of businesses where  young workers may find employment opportunities, the existence of differing  federal and state standards, and divergent views on how best to balance  scholastic requirements and work experiences, the department has long been  reviewing the criteria for permissible child labor employment.
recordkeeping requirements: the  regulation requires a school system operating a wsp to keep a copy of the  written participation agreement for each student enrolled in the wsp at the  student's school.
the report states: ``construction work has high risks for fatal and nonfatal injuries and should not be exempted in the construction of living or administrative quarters at logging sites or mills'' (see niosh report, page 27).
the department believes that the teacher-coordinator occupies an ideal position to both help the employer attain and maintain compliance with the all the requirements of work-study program and assist the department's enforcement efforts by confirming that compliance.
the  superintendent of the public or private school system supervising and  administering the work-study program shall file with the administrator of the  wage and hour division a letter of application for approval of the work-study  program as one not interfering with schooling or with the health and well-being  of the minors involved and therefore not constituting oppressive child labor.
in 2001, the department investigated the serious  injury of a 17-year-old who suffered a fractured skull when the wood chipper he  was feeding ``spit out'' a 12-inch long, 4-inch diameter, piece of a tree  branch.
the report, which makes 35 recommendations  concerning the existing nonagricultural hos and recommends the creation of 17  new hos, also incorporated the comments niosh submitted in response to the 1999  nprm.
the department enforced all  the other provisions of reg. 3, including the restrictions on hours of work,  with respect to the employment of such minors.
as used in this section: all  occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention shall include  the controlling and extinguishing of fires, the wetting down of areas or  extinguishing of spot fires, and the patrolling of burned areas to assure the  fire has been extinguished.
one commenter, the national children's center for rural and agricultural health and safety, did not address any specific proposal but expressed concerns that the department has not yet implemented the niosh report recommendations for agricultural hos.
the department proposed to allow public and private school districts or systems to apply to the administrator of the wage and hour division for approval to operate a work-study program that would permit certain 14- and 15-year-olds to work during school hours and up to eight hours on a school day under specific circumstances.
any costs that might result from using older employees to perform the previously permitted tasks would be more than offset by reduced health and productivity costs resulting from accidents and injuries to minors on the job.
(d) programs  shall be in force and effect for a period to be determined by the administrator  of the wage and hour division, but in no case shall be in effect for longer  than two school years from the date of their approval by the administrator of  the wage and hour division.
the department believes that before any changes to the existing exemptions are made, it is important to first consider and develop criteria for determining when apprenticeship and student-learners exemptions are appropriate.
hoist-related fatalities of young workers have been reported, including a recent case in which a youth was killed while operating a half-ton capacity hoist'' (see niosh report, page 36).
finally, on may 21, 2008, after publication of the nprm, the genetic information nondiscrimination act of 2008 (gina), public law 110-233, was signed into law.
ansi standard z245.2-2008.
these ansi standards are incorporated by reference in this paragraph and have the same force and effect as other standards in this part.
the transportation of the  persons or property does not have to be the primary reason for the trip for  this exception to apply.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- \3\ both of these exemptions are contained in section 13(d) of the flsa.
the original report that led to the issuance of ho 14 in 1960 noted that these machines had already been found and declared to be particularly hazardous for 16- and 17-year-old employees when used to process certain materials.
the department disagrees with the clc's comment that it failed to address niosh's third recommendation and notes that the recommendation clearly reads that the department should ``continue to emphasize enforcement positions of the compactor and baler act requiring balers to conform to construction and operational standards that greatly reduce exposure to hazardous energy.''
because youth peddlers typically qualify as outside sales  employees under flsa section 13(a)(1), they are usually exempt from the minimum  wage and overtime requirements of the flsa (see 29 cfr 541.500).
absent any specific data on compensation of the persons who will  actually perform the work to ensure [[page 28448]] compliance, the dol has  estimated hourly costs this rule will impose on wsp sponsor schools by  increasing the october 2009 average annual hourly rate for production or  nonsupervisory workers on educational and health services payrolls of $19.59 by  40 percent to account for the value of fringe benefits (see the employment  situation: december 2009, dol, bureau of labor statistics, january 2010, table  b-3,http:// www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/empsit_01082010.pdf).
such equipment required that the worker place the ice cream, milk, and flavorings in a stainless steel mixing cup that generally has a maximum capacity of 20 ounces.
the same assumption was made by a teacher at the sunrise mountain high school in peoria, arizona who commented ``[t]hese internships provide our students valuable hands-on experiences to help connect school and careers in a meaningful way.
570.128  loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors.
finally, the department is adding a statement to sec.
the current sec. 570.34(a)
no student shall be assigned to work in any occupation other than one permitted under sec. 570.34.
the minor also suffered severe nerve damage and second degree burns.
the clc opposed this proposal and reiterated its concerns about the department's use of its prosecutorial discretion to establish enforcement positions in the administration and enforcement of the child labor provisions of the flsa.
in addition, flsa section 3(e)(4)(a) excludes from the  definition of ``employee'' individuals who volunteer to perform services for  public agencies.
in proposing these regulations, the department will help agencies meet their needs to hire certified lifeguards by allowing lifeguards to begin work at the age of 15.
some of these positions have been  in place since the 1970s and all have been detailed in the wage and hour  division's field operations handbook since 1993.
the department proposed to implement all five of the report recommendations  concerning ho 7.
(involving employees employed by an establishment which is an amusement or  recreational establishment, organized camp, or religious or non- profit  educational conference center); section 13(a)(15) (involving any employee  employed on a casual basis in domestic service employment to provide  babysitting services); and section 13(d) (involving any employee engaged in the  delivery of newspapers to the consumer).
the department has previously opined that espresso makers and cappuccino makers are types of automatic coffee machines and therefore 14- and
artistically creative work is limited to work in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor.
570.128 loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors.
when enacting the  compactor and baler act, congress explicitly applied certain industry standards  for the determination of which balers and/or compactors are safe for minors to  load: ansi standard ansi z245.5-1990 for scrap paper balers or standard ansi  z245.2-1992 for paper box compactors.
even though this prohibition is clear and quite broad, other sections of  reg. 3 have traditionally named certain pieces of power- driven machinery so as  to eliminate any doubt or confusion as to their prohibited status.
as  recognized by the clc, these two agencies have a long and productive history of  partnering for the benefit of american workers and those who employ them.
the clc stated that even in the absence of such a reporting requirement, the department can play an important role by publicizing not only the hazards of working in such places of business, but also the results of any child labor investigations involving woodworking machines.
(8) employment of youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or judicial order, are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, under specified conditions, in places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.
one 16-year-old who was riding on the tines of a forklift suffered especially serious injuries to his liver and pancreas as a result of being pinned against a wall when the driver was unable to stop the forklift.
the department sought public comments about this issue in the anprm that  was published concurrently with the nprm on april 17, 2007 (72 fr 19328).
the department expects that its experiences under the new work-study program will be similar.
this revision  also necessitates a change to sec.
wage and hour division ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 29 cfr parts 570 and 579 child labor regulations, orders and statements of interpretation; final rule
the niosh report recommends that the department not only retain ho 4, but expand its coverage to include work in the operation of timber tracts (standard industrial classification (sic) 081) and forestry services (sic 085) because of the high number of fatalities occurring in such operations (see niosh report, page 27).
``by requiring the use of a sunday to saturday midnight week, employers would be forced to check hours worked manually, making it more likely that mistakes would be made.''
thus, the fact that a child's  occupation involves the performance of work which is considered exempt from the  child labor provisions will not relieve his employer from the requirements of  section 12(c) or the producer, manufacturer, or dealer from the requirements of  section 12(a) if, during the course of his employment, the child spends any  part of his time doing work which is covered but not so exempt. 0 22.
employers that avail themselves of the provisions of the loading exemption  contained in flsa section 13(c)(5) and rely on the accuracy of notices posted  by others cannot delegate their compliance obligations imposed by that  exemption.
in addition, when drafting the  proposal regarding youth riding as passive passengers in motor vehicles, the  department looked for guidance for establishing the criteria regarding the use  of seat belts or other safety restraining devices.
tending such equipment includes assisting in the hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment.
the  kind of work performed in such departments is similar to that done in planing  mill departments in that rough lumber is surfaced or made into other finished  products.
the niosh report recommends that ho 14 be expanded to cover other machines, such as chain saws, that perform cutting and sawing functions through direct contact between the cutting surfaces and the materials.
the dolwd did not oppose this enforcement position but suggested that an ``exception'' from the definition of school is in session should be created for youth enrolled in home school or other alternative school programs based on considerations of ``whether the work interferes with the individual's schooling, health or well being rather than the hours of operation for public schools.''
the apprenticeship and student learner exemptions contained in certain hos were developed relatively independently of each other as each ho was adopted.
the department received an inquiry after the  publication of the nprm asking why ponds and quarries, places where swimming  often occurs, were not specifically listed as natural environment swimming  facilities in sec.
the  department also notes that the proposed work-study program provides  considerable flexibility to those schools that choose to participate.
the ywn not only disagreed with the proposal but suggested  that the current prohibitions detailed at sec.
the department also notes that 14- and  15-year-olds who are employed in artistic or creative endeavors will continue  to be prohibited from performing any of the occupations or tasks detailed in  the revised sec. 570.33.
the exemption  would not apply to balers and compactors that are not designed or used to  process paper or cardboard as such equipment may not be considered scrap paper  balers or paper box compactors as required by the compactor and baler act.
all three also  expressed their disappointment that although the department considered adopting  niosh's recommendation that the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds be  prohibited in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forestry  services, it did not do so.
such youth should be permitted to perform many of the tasks that ho 4 has long permitted youth employed in logging to perform:
in 2000, the department investigated the death of a 14-year- old member of a tree-trimming crew who was dismembered when he became entangled in branches he was feeding into a drum-type wood chipper.
570.118 to incorporate the provisions of  flsa section 13(c)(7).
the application shall be filed at least sixty days before the start of the  school year and must include information concerning the criteria listed in  paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
for purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(b) of this section, the term ``serious  injury'' means: (a) permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the  senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation); (b) permanent loss or  substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental  faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other  body part; or (c) permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes  loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
the department has carefully considered all the comments and has  decided to adopt the proposal as written, with two modifications.
while the department appreciates the remaining  safety-affecting recommendations made by the ywn, clc, and dolwd, it believes  the provisions of the original proposal, when coupled with other existing state  and federal provisions dealing with the safe operation of motor vehicles, will  provide ample protections to young workers.
------------------------------------------------------------------------ (2)  the notice shall completely identify the appropriate ansi standard.
the department also proposed to incorporate into ho 4 the provisions of the consolidated appropriations act, 2004 (pub.
the term shall also include truck- or equipment- mounted aerial  platforms commonly referred to as scissor lifts, boom- type mobile elevating  work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket  trucks.
as recognized by the clc, these two agencies have a long and productive history of partnering for the benefit of american workers and those who employ them.
each participating school would be required to name a teacher-  coordinator to supervise the work-study program, make regularly scheduled  visits to the students' work sites, and ensure that participants are employed  in compliance with the minimum wage and child labor provisions of the flsa.
the department wishes to emphasize that the development of this student-work program was never intended to advantage any single, private school system, but was proposed for the benefit of all academically motivated students enrolled in college preparatory curricula that can avail themselves of such a program of employment that clearly facilitates, rather than interferes with, their schooling.
(v) clerical work in yards or shipping sheds, such  as done by ordermen, tally-men, and shipping clerks.
570.65 occupations involving the operation of circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs (order 14).
[[page 28431]] the niosh recommendations, except that it believed that 16- and  17- year-olds, after completion of the ten-hour construction safety and health  course certified by osha, could safely be employed to work in the construction  of living and administrative quarters of logging camps.
the fmi stated that adopting the  hours of the local public school when defining the term school is in session  would ``make no sense'' for the many young people who do not go to public  schools.
n.  miscellaneous matters, 29 cfr part 570
the department received no comments raising concerns about the initial certification.
the rin 1215-ab44 proposal would remove  this valuable learning experience from our students.''
sec. 570.58 occupations involved in the operation of  power-driven hoisting apparatus (order 7).
the ywn and the clc supported using the hours  of the local public school district the minor would attend if he or she  attended public school when defining the term school in session.
in  addition, the clc interpreted this proposal as having a major impact on  messenger services.
the department believes the hazards associated with the activities of extinguishing a forest fire warrant this prohibition and has clarified the definition of all occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention to note that such work is prohibited not only in all forest and timber tract locations, but also in logging operations, and sawmill operations, including all buildings located within such areas.
the department  is also, based on its enforcement experience, amending ho 11 to incorporate the  department's long- standing position permitting 16- and 17-year-olds, under  certain conditions, to operate certain pizza-dough rollers, and expanding ho 14  to prohibit the employment of minors to operate wood chippers and reciprocating  saws.
(ii)  instructional schedule.
the department did not propose to  change any of these hours and time-of-day limitations, but wished to foster  both understanding of, and compliance with, these provisions by incorporating  into the regulations certain long-standing departmental enforcement positions  and interpretations.
affecting the reg. 3 occupations  standards and both hos 4 and 5, this statutory provision would be available to  a very small number of minors and therefore is expected to have little or no  economic impact.
such supervision must be  close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted.
the director of human capital management of the u.s. department of agriculture's forest service stated that the forest service applauded the department of labor's proposal that would prohibit 16- and 17-year- olds from performing fire fighting duties.
570.35 relating to the reg. 3 hours standards are varied for youth enrolled in and employed pursuant to an approved wecep.
operations not considered as off-bearing within the intent of this section  include: (i) the removal of material or refuse from a circular saw or  guillotine-action veneer clipper where the material or refuse has been conveyed  away from the saw table or point of operation by a gravity chute or by some  mechanical means such as a moving belt or expulsion roller; and (ii)
she recommended that the prohibitions involving the use of ladders and scaffolds by this age group be retained.
the network envisioned the work-study program as an integral part of the academic program, yielding benefits on many different levels.
such efforts impact the safety of all workers, not just those under the age of 18.
the importance of this recommendation was poignantly demonstrated by the august 2008 death of a 17-year-old in georgia who was crushed to death when a one-ton electrical inverter box fell from a fork lift.
in addition, there are a number of diverse and serious health hazards associated with the slaughtering of animals and manufacturing of meat products, including exposure to infectious agents and respiratory hazards.
the department submitted the information collections contained in sec.
570.33(c) (old), since at least the mid-1950s, has included the loading and unloading of materials from motor vehicles when the purpose of the operation of the vehicle is the transportation of such materials.
the department has also increased the dollar cost from $13 to $14 to account for increased postage costs since publication of the nprm.
the term shall also include the following tasks when performed in conjunction with, or in support of, efforts to extinguish a forest fire: the piling and burning of slash; the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and the maintaining of fire fighting equipment.
e. the department also added clarifying statements to sec.
the department also proposed to apply to flsa-covered nonagricultural employers of minors, with certain modifications, all the permitted occupations contained in sec.
if employers have allowed flsa covered and  nonexempt 14- and 15-year-olds to wash or polish cars and trucks using power-  driven washers or hand-tool buffers, they have done so in violation of the  federal child labor provisions.
570.34(a)(8) (old) by clarifying that 14- and 15-year-olds may perform car  cleaning, washing, and polishing, but only by hand (see sec. 570.34(n) (new)).
the prohibition against such youth setting up, adjusting,  repairing, oiling, or cleaning any of the machines currently listed in ho 12  would be extended to include compactors and balers that are designed to process  materials other than paper.
as previously mentioned, flsa section 13(c)(7) now permits certain minors who are at least 14 years of age and under the age of 18 years to be employed inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products, but does not allow such youth to operate or assist in operating power- driven woodworking machines.
16- and 17-year-olds from employment in most timber tract and forestry  service occupations.
the department has  successfully defended this enforcement position, most recently in a case where  minors were employed to operate a skid-steer loader to clean trailers used to  haul livestock.
the department believes that the youths who will be employed under the provisions of flsa section 13(c)(7) will receive significant workplace protections from the statute and these resulting regulations.
only the clc commented on  this proposal, expressing its disappointment that the department has decided  not to address recommendations regarding the limited exemptions provided for  student- learner and apprentices at this time.
therefore, 15-year-olds working at the tops of  waterslides are fulfilling one of the core duties of properly trained  lifeguards, in a manner which places them at the least possible risk.''
before 14- and 15-year-olds may legally perform work covered by the flsa, the act requires that the work itself be exempt, or that the secretary determines that the work to be performed does not constitute oppressive child labor.
the exemption also requires that the youth be supervised by an adult relative  or by an adult member of the same religious sect as the youth.
570.33 (old), they are prohibited.
applying those definitions to civil money penalties under 29 cfr part 579, an employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be repeated: (1) where the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible official of the wage and hour division or otherwise authoritatively, that the employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the act; or (2) where a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or reversed by such appellate tribunal.
l. 108- 199), which amended the flsa by creating a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain minors 14 through 17 years of age who are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade.
the machine was the only baler at the center and, therefore, was used to process a wide variety of items.
properly certified 15-year-old lifeguards may, however,  be stationed at the ``splashdown pools'' located at the bottom of the elevated  water slides to perform those permitted duties listed in this subsection.
570.34(b)(6) (old) and sec. 570.33(e) (new)).
finally, with regard to the  clc's comment regarding wages, the fact that youth who conduct door-to-door  sales usually are exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the  flsa in no way detracts from the department's stated objective to develop  updated, realistic health and safety standards for today's young workers that  are consistent with the established national policy of balancing the benefits  of employment opportunities for youth with the necessary and appropriate safety  protections.
the list of permitted equipment includes, but is not limited to, dishwashers, toasters, dumbwaiters, popcorn poppers, milk shake blenders, coffee grinders, automatic coffee machines, devices used to maintain the temperature of prepared foods, and microwave ovens that do not have the capacity to warm above 140 [deg]f. although there may have been some confusion among employers, the department has long interpreted the term toaster to mean that type of equipment that was generally found in snack bars and lunch counters when reg. 3 was issued and used to toast such items as slices of bread and english muffins.
the clc also raised concerns as to whether dol would ``be able to assure that no violations occur under this system'' and of ``the secrecy of the approval process that dol would adopt.''
570.35b would preclude anyone but a student enrolled  in a college preparatory curriculum from participating in any work-study  program in the future.
section 13(c)(6) of the flsa provides  an exemption for 17-year- olds, but not 16-year-olds, who, as part of their  employment, perform the occasional and incidental driving of automobiles and  trucks on public highways under specified conditions.
an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid omb control number (see 5 cfr 1320.6).
a baler that is designed or used to  process materials other than paper would be defined in sec.
copies of these standards are available for  purchase from the american national standards institute (ansi), 25 west 43rd  st., fourth floor, new york, ny 10036.
power-driven woodworking machines shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
a new sec. 570.130 is added to read as follows: sec. 570.130
the program was, and  continues to be, specifically geared to helping dropout-prone youth become  reoriented and motivated toward education and to prepare for the world of work.
the department also notes that reg. 3 has for many years prohibited young workers from operating compact power mixers or blenders, also know as ``immersible wands'' and ``immersion blenders,'' used for such tasks as liquefying soups and sauces and pureeing fruits, meats, and vegetables.
in any event, the direct, incremental costs that would be imposed by  this rule are expected to be minimal.
such youth may not work during the hours school is in session--unless participating in a state sponsored wecep--and may not work more than three hours on a day the local public school is in session.
as previously mentioned, flsa section 13(c)(7) now permits certain  minors who are at least 14 years of age and under the age of 18 years to be  employed inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to  process wood products, but does not allow such youth to operate or assist in  operating power- driven woodworking machines.
570.55 occupations involved in the  operation of power-driven woodworking machines (order 5).
years of age (29 cfr 570.31-.34) section 3(l) of the flsa defines oppressive  child labor to expressly prohibit children under the age of 16 from performing  any work other than that which the secretary of labor permits, by order or  regulation, upon [[page 28407]] finding that it does not interfere with their  schooling or health and well-being (see 29 u.s.c. 203(l), see also 29 cfr  570.117-.119).
they  may work in the feeding and care of animals.
while operating the saw, the vehicle upon which he was using the saw  fell on him and crushed him to death.
there are only eight specific child labor exemptions of  which only two apply to the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements as well.
indeed, non-public schools could be established by organizations whose prime goal is to provide 14- and 15-year-old working children to employers during normal business hours in the middle of the day, rather than to make sure that the children are in school during the hours when they are most alert and receptive to classroom instruction.
this modification is discussed in more detail further in the section of this preamble that addresses ho 11.
[[page 28444]] (sec. 570.127), good faith defense (sec. 570.128), and the relation of the child labor provisions to other laws (sec. 570.129).
in  addition, as niosh was tasked with examining issues within the framework of the  current hos only, the report did not consider the extent to which fatalities  occur despite existing hos, occupational safety and health administration  (osha) standards, or state laws prohibiting the activity.
[[page 28439]] finger while putting recyclables into an industrial waste compactor by hand.
ansi standard z245.5-2004....
the agreement, which must also be signed or otherwise consented to by the student's parent or guardian, would also affirm that the student will receive the minimum number of hours of class room instruction as required by the state educational agency for the completion of a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum and that the employment will comply with the applicable child labor and minimum wage provisions of the flsa.
the old rin was assigned to the employment standards  administration, which no longer exists.
the usla summarized its comments by stating ``people under the age of 16 should not be permitted to work as lifeguards at natural environments.''
[[page 28443]] driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines).
570.34(l) would not apply to the time spent as dispatchers or attendants at an elevated water slide.
the clc, which  has more than 30 member organizations, described itself as the largest grouping  in the united states of advocates for the protection of the safety, health, and  education of working children.
(a) findings and declaration of fact.
570.65(b)(5) to mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band having a continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys, and used for sawing materials.
3  dealing with power-driven machinery into a single, new subsection located at  sec. 570.33(e) and to expand the list of prohibited machinery, with certain  caveats.
570.34 to identify permitted  occupations.
that would include an [[page 28437]] exemption allowing the employment of 16-  and 17-year-olds to operate-- including setting-up, adjusting, repairing,  oiling, and cleaning-- lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top  power-driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, those models intended  for household use.
gina, among other things,  amended flsa section 16(e) to provide that any person who violates the  provisions of sections 12 or 13(c) of the flsa, relating to child labor, or any  regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil money  penalty not to exceed $11,000 for each employee who was the subject of such a  violation.
as proposed, the revised sec. 570.33 detailed  certain specific occupations prohibited for 14- and 15-year-olds.
570.103(c) to reflect  that the flsa now contains eight exemptions from the child labor provisions and  that two of these exemptions are also exemptions from the act's minimum wage  and overtime requirements.
the department is including this information in both sec. 570.62(b)(1) and
summer school  sessions, held in addition to the regularly scheduled school year, are  considered to be outside of school hours.
although the ywn supported the proposals that school should also not be considered in session for a youth who (1) has a child to support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law, have waived school attendance requirements for that minor, or (2) has been permanently expelled from the local public school
participating youth would also be required to receive annual classroom instruction in workplace safety and child labor provisions.
(c) employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be confined to not more than 18 hours in any one week when school is in session, a portion of which may be during school hours, in accordance with the following formula that is based upon a continuous four-week cycle.
(involving employees employed by an establishment which is an amusement or recreational establishment, organized camp, or religious or non- profit educational conference center); section 13(a)(15) (involving any employee employed on a casual basis in domestic service employment to provide babysitting services); and section 13(d) (involving any employee engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer).
the act sets a 16-year-age minimum for employment in manufacturing or mining occupations, although under flsa section 13(c)(7), certain youth between the ages of 14 and 18 may, under specific conditions, be employed inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.
* * capable of [[page 28434]] tiering loaded pallets  or skids one above the other.''
power-driven woodworking machines shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing, or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
(new) prohibit the employment of 14- and 15- year-olds by a public messenger service, adoption of this proposal implies that employment of such youth by a private messenger service would be permitted.
570.129 [redesignated as sec. 570.142] 0 25.
the department's replacing of that word with ``operation'' reflects  the current usage of the word.
there are  indications, as reported by state and local governments and reflected in whd  enforcement findings, that when such youth are employed under the guidelines  established by the enforcement position, that employment does not interfere  with their schooling or with their health and well- being, and thus is in  accordance with the directive of the flsa.
reciprocating saw shall mean a machine equipped with a moving blade that alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used for sawing materials.
since 1999, the whd has investigated at least three incidents where  youth under 18 years of age were seriously injured while riding on forklifts  being operated by other employees.
on the other  hand, the department has adopted an enforcement position since at least 1981  that counter workers in quick service establishments or cashiers in grocery  stores whose duties require them to occasionally enter freezers only  momentarily to retrieve items are not considered to be working in the freezers.
the term  includes work performed in timber culture, timber tracts, timber-stand  improvement, and forest fire fighting and fire prevention.
570.129 limited driving of  automobiles and trucks by 17-year- olds.
currently, 14- and 15-year-olds are prohibited from riding on forklifts because reg. 3 prohibits such youth from operating or tending hoisting apparatus and any power-driven machines other than office equipment.
the  department also disagrees with the ywn and clc comments that the [[page 28428]]  proposed work-study program was designed to accommodate a single program--the  cristo rey network.
the new regulation requires the implementation of a new paperwork burden with regard to a wsp.
the chapter advised the department that the red cross had revised its own rules and had begun certifying 15-year-olds as lifeguards.
as used in this section: outside school hours means such periods as before and after school hours, holidays, summer vacations, weekends, and any other day or part of a day when school is not in session as determined by the local public school district in which the minor resides when employed.
packing shakes into bundles when done  in conjunction with splitting shakes manually with a froe and mallet, except  inside the mill building or cover.
while the impact that these regulatory changes will have on most affected entities has already been discussed, even those entities that are most heavily impacted should each spend an average of less than $1500 to comply with the new requirements of this rule.
570.62 its long-standing enforcement position regarding the operation of  certain pizza-dough rollers by 16- and 17-year-old workers.
such minors would not be permitted to load or  unload safety equipment such as barriers, cones, or signage.
as previously noted, the compactor and baler act provides that any new standard(s) adopted by ansi would also be sufficient for the determination of the safety of the scrap paper balers and paper box compactors, if the secretary of labor certifies the new standard(s) to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as the two standards specified in the act.
when congress enacted the flsa in 1938, it created section  13(a)(1), which provides a complete exemption from the minimum wage and  overtime provisions for employees employed in the capacity of outside salesman.
the department has opined on this matter, in  writing, since at least 1993.
(2) work of operating,  tending, riding upon, working from, repairing, servicing, or disassembling a  manlift or freight elevator, except 16- and 17-year-olds may ride upon a  freight elevator operated by an assigned operator.
assisting in tasks being performed by the machines would be tending the machines.
accordingly, to meet the requirements of this  legislation, the department proposed to revise reg. 3 to permit the employment  of qualifying 14- and 15-year-olds inside and outside of places of business  where manufacturing (the processing of wood products by machinery) takes place,  subject to specified conditions and limitations.
the clc noted that it  had several serious concerns about this proposal.
as previously noted, the department expects 30 school districts will have a wsp.
this section will also note that summer school sessions, held in addition to the regularly scheduled school year, are considered to be outside of school hours.
the clc stated that it welcomes the change as this work is plainly too  hazardous for 14- and 15-year-olds to perform.
this proposal would be accomplished by revising sec.
570.140 and to revise it to include the department's authority to assess civil  money penalties against persons who violate the child labor provisions of the  act. 8.
570.61 occupations in the operation of  power-driven meat- processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering,  meat and poultry packing, processing, or rendering (order 10).
570.55(b) to mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening, or otherwise assembling, pressing, or printing wood or veneer.
not included in the definition of a traditional swimming pool or a water amusement park would be such natural environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
the department received  eleven comments in response to this proposal.
it did not want the public  mistakenly to believe that participation in the proposed work-study program  would be limited to private schools, public schools, or any particular  religious or nonreligious sect.
some of the commenters  supported the entire proposal as written or suggested only minor modifications.
work of a mental or artistically creative nature
the department will add backhoes and front- end loaders to the examples of high-lift trucks contained in sec.
the clc took issue with the department's  statement that assisting in tasks being performed by the machines would  constitute tending--an activity prohibited by the proposal.
in addition, the  department believes that the drivers of the vehicles transporting the young  workers should, as recommended by the ywn, hold valid state drivers' licenses.
such light  tools would include, but are not limited to, rakes, hand-held clippers,  shovels, and brooms.
890 (28 u.s.c. 2461 note), as amended by  110 stat.
in  other cases, the risk may be exaggerated by including more dangerous  operations/industries in the injury, illness, or fatality estimates.
in addition, the department believes that the drivers of the vehicles transporting the young workers should, as recommended by the ywn, hold valid state drivers' licenses.
it has decided to adopt the proposal as written, with one clarifying modification.
some permitted milk shake blenders had more than one spindle so multiple products could be processed simultaneously.
the department's  preliminary review of these new standards, which included input from niosh,  indicated that the standards are as protective as those cited in the compactor  and baler act and should be included in ho 12 along with the older standards.
in addition, such minors would be permitted to load onto and unload from motor vehicles any personal protective equipment they themselves will use at the work site and any personal items such as backpacks, lunch boxes, and coats their employers allow them to take to the work site.
this requirement for dual certification, like the other lifeguard  [[page 28420]] requirements contained in reg. 3, will end when the minor  reaches his or her 16th birthday.
(old) because it references sec.
the core and  defining duty of a lifeguard is the rescuing of swimmers in danger of drowning,  often by entering the water and physically bringing the swimmer to safety.
the wwa echoed the concerns of the fmi and asked  that the proposed rule be amended to allow employers to calculate hours worked  so that saturday and sunday hours may be included within the same workweek.
paper products machine means all power-driven machines used in remanufacturing  or converting paper or pulp into a finished product, including preparing such  materials for recycling; or preparing such materials for disposal.
act means the fair labor standards act of 1938, as amended (52 stat.
[[page 28403]] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
finally, the clc noted the department's statement that youth peddlers performing outside sales are usually exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the flsa and took issue with the department's failure to ban peddling by 16- and 17-year-olds as well.
the following occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus are particularly hazardous for minors between 16 and 18 years of age: (1) work of operating, tending, riding upon, working from, repairing, servicing, or disassembling an elevator, crane, derrick, hoist, or high-lift truck, except operating or riding inside an unattended automatic operation passenger elevator.
(vi) clean-up work outside shake and shingle mills, except when the mill is in operation.
in addition, the 17-year-old must hold a state license valid for the type of driving involved in the job, have successfully completed a state-approved driver education course, and have no records of any moving violations at the time of his or her hire.
the secretary has also set forth, in sec.
570.119 the lists of all the occupations contained in sec.
such employees are often referred to as ``chicken catchers'' or ``poultry catchers.''
in addition, these standards are available for inspection  at the national archives and records administration (nara).
as mentioned, the niosh report made 35 recommendations concerning  the existing nonagricultural hos.
the clc stated that it believes it is ``ill-advised to excuse 14- and  15-year-olds from compulsory school attendance on the basis of parental status.
the department believes additional information is needed before it can address such a broad recommendation that would impact all construction occupations.
the provisions of this exemption, which are contained in ho 12  (sec. 570.63) include that the scrap paper baler or compactor meet an  applicable standard established by the american national standards institute  (ansi) and identified in the statute, or a more recent ansi standard that the  secretary of labor has found, incorporated by reference (see sec. 570.63), and  declared to be as protective of the safety of young workers as the ansi  standard named in the statute.
properly certified 15-year-olds would be permitted to be employed as  lifeguards at most of these water park features.
permitted work of a mental nature would be limited to work that is  similar to that performed in an office setting and not involving the use of any  power-driven equipment other than office machines.
this exemption necessitates that the department revise both reg. 3  and ho 4.
(h) clean up work, including the use of vacuum  cleaners and floor waxers, and the maintenance of grounds, but not including  the use of power-driven mowers, cutters, trimmers, edgers, or similar  equipment.
the  proposed revision would be accomplished by adding new subsections to sec.
l. 110-233) was enacted into law on  may 21, 2008, after the publication of the 2007 nprm.
these ansi standards are incorporated by reference in this paragraph  and have the same force and effect as other standards in this part.
570.111, footnote 21 is revised to read ``however, section 12(a) contains a provision relieving innocent purchasers from liability thereunder provided certain conditions are met.
the department has decided to adopt this proposal as written.
(5) work related to forest marketing and forest economics when  performed away from the forest.
with these safeguards, such employment is found not to interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being and therefore is not deemed to be oppressive child labor.
section 13(c)(6) of the flsa provides an exemption for 17-year- olds, but not 16-year-olds, who, as part of their employment, perform the occasional and incidental driving of automobiles and trucks on public highways under specified conditions.
a member of the same religious sect or division as  the youth refers to an individual who professes membership in the same  religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.
the proposal was supported by the general manager of shipwreck island waterpark of panama beach city, florida, whose comments were submitted by the iaapa.
570.62 occupations involved in the operation of bakery machines (order 11).
the written agreement shall be signed by the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student.
all occupations in forestry services shall mean all work involved in the support of timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and marketing, and forest protection.
[redesignated as sec.
the department  appreciates the support and concerns of the commenters.
570.63 occupations involved in the operation of balers,  compactors, and paper-products machines (order 12).
she stated that prohibiting this age group from  painting activities restricts their employment activities.
in 1987, the permanent subcommittee on investigations of the committee on governmental affairs of the united states senate held hearings on the exploitation of young adults in door-to-door sales.
the department agrees with the clc that the adoption of this proposal will allow 14- and 15-year-olds to be employed to perform office work for such employers as accounting firms, advertising agencies, and insurance companies; and that such youth could, under the proper circumstances, work as many as eight hours in a day and forty hours in a week when school is not in session.
570.34(b)(6) (old)).
the department has carefully considered the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with one modification.
finally, the department acknowledges the recommendations of the dolwd, the council, and the representative of white hat regarding the relaxation of certain of the hours and time of day restrictions of reg. 3 to permit 14- and 15-year-olds to work more hours on a school day or in a school week, or later into the evening.
not included in the definition of a water amusement park would be such natural environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
the department also proposed to clarify the hours restriction contained in sec. 570.35(a)(5), which limits the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in nonagricultural employment to no more than 3 hours on a day when school is in session, by adding a statement that this restriction also applies to fridays.
(ii) records and reports.
accordingly, the department issued an anprm, in conjunction with and on the same day as the nprm, that sought information from the public on this and other issues.
other machines are intended specifically  for processing a single product, such as metals.
the clc also disagreed with the department's  decision not to address the issue of student-learners and apprentices in this  final rule.
but the department believes that the overall  predominance of their responsibility to perform the core life-saving duty of  rescuing patrons who are in the water, which they have been properly trained  and certified to perform, outweighs the minimum, isolated, and sporadic amount  of tending such lifeguards may potentially be called upon to do when stationed  at wave pools, lazy rivers, and splashdown pools.
the fmi described itself as a conductor of ``programs in research,  education, industry relations and public affairs on behalf of its 1,500 member  companies-- food retailers and wholesalers--in the united states and around the  world.''
youth 14 and 15 years of age may,  however, operate office equipment pursuant to sec. 570.34(a) and vacuum  cleaners and floor waxers pursuant to sec. 570.34(h).
such agreements shall be made available upon request to the representatives of the administrator of the wage and hour division for inspection, transcription, and/or photocopying.
high-lift truck shall mean a power-driven industrial  type of truck used for lateral transportation that is equipped with a  power-operated lifting device usually in the form of a fork or platform capable  of tiering loaded pallets or skids one above the other.
as used in this section: crane shall mean a power-driven machine for lifting and lowering a load and moving it horizontally, in which the hoisting mechanism is an integral part of the machine.
the department is also, based on its enforcement experience, amending ho 11 to incorporate the department's long- standing position permitting 16- and 17-year-olds, under certain conditions, to operate certain pizza-dough rollers, and expanding ho 14 to prohibit the employment of minors to operate wood chippers and reciprocating saws.
the approval expires on may 31, 2013, unless extended by omb.
this rule was drafted and reviewed in  accordance with e.o. 12988 and will not unduly burden the federal court system.
570.32 (``employment that is not specifically  permitted is prohibited.'')
in 2004, in recognition of the importance of youth employment  programs operated by public sector employers that provide safe and meaningful  developmental opportunities for young people, and in response to specific  requests received from two municipalities, the department adopted an  enforcement position that permits state and local governments to employ 14- and  15-year-old minors under certain conditions.
these are the types of milk shake blenders  that 14- and 15- year-olds may operate under reg. 3.
the department's  enforcement experience indicates that when employers properly apply this  limited enforcement position, 16- and 17-year-olds can safely operate  pizza-dough rollers.
the department has long interpreted tending to include riding upon the power-driven equipment.
the department has carefully reviewed the comments and has decided to adopt the proposal with certain clarifying modifications.
whd, osha, and niosh have, for many years, shared information among themselves concerning occupational injuries that have contributed to the deaths of young workers as soon as one of the parties learned of the death.
section 12(c) prohibits any employer from employing oppressive child labor in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce.