- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
after chipping  up wood to be used as a mulch, people usually compost the chips first.
a part of the new york times company.
besides bark mulches, the following types of mulches are widely used: - pine needle and leaf mulches (for free!)
to make that decision, you need to consider the qualities of the different types of mulch and start weighing their pros and cons.
answer: a few types of bark mulch are: spruce bark mulch cedar bark mulch hemlock bark mulch bark mulch can be dyed different colors, which has inspired this  discussion about the differenttypes of bark mulch, based on color.
which of the various types of mulch will best suit  your needs?
exceeding that height can cause the ph of your mulch to become overly acidic --  perhaps to the point even of damaging plants that come in contact with it.
exceeding that height can cause the ph of your mulch to become overly acidic -- perhaps to the point even of damaging plants that come in contact with it.
in terms of longevity, cedar bark mulch is an excellent choice (but you'llpay for that longevity when you buy it), while pine bark mulch tends to break down relatively quickly.
in terms of  longevity, cedar bark mulch is an excellent choice (but you'llpay for  that longevity when you buy it), while pine bark mulch tends to break down  relatively quickly.
wood chippers leaf shredders question: what types of mulches are  there besides bark mulches?
for a breakdown of the pros and cons of bark mulches and other types of mulches, please consult "garden mulch."
to make that  decision, you need to consider the qualities of the different types of mulch  and start weighing their pros and cons.
a word  of warning, however....
bark mulch is common, but is it right for you?
answer: a few types of bark mulch are: - spruce bark mulch - pine bark mulch - cedar bark mulch - hemlock bark mulch bark mulch can be dyed different colors, which has inspired this discussion about the differenttypes of bark mulch, based on color.
sign up - landscaping - pictures - diy projects - plants & lawns discuss in my forum what types of mulches are there besides bark mulches?
which of the various types of mulch will best suit your needs?
for a breakdown of the pros and cons of bark mulches and other types of  mulches, please consult "garden mulch."
an advantage of having wooded acreage and owning a wood chipper is that  you can use the wood chipper to make your own wood-chip mulch.
an advantage of having wooded acreage and owning a wood chipper is that you can use the wood chipper to make your own wood-chip mulch.
- about.com - home & garden - landscaping landscaping search free landscaping newsletter!
according to the umass extension service, wood-chips destined to be used  as mulch should not be piled up higher than 10 feet in the compost bin.
by david beaulieu, about.com guide see more about: - bark mulch - pine needles - crushed stone - wood chippers - leaf shredders question: what types of mulches are there besides bark mulches?
- hay or straw mulches - crushed stone mulches - wood chips - black plastic sheets or other synthetic mulches among natural types of mulches, the bark mulches and the crushed stone mulches are perhaps the most attractive.
besides bark mulches, the following types of mulches are widely used: pine needle and leaf mulches (for free!)
according to the umass extension service, wood-chips destined to be used as mulch should not be piled up higher than 10 feet in the compost bin.
hay or straw mulches wood chips black plastic sheets or other synthetic mulches among natural types of mulches, the bark mulches and the crushed stone  mulches are perhaps the most attractive.
a word of warning, however....
back to > mulch faq index back to > index for all faqs more - ideas for recycling christmas trees - hollyhocks - bougainvillea plants more - free online landscape design course - prickly pear cactus - best trees more related articles - lattice fences - lavender plants - plants poisonous to dogs - types of mulch | kinds | types of mulch colors - types of mulch | kinds | types of mulch colors - types of mulch | kinds | types of mulch colors - cedar mulch | landscaping mulch in perennial flower beds | cedar bark mulch - mulch for rock gardens david beaulieu landscaping guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches types of mulch garden mulch stone mulches bark mulches compost bin wooded acreage explore landscaping must reads most popular - pictures, getting started - plan your landscape for spring - take my free classes - a-z of plants - spring flowers see more about: - cat repellents - install french drains - planting zones - getting rid of crabgrass - plant lists by category - bark mulch - pine needles - crushed stone - wood chippers - leaf shredders - landscaping pictures - ideas for a landscape design - landscaping shrubs - solving landscaping problems - landscape plants - lawn care tips - landscaping trees - patios, walls - decks, arbors - fences, driveways, walkways - water features - yard maintenance - garden pest control - organic weed control - help for beginners landscaping - about.com - home & garden - landscaping - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
after chipping up wood to be used as a mulch, people usually compost the chips first.
back to > mulch faq index back to > index for all faqs more ideas for recycling christmas trees hollyhocks