if you had to design what an audi 4x4 would look  like, chances are it wouldn't be too far off how the q7 has turned out.
this allows audi to not only lay claim to  the most generous second row legroom in the class but also - with the second  row slid forward and the rear folded - to also pinch first prize for luggage  capacity, a huge 775 litres.
the q7 is equipped as standard with quattro  permanent four-wheel drive.
the driver benefits - also thanks to virtually balanced axle load distribution - from even better agility and steering precision that remains practically free of torque steer.
i always liked the allroad, a pragmatic vehicle that was more competent than most would require off road and had a reassuringly car-like feel on the tarmac.
with an all-wheel drive pedigree to be proud of, and enough  badge equity in the tank to drive premium sales, audi have seen rivals such as  bmw, mercedes, porsche and volvo clean up.
audi even offer contrasting body colours in a bid to emphasise the car's shapely profile.
motors 4x4 audi q7 road test car: audi q7 prices: 38,075-50,990 - on the road insurance groups: 16-18 performance: [3.0tdi] 0-60mph 9.1s /
there's also a trailer stabilisation system which reduces the risk of fishtailing via targeted brake intervention.
no part of contents of the newark advertiser co ltd website may be reproduced on or transmitted to or stored in any other website or other form of electronic retrieval system.
this features a state-of-the-art common  rail injection system with piezo inline injectors helping it to a peak power  figure of 240bhp, a substantial torque rating of 500nm and reasonable fuel  economy.
standard safety features: twin front airbags, side airbags, seatbelt pretensioners, esp, abs, ebd, asr.
the q7 is a little brasher, although it's still hardly in  the military surplus mould.
its torsen centre differential directs power to all four wheels, on-road and off-road, which means fast-reacting power to whichever wheel can best deploy it and excellent lateral stability - the prerequisites for optimum driving dynamics and safety.
one can't really underestimate the importance of this  vehicle to audi, a company that looks set to belatedly diversify into some  previously profitable market niches.
the twiddling stopped a while back, when audi started work on a secret project.
this sits below a powerful 4.2-litre v8 petrol unit also featuring fsi direct injection which cranks out a healthy 350bhp with a peak torque figure pitched at 440nm.
it runs on a stretched  version of the volkswagen touareg chassis and features a seven seat  configuration, making it ideal for bigger families.
if you really want to bring the bling, 19 or 20-inch rims are also offered.
let's not kid ourselves here though.
the newark advertiser co ltd website and the contents of its pages are © the newark advertiser co ltd. reproduction in any form, printing or downloading of part or all of the contents is forbidden without specific written authorisation from the company.
this is a car which has a sensibly tarmac-biased set-up, from its 60:40 torque split to its 18-inch alloy wheels.
the air suspension system could turn your suave estate car into a mud plugger in a matter of seconds without the negative social connotations of larger 4x4s.
range rover sport tdv8 range porsche cayenne range chevrolet captiva range suzuki jimny volkswagen tiguan range kia sportage range hummer h3 bmw x5 range toyota rav4 range toyota land cruiser land rover discovery range other cars by this manufacturer... audi a8 range audi a5 range audi q7 audi r8 more newarkadvertiser.co.uk - news - latest news - video - news in pictures - your letters - archive - digital edition - submit a story - sport - football - rugby - cricket - athletics - angling - boxing - golf - darts - hockey - swimming - other sport - leisure - arts - film - music - stage - games - events - horoscopes - tourism - holidays - your community - forum - junior advertiser - family notices - blogs - dating - our services - photo sales - images from the past - talking newspaper - subscription - leaflets - media pack - contact us - terms and conditions - property - hot properties - buying - renting - find an agent - contact agents - recruitment - motors - findit disclaimer | website designed and maintained by advertiser web services
this sits below a powerful 4.2-litre v8 petrol unit  also featuring fsi direct injection which cranks out a healthy 350bhp with a  peak torque figure pitched at 440nm.
the tilted position of the rear spring and shock absorber unit reduces overall height and creates more room at the rear.
the entry-level petrol unit is the six cylinder  3.6 fsi, developing 280bhp.
dimensions: length/width/height 5086/1983/1737mm audi q7 form an orderly q audi have taken their time but have finally committed to the 'sports utility' market.
that's usually a recipe for incipient success.
it runs on a stretched version of the volkswagen touareg chassis and features a seven seat configuration, making it ideal for bigger families.
the results of that development were unveiled in the shape of the q7.
the q7's off-road aspirations aren't anything much greater than muddy tracks and wet grass.
at the top of the range sits the 322bhp 4.2-litre v8 tdi powerplant  currently found in the a8.
the allroad was a clever distillation of audi's brand image - cool, well built and ever so slightly self effacing.
range rover sport tdv8 range porsche cayenne range
see also in this category...
the twiddling  stopped a while back, when audi started work on a secret project.
i always liked the allroad, a  pragmatic vehicle that was more competent than most would require off road and  had a reassuringly car-like feel on the tarmac.
there's also a trailer stabilisation system which reduces the  risk of fishtailing via targeted brake intervention.
let's not kid  ourselves here though.
the coupe-like  dipping roofline isn't standard 4x4 fare, nor are the resolutely horizontal  shoulders.
if you can get away from the rugged mud plugging mentality and instead think of it as a multi-purpose estate car on growth hormone, you'll bond with the q7 a whole lot quicker.
this is a car which has a sensibly  tarmac-biased set-up, from its 60:40 torque split to its 18-inch alloy wheels.
the q7's off-road aspirations aren't anything much  greater than muddy tracks and wet grass.
max speed 134mph fuel consumption: [3.0tdi] (urban) 19.4, (extra urban)  34.0, (combined) 26.9mpg
even sister company volkswagen have brought the touareg to market while audi twiddled their thumbs.
audi claim 28 seating and  loading configurations are available in the q7 and the seats in the second row  are adjustable for fore/aft movement.
the entry-level petrol unit is the six cylinder 3.6 fsi, developing 280bhp.
the q7 is a little brasher, although it's still hardly in the military surplus mould.
it's actually rather a clever move, taking the constituent parts of an allroad and scaling them up a little.
even sister company volkswagen have  brought the touareg to market while audi twiddled their thumbs.
in not tackling bmw and mercedes head on, audi have played a rather smart card with the q7
the q7 is rumoured to be spawning a q5, a smaller and less expensive model that will bring the theme and the mpv-style interior trickery to a wider audience.
if you can get away from  the rugged mud plugging mentality and instead think of it as a multi-purpose  estate car on growth hormone, you'll bond with the q7 a whole lot quicker.
if you had to design what an audi 4x4 would look like, chances are it wouldn't be too far off how the q7 has turned out.
the chassis of the audi q7 contains numerous aluminium components - independent wheel suspension with double wishbones at the front and rear - also excels with its all-round qualities.
that's  usually a recipe for incipient success.
steel spring suspension and twin-tube shock absorbers are designed for sporty driving and superior comfort, even off-road.
although some may point to the fact that audi have arrived at the 4x4 party just as the richest pickings have thinned, there's still a massive demand for 'sports utes' in the usa and besides, the q7 may be long but it isn't as in-your-face as many 4x4s.
the allroad was a clever  distillation of audi's brand image - cool, well built and ever so slightly self  effacing.
it's long been something of a mystery as to why audi haven't committed to the sports utility vehicle market.
of perhaps greater relevance to the uk market is the 3.0-litre tdi diesel.
sunday 04 march 2012 max 7°c min 2°c - home - news - latest news - news by area - photosales - video - talking newspaper - your letters - archive - weather - public notices - sport - football - rugby - cricket - athletics - angling - boxing - golf - darts - hockey - swimming - other - gallery - leisure - arts - film - music - stage - events - horoscopes - tourism - holidays - dating - community - family announcements - forum - junior advertiser - dating - public notices - women's - useful links - property - hot property - let of the week - find
one can't really underestimate the importance of this vehicle to audi, a company that looks set to belatedly diversify into some previously profitable market niches.
even  its styling seems to distance it from off-roaders.
the coupe-like dipping roofline isn't standard 4x4 fare, nor are the resolutely horizontal shoulders.
max speed 134mph fuel consumption: [3.0tdi] (urban) 19.4, (extra urban) 34.0, (combined) 26.9mpg
an agent - contact agents - focus on - jobs - find a job - cv matching - featured recruiters - help centre - motors - compact cars - family cars - sporting cars - luxury cars - 4x4s - vans & pickups - private car sales - book online - dealer locator - our services - photosales - family announcements - subscriptions - talking newspaper - leaflets - number one holidays - contact us / advertise with us - newark directory - all business profiles - enhance your listing - missing listing?
with an all-wheel drive pedigree to be proud of, and enough badge equity in the tank to drive premium sales, audi have seen rivals such as bmw, mercedes, porsche and volvo clean up.
standard safety features: twin front airbags, side  airbags, seatbelt pretensioners, esp, abs, ebd, asr.
the results  of that development were unveiled in the shape of the q7.
dimensions: length/width/height 5086/1983/1737mm audi q7 form an orderly q audi have taken their time but have finally committed to the 'sports  utility' market.
audi claim 28 seating and loading configurations are available in the q7 and the seats in the second row are adjustable for fore/aft movement.
the q7 is equipped as standard with quattro permanent four-wheel drive.
the chassis  of the audi q7 contains numerous aluminium components - independent wheel  suspension with double wishbones at the front and rear - also excels with its  all-round qualities.
this features a state-of-the-art common rail injection system with piezo inline injectors helping it to a peak power figure of 240bhp, a substantial torque rating of 500nm and reasonable fuel economy.
the air suspension system could  turn your suave estate car into a mud plugger in a matter of seconds without  the negative social connotations of larger 4x4s.
with a length of 5,086mm and a wheelbase  of 3,002mm, the q7 isn't the most nimble rock hopper, but it does feature  variable ground clearance (from 180 to 240mm), hill descent assist and an  off-road mode whereby the esp stability control system backs off to allow for  loose surfaces.
its torsen centre differential directs power to all  four wheels, on-road and off-road, which means fast-reacting power to whichever  wheel can best deploy it and excellent lateral stability - the prerequisites  for optimum driving dynamics and safety.
with a length of 5,086mm and a wheelbase of 3,002mm, the q7 isn't the most nimble rock hopper, but it does feature variable ground clearance (from 180 to 240mm), hill descent assist and an off-road mode whereby the esp stability control system backs off to allow for loose surfaces.
it is certainly big though.
whether or  not you see the q7, priced from 38,075, as a big step forward for audi really  rather depends on your view of big 4x4s.
this allows audi to not only lay claim to the most generous second row legroom in the class but also - with the second row slid forward and the rear folded - to also pinch first prize for luggage capacity, a huge 775 litres.
it's  actually rather a clever move, taking the constituent parts of an allroad and  scaling them up a little.
audi even offer contrasting body colours in a bid to emphasise the  car's shapely profile.
even its styling seems to distance it from off-roaders.
prices: 38,075-50,990 - on the road insurance groups: 16-18 performance: [3.0tdi] 0-60mph 9.1s /
the tilted  position of the rear spring and shock absorber unit reduces overall height and  creates more room at the rear.
although some may point to the fact  that audi have arrived at the 4x4 party just as the richest pickings have  thinned, there's still a massive demand for 'sports utes' in the usa and  besides, the q7 may be long but it isn't as in-your-face as many 4x4s.
whether or not you see the q7, priced from 38,075, as a big step forward for audi really rather depends on your view of big 4x4s.
another option that's sure to be popular among q7 buyers is air suspension.
at the top of the range sits the 322bhp 4.2-litre v8 tdi powerplant currently found in the a8.
of perhaps greater relevance to the uk  market is the 3.0-litre tdi diesel.
steel spring suspension and twin-tube shock absorbers are  designed for sporty driving and superior comfort, even off-road.
in not tackling bmw and mercedes head on,  audi have played a rather smart card with the q7
the q7 is rumoured to be spawning a q5, a  smaller and less expensive model that will bring the theme and the mpv-style  interior trickery to a wider audience.
four engines are available.
it's long been  something of a mystery as to why audi haven't committed to the sports utility  vehicle market.
the driver benefits - also thanks to  virtually balanced axle load distribution - from even better agility and  steering precision that remains practically free of torque steer.