- stayz.com.au - gold coast getaways - byron bay holidays - family accommodation compare and save skip to: - best deals - mobile - broadband - credit cards - rewards cards - low rate cards - home loans - savings accts - term deposits - loans check out today's best deals
- volkswagen's two-cylinder polo - surviving on wet roads - the electric commodore - vw's mx-5 fighter not dead yet top 5 drive articles most viewed articles on the age - end of the road for sat-navs?
instead i chose all the options i wanted and the car was  built to order.
advertisement advertisement jobs happy new year!
the styling is great as it looks much  more muscular than previous a4's.
if you think that a comment that has been posted is offensive,please email us at owner_reviews@drive.com.au with a link to the comment and your reasons for objecting to it.
i didn't buy off the floor.
what else could you ask for?
maybe its time for a new career? - mycareer.com.au - 1000's of jobs in australia - part time jobs - jobs in government real estate should floods force a rethink?
- surviving on wet roads - vw's mx-5 fighter not dead yet - the electric commodore - volkswagen's two-cylinder polo top 5 drive articles - end of the road for sat-navs?
yes owned for how long?
the stance is very squat and fitted with 18" alloy wheels the car looks great.
servicing and running costs rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars on the corporate package, i get 3 years free servicing which i can't  complain about.
- domain.com.au - buy real estate - get a free suburb profile
i picked the option box for "sports suspension" and i couldn't be happier.
i picked the option box for "sports  suspension" and i couldn't be happier.
under the bonnet rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars i was hesitant about buying such a small capacity engine, but on the road, mated to the 6 speed gearbox, the in-gear acceleration is excellent.
buy this make again?
the turbo engine has a very linear power delivery from  down low in the revs.
new car comparison junior executives: bmw v lexus v volvo v mercedes-benz drive assesses rival small luxury sedans to find the one with the most polished resume.
equipment is superb, except for the fact that i forgot to tick the lighting option box, which meant that i have no glovebox light....go figure!
home loans term deposit government guaranteed term deposit from citibank term deposits platinum edge 0% p.a. special intro rate for 6 months + 20k bonus pts credit cards new nokia lumia 800 prices and plans are here for new nokia lumia with windows phone 7 compare mobile deals 2 months free deals android deals on htc sensation xl, htc sensation and galaxy s2 compare mobile deals readers' most viewed most viewed articles on brisbane times top 5 drive articles most viewed articles on wa today - end of the road for sat-navs?
i didn't  buy off the floor.
aesthetics & styling rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars with the xenon option, you get the much better looking headlights which  incorporate the daytime running lights.
on your savings - smh.com.au - compare all saving accounts - compare all credit cards - compare all home loans thevine splendour in the grass line-up 2012 - thevine.com.au - entertainment & celebrity news - latest fashion coverage - music news and reviews holidays save 50%* on an amazing range of weekend escapes!
uhomeloan no admin or application fee - no bank fees whatsoever!
overall verdict rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars my 1st audi after years of ownership of other euro cars (alfa romeo's, bmw,  merc).
the turbo engine has a very linear power delivery from down low in the revs.
aesthetics & styling rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars with the xenon option, you get the much better looking headlights which incorporate the daytime running lights.
i have  also driven the cvt transmission with the 1.8 tfsi engine, and the awful  gearbox, totally ruins the character of this superb engine.
running costs are very low thanks to the low fuel consumptions.
under the bonnet rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars i was hesitant about buying such a small capacity engine, but on the road,  mated to the 6 speed gearbox, the in-gear acceleration is excellent.
dunno if the dealers will have as sharp a  pencil these days.
overall verdict rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars my 1st audi after years of ownership of other euro cars (alfa romeo's, bmw, merc).
- vw's mx-5 fighter not dead yet - volkswagen's two-cylinder polo - the electric commodore - mercedes to go hybrid on sedans, suv - drive home - buy new cars - buy used cars - dealer car sales - sell your car - tips and advice - bikes & scooters - buy cars - buy new cars - buy used cars - dealer car sales - car valuation - compare cars - car auction houses - car finance - car insurance - drive mobile - sell your car - create an ad - manage an ad - car valuation fairfax media - news & reviews - car news - car videos - car photos - car blogs - netpolls - rss our sites - the sydney morning herald -
equipment is superb, except for the fact that i forgot to  tick the lighting option box, which meant that i have no glovebox light....go  figure!
i received the car approx 12 weeks after ordering.
tell your friends add to facebook
just make sure you don't buy one with the cvt gearbox.
the manual gearbox also saves you $2000 which can be spent on other wiser options.....like a light in the glovebox.
the styling is great as it looks much more muscular than previous a4's.
how it drives rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars road holding is excellent.
see all owner reviews please note: the views which are expressed in this review are not our views, nor the views of any of drive.com.au's related entities, and we accept no liability in respect of any material posted in the comments areas, nor are we responsible for its content and accuracy.
servicing and running costs rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars on the corporate package, i get 3 years free servicing which i can't complain about.
see all owner reviews please note: the views which are expressed in this review are not our  views, nor the views of any of drive.com.au's related entities, and we accept  no liability in respect of any material posted in the comments areas, nor are  we responsible for its content and accuracy.
i have also driven the cvt transmission with the 1.8 tfsi engine, and the awful gearbox, totally ruins the character of this superb engine.
- volkswagen's two-cylinder polo - the electric commodore - vw's mx-5 fighter not dead yet - surviving on wet roads top 5 drive articles most viewed articles on canberra times - end of the road for sat-navs?
instead i chose all the options i wanted and the car was built to order.
what else could  you ask for?
comfort and practicality rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars more space than the 3 series bmw.
quality in the cabin as well as the vehicle  engineering is top notch.
the age - mycareer - domain - drive - rsvp - essential baby - investsmart - apm - stayz - weatherzone - the vine our partners copyright © 2012 fairfax media - business - car tyre - concreters - electrician - excavation - fencing contractors - mechanics - motorcycle repairs - painters - panel beaters
- what is your house worth?
bigger boot than the 3 series as well.
safety and security rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars very secure roadholding and oodles of safety features as standard.
they are awful, and when they break after warranty runs out, you will be paying bills north of $6000 for repairs.
for a mere $400, the vehicle  handing is transformed.
tell your friends - add to facebook - email this story tweet car makeexpand - all car makes - holden (1438) - toyota (1213) - ford (1143) - mitsubishi (722) - nissan (512) - mazda (509) - hyundai (501) - honda (368) - subaru (355) - volkswagen (197) - kia (179) - suzuki (140) - bmw (121) - daihatsu (97) - daewoo (93) - peugeot (90) - mercedes-benz (84) - chrysler (66) - volvo (63) - audi (55) - renault (53) - jeep (50) - land rover (45) - alfa romeo (44) - saab (42) - more car makes car typeexpand car sizeexpand story tools - share on facebook - email this story - print this story advertisement featured advertisers latest reviews new car reviews reviewed: renault koleos dynamique rating: 35 out of 5 stars a mid-life update puts value and practicality ahead of emotional connection.
- volkswagen's two-cylinder polo - surviving on wet roads - the electric commodore - vw's mx-5 fighter not dead yet top 5 drive articles most viewed articles on drive - end of the road for sat-navs?
used car reviews holden vectra 2003-06 rating: 25 out of 5 stars a gem when it was new but age-related niggles can blight its second-hand prospects.
better than merc c-class.
they are  awful, and when they break after warranty runs out, you will be paying bills  north of $6000 for repairs.
the manual gearbox also saves you $2000 which can  be spent on other wiser options.....like a light in the glovebox.
couldn't  ask for more.
quality and reliability rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars never ever broken down.
money score up to 6% p.a.
our bugaboo chameleon (spelling??) pram fits just right in the boot, where as  it failed miserably in the bmw.
skip to navigation skip to content fairfax digital - 2:52pm thursday mar 08, 2012 - brisbane times - real estate - cars - jobs - dating - newsletters - more - essential baby - stayz - investsmart - trading room - weatherzone - more sites » drive main navigation - home - new cars - used cars - news - reviews - new car reviews - new car comparison - used car reviews - owner reviews - write a review - bikes & scooters - tips & advice - directory - sell your car more navigation options - insurance - finance - my shortlist you are here: home owner reviews audi a4 search drive: search in: audi a4 stefan may 20, 2010 my rating: rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars - make - audi - model - a4 - model variant - 1.8 tfsi - series - 8k - series year - 2009 - body group - 4d sedan - engine size - 1.8 search for used audi, a4 owned since new?
yes price and equipment rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars we bought this car around the time of the global financial crisis which meant that the dealers were doing amazing deals to get our business.
and i also got approx $15,000 off the rrp.
the car never feels heavy or sluggish.
our bugaboo chameleon (spelling??) pram fits just right in the boot, where as it failed miserably in the bmw.
dunno if the dealers will have as sharp a pencil these days.
quality in the cabin as well as the vehicle engineering is top notch.
the stance is very squat and fitted with  18" alloy wheels the car looks great.
price and equipment rating: 5.0 out of 5 stars we bought this car around the time of the global financial crisis which  meant that the dealers were doing amazing deals to get our business.
and i also  got approx $15,000 off the rrp.
value for money and includes leather seats as standard.
if you think that a comment that  has been posted is offensive,please email us at owner_reviews@drive.com.au with  a link to the comment and your reasons for objecting to it.
join the conversation you're the only person reading this now.
for a mere $400, the vehicle handing is transformed.
got something to say about your car?
couldn't ask for more.
even the $13,000 kia rio has a glovebox light!