the testing will run in the san francisco, ca; los angeles, ca; washington,  dc; and denver, co; markets until the end of the year.
it is estimated that with a single battery charge, the audi e-tron can cover more than 86miles; while it can achieve top speeds of 90mph and race from 0-62mph in 11.2seconds.
as it takes steps deeper into the electric vehicle landscape, audi has decided to introduce a pilot programme for its audi a3 e-tron vehicle.
the audi a3 e-tron is a five-seat electric vehicle based on a production audi a3 that features a permanent magnet synchronous motor with output of 60kw and peak output of 85kw. its maximum torque is 270nm; while its energy storage comes from a lithium-ion battery that stores 26.5kwh of usable energy at 380volts and weighs 300kilograms.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
the testing will run in the san francisco, ca; los angeles, ca; washington, dc; and denver, co; markets until the end of the year.
the vehicle places the emphasis on the driver, who can choose between three  different driver profile modes.
it is hoped that it will help audi identify challenges and opportunities with plug-in vehicles.
there’s dynamic mode, with the electric  motor delivering its full power, with the air conditioner also working in full;  auto mode, where both systems are throttled back to extend range; and  efficiency mode, which is designed for maximum range with the electric motor  limited to 50kw. in addition, the driver can influence energy recovery by choosing from four  recuperation levels.
website alfa romeo | audi | bmw | chevrolet | citroen | daihatsu | fiat | ford | honda | hyundai | jaguar | kia | lexus | mazda | mercedes-benz | mini | mitsubishi | nissan | perodua | peugeot | proton | renault | saab | seat | skoda |smart | subaru | suzuki | toyota | vauxhall | volkswagen |
this means that when the driver applies pressure to the brake, an electromagnetic brake boost pressurises the hydraulic wheel brakes with the electric motor acting as a generator and recovering energy.
it is estimated that with a single battery charge, the audi e-tron can  cover more than 86miles; while it can achieve top speeds of 90mph and race from  0-62mph in 11.2seconds.
see also paul lucas, february 29, 2012 filed under: audi,electric cars,green cars,latest news
follow @greencarwebsite audi launches electric vehicle pilot programme as it takes steps deeper into the electric vehicle landscape, audi has  decided to introduce a pilot programme for its audi a3 e-tron vehicle.
the vehicle places the emphasis on the driver, who can choose between three different driver profile modes.
at the lowest level, the audi a3 e-tron can glide freely when the driver releases the accelerator; while at the highest level, the car brakes strongly and the electric motor acts as a generator.
the audi a3 e-tron is a five-seat electric vehicle based on a production  audi a3 that features a permanent magnet synchronous motor with output of 60kw  and peak output of 85kw. its maximum torque is 270nm; while its energy storage  comes from a lithium-ion battery that stores 26.5kwh of usable energy at  380volts and weighs 300kilograms.
fast charging technology oxford university report examines keys to electric car adoption toyota to debut new rav4 electric vehicle coda makes new electric vehicle partner chevrolet unveils en-v 2.0 concept first denza electric vehicle makes debut china sets ambitious electric car target ford begins roll-out of focus electric electric and hybrid car sales record in usa paul lucas, february 29, 2012 filed under: audi,electric cars,green  cars,latest news
there’s dynamic mode, with the electric motor delivering its full power, with the air conditioner also working in full; auto mode, where both systems are throttled back to extend range; and efficiency mode, which is designed for maximum range with the electric motor limited to 50kw. in addition, the driver can influence energy recovery by choosing from four recuperation levels.
this means that  when the driver applies pressure to the brake, an electromagnetic brake boost  pressurises the hydraulic wheel brakes with the electric motor acting as a  generator and recovering energy.
it is hoped that it will  help audi identify challenges and opportunities with plug-in vehicles.
volvo | © copyright 2000-2012 really good domains ltd
at the lowest level, the audi a3 e-tron can glide freely  when the driver releases the accelerator; while at the highest level, the car  brakes strongly and the electric motor acts as a generator.
should uk government look to privatise our roads?
see also audi outlines plans for electric mobility major carmakers unite for