s-line versions get sharper responses thanks to lowered and stiffened suspension, but pay off us extremely firm ride.
rear seat occupants will find more head and legroom than in a bmw 5-series and mercedes e-class, while the boot will swallow a healthy 530-litres of luggage.
lightweight aluminium construction, efficient new engines, and agile chassis and luxurious cabin all combine to take the a6 to the top.
all the plastics have a quality look and feel, while leather seat trim is standard on all models.
lightweight aluminium construction, efficient new engines, and agile  chassis and luxurious cabin all combine to take the a6 to the top.
however, for most buyers the refined and frugal 175bhp 2.0-litre oil-burner serves-up the best blend of pace and economy.
unique audi on its own.
interior as you’d expect from audi, the a6’s cabin is first rate.
alpina ariel aston martin audi bentley motors bmw cadillac caterham chevrolet chrysler citroen corvette daihatsu dodge ferrari fiat ford ginetta honda hummer hyundai infiniti jaguar jeep kia ktm lamborghini land rover lexus lotus maserati maybach mazda mclaren mercedes mg mini mitsubishi morgan nissan noble perodua peugeot porsche proton renault rolls-royce saab seat skoda smart ssangyong subaru suzuki tesla toyota vauxhall volkswagen volvo westfield ...and a model
driving and performance owners of the outgoing a6 will be amazed by the new car’s poise and agility.
the same bunch pouring out the same drivel about boring and and and.......
not only is it attractively styled and logically laid out, the fit and finish are excellent.
why bother reading about something which you know isn't to your taste?
nissan noble perodua peugeot  porsche proton renault rolls-royce saab seat skoda smart ssangyong subaru suzuki tesla toyota vauxhall volkswagen volvo westfield ...and a model you're in - car reviews: new reviews audi a6 audi's executive saloon is better than it has ever been, and is set to  take the market by storm.
ho hum, the rest of us get on with life ....
even the more powerful 242bhp 3.0-litre tdi emits only 156g/km and will manage 47.9mpg at the pumps.
there’s also  the option to add hi-tech safety kit, such as lane keep assist, blind spot  monitoring, night vision and adaptive cruise control.
figures that easily match the excellent bmw 520d.
now audi became similar to what alfa romeo could be if da silva were at alfa.
may be closer than ever before to bmw, but i do not think equal.
email: password: sponsored results more audi a6 articles - car reviews - new reviews: audi a6 - new car awards: best executive - used car tests: a6 avant stripdown - car group tests: audi a6 avant 2.7 tdi se - first drives: allroad allrounder - new reviews: audi s6 - new reviews: audi a6 - car group tests: audi a6 - first drives: audi a6 allroad tdi - first drives: audi a6 allroad 3.0 tdi - first drives: audi a6 avant 4.2 quattro se - first drives: audi a6
the latter gets a sporty bodykit, led lights, lowered suspension and 18-inch alloy wheels.
however, the all-new model is aiming to take the corporate car park  by storm.
reliability and safety with a full complement of six airbags, a strong bodyshell and standard fit esp, the a6 is sure to earn a five-star euroncap rating when it is tested.
performance fans can choose between a smooth and punchy 296bhp 3.0-litre v6 tfsi petrol, while the firm’s familiar 3.0-litre tdi is available with either 201bhp or 242bhp.
sponsored results 9 comments storm?
now everyone's bored of their christmas tree headlights, audi will have to find someother novel way of convincing people that theirs cars are better than the competition from bmw, vw and mercedes.
avant - first drives: audi a6 3.2 fsi s line avant - first drives: audi a6 avant 2.7 tdi se - first drives: audi a6 2.0 tdi se - first drives: audi a6 - first drives: audi a6 - first drives: audi a6 2.4 se - first drives: audi a6 3.2 fsi v6 quattro se - first drives: audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro - long term tests: audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro se - long term tests: audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro se - long term tests: audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro se - long term tests: audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro se - news - auto express news: audi a6 spied related index pages model variants and specifications car tax calculator: audi a6 - audi a6 2.0 tdi 177ps se £30145 - audi a6 2.0 tdi 177ps s line £32495 - audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro se s tronic £39100 - audi a6 3.0 tfsi quattro se s tronic £39270 - audi a6 3.0 tdi quattro s line s tronic £41450 - audi a6 3.0 tfsi quattro s line s tronic £41620 link to this article: for more details about purchasing this feature and/or images for editorial usage, please contact the dennis syndication team onpictures@dennis.co.uk - advertisement - pictures sponsored results find new cars find your new audi a6 with our new car search: - from: £26,375 - to: £37,885 find used cars find your audi a6 with our used car search.
it is handsome and well proportioned, but the newcomer’s shape is extremely colour sensitive – the combination of a classy metallic colour and big wheels results in the most kerb appeal.
what storm? quote: "audi's executive saloon ... is set to take the market by storm.
even now i would take this over a 5 series on looks alone.
both saloon and estate versions benefit from cabins that are packed with useful cubby space, including a large glovebox, deep door bins and a decent-sized lidded compartment in the centre console.
i was fan of audi at those times when managed by ferdinand piech.
however, the all-new model is aiming to take the corporate car park by storm.
6 issues for £1 search car reviews choose a make...abarth alfa romeo alpina ariel
at present there are only two trim levels: se and  s-line.
er doubt it when you've got masserati, jaguar, mercedes all offering some real sense of occasion to their luxury vehicles.
would be to you eejits.
by jtravolta77 on 28 june, 2011, 9:29pm you need to register to post comments.
i kind of see where youre coming from, audi maybe don't have that intimate driver appeal or that certain charisma e.g maserati or bmw but that's not say the audi as car a machine it isn't a worthy alternative because for it's build quality, engineering and design it's arguably top right now.
owners wanting even more space can opt for the avant load lugger, which boasts 1,680-litres of carrying capacity with the rear bench folded flat.
both saloon and estate  versions benefit from cabins that are packed with useful cubby space, including  a large glovebox, deep door bins and a decent-sized lidded compartment in the  centre console.
by focus_your_mind on 27 june, 2011, 9:40am eejits have any of the critics above writing so negatively ever driven an audi?
go for the entry-level 2.0-litre tdi and you’ll be  rewarded with fuel returns of 57.6mpg and co2 emissions of 129g/km –
and with plenty of  adjustment for the seat and wheel, finding a comfortable driving position is  easy.
our choice: audi a6 se 2.0tdi styling it’s clear that the a6 takes its cues from the firm’s larger a8 luxury saloon.
and while  there’s not much feedback, the steering is precise and well-weighted.
rear seat occupants  will find more head and legroom than in a bmw 5-series and mercedes e-class,  while the boot will swallow a healthy 530-litres of luggage.
interior as you’d expect from  audi, the a6’s cabin is first rate.
as before, buyers can choose between traditional four-door saloon and  versatile estate bodystyles.
there’s lots of  grip in the corners, particularly in four-wheel drive quattro models.
once the specced up models start hitting the streets with 18/19" alloys and decent metallic colours it will be at the top of everyone's wishlist again.
i suppose you also rate audi's repeated wins at le mans as boring.
italian design and german engineering!
losing its original genes, and trying chasing bmw, audi is not on the way it should be.
existing members can log in below to comment, otherwiseclick here to join.
not similar to any other car.
ingolstadt calling - we'd like you to review our new car.
s-line versions get sharper responses thanks to lowered and stiffened  suspension, but pay off us extremely firm ride.
i really think audi now offer better design and quality than bmw.
audi now, i think can go all way and conquer the luxury market!
that's why he also wanted to buy alfa romeo from fiat as part of the plan.
practicality if you regularly carry passengers, then the a6 should be at the top of your list.
though the car was not advanced as bmw and mercedes, it was elegantly striking at those times.
and with plenty of adjustment for the seat and wheel, finding a comfortable driving position is easy.
against: conservative styling, lack of steering feedback the audi a6 has often had to give best to the bmw 5-series in the executive  car stakes.
driving and performance owners of the outgoing a6  will be amazed by the new car’s poise and agility.
see all makes you're in - car reviews: new reviews audi a6 audi's executive saloon is better than it has ever been, and is set to take the market by storm.
for : for: refinement, agile chassis, low emissions against :
there’s also the option to add hi-tech safety kit, such as lane keep assist, blind spot monitoring, night vision and adaptive cruise control.
- £47900 - £25665 - £25665 - £21665 - less than £21665 - advertisement - company website | media information | contact us | privacy notice | subs info | voucher codes | sitemap our other websites:the week | custom pc | evo | it pro | it pro india | macuser | men's fitness | micro mart | pc pro | bit-tech | know your mobile | octane | expert reviews | channel pro | know your cell | know your mobile india | igizmo |digital slr photography | den of geek | computer shopper | dennis communications | magazines | mobile phone deals | competitions | health &
by xrt665 on 28 june, 2011, 8:07am to focus_your_mind
this is just another bland, run out of ideas, boring audi.
for an alternative review of the latest audi a6 visit our sister site carbuyer.co.uk what next
highlights include a pop-out screen for the standard sat-nav, beautifully  designed dials and the firm’s intuitive mmi media interface, which is  available with the a8’s clever touch pad control.
as before, buyers can choose between traditional four-door saloon and versatile estate bodystyles.
and buyers seeking  further piece of mind can specify the firm’s trademark quattro four-wheel  drive system.
by jtravolta77 on 12 june, 2011, 11:58pm give it a chance i'm pretty sure black paintwork and miniscule alloys isn't showing this car at it's best.
auto express car reviews latest deal price: from £26,375 to £37,885
mpg and running costs thanks to its weight-saving aluminium construction, the a6 is remarkably efficient.
mpg and running costs thanks to its weight-saving aluminium construction, the a6 is  remarkably efficient.
- login - register - newsletter - home - news - reviews - products - compare cars - videos - new car deals - used cars for sale - motorshows - competitions - 6 issues for £1 search car reviews choose a make...abarth alfa romeo
auto express car reviews - rating: - latest deal price: from £26,375 to £37,885 - for :
all the plastics have  a quality look and feel, while leather seat trim is standard on all models.
aston martin audi bentley motors bmw cadillac caterham chevrolet chrysler  citroen corvette daihatsu dodge ferrari fiat ford ginetta honda hummer hyundai  infiniti jaguar jeep kia ktm lamborghini land rover lexus lotus maserati maybach mazda mclaren mercedes mg mini mitsubishi morgan
licensed by felden get your copy now subscribe get 6 issues for just £1
however, for most buyers the refined and frugal 175bhp 2.0-litre oil-burner  serves-up the best blend of pace and economy.
fitness | carbuyer | cloud pro | magbooks | mobile test | lits © 2012 dennis publishing limited.
by floatingvoter on 26 may, 2011, 7:34pm phoned-in styling, phoned-in review?
performance fans can choose  between a smooth and punchy 296bhp 3.0-litre v6 tfsi petrol, while the  firm’s familiar 3.0-litre tdi is available with either 201bhp or 242bhp.
owners wanting  even more space can opt for the avant load lugger, which boasts 1,680-litres of  carrying capacity with the rear bench folded flat.
" i'm sure it will, amongst the miniscule % of the population this car is relevant to.
at present there are only two trim levels: se and s-line.
by conzec on 8 june, 2011, 1:37pm perfect car!
all models are will equipped, while class-leading residuals make the audi a solid long term investment.
we'll give you 6 issues for £1 and a free gift!
there’s lots of grip in the corners, particularly in four-wheel drive quattro models.
not only is it attractively styled  and logically laid out, the fit and finish are excellent.
reliability and safety with a full  complement of six airbags, a strong bodyshell and standard fit esp, the a6 is  sure to earn a five-star euroncap rating when it is tested.
for an alternative review of the latest audi a6 visit our sister site  carbuyer.co.uk what next
well, the ceo of vw piech has made no secret of his desire for audi to overtake bmw as the world's number one luxury car maker.
it is handsome and well proportioned, but  the newcomer’s shape is extremely colour sensitive – the  combination of a classy metallic colour and big wheels results in the most kerb  appeal.
highlights include a pop-out screen for the standard sat-nav, beautifully designed dials and the firm’s intuitive mmi media interface, which is available with the a8’s clever touch pad control.
for more breaking car news and reviews, subscribe to auto express magazine.
it will say... by mugwump02 on 27 may, 2011, 10:52am so dull.
all  models are will equipped, while class-leading residuals make the audi a solid  long term investment.
this is not in the same league as jaguar, the new xf, wow!
and buyers seeking further piece of mind can specify the firm’s trademark quattro four-wheel drive system.
by jcrowley012 on 1 june, 2011, 6:02am da silva's alfa audi once was ferdinand's audi.
go for the entry-level 2.0-litre tdi and you’ll be rewarded with fuel returns of 57.6mpg and co2 emissions of 129g/km – figures that easily match the excellent bmw 520d.
and while there’s not much feedback, the steering is precise and well-weighted.
even the more powerful 242bhp  3.0-litre tdi emits only 156g/km and will manage 47.9mpg at the pumps.
for: refinement, agile chassis, low emissions - against : against: conservative styling, lack of steering feedback the audi a6 has often had to give best to the bmw 5-series in the executive car stakes.
our choice: audi a6 se 2.0tdi styling it’s clear that the a6 takes its cues from the  firm’s larger a8 luxury saloon.
the latter gets a sporty bodykit, led lights, lowered suspension and  18-inch alloy wheels.
by bigmartyn on 16 june, 2011, 1:11pm jtravolta77: conquer the luxury market?
think of it like a miele dishwasher or siemens washing machine!
practicality if you regularly carry  passengers, then the a6 should be at the top of your list.
tell us about your car in our driver power survey.
claimed to be better than a bmw is not at all convincing.