12 march 2012 17:13 upload stories, photos or videos direct to the site, or email newsdesk@carmagazine.co.uk.
that and to stop mercedes getting hold of ducati.
ducati, which makes around 40,000 motorcycles a year, is on the market  since its debt burden is reportedly higher than its revenues.
according to our insiders, there is no way audi will pay telephone numbers for  ducati.
in 2008, piech said it was a mistake not to have bought ducati when the company was on the brink of brankruptcy before.
instead, the germans will probably put no more than €50m to  €100m on the table - but absorb the new partner's substantial liabilities.
the exclusivity deal gives audi until mid april when the deal will likely be finalised, according to high-ranking sources contact by car.
he has been eyeing up the opportunity of buying a  prestigious motorcycle brand for some time, and considered reviving horex, a  german motorbike firm which made single- and twin-cylinder bikes from 1936 to  1956.
so as bmw have bmw motorrad, bikes, audi also needs to have it.
12 march 2012 20:56 daveandrews13 says re: audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels brankruptcy?
terms of use | privacy policy | advertise with us | site map | resources | about us | contact us | help © copyright 2012 bauer media limited - all rights reserved.
ducati, which makes around 40,000 motorcycles a year, is on the market since its debt burden is reportedly higher than its revenues.
after all, it takes more than a strong name to make project eagle fly.
by georg kacher motor industry 12 march 2012 09:50 audi has struck an exclusive deal giving it first rights to buy italian superbike manufacturer ducati, car can reveal.
12 march 2012 17:47 biram desai says re: audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels i guess lamborghini have done okay under audi, so shouldnt be too much to worry about.
but first of all, the audi delegation must take a deep dive into the ducati r&d department and check out the borgo panigale production facility.
alternatively, call 01733 468 485 (+ 44 1733 468 485)
then get in touch now.
now putting together lambhorghini and ducati.
after  all, it takes more than a strong name to make project eagle fly.
audi is all the times following bmw (and sometimes also following mercedes), in all projects, in all new models, in everything.
in 2008, piech said it was a mistake not to have  bought ducati when the company was on the brink of brankruptcy before.
ducati's liabilities are around €200 million [earlier report  said €800 million, this has been corrected], and our sources suggest  the total purchase price is about €250m-€300m.
ducati's liabilities are around €200 million [earlier report said €800 million, this has been corrected], and our sources suggest the total purchase price is about €250m-€300m.
12 march 2012 18:03 halfabee says re: audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels as a non-biker i would have thought ducati was the 2-wheeled ferrari.
if it saves ducati and we keep getting great products, its job done.
he has been eyeing up the opportunity of buying a prestigious motorcycle brand for some time, and considered reviving horex, a german motorbike firm which made single- and twin-cylinder bikes from 1936 to 1956.
ok, it will be good to ducati future.
why is audi buying ducati?
but horex doesn't have enough brand recognition, so when bologna-based ducati came up for sale the vw group paid close attention.
who else might buy ducati?
that makes more sense.
click here for the take by our sister title, biking  bible mcn, on the ducati news 1
a small team of advisors has been formed in ingolstadt under the project eagle name and they're currently doing due diligence on the ducati deal.
instead, the germans will probably put no more than €50m to €100m on the table - but absorb the new partner's substantial liabilities.
georg's english is far better than my german but this shouldn't slip through...
it's all part of project eagle, another brainchild of volkswagen group scion ferdinand piech.
12 march 2012 20:04 josemealha says re: audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels strange!
especially since  mercedes-benz recently entered into a cross-promotional deal with ducati.
india's mahindra and hero, daimler and volkswagen are said to be among the leading suitors, but car can reveal that audi has struck an exclusivity deal giving it first dibs on ducati.
four years later, volkswagen is now closer then ever to making the chairman's vision complete.
seen a secret new car, fabulous exotic or have news we should publish?
and i like ducati bikes, the ducati brand deserves a good future.
it is th only possible reason for this bizarre deal.
a small team of advisors has been formed in ingolstadt under the project  eagle name and they're currently doing due diligence on the ducati deal.
i don't see the links in brand, technoligy or customer base.
audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels subject your commentplease enter a comment please enter a comment by submitting your comment, you agree to adhere to the car magazine website terms and conditions cancel you must be logged in to subscribe to a topic login or register now halfabee says re: audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels jose - i see your logic.
ducati chairman andrea bonomi has in the past pointed out that he views 'ducati as the two-wheel equivalent of audi', a perception ferdinand piech would likely agree with.
ducati chairman andrea bonomi has in the past pointed out that he views  'ducati as the two-wheel equivalent of audi', a perception ferdinand piech  would likely agree with.
india's mahindra and hero, daimler and volkswagen are said to be among the  leading suitors, but car can reveal that audi has struck an exclusivity deal  giving it first dibs on ducati.
this is a bold move by audi, which sees the long-term advantage in moving into two wheels as well as four.
returning to the point.
according to our insiders, there is no way audi will pay telephone numbers for ducati.
especially since mercedes-benz recently entered into a cross-promotional deal with ducati.
fhm | zoo | empire | mcn | parker's | today's golfer
but first of all, the audi delegation must take a deep dive into the ducati  r&d department and check out the borgo panigale production facility.
the exclusivity deal  gives audi until mid april when the deal will likely be finalised, according to  high-ranking sources contact by car.
it's all part of project eagle, another brainchild of volkswagen group  scion ferdinand piech.
click here for the take by our sister title, biking bible mcn, on the ducati news add your comment sign in you must be signed in to submit a comment.
bmw m5 (2012) long-term test review win a year driving bmws: car's amazing competition museo casa enzo ferrari museum opens in modena audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels hyundai santa fe (2012) first official pictures news audi to buy ducati – the four rings expands from four wheels
this is a bold move by audi, which sees the long-term advantage in moving  into two wheels as well as four.
four  years later, volkswagen is now closer then ever to making the chairman's vision  complete.
fortunately bmw is not a follower of audi (vw group owns vw commercial vehicles, scania and man) if not bmw will buy a truck company.
by georg kacher motor industry 12 march 2012 09:50 audi has struck an exclusive deal giving it first rights to buy italian  superbike manufacturer ducati, car can reveal.
skip to content audi models, news & reviews
nobody see the reason to audi buy ducati?
but horex doesn't have enough brand recognition, so when bologna-based  ducati came up for sale the vw group paid close attention.