but i’ve also owned ford, toyota, vw, subaru, chevrolet, oldsmobile, and even triumph.
i have a 2010 fusion on a 2 year lease…i had to extend 6months just to wait for the 2013.
i love my ’08 accord coupe.
overall, yes i will be a vw/audi customer for life!
oh yeah, you damn sure do know how to have a good time!
yep would buy chevy and honda again.
i have had 3 altimas, 2005, 2008 and 2012 and love all 3.
can’t go wrong with any jeep in my opinion.
i would buy the saab again in a heartbeat: i can live with the cheap plastics, and the 2.0 turbo engine is fantastic!
as long as they keep building bad ass mustangs i’ll keep buying them.
but dont like interior much.
i am loyal to my cash and that is about it.
may trade one in on a 2013.
next time, will get the coupe.
for my suv, i own a ford.
i am not a car brand hater like most of these people.
if and when my current car dies i will get the lowest priced, lowest miles, newest car that fits my budget at that time.
volkswagen jetta sportwagen suggested price $20,195 - $25,540
really toyota lies and hides recalls??!!
others have  strict guidelines and conditions for their purchase consideration, such as  available engines and transmissions (i.e. six-cylinder, manual transmission  only), while others are dictated by practical needs (growing family,  occupation.)
to be honest though the competition didn’t get much better, this was a time when 19 city/30 hwy mpg was considered good.
yep because by the time i get a new truck the new silverado will be out and they will be eating fords and crapping dodges all day long lol hell no!
i would, without a doubt, stay with chevrolet for my next purchase.
vw’s are such great cars.
cx-5 i don’t really need that much room and i’m sure it will command a substantial premium over the wimpy gasser.
i used to have a 4 cyl accord and i can tell you from experience there is no way you are getting 80 mpg….
so knowing that why would you buy one??
i’ll most likely stay with a japanese brand.
though i’m leaning much more towards a lightly used vw gti, mazda3, mazda6 or vw cc r-line.
but i got tired of them…just too boring.
its not that they are bad
share your thoughts and experiences on today’s thread of the day!
i had a 2010 hyundai accent 3dr before the mazda and that was a great car.
it’s reliable and good mpg
the torque converter was not actually broken either.
they are very reliable and good quality.
i have had a few little minor issues with it
2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
an admitted vw loyalist, westys looks forward to buying ajetta tdi  sportwagen.
please tell me that this post was a joke.
we honestly love cars.
others have strict guidelines and conditions for their purchase consideration, such as available engines and transmissions (i.e. six-cylinder, manual transmission only), while others are dictated by practical needs (growing family, occupation.)
and i don’t think the car is all that it is cracked up to be.
all it needs is some mean huge front and rear custom bumpers, a 4″ lift, and possibly an engine switchout.
written by: edward a. sanchez g+  on february 9  2012 5:00 pm car owners tend to fall into two camps: life-long loyalists, and fickle  dilettantes that flit from brand to brand chasing the latest trend or hot  model.
but i’ll probably cross shop a few other brands (sans gm–terrible experiences each and every time).
none have given me any problems whatsoever and i am definately looking foward to the new altima as my next car in a few years you only live once… don’t worry i also have a taurus sho as my weekend car
nickle, dime, nickle, dime, dollar, dollar, dollar….
i would consider other companies, but probably won’t buy anything, i like kia and mazda reliabillity!
it has been driven 26k, trouble-free miles, other than a torque converter replacement at about 3k miles.
well i have driven a nissan, toyota and honda and my next car is either a corvette c6 (2005-2006) or a bmw m5 (2004-up).
i will never buy from gm again!!!!
well if toyota lies and hide recalls they must have taken notes and lessons from the masters of deceit.
mostly it is a matter of subjective preferences and great advertising on part of the manufacturer.
for some, their favorite brand is discontinued.
i would not consider anything from the toyota brand, but i’d give the tc and scion fr-s a fair look.
forum memberwestys wants to know if based on the  experience with your current vehicle, if you would buy another from the same  brand.
your weekend car is, wait-for-it…also a sedan.
135 comments overall, i’ve found myself in chrysler vehicles more times than not, but that is spread over dodge, chrysler, and jeep.
i have an 02 subaru wrx and the wife has a 07 hyundai, and i would buy from either brand without thinking twice for my next car.
i feel sorry for fools that get tricked into detroit products.
creaks, rattles, and squeaks everywhere.
handling has been addressed as well as steering input.
maybe if you posted about 150k or even 100k trouble-free miles that may be significant… the prompt said to talk about what you cuirrently drive before deciding whether or not you would stay with the same company.
the lexus’s were very reliable, comfortable great for long trips, etc
for my cars, i own two ferraris and a porsche.
current: toyota corolla.
some of these cars are getting over engineered and too complicated.
i am sure you are aware of the new changes posted here first of the new genesis coupe…more power!.
2.0t is now 274/hp and the 3.8 is 344hp…either can be had with an 8-speed auto w/ paddle or traditional 6 speed manual.
i porbibly won’t need another truck sonce i’m about done with house projects, so i’ll likely go to the car i like the best.
especially the new passat.
would you stay with the same brand for your  next car?
at the moment i own nothing but fords and a lincoln, but i’ve not been brand loyal in the past (nissan, jaguar, honda, cadillac, vw, mercury, chevrolet, etc.).
a done up impreza sport hatch stick would probably make the most sense
i often take advantage of auto and insurance auctions.
they have been out 10 years before and you didnt see them on the side of the road?
i would like to get a f150 as my second vehicle.
the jeep has been good for the money, and i would consider a new grand cherokee.
ps a torque converter at 3k, just wait until that 3yr 36k warranty is up on that chevy.
the only thing that i want in my next mitsu is a major fuel economy, but in general i’m satisfyign with my car mpgs.
i’ve got a 2001 honda prelude and an 07 sport track to haul my travel trailer, they are both ok just like most cars i have owned over the last 40 years.
easy to mess with and basic.
my brothers and sisters own detroit stuff.
you shouldnt quit on gm, the sunfires suck.
i own a detroit product and most of my friends own japanese products and they have more problems then i do.
i have an 06 mits lancer es.
thread of the day: which retired car names should stay retired?
it seems as if it requires lots of unnecessary service.
no, i would never buy one again.
i would like to get something german for my next car, but i also really like the new acura ilx, so honda might get my business next time around.
with the outlook of gm, yes.
i rarely buy new, so it’s more of a matter of find a great price.
i was a gm guy from 16 years old until about two years ago.
thread of the day: what is your favorite car brand?
cars….on the contrary they are very nice, but i’m loving on the new muscle cars right now.
i did just that, reported about my ownership experience thus far.
but you’re still a fake goob.
feel free to buy and drive whatever you want, jt, but spare us the “fools that get tricked into detroit products” nonsense.
other brands my family have: toyota (maybe), bmw (maybe), chevy (probably not).
i enjoy my 2004 kia optima and my 2005 mazda mpv.
well my mother’s tahoe is at 80k, and my grandfather’s tahoe is at 168k, neither of which have had a single issue.
thread of the day: what was your favorite car brand as a child?
ok, so i’m really big into cars.
i currently drive a 2009 silverado
theres something about that car that just looks perfect.
i often buy when i find a good deal, rather than wait for a need and forced to over pay.
however the acura has been really disappointing.
i would buy another ford without any hesitation.
i would stick with honda for commuter car.
some prefer not to limit themselves, and  take advantage of the variety of new models on the marketplace.
i’d probably get the scion fr-s if i were to buy a new car have a cts sedan and love it.
looks like a shootout is coming when they make it over here!.
every car company has vehicles that go wrong eventually, no matter how good their reputation is.
i’ll third g37′s comment.
i’m primarily a ford truck and chevrolet car guy, but i won’t rule out a nissan, mazda or chrysler for my next car, and since ford ditched the ranger, my next 4 cylinder, manual transmission standard cab sport truck will probably be based on a frontier or tacoma, since dakotas are too big and fuelish, the newest s-10′s available are nearly 10 years old, the current colorado sucks and the next one looks too tall and bloated to appear to be a good candidate for the slight lowering with gummy rubber that i do to all my trucks.
i will go for buick regal gs, dodge dart srt8, scion frs, bmw 335, chrysler 300, cadillac cts or ats, jeep grand cherokee, camaro zl1, honda cr-z, toyota tacoma and right now i own a chevy camaro.
my hyundai genesis coupe is a blast to drive my family and i really like the entire vehicle lineup of hyundai and kia.
sure wouldn’t mind a 5.7l. i hate my 2.5l. i get horrible mpg anyways (15).
in terms of new cars i’d probably look at a ford fiesta st (if they have a ‘nads to make it), mazda3 skyactiv, vw gti and subaru brz or impreza.
my next car might be either the new hyundai elantra gt (i loved them in europe where they’re being sold as hyundai i30) or kia optima.
i have no intention to trade for a while, but when i do i will certainly consider ford and lincoln.
sure, i have a lancer gts 09
wide open throttle thread of the day: would you stay with the same brand for your next car?
thank you for your business, even though it was not mine:) i alternate between toyota and honda vehicles.
it’s reliable and gets 32 mpg on the highway, but it’s super delicate, has tons of rattles, and i’ve never been able to get comfortable with the way it drives.
i have had honda nissan, vws, mitsubishi, a cortina, fords and chevys, trucks and cars.
130,000 miles and it runs fine.
and im very happy with it.
i currently have an 01 jeep cherokee and an 07 acura tl.
sometimes, it is hard to choose between the two.
for those of you who havent considered a volkswagen, please give them a chance.
i had problems with all of the german cars…motors/camshaft (mercedes), transmissions(audi), electrical (bmw)…wont be buying one anytime soon.
thread of the day: when you think of ______ (automaker), you think ______.
written by: edward a. sanchez g+ on february 9 2012 5:00 pm car owners tend to fall into two camps: life-long loyalists, and fickle dilettantes that flit from brand to brand chasing the latest trend or hot model.
that way i can plow, haul, tow, and drive in the snow easier.
you should get the ecoboost like you said, dont get the wrangler.
my 2006 infiniti m35 sport feels like the perfect car for me (size, power, driving dynamics, looks…) i am really starting to look the 2009 model with 25 more hp and the 7speed trans as a replacement.
well worth the money!
it does cost some money to keep it running to audi specs, but the thrill and quality can be priced.
it’s like saying walkers are a sexy accessory…actually that is the problem with all the hondas these days, and acuras as well for that matter, their styling has gone to sh-t. when the korean cars are making your cars look cheap and boring, it’s time your company adopted a new design philosophy!
porsche for the daddy.
i would defiantly buy another camaro, yes mine is v6 3800 but they are great and almost bullet proof engines except the dex-cool part but lets not get into that.
honda should include the extra transmission with every new car they sell.
but, i’m always interested in a new fun drive, aka ford is out lol
mt classic home » wot » thread of the day:
i have ether seen people have trouble with or i have had trouble with most other brands.
it really depends on when my silverado needs replaced, and what i need at that time.
the best that thing ever got on a all highway trip down to la was around 35 mpg… i said i get 30.5mpg on 20% city+80%hwy i have a 2005 sunfire terrible car 17.5mpg in the city my frontier get’s better then this.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2012
i have no worries about mine.
i would definitely buy kia or hyundai in the future.
as much as i want a diesel (you always want what you can’t have i guess)
im a gm person and ill be the first one to say those cars are crap.
thread of the day: would you stay with the same brand for your next car?
now the people that are driving those cars look like they’ve just gone and given up on life (more so the hondas)…just go ahead and bury me in this car…my life is a thing of the past…uugggghhhhhh
it would help the economy being made in america.
truck wise would go up from k1500 to a silverado.
those companies make the best vehicles on the planet.
might look at subaru but only if its a sti or wrx.
the honda is a good drive as well, but they have to do something about the noise; i am looking forward to the new model.
i’d definitely buy from them again.
i drive a 2005 pontiac vibe.
they just keep getting better regardless of brand.
i have an accord and a saab 9-3.
i buy cars not brands and i pity blinded fanbois.
they are always having problems.
my wife likes the looks of the new camaro.
some prefer not to limit themselves, and take advantage of the variety of new models on the marketplace.
good commuter car, slow but nice, not feeling the new one inside or out.
categories: thread of the day, volkswagen related motor trend articles thread of the day: what was your favorite car brand as a child?
life’s too short for staying with one brand.
the ex-l trimline transforms the accord into a luxury vehicle.
not really looking for anything fwd other than honda/acura.
what do you drive now, and based on your experience with it, would you buy another from the same brand?
onstar kept receiving messages that it was messing up, so the dealer went ahead and replaced it as a precaution.
however it will be a long time before gm is on my list again, and i will never buy a toyota, they lie and hide recalls.
now that is not saying i will look around.
it’s a real head turner.
the current gen accord v6s looks quite nice (especially the coupes).
but i’ve been known to buy with the heart- obviously not the cr-v but that was a hand me down.
we now have an 07 edge sel plus and a 97 f-150 xlt and the quality has been flawless.
others commenting on the thread have mixed ownership experiences.
i currently have three fords which all were bought brand new (2000 mustang, 2005 f-150, 2008 fusion), but lately i’m not really the fan all of whole global design, ford doesn’t even look like a ford anymore.
most of them don’t have that many miles like > keep the g37, lose the f150.
how many transmission did you replace on your hondas?
suck me sideways dill only if it was a g8 gxp with the stick i currently drive a 01 camry.
correction, my uncle has all of those cars currently.
it will attain 29-30 mpg at 80-85 mph and handles well.
acura loyalist to the end of time.
shopping for daddy’s next porsche.
i wouldn’t mind staying with honda.
replacement tires are very expensive, an oil change is right at 100 dollars, a complete four wheel brake job is north of $500.00 and since i live in lower alabama where virtually all terrain is flat, there is no need for exceptional handling, not to mention the high cost of insuring it.
i am happy with my 92 jeep wrangler w/ blk rims and custom orange paint.
thread of the day: which brand or brands have the best/worst dealerships?
seeing how that car was based on toyota, i’d totally stick with them.
i also like korean cars a lot.
the honda accord v6 is a great choice–the styling is exceptional for a non-luxury brand.
the vw company is amazing.
next time, a high end camry or honda with a v6.
i will get another jeep grand cherokee in a heartbeat i love my truck
what do you drive now, and based on your experience with it, would you buy  another from the same brand?
the audi company has came a long way and has progressed very well.
my next purchase will replace an 07 cr-v. it must be awd and i hope a 4 cylinder diesel option will be available.
my uncle is a true car lover.
i might look at a ram 1500 but nothing else truck wise or jeep grand cherokee.
too funny… nissan has fleet the hell out of altima try to sell them yourself they are not worth much.
and no to a new jeep.
most cars, especially now are up to a standard that will surpass anything from 10 years previous to that model year.
if you are so wrapped up and convinced that a “brand” is better than another, you are sorely mistaken.
i also have a corvette c6 convertible as well, i like it a lot
if my diesel hopes are once again dashed it will probably be another subaru after a very nice experience with a forester xt and it will most likely contain a manual transmission.
an admitted vw loyalist, westys looks forward to buying ajetta tdi sportwagen.
i just plan on driving this until it falls apart as i driver it to and from work.
forum memberwestys wants to know if based on the experience with your current vehicle, if you would buy another from the same brand.
actually i second g37 on this, my mothers car is a 2010 v6 ex-l sedan in dark cherry pearl, i gotta say, that one looks really really good.
i’m always interested in trying new things.
i know styling is a preference thing and all, but saying the current accord has exceptional styling is a ridiculous statement!
let me add that they have been very reliable, and that the saab gets 27.5mpg 40/60 city/hwy, while accord gets 30.5mpg 20/80 city/hwy !!!!
are you coasting down pikes peak the whole time?
i own a ’07 328i, it is expensive to operate and service.
i currently own my 2nd ranger to pass 200,000 miles and the $h*ttiest part on either was/is the japanese mazda transmission (although it is still the original one in this one and it is dealing with about a 40% power increase).
20/80 city hwy with a honda accord?
i am not brand loyal.
he had a 2008 audi s8, 2008 audi rs4, 2007 audi a8l w12, and a 2008 audi a4 s-line.
i drive a toyota prius and can’t wait to get a prius v!
thread of the day: do “cheap” car brands work?
i will go back into a gm sjowroom first, but that doesn’t mean that’s what i’m going to get.
but….honda has changed and now i am more looking forward to a car equipped with a 2.2l skyactiv-d or 2.0l h-4 diesel as a family car or 1.0l i-3 ecoboost for commute.
i currently have a 2011 mazda 2 gx and its an ok car.
i currently drive a toyota celica st.
i would buy the new f-150, explorer, mustang, taurus and i would avoid all global cars (fiesta, focus, fusion …).
odds are when i buy my next car i’ll have graduated college with my accounting degree and in a good job.
every single one is just a whole different world then the other.
remember when they used to make good looking cars?
i very loyal to the brands that take care of me.
i have owned a lot of cars…lexus, mercedes, bmw, audi.
and there are some i just dont care for i hope the next generation g37 is not as good looking as the current one.
and it is only getting better! .
it wasn’t meant to be significant, nor did i imply that it was.
..p.s…i sell hyundai..
also, not impressed all at with a 0-60 time of 10.5 seconds… and, the interior feels as if it’s a 2001.
and i though i will always buy hondas for my whole life since i enjoyed the car so much,
the most well-rounded cars on the planet.
my friend has a 2002 and it’s been really reliable for him, but the fuel economy is pretty bad.
i am a ford guy mainly…i have 3 gt500s..2 2007s and a 68gt500kr convert.
i probably won’t buy another mazda.
i am just making sure i get a manual honda.
she test drove one but she drives a 2010 mks with ecoboost and she wouldnt trade it.
for some,  their favorite brand is discontinued.
we have a 2003 audi a6 quattro, a 2010 vw jetta tdi, and a 2012 vw touareg.
i switched to ford due to horrible quality issues with the last three cars i bought from gm (2 pontiacs and 1 chevy)
i might also look at hyundai’s and kia’s as well as nissan’s and other ford’s as my family have owned those vehicles in the past and have had good experiences with all of them.
i will probably go back to hyundai after.
i wouldn’t buy another expedition, so i’d definitely switch back to gm.
i’ll most likely switch over to a sedan when i have kids.
you’re not the real black dynamite.
looking at upgrading to an infiniti g or yamaha r6 in hopefully a year.
for a fake goob, you’ve got a good sense of humor.
26,000 trouble-free miles.
brand loyalty is for the birds.
(cough) my first car is a 2005 honda accord v6 6mt