audi a4 saloon has a special edition which distinguishes itself from  the other trims by a bang & olufsen sound system, dab digital audio and  19” large alloy wheels.
you can own a diecast model of audi a4 convertible version and showcase it in your room.
below are the various engine options to choose from in all the trim levels: audi a4 saloon standard 1.8 tfsi(p) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdie(d) 136ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 143ps 6-speed manual audi a4 saloon se 1.8 tfsi(p) 120ps 6-speed manual 1.8 tfsi(p) 160ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tfsi(p)
the audi a4 quattro tdi engine is one of the most advanced diesel engine technology that is more fuel efficient, more power, less noisy and also emits less emissions.
audi a4 2011 series is a rival for the bmw 3 series, an all wheel drive infiniti g37 and the acura tl.
opt for audi quattro engines if budget allows, you will love the  experience of riding a quattro version over the normal variants.
the whole series of engines is almost same with  slight variations (very slight).
it adds leather and cloth combination sports  seats, matt brushed aluminum inlays and a sline exterior package giving  stunning look to the car.
audi a4 saloon has a special edition which distinguishes itself from the other trims by a bang & olufsen sound system, dab digital audio and 19” large alloy wheels.
audi a4 series is the next to what a good class means but it’s still a bit below from the perfect ones.
the nest trim level, audi a4 saloon se includes an enhanced level of audio system with colored information display, micro sd and aux support, bluetooth and 10 speakers package (includes subwoofer).
let’s have a look on the various models and trims so that you can choose  among the best suitable car of yours.
211ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tfsi quattro (p) 211ps 6-speed manual 3.2 fsi(p) 265ps multitronic 3.2 fsi quattro(p) 265ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdie(d) 136ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 143ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 170ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi quattro(d) 170ps 6-speed manual 2.7 tdi(d) 190ps
170ps 6-speed  manual 3.0 tdi quattro(d) 240ps 6-speed manual audi a4 saloon s line and s line special edition engine power transmission 1.8 tfsi(p)  120ps 6-speed manual 1.8 tfsi(p) 160ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tfsi(p)
6              copyright © 2012
the next trim level is audi a4 saloon technik with  three major added systems, satellite navigation, audi parking system plus and  milano leather upholstery.
the nest trim  level, audi a4 saloon se includes an enhanced level of audio system with  colored information display, micro sd and aux support, bluetooth and 10  speakers package (includes subwoofer).
avant now coming forth to the next model of audi a4 2011 series, avant, which is built on the same platform of a4 saloon in a shape of a big hatchback or a touring car.
two models are quipped with s tronic transmission and the left one is again powered with 6-speed manual transmission.
the back space is converted for more boot space or can be used for  passenger sitting as well.
there are just three variations of this model and all are picked up by the advance audi a4 quattro tdi and tfsi engines.
multitronic 3.0 tdi  quattro(d) 240ps 6-speed manual
the diesel audi a4 has  been capturing more attention because of its quattro tdi engine.
the audi tfsi engines are also no less than any other in  technology.
being the target for off-road purposes, the model has a suspension lift of 37mm over the standard a4 models.
the headlights are also changed to xenon lamps with  led daytime running light.
below are the variations one can opt for: audi a4 allroad quattromodel power transmission
multitronic 2.0 tdi(d) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d)  143ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi (d) 170ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi quattro  (d) 170ps 6-speed manual 2.7 tdi (d) 190ps
along with the features present in the high-end version of a4 saloon model, few more features are added with this model like, headlight washer, off-road detection system and auto opening boot lid.
the interiors are all same with that of audi a4 saloon models, so there is nothing extra to say.
the audi quattro a4 series gives this car a privilege to feel the drive.
audi a4 2011 series is a rival for the bmw 3  series, an all wheel drive infiniti g37 and the acura tl.
the bmw 3 series  still haves the golden badge in the category for luxury sedans but the others  are also not that far behind.
so these where the various models of the a4 series, and i have tried to cover all the important information.
cars guide for automobile enthusiasts| rss feeds
the first one to go with is audi a4 saloon, the most basic form of a4  model.
please let us know, if there is something left out.
avant now coming forth to the next model of audi a4 2011 series, avant, which is  built on the same platform of a4 saloon in a shape of a big hatchback or a  touring car.
the engine is very responsive and the quattro a4 models facilitate each axle to act according to the road conditions independently making the drive of audi a4 quattro series sportier.
these 4 models are standard trim levels available to most of the audi  series.
the buyer of an audi has many options to choose from like say choice in transmissions; audi a4 manual, audi a4 s tronic and audi a4 multitronic.
the audi drive select system is an awesome creation of the company and you would love to manage your drive with its three drive modes.
the audi quattro a4  series gives this car a privilege to feel the drive.
it adds leather and cloth combination sports seats, matt brushed aluminum inlays and a sline exterior package giving stunning look to the car.
let’s have a look on the various models and trims so that you can choose among the best suitable car of yours.
the audi quattro tdi engines are the class in technology and much superior then other diesel engines.
few more added  features are 3-zone climate control, multifunction steering wheel wrapped in  leather, rear acoustic parking system, auto dimming rear view mirror and  interior chrome package.
and you would love to manage your drive with its three drive modes.
the features are standard with all the three models of audi a4 allroad quattro.
it is divided into 5 trim levels- -          audi a4 saloon
« explore the world of audi a series interior car cleaning tips » 2010 audi a4 series audi a4 series is the next to what a good class means but it’s still  a bit below from the perfect ones.
the audi a4  quattro tdi engine is one of the most advanced diesel engine technology that is  more fuel efficient, more power, less noisy and also emits less emissions.
the audi a4 series is has some features that make it stand distinct and can dwell the buyer’s decision.
audi a4 2011 is divided into three different model variations; first one is audi a4 saloon in the shape of a luxury sedan, second is the audi a4 avant in a shape of touring pattern and the third is the audi a4 allroad quattro, a more dynamic pattern of audi a4 avant.
the headlights are also changed to xenon lamps with led daytime running light.
the next trim level is audi a4 saloon technik with three major added systems, satellite navigation, audi parking system plus and milano leather upholstery.
it is divided into 5 trim levels- - audi a4 saloon standard - audi a4 saloon se - audi a4 saloon technik - audi a4 saloon s line - audi a4 saloon s line special edition (note: the features of audi cars where described in detail on a previous audi post)
the engine is very  responsive and the quattro a4 models facilitate each axle to act according to  the road conditions independently making the drive of audi a4 quattro series  sportier.
additionally he can  opt for a diesel audi a4 or petrol audi a4 which are further divided into  different capacities.
the  audi quattro tdi engines are the class in technology and much superior then  other diesel engines.
these all models are further divided into 3-5 trim levels with variations in engines and luxuries.
the audi a4 series is has some features that make  it stand distinct and can dwell the buyer’s decision.
newer models of audi a4 series are much better designed and are built with awesome interiors.. audi a4 saloon
few more added features are 3-zone climate control, multifunction steering wheel wrapped in leather, rear acoustic parking system, auto dimming rear view mirror and interior chrome package.
there was a model, audi a4 cabriolet which is now dropped in production and  the its position is done by an audi a5 cabriolet.
standard -          audi a4 saloon s  line -          audi a4 saloon s  line special edition (note: the features of audi cars where described in detail on a previous  audi post) the standard model is comes with a small but perfect level of luxuries that  includes a single disc music player with 6 speakers, front air bags for safety,  designer alloy wheels, headlight range adjustment, driver’s information  system with energy saving tips, electric front and rear windows, single zone  climate control, intelligent key, servo-tronic power-assisted steering  adjustable for rake and reach, electrically operated and heated side mirrors  and daytime running lights from distinct visibility to others.
so there is a wide variety of choice.
the model will be near to the realistic looks of the actual car.2004 audi a4 diecast car model 1/18 convertible silver die cast car by motormax see also the next series of audi, the audi a5 series.
newer models of  audi a4  series are much better designed and are built with awesome interiors.. audi a4 saloon
the same five trims are available with the avant as well.
for safety purpose, this model comes with automatic headlight and windscreen wiper operations.
the first one to go with is audi a4 saloon, the most basic form of a4 model.
multitronic 3.0 tdi quattro(d) 240ps 6-speed manual audi a4 saloon technik 2.0 tdie(d) 136ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 170ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi quattro(d)
below are the various engine options to choose from in all the trim levels: audi a4 saloon standardengine power transmission audi a4 saloon seengine power transmission audi a4 saloon technikengine power transmission audi a4 saloon s line and s line special editionengine power transmission the above where the various engine option available in all trim levels.
audi a4 avant standardmodel power transmission audi a4 avant seengine power transmission audi a4 avant technikengine power transmission audi a4 avant s line and s line special editionengine power transmission audi a4 allroad quattro this a4 series is built for those people who have performance as their preference.
the buyer  of an audi has many options to choose from like say choice in transmissions;  audi a4 manual, audi a4 s tronic and audi a4 multitronic.
the audi drive select system is an awesome creation of the company
there was a model, audi a4 cabriolet which is now dropped in production and the its position is done by an audi a5 cabriolet.
the audi tfsi engines are also no less than any other in technology.
the diesel audi a4 has been capturing more attention because of its quattro tdi engine.
additionally he can opt for a diesel audi a4 or petrol audi a4 which are further divided into different capacities.
nice info please answer: seven − =
audi a4 avant standard 1.8 tfsi(p) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tdi(d) 120ps 6-speed manual 2.0tdi(d) 143ps 6-speed manual
the whole series of engines is almost same with slight variations (very slight).
these 4 models are standard trim levels available to most of the audi series.
the standard model is comes with a small but perfect level of luxuries that includes a single disc music player with 6 speakers, front air bags for safety, designer alloy wheels, headlight range adjustment, driver’s information system with energy saving tips, electric front and rear windows, single zone climate control, intelligent key, servo-tronic power-assisted steering adjustable for rake and reach, electrically operated and heated side mirrors and daytime running lights from distinct visibility to others.
now, that you had learned so much about audi a4 series, why not own a small scaled model of the same car.
the above where the various engine option available in all trim levels.
the next audi sline model has major changes in looks  and not in the functionality.
these all models are further divided into 3-5  trim levels with variations in engines and luxuries.
211ps 6-speed manual 2.0 tfsi quattro(p) 211ps 6-speed manual 3.2  fsi(p) 265ps
opt for audi quattro engines if budget allows, you will love the experience of riding a quattro version over the normal variants.
the next audi sline model has major changes in looks and not in the functionality.
for safety purpose, this model comes  with automatic headlight and windscreen wiper operations.
the back space is converted for more boot space or can be used for passenger sitting as well.
the same five trims are  available with the avant as well.
the bmw 3 series still haves the golden badge in the category for luxury sedans but the others are also not that far behind.
audi a4 2011 is divided into three different model variations; first one is  audi a4 saloon in the shape of a luxury sedan, second is the audi a4 avant in a  shape of touring pattern and the third is the audi a4 allroad quattro, a more  dynamic pattern of audi a4 avant.
the interiors are all same with that of audi  a4 saloon models, so there is nothing extra to say.