i doubt lincoln makes anything for ford, as ford (the brand) is whats boosting the profits over in detroit.
in terms of sales mix, the ostensible town car replacement mkt is trending  at 72 percent all-wheel-drive, followed by the mkx and navigator, both at 62  percent, the mks at 46 percent, and the mkz with 25 percent.
ecoboost 3.7 standard, optional 6.2 as range topper.
imagine a 600hp awd lincoln tangling with nissan gtrs??????
30 percent of car buyers opt for all-wheel-drive; would you?
+1 needs to stop all platform sharing and have lincoln only cars!
in other words, a huge makeover.
that should work out well for them marketing from subaru and others have convinced the ignorant that it’s dangerous to drive in the rain without 4wd….. lincoln needs to get serious.
ford vows to stop neglect of lincoln refreshing or revolting: 2013
gm wanted to sell it so that they could recoup losses on the volt.
then there should be a model above this, on the d4 platform and it would compete with the s-class and such.
awd is a nice idea, but as enthusiast as i am it’s not enough to gain all respect lincoln needs to.
let’s face facts, lincoln is not a luxury brand – at least not anymore.
epic fail, atleast caddilac is on the right track with the ats, next gen cts etc… on this road lincoln will barley be competitive with buick.
and for the top of the line i would use a 3.7 ecoobosted for around 400hp.
so many people won’t buy small to compact sports/premium products with fwd.
also, fix those hideous grilles!
i had been trying to find out why licolns aren’t selling, even though they look great and are very luxurious.
that level of power in a  front-wheel-drive vehicle would likely result in poor driveability and control  characteristics.
adding leather, awd and nicer interior materials is nothing in cost compared to the amount of money that goes into engine and chassis development, but they still charge premium prices.
lincolns look, although nice does not trigger the emotions in me that other luxury marques do.
base engine would be the i4 from the mks, next step up would be the di mks 3.7 non turbo motor.
i don’t care engine options, the most important thing here is giving lincoln a chance to compete bimmers, mb’s or audi, even caddies.
a good strategy to improve the lincoln product lineups is erasing the mkt and bringing back continental.
ford already has the eco-boost technology to produce some stellar turbo 4 and 6 engines.
all they need is a rwd portfolio and a fresh design language for lincoln and audi would have an american competitor on its hands… at this point, lincoln is looking a lot like the chrysler brand of the 1990s (remember the super-k imperials and fifth avenues) and cadillac of the late 1980s and early 1990s.
if lincoln is making ford decent money, then i don’t see them changing their direction any time soon.
this vehicle would, of course have b-pillarless suicide doors.
svt has brand equity that will carry into the lincoln showroom.
mark z, mark s, mark t, mark x…i like that.
with the discontinuation of the rear-drive-only town car, lincoln notes that all-wheel-drive is now available in all the brand’s vehicles, from the mkz and mks sedans, through to the mkx and mkt crossovers, as well as the full-size, body-on-frame navigator suv.
long term- mks, mkx, mkz all become based on the mustang platform (lengthened and shortened as necessary) and my list of engines above becomes available.
there have been different ‘plans’ laid out and/or otherwise conjured up as to what to do with lincoln and that’s all.
lincoln’s biggest problem isn’t the fact that its essentially a ford add-on (same could be said about audi, lexus and buick), its the fact that ford relies way too much on tradition, rather than passion.
engines range from ecoboost 3.7 to a range topping ecoobost 5.0 with 600hp.
i am a die hard ford lover but even i have to admit lincolns lost.
many people have no need for it.
mulhally was so bent on changing the 500 back to tauras, does he know ford own’s lincoln too?
at best, lincoln is a near-luxury brand.
cadillac is seriously leaving lincoln in the dust pretty soon almost all of it’s cars will be rwd, chrysler is even leaving lincoln and even ford in the dust in rwd.
enough brand equity is in the name to make it worth saving.
make a diesel option, possibly a ford euro diesel.
both realized over a decade ago, that a luxury car is more than plush seats and traction control: it is about having a true, balanced rwd platform.
next step up would be a 3.7 with direct injection to differentiate it from the ford motor.
but first and immediately, they have to change the names of these vehicles!
o and if i were in charge of lincoln here would be my plan.
awd is fine if you want it.
i know that lincoln is coming out with the concept c for production, will this be awd too?
a cts-v/m5 fighter with a supercharged 550 horse 5.4l is a no brainer.
i see lincoln today as boring and badge engineered.
it should be based on what would have been the focus rs chassis, and come in a sedan form.
it’s right here where car design companies go in action (pininfarina or giugiaro) to improve all lincoln’s sheet metals.
in terms of sales mix, the ostensible town car replacement mkt is trending at 72 percent all-wheel-drive, followed by the mkx and navigator, both at 62 percent, the mks at 46 percent, and the mkz with 25 percent.
that level of power in a front-wheel-drive vehicle would likely result in poor driveability and control characteristics.
“we see all-wheel drive as a core technology option for the entire lincoln line-up, both today and for the future,” c.j. o’donnell, group marketing manager for lincoln, said.
but if i were in the market for a luxury vehicle i would pop for a mercedes, or a bmw.
rwd is something i believe any premium vehicle should have.
if audi can do it, why can’t lincoln?
lincoln betting big on all-wheel-drive going forward wide open throttle lincoln betting big on all-wheel-drive going forward written by: edward a. sanchez [g+]  on april 28  2011 12:30 pm traditionally, audi and subaru have received the most recognition for  having extensive availability of all-wheel-drive in their product lineups, but  iflincoln has any say in the matter, it wants to be included in the awd  fraternity too.
all-wheel-drive is also an enabling technology to allow full optimization of the 355 horsepower and 350 pound-feet of torque produced by the 3.5-liter ecoboost v-6 in the mks and mkt models.
why they don’t bring the falcon/territory here, they are perfect replacements for the mks and the mkt.
source: lincoln should volkswagen consider a v-6, all-wheel-drive jetta r? goodbye, mark lt.
i can’t pinpoint it to me most lincolns looks good, with the exception of the navigator & mkt but they just lack something visually.
awd is much more appealing than front wheel drive when it comes to luxery cars.
we really could have three great luxury brands on our hands to compete w/ the three great german brands (kind of the way we have the detroit three and the japan three) but right now the only worth beans is cadillac.
unless one counts the mkt and, to a degree, the mks, all lincolns look exactly like their ford cousins with different grilles.
good idea give australia the fun rwd falcon while we get the boring fwd taurus/mks, awd is a good idea for smaller entry luxury cars but thats all.
rwd is even more appealing!
with a mb or bimmer or even infiniti there is a look that screens out luxury & prestige.
with the discontinuation of the rear-drive-only town car, lincoln notes  that all-wheel-drive is now available in all the brand’s vehicles, from  the mkz and mks sedans, through to the mkx and mkt crossovers, as well as the  full-size, body-on-frame navigator suv.
for the platform try to work some magic on the lra setup (ala mustang)
a lot of customers want awd instead of fwd, considering the weather we have around the whole world, surely it would be more appropriate!
mkx- lighten moderately, give completely different sheet metal from edge; make the 3.7 non turbo the standard motor.
between ford’s weaker powertrain warranty (compared to gm and chrysler) and my difficulty in getting them to honor their own extended warranty, i probably would not buy a ford, though half my vehicles over the past 40 years have been ford or mercury.
you look at lincoln and you see ford’s stepsister and today that’s not meant as much of a compliment.
it would aim to be the most luxurious, like the continental was in the 60′s.
navigator- same as above plan mark 9- bigger vehicle based on the mustang platform designed to compete with the 6 series.
i think sharing platforms and engines between ford and lincoln is clever and the best way for fmc costs!
also from a style standpoint any other premium brand has lincoln stomped.
also, i like the mark idea, it fits.
when i look at mercedes e-class i see a premium car, when i look at a mks its merely a nice car.
the lincoln ls although kinda bland used to have the premium appeal to me.
home » wot » lincoln betting big on all-wheel-drive going forward written by: edward a. sanchez [g+] on april 28 2011 12:30 pm traditionally, audi and subaru have received the most recognition for having extensive availability of all-wheel-drive in their product lineups, but iflincoln has any say in the matter, it wants to be included in the awd fraternity too.
i think they need a new rwd mark ix coupe and convertible to take on the caddy cts coupe and they need a v-series like cars with big old v8s not turbo v6s.
sure it wont be a s class competitor but it will satisfy the current market for the car (fleets, and senior citizens) and may even bring in a few from the chrysler dealers ( 300c)
continental- completely new platform.
but i really want chrysler/jeep to compete with mercedes more.
using the same platform with slightly better materials and selling it at marked up prices must net them a pretty penny.
then the next mkt would be more like the explorer great news about awd in lincolns but why can’t be all–wheel drive as an option used in ford cars like the global fiesta and focus?
they should build a longer car on the mks call it the mkr awd full size car this comment was pretty helpful to me.
still the best lincoln to date imho.
also- make svt a lincoln performance division as well.
make this vehicle available with awd or rear.
btw before any ford fan boys try to bash me my family own 7 fords currently, and i have several relatives that work for ford.
today, you look at ford (the company) and you see it as the only multidivisional auto company where only one division (ford) has a ‘halo’ car and the other (lincoln) does not.
like others have said, the current lincolns leave a lot to be desired.
mkz- shrink it to the size of a 3 series, make awd standard.
i wonder if ford would make more money if they became more dedicated to lincoln?
both are rear-drive with optional awd, the 3.7l v6, 3.5l ecoboost and 5.0l v8 fit nicely under the hood
look at how long mkt’s sit on dealer lots…its a shame.
lincoln clearly needs a rwd vehicle if it’s going to be ford’s luxury division.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2011
the mkz should be based on the next generation mustang platform, with a coupe variant, the next mks should be a four door coupe like the cls, and a7, and would come in a four door convertible variant.
the mks is very nice looking, as well as the mkx
ford vows to stop neglect of lincoln refreshing or revolting: 2013 lincoln mkt 31 comments all very good posts, with very good suggestions for the most part.
all-wheel-drive is also an enabling technology to allow full optimization  of the 355 horsepower and 350 pound-feet of torque produced by the 3.5-liter  ecoboost v-6 in the mks and mkt models.
audi is the only non rwd company that has any appeal to me.
ford simply does not know what it wants to or should do with lincoln and therein lies the rub.
add di to the 6.2 coupled to a 8 speed and drop them into the navigator, bring here some of those 4.4l tdi v8′s that ford sells to land rover, no need to use the 6.7.
the mark s sounds like something i’d want to drive!!…as long as the styling gets better.
lincoln is going to be a lost cause unless they really shape up, maybe something like this, and really create vehicles that people want to drive.
they look like ac units from hades!
it’s the same situation as the converj.
rework it, same platform through in some retro styling, offer a choice of either the lincoln ecoboost or the 6.2 out of the f-series.
ford should sell an awd option for these cars on the global market.
i don’t see why lincoln shouldn’t take on audi (thus pitting cadillac against bmw).
6.2 should be messaged to make around 450hp.
hopefully the guy from caddy can help them out a bit.
i have to say i agree with lincoln.
“we see all-wheel drive as a core technology option for the entire  lincoln line-up, both today and for the future,” c.j. o’donnell,  group marketing manager for lincoln, said.
it needs its own design language to distinguish them from fords and clearly more support from ford (the company).
lighten up the mks, change the name to mark-s. engines would range from a turbo i4 bored out a little from fords own ecoboost so that it is unique and produces around 250hp.
lincoln mkz suggested price $34,645 - $36,535
mk-what? c’mon, ford, you can do better.
as much as i hate to say it lincoln currently has no vehicles that appeal to me.
ever since ford gave up on the ls, it has been a downward spiral.
so in other words, ford is unwilling to create a rwd platform that lincoln despritely needs to go up against, bmw, mercedes, caddilac etc….
s-class in size and luxury.
i agree all models must be so far away of current ford models, because lincoln could pass away in a few years ahead like mercury did.
audi relies heavily on turbo 4s and v6s with only the a8 coming w/ a v8 (and even that may change).
i certainly wouldn’t want it here in the desert where there is no snow or rain or ice.
source: lincoln categories: crossover/suv, lincoln, luxury car ,sedan related motor trend articles should volkswagen consider a v-6, all-wheel-drive jetta r? goodbye, mark lt.
possibly the 6.7 out of the superduties?
look at what v did for cadillac… another issue with lincoln is just the visual feel of the vehicle.
who would of thought ford would struggle so much to add rear wheel drive to any vehicles.
lincoln desperately needs a performance division to get noticed.
as others have posted, you look at audi and you see cars that exude quality and a certain cachet, look at subaru and you see fun-to-drive and the fact that they have beed awd rides for seemingly forever.
honestly, fix the styling and add more pizazz to the brand.
lincoln reconsiders its lineup thread of the day: is all-wheel drive
problem is, while lincoln could possibly be making ford a nice nickel and dime every here and there, dealerships suffer because of over supply.
passion is how gm found success with cadillac….and the sad thing is, lincoln had a passionate vehicle, the lincoln ls.
its almost as if its all a fluke.
chrysler’s 300 seems to sort of do an okay job
and you cant buy ford badged versions of them here in the us.
stop add trim option to fords and start making exclusive cars.
put in the bigger lincoln ecoboost motor for around 400hp, and offer a diesel option.
so the only option left is to add awd to lincoln cars which is nothing more than ford vehicles with different styling.
lincoln mkt 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
also get rid of the little four bangers and bring back the v8 it’s a luxury brand and what happened to the early 2000s when all lincolns had v8s, if they want four cylinders call them mercurys.