theoretically, the rear pipes and the muffler would also get pushed back the length of the spacers, and i figured that would put pressure on the exhaust hangers and move the pipe close to my new springs.
so i guess i gotta get one.
great job on this jeep!
thing is, the "right  tools" is no small list.
now that i've done it, this isn't  ridiculously difficult with the right tools.
this is probably my favorite picture of the bunch.
it cruiserhead1 says: 10:20 am, 03/19/12 dan, great job
in | follow inside line long-term road testsdaily updates on our fleet of cars and trucks
yes you'll go fast, but that's it.
the front end installation involved the drilling of 14  holes, the mechanized removal of two bump stops and the intentional destruction  of two brackets.
unlike the suspension link bolts, the u-bolts can be torqued to their final tightening spec right now.
dan edmunds, director of vehicle testing categories: 2012 jeep wrangler,suspension walkarounds shareshare
one of the last steps in the process is the installation of a new  rectangular landing pad for the rear bump stop.
now the driveshaft can go back together.
the jeep looks great.
edmunds | help contact editor sign
but this way isn't wrong,  it's just more time consuming.
what terrain can the jeep handle that the raptor can't?
i would pretty much have to give the wife the rest of the house in order for her to agree on it.
you've built yourself a raptor... minus a useful back seat, towing capacity, power windows, good ride, pickup bed, leather seats, rearview camera, v8, and oh yeah - a roof.report itreport it eclogite says: 06:01 am, 03/19/12 looks great.
this is moving along fast.
give me an m3 or an evo that will do 95% of that performance, and i can still get a car seat in the back.
here the trailing link has been installed with its mounting bolt also  running through the new track bar bracket.
mopar's kit comes with the special tool that helps get a retaining nut up in behind the spring seat...
there are a few more things to take care of.
switchbacks, the fact that most of these trails were not made for vehicles that had engines.
let acc take over february 29, 2012 4:00 pm 2012 bmw x3:
other than they both go off-road, the design goals are completely different.
like the front, the rear axle is located by 4 trailing links and a lateral  track bar (a.k.a.
i live where we have real winter with a capital w (although not so much this year).
if you don't want your top cut, do not leave valuables in plain sight.
if you don't get jeep's, say, "i don't get jeeps" and leave it at that.
i'll spend a lot of time crawling around underneath to get it done, but three extra inches of newfound lift make it fairly easy.
no creature comforts?
and dan, i assume you were wearing ear plugs while using the cutoff tool...
the stabilizer links are next to go.
stabilizer bar ball joints and many strut tops feature an internal hex you're supposed to hold still while you tighten the nut, and it's always a bit of a hassle.
reading this and its prequel were the best hour and thirteen minutes i've spent so far this week.
ratcheting end wrenches work, too, but you have to buy them one size at a time.
have you seen the new wranglers?
the whole point of the jeep is that it's a small, open top, solid axle 4x4.
both ends of the one on the passenger side can be bolted (loosely,) but the one of the driver side needs to hang out for a couple steps while i do something else with its rear mounting bracket.
there's still the matter of reconnecting the driveshaft, and there's a small issue.
this spring retainer holds the spring in place at the top, and the  bolt goes into an existing hole.
it's time to install the rear half of the mopar  stage 3 lift kit with fox racing shox on our 2012 jeep wrangler.
once again their 10 bolts are to be  loosened, but not removed.
i'll spend a lot of time crawling  around underneath to get it done, but three extra inches of newfound lift  make it fairly easy.
two, actually, because i'm doing all of this on the other side, too.
it doesn't apply here.
you gain a level of knowledge about your ride that you need to have with a 4x4.
a 3-inch suspension lift requires the driveshaft to hang down at a  steeper angle.
the wheels work perfectly with the jeep.
there is no logical reason why one would not lock a jeep but will lock a miata or boxster.
probably not by a whole lot.
meh february 29, 2012 3:05 pm 1991 acura nsx: marker light bulb replaced february 29, 2012 2:22 pm 2012 fiat 500: doing retro look best?
except more expensive.
report it report it fast4door says: 09:50 am, 03/19/12
work dictates the truck.
(of course they're right.)
the new ones are  longer in order to keep the rear differential pinion angle at the proper  angle with respect to the driveshaft.
clockwise from the left  we have: upper trailing link (with the lower one partially hidden below); limit  strap; abs signal wire; bump stop (with the spring partially hidden behind);  track bar and in new bracket; fox racing shock; rubber brake hose; stabilizer  bar and link.
removing the nub, they say, allows the y-pipe to telescope into the  rear pipe a little bit, and the flex in the rubber hangars would make up the  rest.
there are a few more things to take  care of.
i decided a little adjustment is in order.
meanwhile, i'm installing a u-bolt around the axle tube to hold the other end of the track bar bracket in place.
many of us could not comprehend even doing this work ourselves.
i have an f-150, but i've been a jeep guy most of my life.
this is good advice for any car, soft-top or hard roof.
the rear shocks are the component that defines how far the axle can hang,  so they need to come off right away.
the front end installation involved the drilling of 14 holes, the mechanized removal of two bump stops and the intentional destruction of two brackets.
but, i'll counter that by saying many people often need a car now - like when their other one craps out and isn't worth fixing.
two, actually, because i'm doing all of this on the other  side, too.
mopar later told me this cut wasn't necessary, that removing the nub was enough on it's own and i could do that with the y-pipe still in the car.
this one goes into another existing hole in the frame for the rear limiting strap.
so many people wanted to see something like this done and when you do it you still get grief...unreal.
for the pipe to go back this indexing nub has to come off.
you can't take your polaris atv on an off-road thru park camping trip (i.e. where your destination is different than your starting point).
but pushing the y-pipe back has knock-on effects farther downstream.
removing the nub, they say, allows the y-pipe to telescope into the rear pipe a little bit, and the flex in the rubber hangars would make up the rest.
february 29, 2012 2:14 pm advertisement tip
now, one can argue they should save up then.
and i now need to put some of those max access wrenches in my toolbox!
it compressor says: 09:55 am, 03/19/12 fast4door, i'll retract my personal jab at your logic and offer my apology.
the raptor is an entirely different type of offroader than a jeep.
mopar later told me it's also possible  to unfasten the upper end of the hose from its factory mount and
as for the jeep, you can get heated leather seats, power everything, the ride on road is not as bad as you want to pretend you know about it.
first i need to reposition the two tall jack stands and lower the jeep's  rear axle onto them with ourrotary lift until the axle's weight is  supported and the rear shocks are compressed ever so slightly.
report it report it smilez says: 10:50 am, 03/19/12 i like the versitility of a soft top, but so much more to deal with.
my exhaust hangars will hang exactly as  they did before and the pipe slip-joint will engage exactly the same  amount.
raptor is a great vehicle but totally different vehicle.
and that's why the length of my cut equaled the length of the short spacer.
as for the rest, i'll leave it alone.
but for those we must lift the jeep high up on the lift and  retire our trusty orange floor jacks.
not everyone has a garage or wants extra vehicles (which entail extra cost, insurance, registration, upkeep, etc.)
report it report it engineear says: 07:19 am, 03/19/12
things break: new or old, fancy or simple.
i do have to reshape the hard part of the brake line by hand to make sure  it clears the stabilizer bar end link, though.
once the brake brackets are loose it's time to raise the lift enough to take the weight off the coil springs and open up a gap so i can pull them out.
scott and i had this plan for a dramatic action shot, with me swinging a hammer while holding a chisel.
your girlfriend already has planty to be embarassed about.
it bolts into  existing holes.
and the magnitude of that shift  is exactly equal to... ...the length of the short spacer, which goes on the driver side where the  pipe points straight back.
ratcheting end wrenches work, too, but you have to buy them one size at a  time.
these are exhaust spacers.
how exactly is not 'practical' on the road?
about the only vehicle you leave unlocked so that no one cuts into your soft top.
so, after careful  study of the parts and the vehicle, i'm making this up as i go along.
now it's time to install the fox racing shox.
a jeep i'd want to own.
unlike the suspension link bolts, the u-bolts can be torqued to their final  tightening spec right now.
the raptor is a completely different vehicle (desert runner vs. rock crawler).
maybe they're right.
it bolts into existing holes.
you act as though you need two people to keep it straight going down the road and that it hops side to side when it goes over a pebble.
the next couple of steps apply  only to 2012 jk wranglers (and later if you're reading this in the future.)
um, yeah.report it report it compressor says: 11:06 am, 03/19/12 smilez says: i like the versitility of a soft top, but so much more to deal with.
these parts are fairly new, and their installation isn't described in the draft set of instructions i'm working from.
last: we all want a rotary lift in our garage.
yes, i'm cutting off a bit of the pipe.
and the 2dr doesn't feel like any other car, on-road or off.
the front suspension installation, part i of our story, appears one blog below this one.
here i'm splicing in an additional section of breather hose i  bought at my local auto parts store.
i'm sure it could be done without such a lift, but it wouldn't be easy.
the front suspension installation, part i of our story, appears one blog  below this one.
but first i need to put a dab of fresh thread locking compound on the bolts.
owning a whole range of them is not cheap.
i made the steering drag link  adjustment to re-center the steering wheel while you weren't looking.
so, after careful study of the parts and the vehicle, i'm making this up as i go along.
that's right; i still haven't cut or  drilled anything at the rear axle.
they're destined to be  replaced with longer ones, so they can go in the trash can alongside the  shocks.
jeep, as purchased, $22570.
this one goes into another existing hole in the  frame for the rear limiting strap.
so i can install this spring retainer.
project jeep takes a street legal jeep and makes it as off-roadey as possible, right?
after 3-4 years of ownership, they may now have the money to improve their vehicle should they want.
but for those we must lift the jeep high up on the lift and retire our trusty orange floor jacks.
now the lower trailing links can be removed and replaced.
you've cut your payload in half, cut the towing ability almost in half, and a "better ride"?
the brake line retaining brackets are disconnected, too, but no parts will be thrown away here.
plus, as you said $16k is nothign to sneeze at for most folks.
it's a purpose-built track car that happens to be street legal.
the real engineering and design challenge is to make it all work to high standards together.
i decided a little adjustment is in order.
no, the old bump stop is not in there.
it's time to install the rear half of the mopar stage 3 lift kit with fox racing shox on our 2012 jeep wrangler.
mopar later told me it's also possible to unfasten the upper end of the hose from its factory mount and reposition it with tie-wraps, but my hands wouldn't fit up in there.
on an unrelated note, all of the trailing arm bushing bolts, front and  rear, get these rectangular positioning shims where they bolt to the  axle.
the long spacer goes on the passenger side, where the exhaust pipe runs at a downward angle.
there's still the matter of reconnecting the driveshaft, and there's a  small issue.
these brake bracket extensions drop the hoses down so they'll still  work with the lifted suspension.
several days of wrenching, $2400 of lift kit, $1200 of tires plus wheels... congratulations!
it fast4door says: 05:10 am, 03/19/12
(in my  driveway after driving it home, if you must know.)
new upper trailing links go in next.
the rear differential breather hose (yellow) doesn't like it much, but i'll deal with that later on.
if you know what's going on, it's always easy to problem-solve.
but pushing the y-pipe back has  knock-on effects farther downstream.
this concludes the driveshaft detour part of our show.
meanwhile, i'm installing a u-bolt  around the axle tube to hold the other end of the track bar bracket in  place.
that blue tape contains a scratch mark for the next step.
the parking brake cables will still be long enough once the 3-inch mopar lift is installed, but only after i remove and discard the factory retaining bracket so they can hang down a bit more.
once the brake brackets are loose it's time to raise the lift enough to  take the weight off the coil springs and open up a gap
these parts are fairly new, and their installation isn't  described in the draft set of instructions i'm working from.
they're destined to be replaced with longer ones, so they can go in the trash can alongside the shocks.
the jeep posts are interesting, but it's a bizarre project.
the rear shocks are the component that defines how far the axle can hang, so they need to come off right away.
the girlfriend comment was just to point out that the vehicle isn't good at anything besides off-roading.
if you thought the rear installation looked easier than the front, you're right.
there's a simple trick that makes it easy: compress the shock fully on the floor, then quickly swing it into the lower bracket and let the internal gas pressure "grow" the shock into the upper mount.
here i'm splicing in an additional section of breather hose i bought at my local auto parts store.
one of the last steps in the process is the installation of a new rectangular landing pad for the rear bump stop.
and the magnitude of that shift is exactly equal to... ...the length of the short spacer, which goes on the driver side where the pipe points straight back.
i always hear this about wranglers but nobody brings up the same issue with any other ragtop.
once again their 10 bolts are to be loosened, but not removed.
technically speaking i bought fuel line hose, but it's the same size.
drive one, and take the top off, then you will get it.
here's another of those nutserts we saw during the front suspension installation.
this spring retainer holds the spring in place at the top, and the bolt goes into an existing hole.
there are very few people who would be in the market for both of these vehicles.
and my date wouldn't be embarrassed to be seen in the comfortable pickup.
the reason people on this blog have responded the way they have is because your first post was mostly irrelevant and took an attacking tone on what is a very interesting blog post.
thing is, the "right tools" is no small list.
this is only an issue with 2012 wranglers like ours, the ones with the new  pentastar v6 engine.
by dan edmunds | march 18, 2012 break time is over.
in the process it's costing $27k.
notice how the y-pipe's cross tube runs just ahead of the frame cross member.
the wrangler is a lot cheaper than the raptor.
the only adjustment needed is a small change in the length of the drag link  to re-center the steering wheel, and that's a cosmetic adjustment that can  be eyeballed.
it's like an ariel atom.
the new ones are longer in order to keep the rear differential pinion angle at the proper angle with respect to the driveshaft.
for 27 grand, i could get a polaris side by side atv, a trailer to tow it, and a cheap, comfortable pickup to get it to the trailhead.
i have one of the best and most luxurious vehicles i've owned.
the lower end of the spring drops easily onto its seat.
and you just payed a base price of 42k to diminsh everything that makes a truck a truck.
it's hard to tell, but the one on the left is a  little longer.
things are moving along quickly now.
all of the trailing arm and track bar bushings get tightened and torqued  once the jeep is back down on its tires.
if you are any kind of gearhead, you will spend $20k on any vehicle you buy.
mopar's kit comes with the special tool that helps get a  retaining nut up in behind the spring seat... ...
duck87 says: 11:40 am, 03/19/12 @fast4door: i'm not sure what you're getting at, and i'm having trouble following your thought process.
here the trailing link has been installed with its mounting bolt also running through the new track bar bracket.
the only adjustment needed is a small change in the length of the drag link to re-center the steering wheel, and that's a cosmetic adjustment that can be eyeballed.
theoretically, the rear pipes and the  muffler would also get pushed back the length of the spacers, and i  figured that would put pressure on the exhaust hangers and move the pipe  close to my new springs.
now it's time to re-mount the left end of the track bar in the new bracket.
keep your eye on the urethane bump  stop because it's about to disappear.
the max  axxess socket set is a lot less expensive, and it works great as a  regular ratchet, a deep socket alternative, as well as this particular  situation.
and our rotary lift certainly helped.
notice how the y-pipe's cross tube runs just ahead of the frame cross  member.
what you end up with is a vehicle that is purpose-built, has no creature comforts, and on-road it rides like a jeep.
it's already time for the new longer  stabilizer bar links to go on.
they bolt to the forward legs of the central y-pipe in order to push it back and allow the driveshaft to clear.
it smilez says: 08:33 am, 03/19/12 fast4door - i've typed my rant to your 'logic', erased it, and will ask you this: soooo, you're justifying the purchase of a raptor by downplaying the jeep?
anywaym, with the logic you displayed you should stick with your comfortable truck.
because of this angle, only a portion of its length  contributes to a shift to the rear.
the parking brake cables will still be long enough once the 3-inch  mopar lift is installed, but only after i remove and discard the factory  retaining bracket so they can hang down a bit more.
they bolt to the forward legs of the central y-pipe in order to push it  back and allow the driveshaft to clear.
jmo fast4door says: 10:34 am, 03/19/12
and that's why the length of my cut equaled the  length of the short spacer.
the rubber spring cushion seen on the uppermost coil will be reused, but the springs are now boat anchors.
there's not near as much metal manipulation back here.
but here it's hitting the exhaust system.
i've bragged on the craftsman max axxes external drive socket set before as  a good deep socket alternative, but this is brilliant.
all of the trailing arm and track bar bushings get tightened and torqued once the jeep is back down on its tires.
they may end up with something that cost $27k, but many people cannot pay that all upfront.
send it to tips@edmunds.com awards vehicles past vehicles browse archivesmarch 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006
here's another of those nutserts we saw during the front  suspension installation.
right?report itreport
it compressor says: 08:49 am, 03/19/12 fast4door, 1.
now i can tighten the lower limit strap bolt.
floaty does not mean better.
for people that scoff at that; a) i'm not saying it will rival an a8, b) try sitting in one of these, they're amazing.
another thing we agree on: the raptor and project jeep can do amazing things.
but, my 4 points still stand and i'll ad a fifth.
while he went for another lens i made a gentle  exploratory tap ... and it came right off.
reposition it with tie-wraps, but my hands wouldn't fit up in there.
2012 jeep wrangler: installing a mopar stage 3 lift kit with fox racing  shox, rear by dan edmunds | march 18, 2012 comments (20)
a 3-inch suspension lift requires the driveshaft to hang down at a steeper angle.
these brake bracket extensions drop the hoses down so they'll still work with the lifted suspension.
my take on the silly raptor argument?
and the new wrangler with the pentastar is pretty capable both on and off-road.
i'm sure it  could be done without such a lift, but it wouldn't be easy.
incidentally, the hole i  drilled made it necessary to remove one of two clips (orange) holding the abs  wire in place.
this new bracket moves the left pointing point of the track bar up three  inches so it will run at the same angle (nearly flat) after the three inch lift  is installed.
it fast4door says: 09:24 am, 03/19/12 time out time out time out.
okay, first one thing we all agree on: dan is the bomb.
report itreport it alex4515 says: 06:30 am, 03/19/12 @fast4door - what's the approximate cost difference between the two?report itreport it fast4door says: 06:50 am, 03/19/12 raptor msrp $42725.
both ends of the one on the passenger side can be bolted (loosely,) but the  one of the driver side needs to hang out for a couple steps while i do  something else with its rear mounting bracket.
incidentally, the hole i drilled made it necessary to remove one of two clips (orange) holding the abs wire in place.
the delta is $15,750, but you still end up with a road-unworthy dune buggy with no roof.
i made the steering drag link adjustment to re-center the steering wheel while you weren't looking.
this concludes the driveshaft detour part of our show.
much like a dune buggy.
this  end is a cake walk in comparison.
one of its mounting holes (yellow) will share the bolt used to mount the  link we saw in the last photo.
silicone spray helps it snap into place.
a new longer microcellular urethane bump stop will snap into  the original bracket; the cup's job is to keep it lined up  vertically.
it awbmw6spd1 says: 07:41 am, 03/19/12 awesome job.
lift kit: $2400 6 hours of dealer labor if they installed lift kit: $600 tires: $1166 wheels: couldn't find the price, let's assume $50 each = $200 total: almost $27000.
i really like the wheels and tires you chose.
2007-2011 jks with the older engine don't have the same exhaust routing and there's no interference.
go site map | rss feeds | help | advertise with us | contact us | inside line mobile | about inside line © edmunds inc. | privacy statement | visitor agreement | membership agreement | jobs at edmunds | about edmunds © edmunds inc.
keep it up...so to speak.
the editors got a breaking news tip for the inside line editors?
but this way isn't wrong, it's just more time consuming.
but first i need to put a dab of  fresh thread locking compound on the bolts.
(in my driveway after driving it home, if you must know.)
that's the enjoyment of it.
the larger point is it's easy to skew to one aspect of performance when you ignore everything else.
there's a simple trick that  makes it easy: compress the shock fully on the floor, then quickly swing  it into the lower bracket and let the internal gas pressure  "grow" the shock into the upper mount.
i'm not getting personal, it's just that your logic is seriously flawed, you have blinders on about your raptor (which is a great truck) and don't know as much about the jeep as you think.
the extra length also keeps the wheelbase  from shrinking.
" you mean like a lift kit made by mopar, jeep's parts division?report it report it add a comment advertisement latest poll has reading the long-term road test blog helped in your car purchasing decisions?yes view results recent posts 2012 mazda 3: acceptable use of plastic february 29, 2012 5:42 pm 2012
rock-crawling?report itreport
mopar says these lock the links into just the right position so no wheel alignment is necessary after the kit is installed.
"the real engineering and design challenge is to make it all work to high standards together.
the rubber spring cushion seen on the uppermost coil will be reused, but  the springs are now boat anchors.
if you thought the rear installation looked easier than the front,  you're right.
the sole exception is the bolt on the left-hand end of the track bar (yellow.)
that's right, the rear limit strap needs a hole to connect to, so i've  got to make one.
first i need to reposition the two tall jack stands and lower the jeep's rear axle onto them with ourrotary lift until the axle's weight is supported and the rear shocks are compressed ever so slightly.
it gets taken out so the track bar can hang out of the way for the next few steps.
stabilizer bar ball  joints and many strut tops feature an internal hex you're supposed to hold  still while you tighten the nut, and it's always a bit of a hassle.
i'd hate to try that job in my (rotary lift-free) garage, that would be a pain.
the raptor is a purpose built vehicle.
they snap in place over the old bump stop retaining bracket.
many people just like wranglers.
the end result is a vehicle that's not practical on road.
where are you going to store your polaris atv and trailer?
the long spacer goes on the passenger side, where the exhaust pipe runs at  a downward angle.
now that i've done it, this isn't ridiculously difficult with the right tools.
i've bragged on the craftsman max axxes external drive socket set before as a good deep socket alternative, but this is brilliant.
this new bracket moves the left pointing point of the track bar up three inches so it will run at the same angle (nearly flat) after the three inch lift is installed.
if you do any off roading, you should know that most technical trails are not made for full-size trucks.
while he went for another lens i made a gentle exploratory tap ... and it came right off.
this is only an issue with 2012 wranglers like ours, the ones with the new pentastar v6 engine.
the dimension i chose corresponds to the length of the shorter of the two spacers -- the reason for that will become clear in a moment.
audi a8l: stuck in traffic?
dan edmunds, director of vehicle testing categories: 2012 jeep wrangler,suspension walkaroundsshareshare 20 comments add a comment » speeder31 says: 11:14 pm, 03/18/12 absolutely incredible job.
they had horsepower, but like 4-6.
i would never choose a softtop.
i removed it before installing these new cups.
it's close, but there's still a good half inch of daylight.
the next couple of steps apply only to 2012 jk wranglers (and later if you're reading this in the future.)
thanks for the itneresting read.
this information was extracted from www.insideline.com and is subject to the terms of the visitor agreement at www.edmunds.com/help/about/visitoragreement.html.
it's already time for the new longer stabilizer bar links to go on.
the sole exception is the bolt on the left-hand end of the track bar  (yellow.)
a new longer microcellular urethane bump stop will snap into the original bracket; the cup's job is to keep it lined up vertically.
it smilez says: 09:51 am, 03/19/12
the extra length also keeps the wheelbase from shrinking.
i do have to reshape the hard part of the brake line by hand to make sure it clears the stabilizer bar end link, though.
many people can afford, and want, a base $21k wrangler.
you can bet what's coming next.
keep your eye on the urethane bump stop because it's about to disappear.
and personally, i'd rather have a soft top cut than a widow broken, or worse yet, body damage due to an over jealous theif with a punch and screwdriver.
i haven't cracked open any brake lines, so  they'll be no brake bleeding later.
wrenching blood is wrenching blood.
most buyers would either want a truck or a wrangler.
why expend so much time and money on a vehicle to do off-roading while there are other alternatives that offer better value?
scott and i had this plan for a dramatic action shot, with me swinging a  hammer while holding a chisel.
right after i get the new house with the three car garage....
that's right; i still haven't cut or drilled anything at the rear axle.
it gets taken out so the track bar can hang out of the way  for the next few steps.
one of its mounting holes (yellow) will share the bolt used to mount the link we saw in the last photo.
would it get worse with the lift kit?
i haven't cracked open any brake lines, so they'll be no brake bleeding later.
my exhaust hangars will hang exactly as they did before and the pipe slip-joint will engage exactly the same amount.
it seems as though you've never even been in one.
because of this angle, only a portion of its length contributes to a shift to the rear.
raptor, jeep, mustang, audi, vw, bmw, corvette... doesn't matter.
it rides pretty nice and this set-up will make it better.
mopar says these lock the links into just the right position so  no wheel alignment is necessary after the kit is installed.
________________________________ smilez, all soft-top convertibles can easily be cut open.
so i can pull them out.
but it still takes persistence to finally snap it home.
it's already time to install the rear springs.
then the only option is a hardtop which i would never remove.
it's close, but there's still a good half inch of daylight.
report it report it texases says: 10:06 am, 03/19/12 dan, great couple of posts.
the dimension i chose corresponds  to the length of the shorter of the two spacers -- the reason for that will  become clear in a moment.
it runreb211 says: 09:33 am, 03/19/12 @fast4door i think the point is that, while the raptor and the jeep have similar off-road abilities, they are still two distinct vehicles with different kinds of buyers.
the rear differential breather hose (yellow) doesn't like it much, but i'll  deal with that later on.
it's hard to tell, but the one on the left is a little longer.
that's right, the rear limit strap needs a hole to connect to, so i've got to make one.
it can easily go places the raptor can't, and you can experience the world in a totally different way.
on an unrelated note, all of the trailing arm bushing bolts, front and rear, get these rectangular positioning shims where they bolt to the axle.
the max axxess socket set is a lot less expensive, and it works great as a regular ratchet, a deep socket alternative, as well as this particular situation.
there's no roof, it costs a fortune, it's ugly etc.
the brake line retaining brackets are disconnected, too, but no parts  will be thrown away here.
this end is a cake walk in comparison.
clockwise from the left we have: upper trailing link (with the lower one partially hidden below); limit strap; abs signal wire; bump stop (with the spring partially hidden behind); track bar and in new bracket; fox racing shock; rubber brake hose; stabilizer bar and link.
like the front, the rear axle is located by 4 trailing links and a lateral track bar (a.k.a.
2007-2011 jks with the older engine don't have the same  exhaust routing and there's no interference.
technically speaking i bought fuel  line hose, but it's the same size.
the raptor is way too wide for most trails.
i removed it before installing these  new cups.
mopar later told me this cut wasn't necessary, that removing the nub  was enough on it's own and i could do that with the y-pipe still in the  car.