there’s a lot of offroading going on where i live so it’d have to be an suv.
nice choice except for the color choice, and i would also of added a 6 speed manual since your adding a crate motor anyway might as well have a little fun cost no object?
there is no correct answer to this question.
wide open throttle thread of the day:
practical for you====laughable horseshit for myself.
mercedes benz g55 amg.
the car that i would pick if i had to have only one car for the rest of my life would be the audi rs6 avant.
i think i’d go with the range rover sport, like this one: http://www.landrover.com/imagery/global/nameplate/photos_and_video/exterior/range_rover_sport/2559351/05-all_pv_l320_ext_front_three_quarter_view-850×425 the ford gt or a 2013 shelby gt500 has my vote!
plus the 5er looks sexy!
there’s one for sale right now on ebay motors, go check it out.
final answer= cts v sedan.
both would have to be red of course!
enough about us though, have at it in the comments below.
the car can be new or old, it doesn’t matter; keep in mind it will  be your only car, for the rest of your life and maintaining something like a  vintage jaguar e-type might be troublesome.
vw jetta sportwagen tdi.
one of the few hyperexotics.
if i’m living in a cold climate (four wheal drive needed) then i’d have to go with porsche cyanne turbo.
gmc sierra denalli, i do a lot of hunting and fishing, and it is a decently fast truck supercharged range rover, fast, fun and big.
it can fit 6 people and still carry what is needed.
i rode in the 6.1 at the srt track expierence and was nothing but impressed and can only imagine the new 6.4 is even better.
so that i can personalize it to my own.
and it’ll hit 163…while still looking great 25 years from now!
it’s gorgeous, turns heads everywhere, and it has a “cool” factor that only gets better with time.
the 505 hp race track edition one with all the sports goodies and luxurious goodies and carry myself and him, and maybe a friend in ease.
figure kids are too big for back seat of a sedan then its time for them to move out…lol either the caddy wagon, v version of course, or the jeep srt8.
i’d take ford mustang with 5.0l v8, neither svo nor shelby.
the fun of a convertible, the torque to tow whatever i want, the ability to go anywhere, and room for the family.
money no object… ford gt.
a 1958 black impala with white roof and 60k original miles.
a hummer h1 alpha open top.
i’d take an m5 over an m3 sedan 7 days a week.
if you had to choose just one car, what  would it be?
v60 plug in hybrid over 300 hp and 480 lb-ft of torque to go along with my 129 mpg should do me quite well… plus, no one said i couldn’t modify the hell out of it!!!
so im hoping to see future focuses get an overall avg of 40 or better with a stock 200hp engine – will love it even more ford black 1986 lamborghini countach qv,totally impractical,totally outrageous,still the definitive supercar chevrolet equinox.
it’s the brabus version of the g-wagen.
however, i can’t quite afford one of those, so a golf tdi or gti would most likely do the trick.
haha, i like awd fast cars too
m5 touring (wagon) cts-v & e63 amg both in wagon form.
one car for the rest of my life 1959 rambler 4 door,lay back seats,has a lot of room.
it has the style the speed, the handling, and i can use it for everything.
if i’m living in a warm climate (no snow)
one that has been driven daily since new?
with gray rocker panels awesome ford wheels and a moonroof/sunroof
my choice would be an infiniti fx 50s, white with a black interior.
covered-headlights ferrari 250 gt tour de france: a thing of beauty is a joy forever.
before we turn things over to you, a couple things to keep in mind –  this will be theonly car you will ever have for the rest of your life.
say what you want, it has never failed me or prevented me from getting to where i have to go.
well, assuming i hit the mega millions or something, the car i would have in my driveway would be the new panamera gts.
cts-v black on black wagon and since it will be for the rest of my life
[g+] on february 23 2012 5:00 pm earlier this week we played desert island in our thread of the day, and asked you to pick five cars – three cars for you, one for your significant other, and one for your teenager – that you’d want to be trapped on a desert island for all of eternity with.
hey 40rouge, not everyone is a bob villa wannabe, ok?
nothing like a hemi!!!
that’s realistically other wise
mclaren f1 lm a 3500 silverado with diesel.
toyota supra twin turbo ::.
don’t need to say much more than that
as an added bonus i won’t have to worry about the body disintegrating on the hummer!
besides, who wants to go through life with a car that every time the proper rr pulls up next to you your embarrassed?
maserati granturismo sport.
okay, it wouldn’t be practical, but what a pretty car.
i have yet to find a german car that can provide more usability than the rs6 avant.
it’s fun, fast, and practical.
with that in mind initial responses from the staff include thecadillac cts-v wagon, audi rs4 avant, and porsche panamera turbo s – all practical, yet fun.
1st choice; 997 911 turbo s- before they mutilated the steering.
1947 chevy pickup, 1935 coffin nosed cord ,army jeep old easy to work on.2007 subaru legcy 5 door,and finley 1979 toyota pickup.
i couldn’t go the rest of my life without an suv or a sports car so i say: 1.
you’re left with shade tree engineering to make something work, either that, or you just don’t drive after dark.
moving on, my choice was a panamera turbo s.
black audi quattro s1 e2.
s65 amg lexus lx5700, not fun to drive, but do everything.
any old or new bentley would do in a pinch!
the 2012 dodge charger sxt awd 8-speed auto in black with the 20″ wheels no doubt a 2012 ford expedition el green (yes they offer green for 2012)
i’ll take a ford raptor.
brabus is a factory, so i abide by the rules.
how many of us are driving a car from the 80s at this point?
so if you squint it’s kind of a mini van.
an m3 isn’t practical.
the ferarri ff is another candidate.
if offroad wasn’t in question, then it’s a tie between a 911 and an m3.
the newest generation wrx sti hatch.
i wonder why… even if you try to maintain a car meticulously, the manufacturer will step in and purposely stop making parts to dash all hopes to keeping the thing in good running condition: exhibit a: the 97-98 lincoln mark viii.
but a cts-v sedan is very, very close.
panamera turbo s new cts-v sedan.
if they make scuff marks, they’ll have to live in the cupboard under the stairs without food for a week!
it’s a tough choice between the mb e63 wagon or the jeep grand cherokee srt8!
aston martin dbs of mclaren mp4-12c or not of i would desire a rolls royce phantom.
bentley mulsane all the way, big luxurious, and fast.
of course i would have to do some extensive customization to make the interior a little more comfortable and roomy, as well as converting it to bio-diesel, and maybe adding four wheel steering (i love my current suburban and the quadrasteer is the reason i won’t give it up).
awd for crappy weather, convertible for good weather.
gas is going to 5 bucks a gallon
with a ls1 5.7l create engine , instead of the 5.3l.
911 turbo s a 2011 white/gold two tone chevy silverado 1500, crew cab,4wd.
i’ll hire a limo anytime i need to carry people or luggage..or have my wife drive.
plus if the apocalypse comes i know it will still continue running.
oh i could live with that cts-v wagon but would prefer the cts-v coupe.
well, practically speaking, it’s only going to be me and my significant other, with no chances of kids.
how’s that for practicality?
range rover evoque coupe dynamic in that light green color w/ a black roof eww leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2012 cadillac cts-v suggested price $63,215
can’t buy the retrofit headlight kits that ford used to offer to install conventional halogen bulbs, they have been discontinued for 5 years now.
didn’t expect so many reasonable answers.
you can’t put a 4×8 sheet of plywood in the back of a real range rover, much less a sport!
asfrisky_dingo said, “if you pick a veyron now, and five  years down the road have a family, you’re walking everywhere, or cramming  them in the luggage compartment.”
that thing’s a beast!
written by: christian seabaugh [g+]  on february  23 2012 5:00 pm earlier this week we played desert island in our thread of the day, and  asked you to pick five cars – three cars for you, one for your  significant other, and one for your teenager – that you’d want to  be trapped on a desert island for all of eternity with.
it’ll go anywhere, tow anything, carry anybody, while decimating any race next to it.
if i had endless resources, than it would have to be the ferrari ff, blood red with camel interior.
although, a 1974 de tomaso pantera-l would be nice.
in dash touch screen navigation all options……… awesome !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
my life would be that car, i’d make love to it, kiss it daily, buy it flowers, anniversery gifts each year, my wife would probably leave me for spending too much time with my other girl (gtr), etc.. i’ve been in love with skylines since i was a kid, i’ve waited for years for them to be released stateside, and now that they finally are, i’d literally give away a kidney for one..
perfect size, shape, entertaining and decent mileage.
sorry if my comment sounds like “fanboy”.
golf tdi ford excursion with 7.3 diesel lancia delta integrale evoluzione ii.
ooooh, those are tasty.
lol all you guys that said sports cars, good luck when holidays season comes around…lol only a chick would be concerned about having enough room for holiday gifts and mall runs.
but if you have a wife and 3 kids a gtr won’t work.
the kiddos will be required to take off their shoes and climb in the back seat very carefully.
thread of the day: choose one car from each decade for your own garage thread of the day: if you were a billionaire, what would you drive?
i thought everyone would be answering cts-v, e63 amg or m5 wagon.
the g-wagen is bulletproof already, brabus makes it better.
that said i was thinking a suburban ltz would do the trick, but then i thought about something i’ve always wanted.
nothing says elegance like an american made land yacht.
the ones with kids all drive suburbans or euro wagons.
can’t buy a new head light bulb, they’re discontinued now almost 7 years.
not to mention that i’d take it with hard top, not convertible… too girly for me.
ferrari 250 gto, but i’d settle for a 250 gt swb.
i test drove a 2011 cts v sedan and was very impressed.
ferrari 458 spyder, and if some members of my future family want to have more than two seats, they are more than wellcome to buy someting bigger and cheaper…:) a 1957 cadillac coupe deville.
the cts-v because it is like a station waggon dragster.
easy my chevy k1500 ext-cab small block v8.
to me, this is one of those apocalypse situation questions where you have to think what would be the best car given any possible situation.
1970 plymouth superbird with the hemi 426 in petty blue!!!
couldnt agree more,, it is very rare to see a cts v wagon in th street, but what a magnificent car, i would take it automatic, because is faster.
i can’t think of any gay guy i’ve ever met who drives a camry.
you guys must be chicks!!
but i never see gay guys driving them.
i’ll drive it and only it for ever and ever with a kool-aid smile on my face.
the only one that does this well with a decent amount of performance is the golf r.
for me… 2013 nissan gt-r black series!!!
twin turbo 2.8 liter pushing 500 hp.
1975 ford f-350 crew cab, 460 c-6 with air conditioning blue and white two tone paint job a 2003 mercury marauder (and there’s no way a vehicle i own isn’t getting modified for increased performance and fuel efficiency some way or another).
some like myself live just fine and dandy with a two seater that hauls nothing but ass.
a cts-v wagon with a 6 speed!
plus you can never get bored adding stuff, lifts, headers, tires, bull bar, heck you could turbo or supercharger it for all i care, but the point is the list is endless
since these only get about 14 miles to the gallon.
xd i once knew a young lady who, if you looked at her objectively, was not very attractive, yet she exuded a sensual aura that made every male in any room she entered take notice.
for today’s thread of the day, frisky_dingo asks the question, “if you had to choose justone vehicle to own for the rest of your life, to be used for every purpose and driving need, what would it be?”
the question was one car for every driving purpose.
nice, i would take it if it was a 2dr model.
what the funk is autobiography trim on a range rover??
for every driving purpose, a sports car works great for me.
a smart for two would do a perfect job btn me and the goob.
plus if it isn’t really windy out i can get 22 mpg on a 16 year old truck.
jeep wrangler cod/mw3.
…while decimating any car to race next to it** hmm..
that’s a practical answer to the question at hand.
aston martin rapide people can’t be serious when answering with an exotic sports car.
mt classic home » wot » thread of the day:
programmed obsolescence.
indeed range rover what i have now, a 2006 nismo equipped 350z, i’d love to go small like a range rover evoque, but i need more room for the kids, dogs and towing capacity.
2012 dodge charger srt8 i already own it.
i would have to go with a cts wagon as first choice with mustang gt as second choice.
here are the rules: it has to be a factory-offered production vehicle, so concepts,  prototypes, and modified vehicles (likefrisky_dingo’s “g37 with a gt-r driveline” example) don’t count.
but i don’t have the garage space.
aston martin rapide if i can pay for the insurance and gas.
raw power and beauty.
for today’s thread of the day, frisky_dingo asks the  question, “if you had to choose justone vehicle to own for the  rest of your life, to be used for every purpose and driving need, what would it  be?”
the m5 cant cut it being only rwd and the amg e-class wagon is for men who have a burning desire to be a woman at heart!
categories: audi, cadillac, porsche, thread  of the day related motor trend articles thread of the day: 2011 bmw 5 series, mercedes e-class, or audi a6 —  choose one thread of the day: what cheap coupe would you choose?
i mean, it’s got everything.
thread of the day: 2011 bmw 5 series, mercedes e-class, or audi a6 — choose one thread of the day: what cheap coupe would you choose?
money no object..hopefully that would include upkeep and gas…then i would want to have a 76 cadillac eldorado biarritz ragtop… ct-v wagon!
no breakdown worries?
i also wouldn’t mind a dodge challenger srt8 for my weekend driver.
mercedes e63 wagon hands down, it’s fast, it’s comfortable on long trips because it’s a big mercedes, handles well, and it’s a wagon that seats 7
and do not have to worry about replacing transmissions with the allison
while the bmw m3 is funnier and faster it has a tiny trunk and back seat.
fast, gorgeous, luxurious, and has four doors so its still practical a new 2013 bmw m6.
sporty, roomy and endlessly classic looks.
what does this have to do with my ultimate car choice?
here are the rules: before we turn things over to you, a couple things to keep in mind – this will be theonly car you will ever have for the rest of your life.
2nd choice; nissan gt-r (r35) 3rd choice; db9/s figuring out a practical sports car wasn’t as hard as i thought it would be.
+1…im with ya bro-ham.
are u kidding 2013 srt viper!!!
1st option was a brabus g55… 2nd is a koenigsegg agera r, the best looking and most exciting car to date.
with that being said, it would have to be a jaguar xj-r, i believe.
no automobile has even been manufactured to last decades.
so you could truly enjoy it your entire life, it has probably one of the most timeless looks you could possibly imagine and its is an absolute joy to drive.
and if it’s snow you’re concerned about then move to where it isn’t so crappy in the winter and buy a car that’s actually fun to drive, and not be stucck with a big clumsy truck that’s trying too hard to make it’s owner look macho.
if it had to be for the rest of my life keep improving on it.
mercedes cl65 amg or e63 amg wagon….
2013 nissan gt-r new cadillac ats (ats-v if cadillac wants money from people like me )
since it’s late and i can’t make up my mind.
and there we all go suggesting cars that get crap for mileage… which is an imminently practical consideration, no?
if you had to choose just one car, what would it be?
seriously all u need is a raptor 4 door fast, fun, looks awesome, fits a ton of stuff!!!
and for the record, i’m guessing the cts-v will be the most popular answer.
best all arounder wrx 5 door runners up golf r 5 door audi a3 diesel awd chrysler 300c awd
probably a subaru wrx 5 door.
i can drive my family to the mall and go out on the track.
blue 1969 yenko camaro 911 turbo s….ill have short kids i hope.
awd beast i love the new 2013 ford escape with all new intelligent access push button start and hands free liftgate.
the brabus g v12 s biturbo would be my pick.
the question is which car you yourself would want most.
cadillac cts-v sedan.
and has room for a family!
yo goob where are you at?
1969 mustang convertible with the 351 windsor, four on the floor.
it has room, i can do whatever i want with it, less chance of getting stuck, and it may just run forever.
(yeah, lets load up some home improvement supplies in an aventador.
probably with the candyapple red, or presidential blue paint, two timeless colors as well.
porsche 911 (991) carrera s is-f mercedes e-class coupe.
cts-v wagon gets the honorable mention.
and in 60 years it will still look like something that just rolled off the production line what about tuned cars?
inluding repair and maintenance costs?
i recently purchased a 2012 focus sel.
i’d get the automatic mybach exellero with that i can buy all the cars i want i would have to go with the lexus is-f 400+ rhp, and a very beautiful car.
….or just give me a camaro zl1 …caddy xts ( -v if available) black diamond edition.
alternatively i would like a range rover sport because it can tow and go off road like a big suv but is also sporty like an m5.
a ram 2500 larime longhorn crew cab, the diesle version cause it will last forever range rover.
better all-around type of car.
is that even a questions?
would consider wagon but won’t need it when kids get older.
not even a camry solara.
my wife said a porsche cayenne turbo s!!!
gt-r with prices rising at the pump, and me on the highway all the time id pick.
matte black lamborghini aventador.
my friend the panamera turbo has a bone to pick with your rs6….
eh, i’ll take the e63 wagon.
there’s a ’66 hardtop for sale near me
its very suburban household.
i would probly choose a bently gt, or a aston martin rapide, or a porsche panamera.
hey, they picked my topic for ‘thread of the day’.
i hear it’s a blitzkrieg of speed.
good for any stage of the rest of your life.
space inside for people and stuff and extremely luxurious.
it doesn’t handle like a sport car, and i’ve owned faster vehicles, but it’s one of the most comfortable cruisers i’ve ever driven.
actually, since this is reality, i would go with my weekend cruiser.
if u need a car for more than 2 people…..(as a ford guy i can’t believe i’m saying this) the cadilac cts ur not a ford guy if u want a caddy can i get a whoa raptor!!
it has plenty of room in the rear seats for a family, has a decent to large trunk for anything you might need to transport, its a convertible
cadillac cts-v wagon.
looks good, sounds awesome, goes fast, has plenty of passenger and cargo room, can go almost anywhere to do anything, and did i mention the sound?
i would drive my ford f150 fx4 supercrew-ecoboost amen bentley continental gtc.
still looks awesome years after it when out of production money an object….
if i was able to do minor modifications, corvette zr1, i’d put a towing rig on it, that car wouldn’t have trouble on power, just need to strengthen the frame and suspension.
the m3 kills the m5, have you heard of the # 200 fuse, is a disgrace to bmw m’s
but, i would suffer… ha ha.
asfrisky_dingo said, “if you pick a veyron now, and five years down the road have a family, you’re walking everywhere, or cramming them in the luggage compartment.”
it’s got the size, engine, and awesome interior.
plus what cant a m3 not do than an m5 cant, the m5 is to heavy while the m3 is just perfect did you not see the word ‘practical’?
what more could i want?
i would pick some supercar im not saying it is not a reliable engine, but it has only been out a few years, we do not know what it will do once it starts to age lol u guys nailed it, the cts-v wagon, mine is in red though rolls-royce phantom drophead coupe bentley continental gt camry!
enough about us though, have  at it in the comments below.
fast, gorgeous, convertible with power top, four seats (not that the back are big enough to fit anything but children), good size trunk, excellent looks, and german reliablity (which some would debate, but in my experience with bmw products, excellent) and not horrendous gas milage.
hate to see $5 plus a gallon gasoline.
i change my answer to a 2009 honda s2000.
written by: christian seabaugh
i think so… how is that gay?
fun to drive, but competent enough to get me through any blizzard.
the shift paddles need to be fix before buying i buy one lol, and the magnetic ride just kills it, its also roomy and very good looking, the regular cts v just looks as if it was cut with an axe while the wagon has some good style and performence
jeep wrangler unlimited rubicon, go anywhere, do anything!!
panamera turbo s and the cts-v (coupe and wagon) are both on my list coincidentally.
sporty looks and performance, awd for bad weather, seats 4, 5 in a pinch, and does have some carrying ability, at least for the things i would be hauling.
super power, practicality and driving dynamics.
both will shock an untrained eye and can turn rubber into smoke with ease aston martin rapide.
and since it has the 1 of the 100 million small blocks produced in the past half century, i don’t think parts are going to be hard to come by.
then again it only has 22,000 miles on it.
the other thing is it is basic, yes it does have some electronically controlled parts but it is nowhere near the amount that is on the cars today, plus if the electrical system ever wears out (i doubt it) just bolt up a carbureted small block and convert the fuel delivery.
plus, i could live with that turbo-5 every day of the week land rover 110 series iii diesel, post 1982.
i’ll stick with my 2007 nissan xterra off road.
thread of the day: what is gm’s very best vehicle?
cadillac coupe deville.
good pick — they were pretty cars.
6.2l v8 has proven to be a solid engine along with the super duty rear diff and axles with the weigh of an f150 and the 600% stronger suspension will last for ever!!!!
in that case, with maintenance costs not considered, i would go with a range rover sport in autobiography trim.
saw one the other night in the movie “tony rome” with frank sinatra.
this is for me and the goobstar yo listen, we love the hood.
thread of the day: choose one car from each decade for your own garage thread of the day: if you were a billionaire, what would you drive? 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
srt8 jeep grand cherokee.
lmao that’s really gonna impress all the f150-driving contractors over at lowe’s.
without a doubt a 2012 mercedes-benz s65 amg designo mystic white edition.
wait… “what cant a m3 not do than an m5 cant” lolwut the car in the picture!
i can rup in it with my buddies and if gas gets expensive, the goob can let me borrow his smart for two skyline r34 v spec.
with that in mind initial responses  from the staff include thecadillac cts-v wagon, audi rs4 avant, and porsche  panamera turbo s – all practical, yet fun.
going work to home in a mustang is so cool.
big, beautiful, comfortable, and literally big enough to live in! aston martin v-12 vantage in black please new 2012 bmw 328i sedan.
to me, just one car means it needs to do just about everything i want it to – decent mileage, fun to drive, hauls stuff and moves people when needed and fits on crowded intercity streets.
i prefer more of a roomy 5 seater like the new audi s6.
i think this will do it, but with a lot of tools !!!!
get me on the waiting list for the lambo aventador.
the car i’ve enjoyed driving more than any other i’ve owned on a day to day basis, is my 1965 thunderbird convertible.
i like awd fast cars!!!
all the car you could possibly ever need actually nvm on the gt-r. i just imagined spending every day in a nissan and it was a miserable thought.
today’s thread of the day is a play on that theme.
jeep grand cherokee srt8
1955 studebaker president speedster.
i’ll take the bus 6 days a week just so i can drive my aston martin on saturdays around the island on which i live…maui.
i’d have to say, my all time favorite.. 2013 nissan gtr (specv or some other special version preferably), black on black..
it’d get pretty bad gas mileage, but it can outrun most everything out on the roads and it can go off-roading too!
can’t believe only 1 person said ford raptor!!!
i’ll be pulling those idiots that’s said golf’s or jags out my way!!
a smart for two for the goobstar and me: i changed my mind..a caprice classic for ever.
im thinkn one of the bmw m550d awd wagons.
the one i have now, 2004 pilot, smooth, comfortable easygoing transportation from point a to point b and it does everything i could ask of it without complaint, even at 8 years of age.
lots of nice choices so far, too.
thread of the day: more straight-line speed or better handling?
i’d pick the new cayenne turbo.
991 porsche 911 turbo s….gotta love the porsches!