did you have a bad experience with it?
just confirming the fact that you're a total dumbass.
in the recently created class, themercedes-benz cls-class is now joined by the audi a7, bmw 640i gran coupe, and jaguar xf if you discount the more affordable volkswagen cc and hyundai sonata.
bd hi mr. lexus, i wasn’t surprised you gave the audi “throwaway thirds.”
they are in a much better economic and fiscal state then the u.s.
if you are going to pay almost 70k or more i want a car that i don’t have to constantly keep getting repaired.
it’s fine if you disagree, but don’t take it to a childish level please.
i would go with the a7.
the modern design, the best-in-class interior, the amazing available innovation package – the a7 is the best blend of functionality, design, and sport.
with basic pricing information released on the bmw 640i gran coupe, we  thought it was time to give this segment another look.
it’s still nice, imo.
all of the other three offer far more for your money: more style, more power, more tech, more everything.
regardless of which you like, there really isn’t a wrong choice… except the bimmer.
a beautiful black one pulled next to me and it was so stunning to see.
the 640i gran coupe is powered by a 315-hp turbocharged inline  six-cylinder engine.
this is a no-brainer.
it’s ok to not like the same cars as others and intelligently critique them, but your comments are more about bashing other brands just because you don’t like them.
as for the “gaping hole,” i am assuming you’re talking about the grill??
the others are very good looking as well…except the bmw.
it’s the most luxurious, the best-looking (in my opinion, but that’s my taste), and is much classier.
so he forgot a comma after cls, could have used a semicolon after hesitation, and put a space before the parenthesis.
i’d take a chevy and smoke them all….
shut up i would like to drown you in a bucket full of cat urine because you are a brain dead idiot.
plus,  unlike the bmw 640i gran coupe and audi a7, the jaguar xf is only offered in  the u.s. with v-8 powerplants.
1) mb cls550 2) porsche panamera 3) jag – because it is supercharged!
a much more accurate comparison would be the cls550, bmw 650gs, jag xfr, and audi s7.
its dashboard also looks like it was designed in the 90s poar so coy ui lo zan
the bimmer looks hideous (like all other bmws), the mercedes lost its graceful looks when it was redesigned, and the audi is downright ugly (especially the back end).
and how do they only get that little power out that engine beats me???
i’d go with the mercedes cls550, it’s the original, enough said….. xf #1 640 gets sloppy seconds cls and a7 can fight over throwaway thirds…….
i am a college student and i think all four would look great driving through the center of campus.
if not, then the sporty xf.
i’ve seen quite a few in the day including some amg’s, but these look unworldy at night.
i would take the xf, then the cls, then the a7, then the 6 gran coupe.
other two are irrelevant?
one thing that bothers me is how mercedes always has under power motors compare to to the competition.
plus there was no cadillac in the choice sample.
otherwise you’re (<- see what i did there?)
i can’t even understand it.
the xf and grand coupe do look very nice
none of the you fools can even afford any of these vehicles i can
they also have less unemployment (half of what the u.s. is at) and a higher yearly income.
the bmw has the best interior but the six cylinders is a deal breaker.
and it has so much more class than the others.
everyone is always looking for a fight when they comment on here.
just so damn gorgeous.
wow, you obviously have no taste in cars whatsoever.
it’s by far the best looking
you’re telling me the lexus has more style than audi?
if i’m shelling 80k, i gotta have a v8, black on black baby.
oh everybody like me bart.
it’s a good thing u.s. companies don’t sell over seas too or else they’d be… oh no! must* a7 hands down, true all these cars are stunning in there own way but the a7 looks smooth.
the xf without hesitation, its interior makes the bmw look like trash (though that’s not hard to do).
the other three will be very “irrelevant” to the jaguar owner who exercises the 470 horsepower supercharged v8 !!!
the a7 is the class of the field.
it’s the meanest-looking, has the best combo of engine power and efficiency, and it’s somehow faster than the jag even with 70 less hp.
bye chevy silverdo… most dependible truck in the usa… buy chevy so these nazis can leave our beloved country… i just want to point out that there aren’t any gm cars in this segment.
if i could get the keys to any of this two i would be more than glad.
but it’s not really fair because the xf is in a different segment altogether.
looks too bulky and never really liked the 6 series.
the caddy will eat all of them….
if you were ready to buy an $80,000 premium coupe-like sedan, would you choose a bmw 640i gran coupe, audi a7, mercedes-benz cls550, jaguar xf, or look elsewhere?
my theory is: ignore it and it’ll go away, feed it and it’ll stay.
the jag looks nice and i have heard their reliability is going up.
everybody i’m pretty sure the 420 hp s7 competes with the 440 hp 6 grand sport and 429 hp cls550.
take a look at what $80,000 will buy you at your local bmw, mercedes-benz,  audi, and jaguar dealerships.
kbb just gave out their version of the most reliable award and audi won in the luxury division.
dumbass using the wrong grammer… *grammar
+1 i’d get the cls in a heartbeat.
actually, living in germany wouldn’t be such a bad idea.
but i would buy an m5 over a 6 gc
i like the coupe though.
the xf is beautiful but might have reliability issues.
i like your comment on the lexus forum that, “the audi has zero style.
2012 jaguar xf supercharged – $68,975 base price – though not as purpose-built for this class as the others, the newly refreshed 2012 jaguar xf has plenty of style and, when supercharged, delivers 470 hp from its v-8 and a 0-60 mph time of under 5 seconds.
plus, unlike the bmw 640i gran coupe and audi a7, the jaguar xf is only offered in the u.s. with v-8 powerplants.
they praised the gaping hole in its face?”
why not  indulge in the cls550′s available full led headlights? 2012 audi a7 prestige – $66,455 base price –  even the top trim 2012 audi a7 trim level costs less than $70,000.
large buys you a regular xf, i thing its simply drop dead gorgeous, saw one( facelifted) the other day in person…just staggering,,,wow!!
yes… you must be a real man… not like these other sorry excuses for man… i’ll go with panamera if money’s no object.
the audi’s base price for the prestige version is $66k, and comes with 6k worth of bundled options compared to the premium version ($59k).
so i think it is acceptable to choose a german or british car.
i can see maybe mercedes, bmw or the jag being almost on even ground, and in some cases surpassing audi in style.
the mercedes cls looked hideous before the redesign and how the hell is the audi ugly?
2012 jaguar xf supercharged – $68,975  base  price – though not as purpose-built for this class as the others, the  newly refreshed 2012 jaguar xf has plenty of style and, when supercharged,  delivers 470 hp from its v-8 and a 0-60 mph time of under 5 seconds.
mt classic home » wot »
audi a7 prestige – $66,455 base price – even the top trim 2012 audi a7 trim level costs less than $70,000.
jaguar xf wide open throttle you’re buying wot?
but i don’t like how they have a steering wheel gear lever makes me thing of a big truck or suv.
both are so beautiful.
so jag and audi are off the list.
i would go for the mb cls550, it looks awesome.
you should go drive the a7, you’ll be surprised how great of a car it is.
the benz cls without question.
tell us what you’d choose in the comments section below.
the granturismo is just beautiful!
irrelevant as in i don’t care for them too much.
if you were ready to buy an $80,000 premium coupe-like sedan, would  you choose a bmw 640i gran coupe, audi a7, mercedes-benz cls550, jaguar xf, or  look elsewhere?
bmws are not hideous, go take your comments somewhere else.
plus it’s just drop-dead gorgeous.
if i had to choose i would go with the audi, the best looker, and most likely lease it.
you can pick up a low-mileage ’09 for under $80 – does that count?
stupid foreigners stealing jobs from good ol’ americans you mean bmw and mercedes which both have factories in the us giving americans jobs?
the benz just looks too rounded.
535 xdrive loaded to the brim and $20,000 still left to spare in my pocket.
categories: audi, bmw, features, hatchback, jaguar, luxury car, mercedes-benz, sedan related motor trend articles you’re buying wot: $44,991 awd premium sedans you’re buying wot?
why not indulge in the cls550′s available full led headlights?
i’m stuck between the a7 and xf (cls i’d downright ugly).
if so, have you seen the grill on the new lexus, they are trying really hard not to make it look like they copied audi’s big black grill by pinching in the top corners of the grill and widening the bottom a little.
you, my friend, need to go somewhere where the only thing you see is darkness.
tell us what you’d choose in the comments  section below.
bmw 640i gran coupe, mercedes-benz cls550, audi  a7, or jaguar xf written by: zach gale g+  on february 9 2012 6:00 pm when you desire a luxury car but want more exclusivity and style, the  four-door coupes four-doors with coupe-like profiles segment awaits.
didnt youre momma teach you how to respect the good ol usa… buying chevy should be in youre blud… you should go and live in garmany if you like these stupid nazis so much… there is no such country as garmany.
your a moron… chevy is the most beautiful car out there right now… chevy runs deep…
next i’d pick the bimmer.
the older jags were in the shop every 2 weeks.
the 640i gran coupe is powered by a 315-hp turbocharged inline six-cylinder engine.
the audi is droopy and looks tired, the bmw is plain and simple hideous, and the mb is extremely boring, especially compared to the one that came before it.
the mercedes looks a little over done, the 6 looks surprisingly like the 5 which is a disappointment and whats truly shocking is that the jag is the least attractive out of this group (its still more attractive than 98% of the other cars on the market).
2013 bmw 640i gran coupe – $76,895 base price  – the 640i gran coupe’s near-$80,000 starting price surprisingly  places this bmw in the same price range as the v-8 powered mercedes-benz  cls550.
2012 mercedes-benz cls550 – $72,175 base price – thanks to a low price compared to the bmw, an $80,000 budget actually allows for some perusing of mercedes-benz’s long options list.
bmw 640i gran coupe, mercedes-benz  cls550, audi a7, or
like the mercedes-benz  cls and jaguar xf, bmw approaches this segment with a sedan bodystyle, unlike  the audi a7 hatchback.
let’s take a look at what $80,000 will buy you at your local bmw, mercedes-benz, audi, and jaguar dealerships.
funny, ever hear of the s7, m6 gran coupe, or cls 63?
it’s “the ultimate driving machine” for a reason right.
i’m not kanye or jay-z so no bentley.
audi is considered a direct competitor shows how much value it offers.
my apologies for the omission of a comma before cls and a semicolon after hesitation.
the other two are somewhat irrelevant.
$28,000 large sedans you’re buying wot?
stupid darn trash imports…..
money being no option the cls would win, but the fact that the much cheaper and better looking (imho)
the 6 feels big and heavy.
like the mercedes-benz cls and jaguar xf, bmw approaches this segment with a sedan bodystyle, unlike the audi a7 hatchback.
that lower base price opens up possibilities like the audi a7′s optional $5900 1300-watt sound system and still have a few dollars left over.
if they hadn’t mentioned the $80k cap, i’d take the quattroporte in a heartbeat.
the front looks a bit like an older buick .
the base panamera is under $80k, so that’s valid.
so i’ll stick with my truck very nice cars though i was leaning towards the jaguar but the interior looks bad compare to the others.
all of these luxury cars are fantastic.
meanwhile the jaguar has a striking presence and looks more like the xj, which i think is one of the most beautiful cars there is right now.
plus with standard awd and a there would be no way i would touch a new bmw.
what brings together these four entries are a focus on  exterior style, interior craftsmanship, and a price that assures you  won’t be seeing 10 of them at the local whole foods market.
if i had the means to afford one of these, i’d buy something else (a new 300 and used z06 sounds about right), but of them, i gotta go with the jaguar xf supercharged.
how does audi have zero style???
you know, gmrules, uplanderguy, cutters52, gm propaganda engineer and variations of that, iloveusa, etc, etc.
in order of preference 1.
no way i’m spending what these super hardtop sedans cost and not getting the most powerful one !!
and the s7 will at least be $10k more than the jag.
if you’re going to troll at least take the time to have proper grammar.
$26,213 four-cylinder midsize sedans you’re buying wot: $22,792 sporty five-doors you’re buying wot: $34,534 convertibles 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
i’ll go with the audi though.
why dont you go live in germany….. hahahaha, look at this ^ its grammar is so poor.
i am sure you’re a young kid and trying to be cool.
when you desire a luxury car but want more exclusivity and style, the four-door coupes four-doors with coupe-like profiles segment awaits.
stfu nobody likes you absolutely unrespectfulll learn some manners, though.
cls all the way baby!
and, you’re right, the quattroporte is due for a major freshening.
the rs7 with a 520+ twin turbo v8 would be more fitting to the cars you mention.
i never care for audi so by default ill take the mercedes
$12,469 new or used small cars you’re buying wot?
the jaguar most definitely doesn’t have more class and while it is good looking, it is not at all better looking than the others.
lloyd banks said the only choices are “bimmer,benz,or bentley”.
it you’re going to comment, at least know what you are talking about.
if the decision were left to me, i would be in agonizing pain trying to decide between the a7 and the cls550.
so then the german companies selling in the u.s. most be… traitors!
gran coupe 2.cls 550 3.
when comparably equipped, the cls it would be close to 20k more expensive that the a7 or jag.
you love to suck foreign **** don’t you….
you have a real hard on for audi’s.
sometimes hi-jacks somebody elses name – superduper is a common target, for some reason.
you can’t even spell grammar.
that comment by itself discredits everything you say.
copy someone elses username!!
i would take the audi hands down.
shut up… your a winey little girl… move to germany traitor… *whiney i would pick a cts-v, but if i had to choose it would either be the xf, or cls.
although it is on par with looks which is what they were getting at i guess.
(don’t write back it’s not, if you like it great.)
with basic pricing information released on the bmw 640i gran coupe, we thought it was time to give this segment another look.
bmw 640i gran coupe, mercedes-benz cls550, audi a7, or jaguar xf written by: zach gale g+ on february 9 2012 6:00 pm
2013 bmw 640i gran coupe – $76,895 base price – the 640i gran coupe’s near-$80,000 starting price surprisingly places this bmw in the same price range as the v-8 powered mercedes-benz cls550.
the space before parenthesis is what i have always been taught, i suppose it’s a matter of opinion ibx1, i do appreciate your support though.
nobody dies from that actually.
if you’re going to troll people for their improper grammar, at least get your own correctly what is this word troll that you stupid city folk use… hick no way this bessie sue person is serious
i’m a big bmw fan, but not a fan of the gran coupe.
can’t wait for a comparison with the audi s7, bmw m6 gran coupe, jaguar xfr, and mercedes cls 63 amg.
i suppose my second choice would be the cls and then the a7.
your stupid… im not going to be brainwashed like you… your a traitor to the usa… hahahaha, look at this ^ its grammar is so poor.
i’ve seen and drove a7, cls and they dont impress that much in person… cant tell much about the bimmer yet not many have seen it yet in person…but i am just shocked by this xf facelift…great job jag!!!
for the money in this price range though, my first pick would be a cts-v wagon.
so i’ll take the bimmer.
i would buy the bmw first then the benz followed by the jag the the audi 55
benz breaks down more often than bimmers do.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2012 mercedes-benz cls-class suggested price $71,300 - $94,900
wow thank you so much for commenting because we all know exactly what you’re saying and we can speak your stupid made up language.
lol if the bmw is available with a manual, it would be first, the jaguar second, the audi third and the mercedes last.
the bmw looks very overpriced when matched up with these cars.
the quatroporte to me looks dated.
you’re buying wot: $44,991 awd premium sedans you’re buying wot?
you see bessie, despite my grammatical errors, i have attained an education, which is something you’ll probably never do.
$26,213 four-cylinder midsize sedans you’re buying wot: $22,792 sporty five-doors you’re buying wot: $34,534 convertibles 91 comments the a7 is ugly.
both the jag and the audi looks astonishing, and have beautiful interiors, but aren’t sluggers.
the a7 is slick though.
what brings together these four entries are a focus on exterior style, interior craftsmanship, and a price that assures you won’t be seeing 10 of them at the local whole foods market.
there is too much to correct this time.
they can do that with the same engine size but n/a
2012 mercedes-benz cls550 – $72,175 base price  – thanks to a low price compared to the bmw, an $80,000 budget actually  allows for some perusing of mercedes-benz’s long options list.
the m6 & cls63, will without a doubt pass that price tag.
i am just curious what is that you don’t like about them whatsoever?
there is an answer to those too, the xfr.
but i’ll take the upcoming s7 instead.
the audi’s the nicest looking.
who are you to copy me?
personally, i would take them all.
but i digress, the traditional audi styling cues make for a car that looks equal parts calm and vicious which is awesome.
the mercedes and bmw’s base price is truly base, and doesn’t include any options.
no, “she’s” the usual gm troll.
your so stupid… yourself your using so bad grammar… you write she for a living thing not its… also i brought caddy because it is made in the usa… *you’re……….
the a7 and 640i both have weak 6cyl powertrains (compared to the motors in the jag and benz) and the jag’s grace is beginning to fade due to its aging design.
we have a genius speaking…… under $80k.
really all 4 look great.
a7 these cars are not in the same price category.
that lower  base price opens up possibilities like the audi a7′s optional $5900  1300-watt sound system and still have a few dollars left over.
in the  recently created class, themercedes-benz cls-class is now joined by the audi  a7, bmw 640i gran coupe, and jaguar xf if you discount the more affordable volkswagen cc and hyundai sonata.