i don’t like the name.
technically, isn’t a coupe any car that has a certain amount of interior cubic space?
some are beautiful an some are down right hideous.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web free and fast new car price quote in minutes
why has no one mentioned the unbelievable audi sportback concept?
if a manufacturer is too lazy and too ignorant to come up with an accurate and appropriate name they don’t deserve my business.
thread of the day: would you buy the 2012 lexus lfa?
its like calling a hatchback a five door sedan.
i consider them in the vein of old school “hardtops” pillarless sedans that had a cooler vibe than their more sedate brethren :smirk: .
if a car has four doors it should be called a sedan, if it has two it has to be called a coupe.
and i can imagine it being an actual 2 door coupe!
i love the cls….for me its like sex on wheels untill i saw aston martin rapide now both of those are sex on wheels.
the society of automotive engineers (sae) distinguishes a coupé from a sedan (saloon) primarily by interior volume; sae standard j1100 defines a coupé as a fixed-roof automobile with less than 33 cubic feet (0.93 cubic meters) of rear interior volume.
i like them, but if i need a sedan, i prefer having the solid b pillar and framed door glass.
they’re what i look forward to buying someday with the excuse to my wife that it’s still has four doors, so we could fit some kids in there if we need to.
combine the words “four-door” with “coupe” and you incite controversy, as mercedes-benz quickly found out with its cls-class.
imo, the m-b cls is one of the sexiest cars on the road today….
thread of the day wants to know what you think of four-door “coupes.”
it’s probably the most iconic sedan shape ever and there’s a reason that shape is so iconic.
i do like them though.
i remember first hearing about that and getting all excited that someone was finally building a phaeton again, only to be hugely disappointed when i saw it and the top didn’t go down.
so in a hardtop, if the windows were down, you could run your hand from the wing window to the c-pillar without hitting anything.
the passat is the only practical one, for the rest i’m not wealthy enough to treat cars as fashion accessories, so no.
2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
if i’m going to drive a car large enough to warrant a usable back seat then i want 4 real doors and maximum practicality.
as far as an alternative to 4 dorr coupe, which is retarded, sportback is not a bad alternative, not great, but better than 4 door coupe.
if you trade every 3 or 4 years or aren’t going to put a lot of miles on a car,it’s not much of a consideration, if you drive the wheels of vehicles then you’ll want to keep it in mind !
i agree with most here, i love the aesthetic, but hate the name.
either way, let the remarks commence in the comments below.
at least that’s what i have read.
i wish more cars had these proportions today.
report: four-door baby amg will get supercharged v-6, not turbo four 2010 geneva:
i like the sleeker sedans too, but then i love the sedans of the late 1950′s when they all sported long low profiles.
i was just blown away by the shape if that car.
it all depends on how it’s executed.
funnily enough, with the exception of the am rapide, the cls, the cc and the gran coupe concept look more like normal sedans with their flattened.
they look so sleek, when done correctly of course!
but i refuse to call them four door coupes.
idk if coupe is the word for it, i think people are just calling them that for lack of a better term.
however, a coupe is “a 2 seat, closed vehicle, smaller than a sedan according to mr. webster.
instead of just calling them coupes though, they need to affirm that they are sports sedans.
and any 4-door sedan usually had its equivalent 4-door hardtop model.
are they  your cup of tea?
i refuse to have my intelligence sniffed at by anyone.
it does things to my innards that cars arent supposed to do.
i am also growing fond of the panamera as well.
i wish we would dig up some great name from the early days of the car that means the same thing, or re-tool something, like how some automakers are tempting the idea of bringing back the idea of a shooting brake here in the u.s. just give me a new name to call them, that sounds simple and reasonable, and i’ll be cool.
the four-door coupe style is awesome, and i think they make great alternatives to the traditional sedan/saloon.
thread of the  day wants to know what you think of four-door “coupes.”
as long as i’m the driver and not a rear passenger.
thread of the day: should hyundai and kia offer sonata and optima coupes?
it is still a sedan like it or not, coups are 2 doors, sedans are 4 doors, for people with small families, who don’t want to be caught in a station wagon.
how bou’t we call them “saloons” – i think that’s what europeans call sedans, but sounds more fitting on these!
they can also catch others off surprise.
the cars aren’t too bad, but they’re all german.
just call them what they are – sedans and ugly suv’s.
you don’t drive these cars; you make love to it.
they look very nice.
i only like the vw passat cc.
to me, it seems that the germans don’t like the word sedan or saloon for the four door vehicles.
coupes will always be 2 doors in my book.
it makes for the most solid structure and while great strides have been made, the fact is frameless windowed doors will rattle before framed ones.
i hate the four door coupe label.
but vehicles like the porsche panamera or the new hyundai sonata do it all wrong lol looks > practicality.
suggestions: “fastback sedan”"sport sedan”
i agree with uraniumdragonn…they need not invade the coupe name.
these are not bad looking cars
but this thread made me realize i’ve never thought of buying one.
the cc looks very plain when not next to other boring vw’s on the dealer lot, and the cls has a very anonymous front end.
sedans have 4 doors; that’s what makes them sedans.
on another note, the window sticker for my 1992 mercury cougar claims it’s a 2 door sedan.
the term “two door sedan” has been around ever since the 50′s and is perfectly legitimate.
its as stupid as the sports activity vehicle crap from bmw.
is it because it is being changed too much by the time it hits production?
if sedan doesn’t fit, make up a new name for the class, like “crossover” instead of “tiny suv”.
who cares we call them?
but then you see them for the first time in person, and it all makes perfect sense…..they are all (including the vw cc) beautiful cars.
they certainly look nice, but they’re not really for me.
if it has the characteristics of a coupe, you could a call it a coupe-like sedan :confused: i love the cls….for me its like sex on wheels untill
i sat in one and it was so so terrible it totally took away from the sleek styling… i like the new bmw the best.
and not all of them do look good.
and a coupe has two doors; that’s what makes it a coupe.
i loved it so much, if i were a billionaire, i would go after that car just to put it in my garage, even if i could never drive it.
either  way, let the remarks commence in the comments below.
why they didnt send that thing right to production as it i was is a mystery to me.
the sedans, especially the 2-door ones, were considered rather low in prestige; the hardtops cost more and were seen as much cooler, tho yes, the windows would soon rattle or leak and hardtops were structurally awful in a roll-over.
am still builds real coupes after all.
the aston martin is beautiful, but i not even thinking of one day owning it.
give me a coupe, or give me a handsome sedan.
vehicles that the aston rapide or the mercedes cls have done it perfectly.
and i like them much better than their more upright looking siblings.
or are they a waste of automaker funding?
whatever it is, that car is probably the most beautiful 4-door i have ever seen.
the volkswagen cc is a sedan.
four-door, awd mini countryman finally takes its hat off +2: fiat reportedly adding four-door 500 to european, north american lineup thread of the day: which cars offer the best back seats?
they’re stylish, yes, so people who care about style should buy one.
so a 4 door can be called a coupe, depending on the interior space…?
the bmw concept looks pretty plain overall, and i’d consider the aston a true 4-door supercar, not a coupe.
most of all a half a$$d marketing ploy…….
my wife loved it to and she hates four door cars.
the cls is probably the best example.
i have a grand marquis for a reason.
the cls amg is awesome.
a car with a greater interior volume is technically a two-door sedan, not a coupé, even if it has only two doorshttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/coup%c3%a9 love them especially the old ones the 1957,58 cadillac eldorado broughams.
there has to be a word that would work for this new segment, probably a word from another language, come on you bi and tri-linguals, get to work!!!
if it has 4 doors it’s a sedan.
all they really need to do is come up with their own word, like sport fours or something.
are they your cup of tea?
i saw aston martin rapide now both of those are sex on wheels.
i call them 4 door “wannabe sports cars”!!!!!
marketing departments can call it whatever they want, but it will always be a sedan.
the aston, mercedes and vw are coupes while the panamera and sonata are sedans.
i think they (especially the bmw) look much better than “ordinary” sedans.
phaeton means four door convertible.
the aston is b e a utiful!!!
it just meant a 2-door car with a pillar between the side windows, as opposed to a 2-door hardtop, which didn’t have one.
i can’t really picture those cars with only 2 doors.
so long as they look good.
however, i think the terminology, “four-door coupe”, is mostly helpful in the design studio as a descriptor of design intent, but should stay there.
comments call them a coupe or a sedan it’s stiil a 4 door and not a true 2 door sport car, they are just big 4 door monsters pretending to be sports cars!!!there is nothing sporty about a 4 door family car.
combine the words  “four-door” with “coupe” and you incite controversy, as mercedes-benz quickly found out with its cls-class.
categories: miscellaneous thread of the day: should hyundai and kia offer sonata and optima coupes?
thanks to pandabear for inspiring today’s
they’re not to my taste (if i wanted a car that large, i’d want something more practical), but it’s nice that they’re a part of the marketplace.
wide open throttle thread of the day: four-door “coupes.” are they your cup of  tea?
thread of the day: four-door “coupes.”
the whole “four door coupe” thing is an oxymoron, and the engineers and designers put too much work into the cars and made them too stylish to be force-fit into an oxymoronic name.
written by: benson kong on may 13 2010 5:00 pm look the word “coupe” up in the dictionary and the majority of  the definitions suggest two-door cars.
you can get a cheaper version of their “sedan” counterparts.
that thing is stylin’!
written by: benson kong on may 13 2010 5:00 pm look the word “coupe” up in the dictionary and the majority of the definitions suggest two-door cars.
depends the vw cc is awful.
however, i’d love to have one.
by that definition, i don’t like coupes because i don’t want a small back seat.
anyway…i don’t prefer them any more than a ‘regular’ sedan simply because of what they are called.
they’re beautiful cars, the epitome of sports sedans.
ps: i have sex tapes to prove it.
the jaguar xf isn’t marketed as a four door coupe, yet it’s fast roofline lends it a coupe0like sihlouette
are they sleek and sexy?
the name “four door coupe” is, of course, stupid.
but not as bad as the volkswagon phaeton.
if the automakers can find a better names for themlike audi whith the sportback that would be much better than a four door coupe and iwould love to have one of these its nice and bractical they’re so dumb!
i love the space of 4-door coupes.
the headlights on it look a little odd but it was just the overall shape and the emotion, strong, sleek, yet romantic and feminine.
otherwise, just wanna bes… like many things in the automotive world, when they first come out i think “wtf do they need that for?”
why would anyone buy one?
gotta have a vw cc one day..
i’ll accept 4 door coupes when i see a 2 door sedan.
so the cls is a sedan.
they are beautiful moving pieces of artwork.