3 comments3 comments member's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topicsmember's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topics posted on 16-jan-2012 5:32
find new car pricelists, new car photos, new car pictures, new car promotions, new car reviews, latest car news, car reviews & car insurance singapore.
if the front is provocative, then the rear end of the new 1 series is sadly  uninspiring.
© 2004-2012 sgcarmart.
now it's time for baby  bimmer, take two.
despite that, it still became a strong seller worldwide,  proving once again the power of branding.
the 1 series is available in two trim levels, and our  118i test car was decked out in sport spec.
pm i-love-xl member's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topicsmember's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topics posted on 13-jan-2012 10:58 am mts member's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topicsmember's profile member's reviews member's comments member's posts member's topics posted on 10-jan-2012 9:18
rumbling on the roads with the c63 amg volkswagen second showroom to open soon citroen ds4r to set pulses racing at geneva what to do when selling your car to a end-consumer how "rule of 78" of car loans work huayra stirs emotions on local shores road test - bmw 1 series 118i (a) post a comment 10 jan 2012 | text by ben chia, photos by zachary lau page 1 2 3 » one again bmw's baby has been reborn, but is it better now?
and those are just the  ones that are decent and printable.
they're all customisable though, and  you can choose which element you want to add or delete from your one.
the sexy 6 tested and proven 03 jan 2012 | text by julian kho, photos by zachary lau | bmw reviews captivating aesthetics, luxurious interior and innovative features make the new bmw 6er one of the most desirable coupe in its segment.
our motor directory has useful info on car audio, car grooming, car rental, vehicle insurance, car insurance quotation, car accessories, car workshop, & car sticker.
a a a) hybrid touareg pack rumbling on the roads with the c63 amg volkswagen second showroom to open soon citroen ds4r to set pulses racing at geneva what to do when selling your car to a end-consumer how "rule of 78" of car loans work huayra stirs emotions on local shores road test - bmw 1 series 118i (a)road test - bmw 1 series 118i (a) 10 jan 2012 | text by ben chia, photos by zachary lau page 1 2 3 » one again bmw's baby has been reborn, but is it better now?
we are also your information hub for parking, road tax, car insurance andcar loan.
bmw x1 bmw x1(pi) bmw x3 bmw x3(pi)
up front, the odd triangular headlamps and the  pointy nose make the car seem a bit cross-eyed and awkward.
| forgot your password?
the baby bimmer coped well not only in the corners, as is expected of  a bmw, but also on the often rough and unwieldy road surfaces that is truly  malaysia, highlighting the exemplary ride quality of the new 1 series.
terms and conditionsyou must be logged in to post a comment.
the similarity is quite  uncanny though.
can the new 1 series address the flaws of its predecessor,  and bring the bavarian hatchback to another level in the face of ever  competitive rivals?
someone even made a  reference to the titular character in the popular game angry birds.
the original 1  series was a bit of a flawed product.
the best-selling bmw 5 series receives a set of new powerplants in its mid-life revision, promising even better fuel efficiency.
for car advertisement be it an mpv, suv, luxury car, commercial vehicle, opc car or even an auction car.
bmw x5 bmw x5(pi) bmw x6 bmw x6(pi) bmw z4(pi) bmw z4 post a comment not registered?
five tested with an honest heart 02 feb 2012 | text by ben chia, photos by julian kho | bmw reviews
page 1 2 3 » tags : bmw bmw 1 series bmw 118i bmw 118i sport bmw 1 series sport bmw 1 series auto bmw 118i auto bmw 1 series 118i bmw 118i 1.6 bmw 1 series 1.6 price $173,800 engine type 4-cylinder in-line dohc bmw twinpower turbo with twin-scroll turbocharger engine cap 1598cc horsepower 170 bhp / 4800 rpm torque 250 nm / 4500 rpm transmission 8-speed (a) acceleration (0-100 km/h) 7.5sec top speed 225km/hn/a bmw 1 series convertible bmw 1 series convertible(pi) bmw 1 series coupe(pi) bmw 1 series coupe bmw 1 series hatchback bmw 1 series hatchback 2012(pi) bmw 3 series convertible(pi) bmw 3 series convertible bmw 3 series coupe bmw 3 series coupe(pi) bmw 3 series sedan(pi) bmw 3 series sedan 2012 bmw 5 series gran turismo bmw 5 series gran turismo(pi) bmw 5 series sedan bmw 5 series sedan(pi) bmw 5 series touring(pi) bmw 5 series touring bmw 6 series convertible bmw 6 series convertible(pi) bmw 6 series coupe bmw 6 series coupe(pi) bmw 7 series bmw 7 series(pi)
whatever one thinks, there is no doubt that the 1 series' styling is a talking  point for sure.
the new one continues that form,  and like it or hate it, it is most certainly a design that polarises opinions.
the difference between this and the  other urban trim cosmetically lies mainly in the grille, with sport having  eight black vertical bars in each 'kidney' and urban having 10 chrome white  ones, as well as minor stuff such as black or chrome in places such as the  front bumper trimmings and door mirrors.
find out more about the drive as julian takes the "dre... sgcarmart is singapore's top car classifieds.
more than one critic compared the 1 series' rump to the volkswagen  polo, which, for bmw, might not be all that flattering.
when we drove the new 1 series up to kuala lumpur recently, we were  much impressed with the car's capabilities along the winding back roads of  malaysia.
we update you with latest information onnew car prices from both parallel importers and carauthorised dealers with brands such as toyota, honda, nissan, audi, kia, hyundai, volkswagen, mitsubishi, toyota innova, toyota avanza, indonesia cars &bmw.
pm niebelung « back ( ) next » »
exterior the 1 series  hatchback's looks has been called all sorts of names by people over the years,  ranging from 'unique', to 'different', to 'challenging'.
but that is malaysia, which is a whole different animal from our tiny little  island.
interior one of the major criticisms of the  previous 1 series was its interior packaging, specifically with regards to rear  passenger space and its boot.
while it drove well, its overall package  just fell short of the high standards that the bavarian carmaker has set for  itself and its cars.
a good hatchback should preferably be compact and nimble enough to  tackle tight city streets and fight the urban battle, whilst still being  well-rounded enough to be liveable on a daily basis.
all bmw reviews the 528i proves that small is the new big 16 feb 2012 | text and photos by julian kho | bmw reviews heading in tune with its philosophy of efficient dynamics, bmw may have created a more efficient base 5 series, but can it compete in today's modern world?
it may have five doors, but it might as well have  been a coupe.
do visit our partner sites for other services such asjob openings for singapore jobs, massage services, real estate properties for sale, mobil baru, mobil toyota, mobil, mover, asian food recipe, cooking recipes andbeauty and wellness.