that’s why so many dealers are refusing to accept ford’s showroom plan for lincoln.
couldn’t disagree more with the pickup comment.
revive the mark coupe using the mustang platform with multilink rear suspension and 7 or 8 speed auto or 6 speed manny for the lsc version, this should be v8 only.
if it is so uninspired not to have a name, do not bother to make it!
step three introuduce a small city car in the 140 -175 inch range.
for 2011 and beyond, the plan is for more differentiation, and if ford  wants lincoln dealers to pay for expensive dealership upgrades, that’s  probably a good idea.
it became easier and more cost effective for car companies to badge engineer rather to design a car from the bottom up.
it may not sound nice to say it, but part of a upmarket brand is buying into an image or snobby factor if you will.
i put my mks up against any luxury vehicle (sold around the same price range) in america any day.
a pickup truck is about as far away as you can get from that image.
lincoln needs to go the route of hyundai and offer bang-for-your-buck.
if it doesn’t pop into one’s head when heard, that is a real problem, especially for people that follow the auto industry as most posters here likely do.
minus, you don’t understand vehicle buyers preferences (what they will and won’t buy, for you my child, to understand…): * coupés and convertibles tend not to sell well, even in luxury brands, and they have to be brought with caution; a two-seater next-gen mustang-based coupé-convertible (let the 4-seater for the mustang), replacement to the last gen t-bird might do some lincoln sales (and it’d be basd on a then-existing platform to justify [$$] it).
also bring back the ford gt perhaps in lincoln form because that would look hot!!!
i’m referring to ford having a small to mid-size domestic pickup, period.
which would you pick?
hyundai and kia are far more luxurious than lincolns these days!
i’m a ready buyer and suspect there would be many 1000′s of others!
step two bring back the continental name plate and make the mark series a big s class fighting sedan and a four door convertible flag ship.
you don’t drive a lincoln mkz because you want a chromed out fusion….you drive a lincoln because you can.
these are very respected nameplates and very solid cars.
if they want to kick-start the lincoln brand into relevance then it is going to take resources initially.
in 2010, lincoln sales were 3.6 percent higher than in 2009.
lincoln should tap into ford of australia’s rwd platforms for a new continental to replace the mks.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2011 lincoln mkz suggested price $34,645
this car would be v8, have all the most uptodate technology and exude refinement, reliability and be rear wheel drive also (or 4 wheel drive).
can anyone please name a lux auto brand that uses names (besides sports cars)?
ford needs to get it together now or automax will be commenting on the next wot article that says ford is no longer in business!!!
noone is old at heart, not even people who are 90 so don’t design a brand to appeal to the higher end buyers parents design it to appeal to them and there very much alive sence of mystique, excitement and cutting edge/next step vibe.
none of this mk- alphabet soup that nobody can remember.
i like ford, and i’ve been very impressed with the company for the past couple of years.
in peoples minds, you make a pickup and you are appealing to the working guy/gal.
also would give lincoln very unique vehicles in the ford portfolio, make the dealers happy and give consumers a real reason to return to lincoln dealers.
source: automotive news (subscription required) lincoln’s future product lineup to expand and move apart from ford gm’s akerson praises cadillac, disses lincoln: which luxury brand will triumph?
in the 70s….it really meant something if you drove a mark v or a continental.
lincolns should be classy and distinguished.
what they need to do is make them look differnt front to back just like they do, also put names back on the cars.
that division needs to get their heads in the game and really design their cars (inside and out) around the people purchasing in that category, or dump the line all together.
the only thing people would be interested is if it had awd, especially for those living in the north.
i’m 38 years old and have owned and currently drive the lincoln town car.
in 1959 or 60 robert mcnamara was president (i believe) of fomoco and it was his premise that lincoln couldn’t compete and should be dropped from the lineup.
come on lincoln, you guys should be smarter than that.”
that troll is back again???
the funny thing is, most of the consumer population doesn’t car about rwd, nor do they realize when they are driving one (case in point: i know mt did an article on bmw about the 1 series and being thought of as a fwd).
going down to a new continental supreme luxury sedan and then creating a cts fiighter as well.
keep the mkz fwd/awd.
legendary, celebrated names.
source: automotive news (subscription required) categories: auto news, detroit auto show,  future/spied, lincoln, luxury car related motor trend articles lincoln’s future product lineup to expand and move apart from ford gm’s akerson praises cadillac, disses lincoln: which luxury brand  will triumph?
come on lincoln, you guys should be smarter than that.
i would produce an old-fashioned, rwd sedan that can fit 5 adults comfortably.
lincoln has a number of new products in the pipeline to augment the mild success of the mkz sedan and mkx crossover.
we want facts and figures, not fluff!!!
they are folks that work for global market companies, invest internationally, and reside in homes/condos, etc.
sorry i ment a mark series coupe and a s class fighting sedan.
lincolns should have names.
ford falcon would be perfect.
it sounds like they know this and that is their plan already so i just wish them luck in pulling it off.
also a hardtop convertible rear wheel drive muscle car is a must!!!
first off make sure at the redesign all models do not look like a ford in any way.
the demise of the us market ranger leaves a gap there.
names like converj, and evoq mean something and define the soul of your new car design.
rwd plus longitudinal engines means excessive weight.
just look at cadillac…though i think their designs are bordering on garish, they’ve made an unbelievable splash in the lux car segment.
with lots of international influence.
the network still has no faith in ford’s revival plan.
also, put names on the cars, not letters.
as with acura, lincoln doesn’t intend to add a rear-wheel-drive vehicle in the near future.
take a look at a cts sitting next to a mkz.
but then something happened.
the larger platform could be used for a town car replacement.
ford vows to stop neglect of lincoln scion partners with ibiquity to offer hd radio ford to bring more diesel tech into future crop of ecoboost engines mulally dishes on lincoln’s future, promises ford-like turnaround 50 comments ford, mazda and volvo shared platform of their cars, but each brands able to keep its differentiation.
bring the maverick back, as a smaller version of the mustang, and bring back at least one 2-door suv or introduce a 2-door cuv.
why is ford abandoning the rear drive platform?
i would make a performance series with v-8′s, rwd, and awd yes to differentiate the look from ford, they will now have the grill work of the 70s era oldsmobile cutlass.
the type of thinking, ability and creativity that made a 4 door lincoln out of what was suppose to be
i don’t think they can just survive or compete, they need to dominate or they will die.
lincoln needs some major work ford.
lincoln is just a very tired brand.
the field is too crowded for any other option.
and as a topper they could actually call it the mark x like the concept shown in 2003 that was a great looking car but was never produced.
smaller platorm for small fuel efficient sporty car going up to mustang size.
it should be luxurious, and part of being a legitimate luxury brand means having a halo vehicle and a coupe of some kind.
ford will also need lincoln to become more “youthful” in terms of brand culture.
(i’m not saying that the mark and the thunderbird didn’t share the same genes) i am saying that in that era, cadillac and lincoln meant something.
that means rwd, and available v-8 for the top tier vehicles.
i would stay away from the ancient i-6 they use and use the ecoboost v6 and turbo a downsized (4.4 or so) version of the coyote 5.0.
i have no earthly idea why that doesn’t seem like a good idea to them.
keep up the good work ford motor company.
ford having a new pickup is a totally different thing of course, makes a lot more sense.
also a smaller vehicle to compete with jeep would be nice, just make a raptor without the box, that would be small enough with some 40 inch tires and we’d have a jeep killer!!!
start with design…..the rest will fall into place.
this will get buy in from the service people and make them proud of the brand.
as an avid ford man i just don’t get it.
some sort of halo car is necessary for them and a revival of a modern continental mark coupe (without the continental kit trunk lid please) should be considered.
right now ford and lincoln are looking more like honda/acura than toyota/lexus or nissan/infiniti.
many of these vehicles could be sent to austrailia and used to make smaller rwd cars in austrailia as well.
in 2010, lincoln sales were 3.6  percent higher than in 2009.
[g+] on january 13 2011 10:00 am ford took the detroit auto show as an opportunity to remind us of plans to dramatically differentiate thelincoln brand from ford vehicles in both design andtechnology offerings.
“the strategy isn’t just new products, but full differentiation from the ford brand in not only design, but intechnology,” said derrick kuzak, ford’s group vice president of global product development, to automotive news and others at the detroit auto show.
with rwd and v-8′s they are just leather lined mustangs and crown vics.
it seems as if i’ve been reading these same “ford plans to revitalize lincoln” stories for decades now.
details such as an adjustable suspension system, different engines (a specially-tuned ecoboost v-6, perhaps), and upgraded all-wheel drive could help establish lincoln as definitively upscale in comparison with ford.
lincoln is not even in audi’s league, so we will disregard that comparison.
that is what i would do.
i can honestly say if lincoln actually styles a different looking car than a ford rather than just grafting on a new nose and tail, i might actually consider one.
ford needs myford touch in all models by 2012 and lincoln style raptor and cobra with independent rear suspension!!!
lincoln is just being stubborn and imposing their philosophy on the consumers-but the consumers are not having it.
zephyr, navigator, town car, cosmopolitan(51), premier(57)etc. agree 100% with getting rid of the letter monikers.
ford also kept the latest technology for the jaguar and aston back then.
i read a-lot of chatter on this website about the necessity of rwd, like redvette77 just mentioned
i find it funny on how everyone seems to be intent on rwd.
“the strategy isn’t just new products, but full differentiation  from the ford brand in not only design, but intechnology,” said derrick  kuzak, ford’s group vice president of global product development, to automotive news and others at the detroit auto show.
chrome wheels and grilles can’t cure ugly, and in my opinion, they make a plain design look even cheaper, not more upscale.
they need to stop with the cheap looking cliche things (like when they were trying with the retro interiors…yuck!), and pay more attention to styling (aka, huge steering wheels containing a giant airbag foot print shared with ford brands have to go, should not even be in fords!).
i agree, get rid of the alphabet soup and name the car.
and a coupe and convertible at the very least.
they could also bring back the continental as the flagship to replace the town car, and a new lux-coupe.
while i have yet to hear once from any one i’ve talked to about cars outside of this website about their preference for rwd.
without putting a strain on ford finances?
if official bmw need pay attention to official ford motor will might make discontinue to mustang and f-series.
elwood engle and others convinced him “one more” chance and produced the fabulous 1961 lincoln continental which basically put them back on the map and made lincoln a force to be recognized in the automotive world.
future lincolns to receive upgraded technology and design to  distinguish from ford wide open throttle future lincolns to receive upgraded technology and design to distinguish  from ford written by: zach gale [g+]  on january 13  2011 10:00 am ford took the detroit auto show as an opportunity to remind us of plans to  dramatically differentiate thelincoln brand from ford vehicles in both design  andtechnology offerings.
no rwd in their future.
ford’s finances need to be strained to make lincoln a viable brand.
if i were ford i would engineer two all new worldwide rwd platforms that are adjustable to create small sporty cars and small rwd sedans to a town car/ crown vic replacement.
lincoln needs to make awd and 4 and 6 cylinder ecoboost engines its calling card.
with this many cars in that many markets the cost of the platform would be less and would be paid off faster then is just for one market and one car.
make lincoln a whole different line.
on the vehicle front, make some plug-in hybrid and ev variants to sell with decent profit margins to cover developement expenses.
a return to continental “trade marks” of rear fender skirts and fancy rear access spare tire would be a clear design identification of it’s linage.
if they can’t build enthusiasm with the dealers… this is crap.
upgrade the navigator’s powertrain.
they could get away with introducing one because of the iconic american view of pickups once they are at the top of the heap, say if they were looked at in the same light as bmw (or whatever brand you consider one of the leaders of the segment), but not anytime in the near future.
dashes of sportiness but never at the expense of seeming immature or beneath their station.
and they seriously need a halo car.
they also need a modern up to date v8.
but i think they are on the right track.
as many have mentioned, one of the big problems lincoln has is the naming convention – mkx, mkt, mks…i hear those letter configurations, but i can’t picture the model they go on!
ford should bring back the town car and crown victoria.
if you were in control of the brand, what changes would you  make to lincoln without putting a strain on ford’s finances?
are you kidding, they are expecting their dealerships to invest (comparatively) huge sums of money on a promise.
long, low, in both glasstop and convertible 4 door models, take the gorgeous 1939 continental and bring it up to date.
home » wot » future lincolns to receive upgraded technology and design to distinguish from ford written by: zach gale
with standard awd and ecoboost engines they will be competing with audi instead of acura.
better style, equal tech, sportier cars, and …..wait for it……..wait for it……..rwd!!!
i don’t want to buy a government motors anything!
the buyers with money want “new and high tech”.
give the vehicles names again.
how about a new continental mk ix??
tbird is what lincoln division needs today.
with mercury gone, ford may have more money (and attention) to devote to  lincoln.
they need to really differentiate their models from ford to make those names have meaning.
ford has plenty of engines to choose from.
if they design the cars for 60-80 year olds that is the only market they will get, and that market is one that is dying quick.
they should perhaps follow vw in making them two totally separate entities – though i know that goes against the grain at ford these days with a one world product philosophy which in ford’s case is a good thing.
maybe because it was before we were inundated with luxury brands from overseas.
the current big lincoln (mks isit?) is not a bad looking car but needs its butt out of the air and it should have a more road worthy stance.
mkz, mkt, mkr, c3po, r2d2.no-no-no-no-no!!!!
a nip here and a tuck there these cars could be best sellers in their segment.
and should receive new tech first, not ford (and maybe have of its own special tech, like premium radio systems).
but lincoln needs to consider that in order to get back to those roots, they need to offer a vehicle that offers something no other import brand does.
i like the mkz appearance as it is, although by all means freshen it.
they dont need a rwd look at acura and audi they do just fine.
names make a lux brand look cheap in the eyes of current high end purchasers.
there’s another thread here on mt’s forums (from a better source) that rumored that two different-size ecoboosted (t-gdi or 2t-gdi for the uniciated) engines might roll first: a 2.2l i4 (most likely for the production version of the mk-c focus-based sedán, a larger version engine of the 2.0l other f products will get) and a 2.7l v6 (brand-new size in this era, f doesn’t offer in noam any 6 below 3.0l).
it also wouldn’t hurt to have a calling card, a bit like audi’s quattro, making all their models awd – though it doesn’t have to be that in particular.
they should lincolnize the mustang as well and sell it as the mark ix.
* give the green light to build the production version of the mk-r (might get another name) mid-size rwd sedán (next-gen mustang-based, also to spawn the next-gen oz falcon and needed for the coupé-convertible i mentioned above).
lincoln has tried light pickups before (blackwood, mk-lt) and failed (only could find takers in mx), so no lincoln version of raptor.
lincoln needs to remember they must reinvent themselves, and not merely re-badge themselves as they always do.
but still would be very cool.
lincoln can improve its product line just like all the other hundreds of car companies you are competing with these days
ford needs to call me and give me an opportunity to work on these two cars and i guarantee they would sell!!!
for 2011 and beyond, the plan is for more differentiation, and if ford wants lincoln dealers to pay for expensive dealership upgrades, that’s probably a good idea.
so far lincoln has really only done that with a higher price point but that is not enough.
the brand, at the very least, models not part of the ford lineup.
right there and then i think what they’ve laid out is basically a good starting point but lincoln desparately needs some sporty sedans.
whatever it is, they are going to have to do something drastic to get the image of tarted up fords out of peoples minds – i can think of no other brand that has their mass market and ‘premium’ brand cars so closely mimicking each other.
if you’re under the age of 65 and haven’t lost your marbles, you’ll go with the cts.
get working on this ford !!
just as cadillac defined an “art and science” style with the cts, ford will need to do the same.
zephyr…i mean seriously, i laughed when they tried to revive that name.
make it quiet and more refined than the mustang, load it up with technogoodies and have it compete with the mb sl class at a lower price point.
in many ways, i think the ford counterparts of lincoln vehicles actually look better and more upscale.
automax, the only one left who knows how to save the auto industry!!!
lincoln needs to make sure that if follows through on its promises to change and differentiate the brand from ford.
just the opinion of one who hears what customers who buy these vehicles say….and in the end isnt that why they are made, to please customer?
if jay leno did his “jay-walking” segment and asked random people on the streets to name 5 car manufacturers off the top of there head, how many do you think will name lincoln?
all the lux brands have a sporty offerings, except lincoln ( mks ecoboost doesnt look sporty at all )
also, there are rumors of (finally) replacing the mk-?
give it more power (ecoboost v6, and ecoboost i-4) with the base line 4 giving about 250 horsepower and extremely good fuel economy at us turnpike speeds.
that vehicle needs to be exclusive in the eyes of the lucky ones that purchase it.
if you were in control of the brand, what changes would you make to lincoln without putting a strain on ford’s finances?
down the line a fullsize competitor to the 7 series and s class.
as with  acura, lincoln doesn’t intend to add a rear-wheel-drive vehicle in the  near future.
stop talking about it and just do it.
sorry, i assumed you were talking about lincoln.
if popular are worried about if ford need saving ford mustang , ford f-series and australian ford falcon future.
they need to really look at competitors and the market.
if lincoln expects to compete with any of its so called peers such as caddy and merc etc, then who -is responsible for the brand needs to get their head ootb and observe the competition.
they need a car to represent.
really would like to see lincoln restored as the premier elegant vehicle manufacturer in the usa market.
who does ford think they are?
even more extreme styling changes (especially the interior).
only the rednecks and super old want retro (see camaro / mustang…and now i’m not saying all camaro / mustang drivers are rednecks…but they are the ones boosting sales high enough to justify).
i think it would do lincoln a world of wonder to release a 2 door rwd coupe based on the mustang with a 4 wheel independant suspension and aluminum chassis parts to seperate it from the mustang.
give it adjustable suspension, with better handling (the goal should be audi or bmw levels), and go absolutely nuts to make it quiet.
i hear the whole “american” them…but again…folks in that price catagory don’t care.
lincoln first of all needs a flag ship with rear wheel and all wheel drive.
aside from the name there is not much to set the lincoln far ahead of the ford.
as one who sells lincoln vehicles i can say from personal experience that lincoln customers want something that sets them apart from ford customers.
although the platform is dated, it’s somewhat modern.
similar to how the sporttrac and sporttrac adrenalin are the same vehicle with a minor extras own a 2010 mkt, and love it!!
they need to be more detailed oriented and remember the market they are courting and the amount of money they are asking buyers to spend.
their designs need a complete overhaul.
point our the major differences between a fully loaded 2011 ford edge limited awd and a fully loaded 2011 lincoln mkx.
* lincoln and both sports car and muscle car don’t mix, so don’t make them be anything that they aren’t (a defined image is so important for any car brand, more so for luxo-brands).
as someone already said on here if lincoln wants to be truly successful and set itself far ahead it has to look to be a competitor to the likes of audi and bmw in quality and engineering and not be afraid to take some pages from those companies play books!
make a ford large sporty sedan used to be then new p.i.
design and quality sells cars.
they look like hell and don’t have anything but decent interiors to back up the “luxury” claim.
lincoln has a number of new products in the pipeline to augment the mild  success of the mkz sedan and mkx crossover.
with mercury gone, ford may have more money (and attention) to devote to lincoln.
i actually think it would be cool for ford to even have a flagship that is a kind of ‘global’ model in the style department more than actual platform.
ford vows to stop neglect of lincoln scion partners with ibiquity to offer hd radio ford to bring more diesel tech into future crop of ecoboost engines mulally dishes on lincoln’s future, promises ford-like turnaround 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
or special services (see hyundai’s equus).
i just want a continental with awd (closest i’ll get to rwd) and the suicide doors.
lincolns are a joke.
electronic gizmos don’t sell cars.
lincoln needs to look at its roots to find its future.
because you have attained that level of financial comfort, that you want to go out and do something nice for yourself and award yourself for all your hard work.
*theme (misspell in second paragraph) *beat (another misspelled word, this time the third word in the the first paragraph)
if it will become worthless brand near future.
is 250 lbs torque at 1800 rpm reasonable?
don’t just rebadge the fords like you did with merc.
i’ll have to re-read the article, i thought it was just about lincoln.
use the for a miata type car for na and europe, 3 series fighter for lincoln, a new mark viii sport coupe with serious sporting pretentions.
lincoln needs to get it together.
i like the fact that i can use regular gas and have better techology then cars that cost double the price of my mks.
think of it this way.
i wouldn’t think it would be possible to come up with a platform architecture that could support a small sporty sedan and a midsizer as well as the next mustang.
as far as luxury quotient goes, why upgrade engine sizes when all of the germans are downgrading engine sizes?
now borrow a little swagger from apple stores and make lincoln showrooms a jewel and not a smoke smelling, built in the 1960′s, used to be a mercury dealership experience.
a key element of design (for any vehicle) should be that 2 hours should be the maximum amount of time it should take to repair or replace any part, including the engine, and especially anything behind the dash.
the two brands should never see each other products, sharing platforms is going to happen obviously but get them to produce their own models from the ground up if they are their own ‘premium’ brand.
v6 is ok for the lower food chain lincolns but not the top dog.
acura, lexus, audi, bmw, mb, jag, caddy, all use letters rather then names.
vw always put technology ahead in audi before putting it vw models…why not ford do such game plan i think for american buyers this would be a great option, look at the line up, add a more luxurious paint coat option, emblem treatment, special edition model like a olympic edition, bring back the presidential edition, maybe a sports enthusiast edition something like a billiard se with a pool cue and carrying case green felt stiching or something less bland.
as for acura, they’ve already gobbled up the marketshare, of consumers seeking near luxury regardless of drive wheels.
i think folks with all that surrounding them would like to see the same in their vehicle.
details such as an adjustable suspension system, different engines (a  specially-tuned ecoboost v-6, perhaps), and upgraded all-wheel drive could help  establish lincoln as definitively upscale in comparison with ford.
to revitalize the lincoln brand ford with first need to “define a style” and build momentum at the major autoshows.
why not use that kind of management with lincoln?
it seems like most don’t care if its front wheel drive or rwd but they do seem to care if its awd.
ford was smart to abandon any notion of ‘retro’ styling.
airmarine 99 ford has bet that idea to death with concepts for the past 20 years (talking about the continental).
it is harder to compete with the ford line these days and i am sure that lincoln will follow.
you could spread this platform worldwide, sending a new crown victoria to not only here but china as well.
lincoln would have to directly compete with acura.
i honestly think that if ford killed of lincoln, no one would really care.
front wheel drive for the most part is a turn off to me.
all this at half the cost.
alphanumerical system of naming models for good old-fashinoned names: the mk-s might become the continental and the mk-z might revert back to the zephyr, for example… that’s the kind of info we need, ok?
there’s nothing exciting about the brand.
a lincoln should emit confidence and class and be unmistakable.
complete reinvention is needed.
i hope all of you that are making these comments about lincoln at least drove one or better yet even sat in one.
next name your models, don’t blend in with the other brands with this mkz, cts q27i, toaster oven model number boredom.
im sure if they did that and gave it an “lincoln” eco boast v6 with one of those 6 speed trannies not only would it stur life back into the long forgoten “hot rod linclon” idea but get more people into linclon show rooms.
i’m not talking about a lincoln pickup, as the 2 that they had failed.
that is the last thing a ‘premium’ car maker needs, does mb have one, bmw, infiniti, no – and for good reason.
make the customer feel like they are in the presence of a great automobile culture.
if popular will be very mad at ford.will change green vehicles like cheap .
a rwd larger sedán (can be smaller than a town car, but not much) is needed to mantain a beach-head in certain industries (limo/taxi/hearse…), as long as it has the latest large car engine, suspension and tranny technology.
if lincoln is going anywhere it’s going to have to be through differentiation, and if they produce that hatchback thing i’ve been seeing in concept photos then i’ll puke.
i dont think they should make it a 2 seater i think it should be a 4 seater with a soft top convertable option.
strained finances or not its going to take at least a couple rwd/awd sporty sedans to make lincoln relevant.
another pr stunt that crain’s “reporters” slipped worse that with that gooey stuff (the one that a full-size van couldn’t go through it…) that appeared on a “modern marvels” doc-show, sheesh!
automax says make rear wheel drive or buy big crane and knock down lincoln dealers as they are a waste of space with no rear wheel drive models.
fomoco needs a new pickup in the mid-size/compact range.