reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 9:54
very disappointing road test.
i agree that it makes little sense for bmw uk  to supply cars in such specs for testing, but for some years now they have been  obsessed with stupidly big, heavy wheels with stupidly slender tyre sidewalls,  usually in full blown sport spec, and with the runflats making things worse* i suppose that's what happens when the marketing folk take over from the  engineers.
nov 18, 2009 8:55 am contrary to the knockers this will be a success.
reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 10:20 am jl4069: bmw is in free fall.
reply nov 18, 2009 9:35 am it is fugly !!!!
from personal experience  earlier in the year, it was impossible to find an existing six cylinder five or  three diesel on standard se spec on standard se wheels.
am thewizardweb: also why bmw seem to have had an  ideas meeting and ended it by saying "we've got lots of concepts in our  heads, i can't decide.
sadly, the ultimate driving machine looks like remaining the uncomfortable jarring machine.
let's just do everything!"
i hope the new 5 series/5 series touring will be better resolved than this.
ungainly  from every angle, and a pointless proposition.
people who buy this should have their head examined.
it seems  that if you want a six cylinder se on standard  wheels it has to be ordered to be built that way!
autocar nov 18, 2009 1:36
also why bmw seem to have had an ideas  meeting and ended it by saying "we've got lots of concepts in our heads, i  can't decide.
j as is the case with many bmw's nowadays think long and hard about speccing those big alloys ( doubtless with runflats) as they may well ruin the ride.
contrary to the knockers this will be a success.
i'm not so sure about  the point of the hatch cum boot either as surely a hatch would be lighter and  more practical .
it is also the cars that the uk operation is choosing to bring in to move on into the nearly-new market - i.e. all those "direct bmw" pre registered cars with a few thousand miles' use on as demo cars or which bmw uk marketing people have drivern for a couple of months as company cars.
would  choose an equivalent bmw after test driving both.
lupe, don't blame autocar - they can only road-test the vehicle that bmw uk is  prepared to provide for testing.
it does the ride/handling business so perfectly that it's hard to imagine why anyone would choose an equivalent bmw after test driving both.
reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 10:11
making the perfect car (e39) only happens once in a blue moon, the only way is down after that.
lupe, don't blame autocar - they can only road-test the vehicle that bmw uk is prepared to provide for testing.
*incidentally it's not just the press fleet that is so afflicted.
not so much to go wrong either.
this is a real shame about the gt because we were told it was bmw getting out of the stupid 'sporty' fad and back into what they did best - go for a ride in any e39 on standard rims to understand what that means.
£40k for a 7-series sized motor that can do a smidge over 6 secs  for 0-60mph and return 40mpg.
i'm not so sure about the point of the hatch cum boot either as surely a hatch would be lighter and more practical .
they were all sports  or, in the case of the few se fives available, were on "optional"  bigger wheels.
do they offer a gt with "normal" tyres ?
just like with so many other car co's its just a matter of short years before bmw is taken up by toyota, honda, vw, mb or nissan/renault.
although they are trying as best they can, they simply  cannot copy nor compete with vw/audi/porsche and it isn't even close.
making the perfect car (e39) only happens once in a blue moon, the only way is  down after that.
this is a real shame about the gt because we were told it was bmw getting  out of the stupid 'sporty' fad and back into what they did best - go for a ride  in any e39 on standard rims to understand what that means.
i hope the new 5 series/5 series touring will be better resolved than  this.
bmw is in free fall.
the front somehow reminds me of buck-toothed mater, the old tow truck in  "cars" now i should be called 44 cars so far ... and 21  motorbikes !
ungainly from every angle, and a pointless proposition.
they were all sports or, in the case of the few se fives available, were on "optional" bigger wheels.
reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 5:22 am as is the case with many bmw's nowadays think long and hard about speccing  those big alloys ( doubtless with runflats) as they may well ruin the ride.
although they are trying as best they can, they simply cannot copy nor compete with vw/audi/porsche and it isn't even close
sadly, the ultimate  driving machine looks like remaining the uncomfortable jarring machine.
the front somehow reminds me of buck-toothed mater, the old tow truck in "cars"now i should be called 44 cars so far ... and 21 motorbikes !
and this, this is the basis for the new 5-series.
and it was on 19-inch rims: looks like we could teach jerry a thing or two.
although they are trying as best they can, they simply cannot copy nor compete with vw/audi/porsche and it isn't even close.
reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 10:50 am lupe: this does not make any sense, weren't  first drive impressions very positive?
£40k for a 7-series sized motor that can do a smidge over 6 secs for 0-60mph and return 40mpg.
subscribe to our news with our rss feeds to advertise with autocar contact us discover our titles at themagazineshop.com autocar.co.uk is brought to you by haymarket consumer media autocar is part ofhaymarket cars and aftermarket about haymarket | international licensing | © haymarket media group 2012
and it was on  19-inch rims: looks like we could teach jerry a thing or two.
lupe: this does not make any sense, weren't first drive impressions very positive?
although they are  trying as best they can, they simply cannot copy nor compete with  vw/audi/porsche and it isn't even close
fulfill your potential at haymarket careers >
jl4069: bmw is in free fall.
let's just do everything!" hah, quite.
surely why doesn't autocar test a car that is  best speced to deliver its all?
they must believe that most people buy their cars on the basis of  looks alone, and perhaps they are right, which if true would be depressing.
okay, so (a) there's the bmw  badge, whose appeal to green-eyed types is immediate and undeniable, and (b)  the jag looks and feels like an old fart's car, but the way it turns down the  volume on every bump and imperfection to the point that they're barely  noticeable, all the while leaving the car feeling fully connected to the  surface without any hint of float, is pretty bloody astonishing.
page 1 of 4  (45 items) 12 3 4  next > sort posts oldest to newest newest  to oldest  rate this thread
okay, so (a) there's the bmw badge, whose appeal to green-eyed types is immediate and undeniable, and (b) the jag looks and feels like an old fart's car, but the way it turns down the volume on every bump and imperfection to the point that they're barely noticeable, all the while leaving the car feeling fully connected to the surface without any hint of float, is pretty bloody astonishing.
autocar / autocar forums / road tests & first  drives / bmw 530d gt bmw 530d gt last post dec 14, 2011 11:30 pm by mario b. 44 replies.
in fairness, there have been quite a few lukewarm audi reviews this year.
j reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 4:43 am
it is  also the cars that the uk operation is choosing to bring in to move on into the  nearly-new market - i.e. all those "direct bmw" pre registered cars  with a few thousand miles' use on as demo cars or which bmw uk marketing people  have drivern for a couple of months as company cars.
reply page 1 of 4 (45 items) 1 2 3 4  next > back to top
reply nov 18, 2009 8:10 am hatchback.
this does not make any sense, weren't first  drive impressions very positive?
reply re: bmw 530d gt nov 18, 2009 9:03 am it's a bmw so it will sell, but you have to  wonder why they're trying to reinvent a niche that mainstream manufacturers  failed in (vauxhall signum et al).
i agree that it makes little sense for bmw uk to supply cars in such specs for testing, but for some years now they have been obsessed with stupidly big, heavy wheels with stupidly slender tyre sidewalls, usually in full blown sport spec, and with the runflats making things worse* i suppose that's what happens when the marketing folk take over from the engineers.
just like with so many other car co's its just a matter of short  years before bmw is taken up by toyota, honda, vw, mb or nissan/renault.
from personal experience earlier in the year, it was impossible to find an existing six cylinder five or three diesel on standard se spec on standard se wheels.
it does the  ride/handling business so perfectly that it's hard to imagine why anyone
am read the full article nov 18, 2009 1:39 am and this, this is the basis for the new 5-series.
thewizardweb: also why bmw seem to have had an ideas meeting and ended it by saying "we've got lots of concepts in our heads, i can't decide.
spec the standard 18" wheels with higher profile tyres.
they must believe that most people buy their cars on the basis of looks alone, and perhaps they are right, which if true would be depressing.
..........................
i had a ride in a 2006 xj sovereign lwb the other day.
surely why doesn't autocar test a car  that is best speced to deliver its all?
surely why doesn't autocar test a car that is best speced to deliver its all?
it seems that if you want a six cylinder se on standard wheels it has to be ordered to be built that way!