it also  reduces emissions, it’s biodegradable, it’s safer to transport and  handle and reduces dependence on foreign oil.
30 mpg city/41 mpg hwy.
in the u.s., soybean oil is the main oil being used but it can be made with any vegetable oil using a process called transesterification.
it’s made from  plant oils or animal fats and can be combined with diesel or used on it’s  own.
diesel fuel has a higher energy density than regular gasoline, making it more powerful and efficient, which is why it gets better mileage.
buyingadvice.com, inc., uses reasonable efforts to ensure the accuracy of information posted on this site, but does not provide any guaranty of accuracy.
although diesel engines and gas engines are similar, diesel fuel can only  be used in a diesel engine.
diesel  engines used to be smelly and noisy, but they have since been improved with  modern technology.
this material may not be published, rewritten, or  redistributed.
in the u.s., soybean oil is the main oil being  used but it can be made with any vegetable oil using a process called transesterification.
diesel engines are used for a wide variety of things other than just cars including transport trucks, boats, trains and farm equipment.
it’s currently being used  in both public and private vehicles.
friday, march 2, 2012 home new cars featured car articles car buying  articles
diesel prices are a bit  higher than gas prices due to demand but makes up for it with efficiency.
biodiesel is expected to continue to gain popularity and become more readily available in the future.
a vehicle with a diesel engine can travel an average of 30% further than a vehicle with a gas engine.
diesel fuel has a higher energy density than regular  gasoline, making it more powerful and efficient, which is why it gets better  mileage.
both diesel and gas engines covert fuel into energy  through a series of small combustions.
this allows for the recycling of used oils which is also good for the environment.
in a diesel engine, the air is compressed first and then the fuel is injected.
diesel  engines are used for a wide variety of things other than just cars including  transport trucks, boats, trains and farm equipment.
some car models that are available with diesel engines include: published on saturday, november 1, 2008 - copyright 2012 buyingadvice.com, inc.
both diesel and gas engines covert fuel into energy through a series of small combustions.
2009 vw jetta tdi: one of the cleanest diesel vehicles available, it uses  a nox-storage catalyst system.
it’s currently being used in both public and private vehicles.
2008 mercedes-benz gl320 cdi: this is a large 6 passenger suv.
therefore it is very  important to our economy.
some car models that are available with diesel engines include: 2008 mercedes-benz e320 bluetec: this sedan model uses a type of injection  technology called adblue that meets even the toughest emissions standards.
although diesel engines and gas engines are similar, diesel fuel can only be used in a diesel engine.
your privacy is our policy.
this is done using a special  separation process.
in a gas engine, fuel is mixed with  air, compressed by pistons and ignited by sparks from the spark plugs.
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of buyingadvice.com, inc., is prohibited.
accordingly, buyingadvice.com, inc., disclaims any responsibility or liability for errors, inaccuracies or omissions.
a vehicle with a diesel engine can travel an average of 30% further  than a vehicle with a gas engine.
18 mpg city/24 mpg hwy.
published on saturday, november 1, 2008 - copyright 2012 buyingadvice.com,  inc.
biodiesel is a non-fossil fuel alternative to petro-diesel that can be used  in diesel engines, without needing to modify the engine.
diesel powered vehicles not only have better fuel economy than  gasoline engines, they also produce lessgreenhouse gas emissions.
the major difference between diesel and gas is the way these combustions happen.
in a  diesel engine, the air is compressed first and then the fuel is injected.
even used cooking oil from restaurants can be can be used  although it needs to be cleaned first.
the catalyst is basically a filter that traps  offensive emissions.
this allows for the recycling of used  oils which is also good for the environment.
periodically, the engine will switch to an air-fuel  mixture that will burn off the material in the traps.
the major difference between diesel and  gas is the way these combustions happen.
it has an  adjustable suspension and an off-road mode that make it great for rough  terrain.
diesel powered vehicles not only have better fuel economy than gasoline engines, they also produce lessgreenhouse gas emissions.
in a gas engine, fuel is mixed with air, compressed by pistons and ignited by sparks from the spark plugs.
when crude oil is refined, it can be made into many different types of fuel such as kerosene, gasoline and diesel.
because air heats up when it’s compressed, the fuel ignites.
offers on this site are available only to residents of the united states.
even used cooking oil from restaurants can be can be used although it needs to be cleaned first.
biodiesel is a non-fossil fuel alternative to petro-diesel that can be used in diesel engines, without needing to modify the engine.
higher diesel prices reflect demand.
diesel fuel has been gaining in popularity around the world due to its many benefits.
new cars please select an auto loan type: (click for tip)buy auto refinance vehicle buyout lease lease vehicle *
it also reduces emissions, it’s biodegradable, it’s safer to transport and handle and reduces dependence on foreign oil.
therefore it is very important to our economy.
diesel engines used to be smelly and noisy, but they have since been improved with modern technology.
used cars auto loans car buying tips blog site map the advantages of diesel fuel diesel fuel is more powerful  and efficient than gas  diesel prices are higher than gas prices due to demand   biodiesel is a non-fossil fuel alternative when crude oil is refined, it can be made into many different types of  fuel such as kerosene, gasoline and diesel.
diesel prices are a bit higher than gas prices due to demand but makes up for it with efficiency.
23 mpg city/32 mpg hwy.
this material may not be published, rewritten, or redistributed.
it’s made from plant oils or animal fats and can be combined with diesel or used on it’s own.
there may be errors, inaccuracies or omissions in information on this site.
diesel fuel has been gaining in popularity around the world due to its many  benefits.
biodiesel is expected to continue to gain popularity and become more  readily available in the future.
it  reduces nitrogen-oxide levels to the point that the diesel is as clean as the  e350′s gasoline version.
bio-diesel is an environmentally friendly renewable resource.
this is done using a special separation process.