up front, the mkz concept takes lincoln’s current waterfall grille and turns it 90 degrees, letting it flow into the new led headlights.
but these new lincolns….
by the looks of lincoln’s sales numbers, gm has the better approach.
looks very good, i love the fastback side profile and the front is very elegant in the closeup shots.
i think dodge might have a bit of an issue with those tail lights of all the constant complaints about lincoln, i have yet to hear what everyone really wants from them ….
the back end and overall shape of the car are awesome.
what’s worse, they took a page out of the cts book for their interior design.
i do like the glass roof, interior, and taillights.
or maybe….ford should have killed lincoln and just moved mercury further upscale.
6:00 am ford group vp jim farley and lincoln design chief max wolff pulled the wraps off the new lincoln mkz concept today in cobo hall.
that said, i dont like the way that lincoln is headed.
more choices the better.. hopefully ford will fix the face..
the mkz concept  previews lincoln’s new design direction as it looks to snag young buyers  away from the “efficient but soulless” german luxury manufacturers.
where the fusion looks like an aston martin midsize sedan with a loud front end, large haunches and flared  wheel arches, the mkz concept goes for a more subdued, refined look.
ford doesn’t put the effort into proper upscale products unless its another version the mustang or f-150.
the interior also gets mylincoln touch, and a large lcd screen that functions as the mkz’s instrument panel.
trevster and all the other people like you, why are you guys giving lincoln so much hassle about giving “real names” to there cars, but you don’t say the same to cadillac, audi, acura, mercedes, infiniti, bmw, and other luxury companies a may or may not have missed?
but it is just like toycrusher said lincoln is just a mildly polished ford, and it’s like they say, you can’t polish a turd!
thay can bring back the front bench seat too!
it’s instantly recognizable as a fusion clone.
2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
lincoln and acura seem to be stuck in design hell.
if you really think lincoln should build nothing but large, rwd cars, then i believe you really would see its demise.
it looks good in a generic way.
the neatest interior touch though would have to be the mkz concept’s push-button transmission.
but in general you are right.
you should never make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear.
if the mkz concept is any indication it looks as if lincoln is finally  readying to step out on its own.
interesting point about the gm vs ford school of platform sharing.
but when you look at how much more work they need and how far jaguar and land rover have come in such a short time, i question if the 2bil they received by selling jag is pennies compared to how much they will spend fixing lincoln couldn’t agree more.
speaking of which, lincoln went for a full-length panoramic glass roof for the mkz concept that visually flows from the car’s hood line to the trunk lid.
um, i thought ford was going to turn lincoln around?
while it still shares its chassis and architecture with the fusion, the mkz concept takes a decidedly different approach.
it’s overall an improvement (although i do like the vertical grille slots better), but the question remains: why would i get this over a g37, c-class or cts?
i think that there is probably a good chance of the production version looking very similar.
i think it still looks too subdued and fat.
if this is what lincoln is going to do, they might as well keep the ford sheetmetal.
i like this design it is crisp and fluid and beautiful…..
as great at the ford brand itself has become, they seem completely lost on their sub brands.
let’s hope nothing gets lost in translation.
i had high hopes for their new direction.
they are not boring like lexus they are hideous!
lincoln’s had a few great cars thoughout its history ….but
up front, the mkz concept takes lincoln’s current waterfall grille  and turns it 90 degrees, letting it flow into the new led headlights.
an everyman’s car for people that weren’t into ford, but they ditched that too and vainly tried to revamp mercury before letting that go.
engine availability is currently unknown but rumor has it the next lincoln mkz may get a 2.7-liter ecoboost v-6 that won’t be seen in any other ford products, in addition to the 1.6 and 2.0-liter ecoboosts, and the 2.0-liter hybrid version.
at least ford has their core brand not looking horrid like honda currently does.
unfortunately, this is another half-baked attempt in a long series from lincoln.
i can see glimmers of good in this design, i hope they keep those and shed the other 95% of the design.
and it has no wood trim on it to speak of unless that’s dark wood i’m looking at.
lincoln takes a page out of audi andmercedes-benz’s playbook for the mkz concept’s profile, which is almost coupe-like with a long sweeping roofline.
huge improvement over the current model, bring it to production with no change to the looks.
chrysler is doing better with the 300 than lincoln is on track to do with the mkz… and i can’t look at a 300 and think “oh yea, i see where there’s a charger under there…” and even if i could, the charger is a much better base for a luxury car than a fusion… right now, i would put lincoln on par with buick, which i don’t think is where ford wants it.
buick’s cars at least have their own style, which is very different from anything else gm sells here.
i don’t know what problems people have with lincoln, i think this mkz, and the mks look great, and the i like the grille on the mkt as well!
i am a huge ford guy and love the direction that the ford brand has been going; it seems like they just cant miss lately.
i think caddy got away with it on the escalade largely because lincoln got away with it on the navigator…
ford releases big changes to their ford line-up, and then tries to upsell it to lincoln when everybody already knows they can get the same tech for thousands less by buying a ford.
i wouldn’t say it’s instantly recognizable as a fusion clone, but from the profile i did notice it.
however, the interior looks great and production ready.
and the constant references to lincoln’s past ….
the rest of the car is still hideous.
the mkz concept’s interior, like the exterior, is elegant and  contemporary; it gets attractive looking aluminum and recycled poplar trim, and  is bathed in champagne-colored leather that contrasts nicely with the brown  dashboard.
sure  it’s gimmicky, but if jaguar can have a rotary shifter, why can’t  lincoln do push-button?
the mkz concept’s interior, like the exterior, is elegant and contemporary; it gets attractive looking aluminum and recycled poplar trim, and is bathed in champagne-colored leather that contrasts nicely with the brown dashboard.
aka caddy, infiniti, lexus, lincoln and buick instead of chevy, nissan, toyota, and ford(exceptions being sports cars)
the center dash is very clean and brightly lit enough.
what the fuck do you want ford to do, develop a unique platform for every lincoln model?
lincoln is making a lot of effort to improve its vehicles.
older hyundia veracruz is hands down much classier.
i hope they fix the front end, though.
the still can’t the grille right
the current lineup, even if you don’t like their style, is by far the best.
having said that, i think this is a great step forward for lincoln ….while i would agree that the fusion may be the better looking car, this one is far more interesting (in a good way) to look at.
if the mkz concept is any indication it looks as if lincoln is finally readying to step out on its own.
because they are pipsqeek nothing motors that dull down the brand and dum down the image of whos gonna buy these cars – they are going to want power son… they are going to want the kind of power the brand has been known for ….
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2012 lincoln mkz suggested price $34,755 - $36,645
engine availability is currently unknown but rumor has it the next lincoln  mkz may get a 2.7-liter ecoboost v-6 that won’t be seen in any other ford  products, in addition to the 1.6 and 2.0-liter ecoboosts, and the 2.0-liter  hybrid version.
anybody notice ford and gm are very different?
a car almost as tall as most cuvs, 60 inches, and not much better looking is ridiculous.
speaking of which, lincoln went for a full-length panoramic glass  roof for the mkz concept that visually flows from the car’s hood line to  the trunk lid.
as its best seller, lincoln can’t afford to make the mkz ‘just’ a rebadged ford fusion.
the mkz concept previews lincoln’s new design direction as it looks to snag young buyers away from the “efficient but soulless” german luxury manufacturers.
i like how they look too, but that doesn’t change the fact that they are just dressed up fords.
it could very well be the next hyundai genesis.
it’s taut and modern but lincoln still can’t find a charismatic and recognizable style direction.
this looks more like the current fusion than the next generation of fusion does… and without a sense of scale it looks fat and huge, like it’s based on the taurus instead… ford is doing well with ford, but just because you upscale some of the materials and give it slightly different sheetmetal does not mean you can call it luxury and compete with the likes of mb or bmw, or even cadillac.
though i suppose there will always be a gap between a brand like ford or gm that do not specialize in luxo but only offer it as a option; they will always be somewhat watered down compared to their german competitors.
more importantly i bet that freed up real estate of the usual shifter area will be much handier than it looks.
as its best seller,  lincoln can’t afford to make the mkz ‘just’ a rebadged ford  fusion.
i would even say that they could’ve ditch jag and kept volvo but either way, keep a proven and popular upscale brand that is clearly different from ford.
come on ford do something with lincoln or kill them off.
what happened to simple designs like the 2006 zephyr or the integra, why do they keep making fugly designs?
and they seemingly have no plans for a rwd halo vehicle for this brand.
the lincoln mkz concept is a real big deal for lincoln.
or the chevy tahoe/cadillac escalade.
lincoln needs to be bold, which, aside from the head and taillights (which probably won’t make production), it is not.
yeah, thats basically what luxury cars are pal.
if i remember correctly the navigator was a smash with pro athletes, actors and rappers and then everyone else wanted one… including gm.
in addition, they seem incapable of coming up with names for their cars instead of letters.
was selling jaguar a mistake?
if i had to pick one i would get the fusion over the mkz just in style.
my in-laws have a last year merc mountaineer, and a 2010 mkx and my wifes
there’s something to be said for a car getting that kind of attention, i think it did quite a bit for the 300 as well.
categories: concept car, detroit auto show, lincoln,  luxury car related motor trend articles goodbye, mark lt.
sure it’s gimmicky, but if jaguar can have a rotary shifter, why can’t lincoln do push-button?
what era are you talking about?
i’m reaching the point where the rest of the cars that i buy will be the upscale models.
the main problem with mkz is that the next fusion is the looker.
lincoln mkz concept is latest brand-changing car wide open throttle 2012 detroit: lincoln mkz concept is latest brand-changing car written by: christian seabaugh g+  on january 10  2012 6:00 am ford group vp jim farley and lincoln design chief max wolff pulled the  wraps off the new lincoln mkz concept today in cobo hall.
more soft touch materials for less money.
no thanks push-button shifter sounds boring, but it looks great on that console.
im no freek motorhead
i appreciate ford’s effort to steal the look of a nice looking car by pasting on the hyundai sonata’s front end to this car.
if this is it i guess its going to be another 6 years (next major change in design) of waiting for something worth getting, if lincoln can survive that long.
as this is a concept it’s too bad none of the design features will be put into it.
where the fusion looks like an aston martin midsize sedan with a loud front end, large haunches and flared wheel arches, the mkz concept goes for a more subdued, refined look.
the only luxury companies using real names instead of letter/number named cars are the hyper luxury companies bentley and rolls royce , so please people stop ragging on lincoln unless your going to rag on every luxury car company out there!
same goes with breaking up with mazda.
home » wot » 2012 detroit: lincoln mkz concept is latest brand-changing car written by: christian seabaugh g+ on january 10 2012
for all the latest news, photos, videos, and much more direct from the 2012detroit auto show floor, don’t forget to click over to our 2012 detroit show coverage page.
lincoln reconsiders its lineup mt video: ford on display at the 2009 detroit auto show lincoln mkt caught testing in los angeles final kia kv7 teaser image released before detroit unveiling lincoln goes upscale with show stand, offers preview ahead of detroit lincoln new product offensive coming; what does it need?
bad move lincoln – as someone already said a really bad cadillac clone – push button shifting?
the neatest interior touch  though would have to be the mkz concept’s push-button transmission.
the steering wheel is very modern.
34 comments i’m actually impressed by the interior…..
it looks modern but not so modern that it would look out of place in the current car market.
i just don’t see that happening.
that’s really this car’s downfall, along with the previous engine choices.
listen to me chris, lincoln does not employ 4 cylinder nothing motors in there cars why?
gm built the saab 9-3 on the opel vectra platform.
although none of us are yet all that familiar with the new fusion as it just came out yesterday so it could become more apparent when we see them on the road daily.
lincoln  takes a page out of audi andmercedes-benz’s playbook for the mkz  concept’s profile, which is almost coupe-like with a long sweeping  roofline.
interior looks very production-ready.
it’s about time ford put some effort into lincoln.
it actually does remind me of the lincolns from the 90′s with the bar taillights.
the fusion looks way better.
i’m sorry but it looks like it’s going to be a wasted $1 billion dollars.
instead it’ll be watered down, plasticky, hard feeling and very bland just like the current mks.
i think that it´s a huge improvement over the current mkz, the grill looks way better and for the first time it doesn´t look just like another fusion´s trim level.
let’s wait and see what the production version looks like before we hand down judgment.
this is competition for the fwd es350 and lacrosse , not any of the cars you listed (with the possible exception of the tsx).
while it still shares its chassis and architecture with the fusion, the mkz  concept takes a decidedly different approach.
it looks like a good car, but it doesn’t jump out at me as being better than the competition.
the cadillac cts-v excluded from that last comment.
for all the latest news, photos, videos, and much more direct from  the 2012detroit auto show floor, don’t forget to click over to our 2012 detroit show coverage page.
how do you know that none of the design features will be put into the production version?
the primary considerations are a smooth ride and luxurious interior.
for that matter, why get this over a regal, 300 or tsx?
if they can do something about the grill ( maybe look at a ’71 or ’72 continental for inspiration) this has the potential to be the first hit for lincoln in a long,long time !
but i do know this brand chris and if your thinking its ok to stick a 4 cylinder inside of a lincoln, please leave your post and let someone that truly understands lincoln and what we all percieve it to be!!
mazda was the answer to the mercury problem.
they’re steps in the right direction, but just not enough to win my affection for the car or the brand… this is based on the european mondeo, not the fusion (which is based on the first generation mazda6).
gm releases new platforms on their flagship models like caddy or corvette, and then trickles it down to their chevy line-up.
the interior also gets mylincoln touch, and a large lcd screen that  functions as the mkz’s instrument panel.
the front end could use some work, but i think it looks a lot like the audi a7 which is definitely a good thing.