the fully aluminum a2—sold in europe from 1999 to 2005—was a commercial failure despite sales of around 175,000 units, but it is nevertheless highly regarded as a technological breakthrough for small cars.
audi is considering its own variation of the tinyvolkswagen up, and one possibility on that platform is an all-electric version.
a hatchback sedan based on the a5 coupe, it will be a niche vehicle and play up audi's emphasis on design.
launching the new a8 away from an auto show will make sure the new car isn't buried among a flurry of international unveilings.
audi could instead opt to use an aluminum/steel hybrid body, as it does with the current tt.
launching the new a8 away from an auto show will make sure the new car  isn't buried among a flurry of international unveilings.
significantly longer than the a5 sportback and more independent in style, it will be positioned between the a6 and the a8.
it will boast, for  example, the next-generation mmi system, which will then trickle down to other  models.
the2010 a8 is being pushed back from a september debut at the frankfurt auto show, where the launch was originally intended to take place.
another project currently being explored is a second-generation a2.
it will boast, for example, the next-generation mmi system, which will then trickle down to other models.
it would, however, be developed with production costs in mind, and therefore a full aluminum body is unlikely.
audi is  considering its own variation of the tinyvolkswagen up, and one possibility on  that platform is an all-electric version.
with its fabric roof, the r8 spyder takes a classic approach.
audi's other hatchback sedan, the a7 sportback, will be unveiled well into 2010.
significantly longer  than the a5 sportback and more independent in style, it will be positioned  between the a6 and the a8.
the  conversion looks so good that you might think the r8 was styled with a topless  version in mind from the beginning, which wasn’t the case, according to  chief exterior designer stefan sielaff.
now the a2 may come back.
audi also doesn't want to kill sales of the current model.
there are currently three styling proposals, but whichever is chosen, the car would again be a technological showcase when (and if) it launches in 2013 or 2014.
positioned as the sportiest luxury sedan, it was quickly seen as a welcome  alternative to former bmw customers alienated by that brand’s polarizing  styling and idrive system.
the conversion looks so good that you might think the r8 was styled with a topless version in mind from the beginning, which wasn’t the case, according to chief exterior designer stefan sielaff.
with the next model, audi wants to catch up in the u.s. and the rest of  the world, too.
far bigger news for 2010 is the a1, a compact, three-door hatchback that  shares many components with the new volkswagen polo.
audi s5 sportback 2011 audi a8 2010 audi a5 sportback 2010 audi a5 sportback march 2012
according to one audi insider, the main reason for delaying the a8 is the economy; it’s not a good time to be launching ultraluxury cars that you expect to sell in high volumes.
audi's other hatchback sedan, the a7 sportback, will be unveiled well into  2010.
june 2009 delusi , yoshi g., in a bid to better enable itself to overtake mercedes-benz and bmw and  become the leading international premium brand, audi has adjusted the timing of  a number of future products, including the next generation of its a8 flagship.
with the next model, audi wants to catch up in the u.s. and the rest of the world, too.
the a6 is due to be replaced at that time, as well.
expect an engine lineup similar to the current one, including a naturally aspirated w-12.
the a8 is one of the most significant cars for the brand; in europe and china, the current model is a legitimate alternative to the s-class and the 7-series.
audi added more powerful engines late in the a2’s life, but they weren’t enough to spur success and the car was axed.
styling and r&d are working in  harmony, and our feeling is that if audi can continue to produce the types of  vehicles we’ve seen recently, bmw and mercedes will have a lot to worry  about—and soon.
the car instead  will be unveiled some time after december’s los angeles auto show;  we’ve heard it may happen at an exclusive event in florida.
the detroit  auto show will be the first to host the new a8.
another possibility is a version powered by a conventional combustion engine that could achieve well over 110 mpg in the european cycle.
view photo gallery photos (27) subscribe to car  and driver magazine audi research>
the  fully aluminum a2—sold in europe from 1999 to 2005—was a commercial  failure despite sales of around 175,000 units, but it is nevertheless highly  regarded as a technological breakthrough for small cars.
the a8 is  one of the most significant cars for the brand; in europe and china, the  current model is a legitimate alternative to the s-class and the 7-series.
the2010 a8 is being pushed back from a september debut at the frankfurt auto  show, where the launch was originally intended to take place.
it is positioned well  below the a3, which itself is due to be replaced in 2011.
view photo gallery photos (27) 2011 audi a5 sportback 2010 audi r8 5.2 v10 fsi quattro audi a7 sportback concept 2011 audi a8 2010
the a5 sportback will be exhibited at the frankfurt show, as will the r8  spyder.
that year will also  see the launch of a five-door a1, and the q3—whichrecently was confirmed  for production—a crossover based on the golf/a3 platform and built by  vw's subsidiary seat in spain.
a5 sportback and r8 spyder coming to frankfurt the a5 sportback, details on which are due soon, won't have that last problem.
the a6 is due to be replaced at that time, as  well.
the audi sportback concept unveiled in detroit this past january provides a clear idea of what the finished product will look like.
another possibility is a version  powered by a conventional combustion engine that could achieve well over 110  mpg in the european cycle.
a5 sportback and r8 spyder coming to frankfurt the a5 sportback, details on which are due soon, won't have that last  problem.
according to one audi insider, the main reason for  delaying the a8 is the economy; it’s not a good time to be launching  ultraluxury cars that you expect to sell in high volumes.
it is positioned well below the a3, which itself is due to be replaced in 2011.
far bigger news for 2010 is the a1, a compact, three-door hatchback that shares many components with the new volkswagen polo.
expect an engine lineup similar to the current one, including a  naturally aspirated w-12.
shopping tools advertisement car newsarrow
positioned as the sportiest luxury sedan, it was quickly seen as a welcome alternative to former bmw customers alienated by that brand’s polarizing styling and idrive system.
audi  could instead opt to use an aluminum/steel hybrid body, as it does with the  current tt.
a hatchback sedan based on the a5 coupe, it will be a niche vehicle  and play up audi's emphasis on design.
next audi a8 pushed back, plus audi plans for 2010 and beyond audi’s future includes a1, a5 and a7 sportbacks, q3, a new a2, and  more.
the a8 is still selling well in several markets, and a frankfurt launch might bring orders to a halt before the new a8 arrives in dealerships in the spring of 2010.
it flopped because it was expensive and because it wasn’t particularly sporty; for most of its life, the top two engines made a measly 75 hp.
in our talks with audi engineers and designers, their mood is noticeably upbeat despite the current economic crisis.
the detroit auto show will be the first to host the new a8.
the car instead will be unveiled some time after december’s los angeles auto show; we’ve heard it may happen at an exclusive event in florida.
it would, however, be developed with  production costs in mind, and therefore a full aluminum body is unlikely.
styling and r&d are working in harmony, and our feeling is that if audi can continue to produce the types of vehicles we’ve seen recently, bmw and mercedes will have a lot to worry about—and soon.
the a8 is still  selling well in several markets, and a frankfurt launch might bring orders to a  halt before the new a8 arrives in dealerships in the spring of 2010.
it flopped because it  was expensive and because it wasn’t particularly sporty; for most of its  life, the top two engines made a measly 75 hp.
in our talks with audi engineers and designers, their mood is noticeably  upbeat despite the current economic crisis.
in a bid to better enable itself to overtake mercedes-benz and bmw and become the leading international premium brand, audi has adjusted the timing of a number of future products, including the next generation of its a8 flagship.
a1 and a2, and away we go .
unlike its somewhat plump competitor, the upcoming bmw 5-series gran turismo, the a5 sportback looks sleek, with low, sporty lines.
the a5 sportback will be exhibited at the frankfurt show, as will the r8 spyder.
that year will also see the launch of a five-door a1, and the q3—whichrecently was confirmed for production—a crossover based on the golf/a3 platform and built by vw's subsidiary seat in spain.
the audi sportback concept unveiled in detroit this past january provides  a clear idea of what the finished product will look like.
audi added more powerful engines  late in the a2’s life, but they weren’t enough to spur success and  the car was axed.
unlike its somewhat plump competitor,  the upcoming bmw 5-series gran turismo, the a5 sportback looks sleek, with low,  sporty lines.
there are currently three styling proposals, but  whichever is chosen, the car would again be a technological showcase when (and  if) it launches in 2013 or 2014.
so audi has a lot on its plate until 2011.
audi wants to play up the design theme, and the aluminum-structured a8 will be another large step forward for the brand, particularly inside the cabin.
audi wants to play up  the design theme, and the aluminum-structured a8 will be another large step  forward for the brand, particularly inside the cabin.