according to all the reviews i found, reliability  is average, and customer satisfaction with the a3 is outstanding.
cost cutting and no concern for the history of the  brand is destroying the german car market.
the car is now a rocket, especially in sport mode and on cooler days.
replaced the worn out front suspension,  eibach springs, koni shocks.
the only problem i had was with the compressor on my 1993 90cs, with my 1999 a6 no trouble at all and now with my 2001 a8l i just drive and drive.
that was a  disaster.
now i have just purchased an a3, and it reminds me of why i loved the tt.
my only true complaint with  audi is the sound and navigation systems.
we have lots of traffic here in southern florida and i just am smitten with the way this tranny performs... .2 second shifts up or down, rpm blipping, and a couple different shifting patterns with properly-placed paddles.
i consider myself a well liked , knowledgeable salesperson with a great client base .
when i meet a new - potential customer for the first time i take pains in pointing out both the good and bad of german cars .
our first audi was a '98 a6 wagon with almost 170,000 miles on it.
audi removed most of the great features to make it a  vanilla sports car.
hammatime enthusiast | posts: 303 |  joined: 02/07  posted: 12/10/07 05:16 pm as much as it bites me in the ass to say this,you are not there to inform  the customer-you are there to sell whatever car it is you're selling.
i would take an r8,tdi, even with all its(socalled) problems ,im retired, and got time on my hands,r8,tdi ohhyeah!!
seabreez: i am a 2008 tt owner also, a 2.0 turbo roadster, and would not purchase anything but the s-tronic transmission.
the other was a 5000s diesel back in the days when diesel was a big pain.
tiredof new  user | posts: 7 | joined: 12/07  posted: 12/01/07 09:42 pm i sell audi-bmw-porsche automobiles .
car0397 new user | posts: 2 |  joined: 01/08  posted: 01/15/08 06:02 pm
the cars have always been the best option when you are looking for something a  little more comfortable and unique over other german brands.
in fact, my opinion of the other two major german builders, mb and bmw, has diminished with my also having reliability issues with each model i have owned.
i regularly use  the tt on  snowy  country roads in england with my son in tow and we  have lots of fun
my experience owning cars by these japanese makers has been excellent.
my second audi is a 2006 a6 for  the wife, with 38,000 miles on it and nary a problem in that time period.
and  as far as navigation, audi's is twice as good as the navigation in my 2003 clk  convertible.
all cars in fact have significantly improved  their vehicles in terms of quality.
pity, as  i've recently started thinking about which audi to get next... ms.m new user | posts: 1 | joined: 01/08  posted:  01/17/08 02:57 pm i am having a hard time believing these post are actual audi customers.
although i am a tt owner, i can tell you that i will never purchase an automatic tt (s-tronic) they are trying to push here in the usa.
we drive it >2000 miles back east each summer.
auto shows cars by brand -- acura  -- audi -- bmw -- buick -- cadillac -- chevrolet -- chrysler -- dodge -- ford  -- gmc -- honda -- hyundai -- infiniti -- isuzu -- jaguar -- jeep -- land rover  -- lexus -- lincoln -- mazda -- mercedes-benz -- mercury -- mini -- mitsubishi  -- nissan -- pontiac -- saab -- saturn -- subaru -- toyota -- volkswagen --  volvo home |  active posts | search |  search: advanced search 1 |  2 |  3 |  next   | last item posts 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 audi quality new user | posts: 2 | joined: 01/07  posted: 01/31/07 06:35 pm
i enjoy driving the german cars , i prefer owning  the japenese cars .
these cars are built to last 400-500,000 miles
dieselrules new user | posts: 3 | joined: 01/08  posted: 01/27/08 02:24 pm our first audi was a '98 a6 wagon with almost 170,000 miles on it.
i already flashed the  ecu(apr)and added a neuspeed cold air intake with a metallic blitz filter.
my fear regarding the quality issues of german cars is that  they  will not improve but in fact may get worse as our dollar continues  to fall .
all cars in fact have significantly improved their vehicles in terms of quality.
i leased the car as a project car and plan to do other upgrades to bring hp levels into the 325 to 350 range... easy to do on this engine.
i consider myself a well liked , knowledgeable salesperson with a  great client base .
the german mystic is, in my opinion, simply good advertising.
next was a 2001 a6 wagon from utah with only 114,000 miles on it.
the audi today cannot be compared to an audi of even 10 years ago.
my fear regarding the quality issues of german cars is that they will not improve but in fact may get worse as our dollar continues to fall .
what i want in a  high-end car is to be able to drive it each day and not simply wait for the  shop to repair it.
we put eibach springs ans struts on it, and 17" s6 5-spoke alloys.
they have been reiable, comfortable and outstanding perfomers.
what i want in a high-end car is to be able to drive it each day and not simply wait for the shop to repair it.
i have owned many cars over the years including many japanese and german brands .
it is a shame because they have always served my family well and the cars have become the new benchmark with many others trying to keep up.
compared to japan, they are an  embarrassment.
i too have had two audi's,one of which was the first tt.
audi was unfailingly ready to fix things (totally replaced the dash, the sound system, the transmission, and the heating/cooling system, and always provided a lovely audi to drive while mine was being fixed) but it got old.
it is a shame because they have  always served my family well and the cars have become the new benchmark with  many others trying to keep up.
maybe the quality has been deteriorating during the latest decade.
the other was  a 5000s diesel back in the days when diesel was a big pain.
tire  rack tire & wheel --
we put eibach springs ans  struts on it, and 17" s6 5-spoke alloys.
i heard about audi reliability problems ten years ago and now alot of bmw's and mercedes having them too.
i guess you know that in the rest of the civilized world, the a3 is available with bluetec, which gets well over 50 mpg.
compared to japan, they are an embarrassment.
edward.larson new user | posts: 1 | joined: 01/08   posted: 01/03/08 01:51 pm audi has done an incredible job with the look of this car.
it was a fine car,  except for the problems inherent in diesels.
and i saw a good interview with an audi brand specialist that explains a lot about the r8
my only true complaint with audi is the sound and navigation systems.
i regularly use the tt on snowy country roads in england with my son in tow and we have lots of fun
it was a fine car, except for the problems inherent in diesels.
i present the facts as i know them and the consumer is better able to make a decision .
we have lots of traffic  here in southern florida and i just am smitten with the way this tranny  performs... .2 second shifts up or down, rpm blipping, and a couple different  shifting patterns with properly-placed paddles.
bigfelix new user | posts: 1 | joined: 01/08   posted: 01/17/08 12:19 pm i'm now on my 7th audi, in a history that includes the following:   1974 100ls, 1980 80gls (uk car), 1982 4000, 1985 coupe gt, 1989 90
the german mystic is, in my opinion, simply good  advertising.
does anyone know if build quality has improved?
sadly,german cars of  all makes are suffering from the effects of the 'making them at the lowest  cost' process.
next was a 2001  a6 wagon from utah with only 114,000 miles on it.
my wife loves that car.
1  |  2 |  3 |  next   | last print  email  share  social web facebook  twitter  stumbleupon get a free and easy new car price  quote in minutes research categories
i have owned three audis and have not had overwhelming trouble with any of  them.
in terms  of build quality i will always think german engineers are top notch.
i am not there "just to sell" i am there to promote the products that i represent and to build relationships with my customer base .
they  have been reiable, comfortable and outstanding perfomers.
so all you detractors of the brand, put that in your bong and smoke it.
i present the  facts as i know them and the consumer is better able to make a decision .
in  the lighting department, i changed out the clear drl's and put in amber bulbs  and my fog lights are now hid.
my  family - including my parents have been long term audi owners with an  occasional cadillac and bmw.
in closing, i would state that i have had some nice rides in the past,  i'm 57 years young, and i never received the attention and positive unsolicited  responses that the new tt garners from people of all ages and walks of life.
in the lighting department, i changed out the clear drl's and put in amber bulbs and my fog lights are now hid.
the car is now a rocket, especially in sport  mode and on cooler days.
ronbros new user | posts: 3 | joined: 01/08  posted: 01/23/08 12:47 pm i would take an r8,tdi, even with all its(socalled) problems ,im retired,  and got time on my hands,r8,tdi ohhyeah!!
i believe many of  these so called audi owners are nothing more than goonies that are paid to  create negative rumors and fear about audi.
audi removed most of the great features to make it a vanilla sports car.
except  for the '74 100ls and '85 gt, all have been exceptionally reliable.
my family - including my parents have been long term audi owners with an occasional cadillac and bmw.
as much as it bites me in the ass to say this,you are not there to inform the customer-you are there to sell whatever car it is you're selling.
i had a 2002 a4, and the only problem was the faulty ignition coils, which was handled in fine style by my dealership, in conjunction with audi.
but they are better that all other german cars .
the last  was an a6 i had for 4 years.
quattro, 1992 100s, and 1999 a6 quattro (still my daily driver).
soon,they will be buying korean built 'german cars',rebadging them and selling them worldwide as german.
they  will drive the customers to the japanese makes.
buy a benz or audi that's 5 years old and you can find one under $10k.
i adored the tt in spite of the four tows that were required in the  two years i had the car, but i finally got tired of being stranded on the road.
new user | posts: 3 | joined: 12/07  posted: 12/10/07 08:15 pm hammatime , you are entitled to your opinion , i do not think  you are correct .
i had a 2002 a4, and the only problem  was the faulty ignition coils, which was handled in fine style by my  dealership, in conjunction with audi.
each was beset with mechanical failures.
i'm now on my 7th audi, in a history that includes the following: 1974 100ls, 1980 80gls (uk car), 1982 4000, 1985 coupe gt, 1989 90 quattro, 1992 100s, and 1999 a6 quattro (still my daily driver).
porsche is far from perfect
it is a shame that the high degree of quality that once was a mark of german autombile makering seems to have beomce a thing of the past.
i have owned three audis and have not had overwhelming trouble with any of them.
green  room -- general automotive -- technical discussion -- future cars auto news --  this month in automobile -- industry news --
the cars have always been the best option when you are looking for something a little more comfortable and unique over other german brands.
i currently own an q7 and a 2008 tt and would not  even consider any other brand  at this point.
and i have a calm mind knowing it is awd.
i believe many of these so called audi owners are nothing more than goonies that are paid to create negative rumors and fear about audi.
i do not know where all the negative comments are coming from about reliability, but as it stands now, with audi experiencing a design and technical renaissance, i plan on staying with the marque for a long time.
in fact, my opinion of the other two major german builders,  mb and bmw, has diminished with my also having reliability issues with each  model i have owned.
i work hard , i am honest and most of the time i am rewarded  for it .
this is for mods only!!!
the quality of audi and that of bmw  needs to be improved .
i have had 2 audis and have had a lot of repair problems.
i enjoy driving the german cars , i prefer owning the japenese cars .
we have had mild issues with most of the vehicles but nothing out of the ordinary and the audis tend to have fewer major issues and fewer visits to the shop.
in fact, i do not know any tt owner that would purchase the new tt.
i sell audi-bmw-porsche automobiles .
sadly,german cars of all makes are suffering from the effects of the 'making them at the lowest cost' process.
thanks for the site, it's a great one.
i do not know where all the negative comments are coming from about  reliability, but as it stands now, with audi experiencing a design and  technical renaissance, i plan on staying with the marque for a long time.
my family has met many many other audi groups and even toured with these groups from time to time.
seabreez: the audi today cannot be compared to an audi of even 10 years ago.
the cost of a quality german luxury sedan is much too high when compared to the prices asked by acura, infiniti and lexus.
i am not  there "just to sell" i am there to promote the products that i  represent and to build relationships with my customer base .
now i have just purchased an a3,  and it reminds me of why i loved the tt.
home/forums/audi/audi quality automobile forums  where car enthusiasts go to discuss cars online select a forum to browse or post in general discussion --
there is hardly any new car in a showroom that  matches this car for luxury, performance, and understated elegance.
the car gets 25 to 30 mpg and is a technical and  design tour de force.
maybe  the quality has been deteriorating during the latest decade.
pity, as i've recently started thinking about which audi to get next... i am having a hard time believing these post are actual audi customers.
and i saw  a good interview with an audi brand specialist that explains a lot about the r8  and it's design and build ( www.wsw.com/show ).
seabreez new user | posts: 2 | joined: 01/08  posted: 01/14/08 02:22 pm
i have heard that about two years ago sales fell off and audi hired a daimler-chrysler person to improve quality.
seabreez new user | posts: 2 |  joined: 01/08  posted: 01/14/08 02:29 pm i guess you know that in the rest of the civilized world, the a3 is  available with bluetec, which gets well over 50 mpg.
my only true complaint with audi is the sound  and navigation systems.
my next upgrade will come shortly; a downpipe and catback glh twin-tipped dual exhausts and a stage two ecu flash, good for another 25 hp.
my next upgrade will come shortly; a downpipe  and catback glh twin-tipped dual exhausts and a stage two ecu flash, good  for another 25 hp.
my second audi is a 2006 a6 for the wife, with 38,000 miles on it and nary a problem in that time period.
replaced the worn out front suspension, eibach springs, koni shocks.
it is a  shame that the high degree of quality that once was a mark of german autombile  makering seems to have beomce a thing of the past.
my third is presently the tt, which i do not expect any problems with.
each  was beset with mechanical failures.
i think being informative is an important part of my job .
once again, this is  an excellent example of audi not understanding their market here in the usa.
we don't learn quickly, do we?
as  nearly as i can determine, about every 3rd audi has lots of problems.
although on paper the body  designs, engine specs and interior ambiance really appeals to me, the extremely  poor reliability of these machines keep me from even considering them again for  purchase.
my  experience owning cars by these japanese makers has been excellent.
i fervently hope that it's problem-free (don't we all), and i believe that it will be or i wouldn't have bought it, but we will see.
awesome car, as solid as a tenk, and never a problem.
hammatime , you are entitled to your opinion , i do not think you are correct .
except for the '74 100ls and '85 gt, all have been exceptionally reliable.
every car maker puts out the occasional lemon, but i've yet to own or drive a german automobile that registered a complaint for me, and that includes audi's a6.
there is hardly any new car in a showroom that matches this car for luxury, performance, and understated elegance.
if you have this much concern for the quality of the cars you are selling then  you might want to go sell infinity's and lexus's.
they will drive the customers to the japanese makes.
i too owned two audi's.
as nearly as i can determine, about every 3rd audi has lots of problems.
i have heard that about two years ago sales  fell off and audi hired a daimler-chrysler person to improve quality.
the quality of audi and that of bmw needs to be improved .
audi was unfailingly ready to fix things (totally replaced the dash, the sound  system, the transmission, and the heating/cooling system, and always provided a  lovely audi to drive while mine was being fixed) but it got old.
i bought a 2000 a6 2.7t 6-spd with 165,000 miles on it.
i heard about audi reliability problems ten years ago and now alot of   bmw's and mercedes having them too.
i work hard , i am honest and most of the time i am rewarded for it .
if you have this much concern for the quality of the cars you are selling then you might want to go sell infinity's and lexus's.
cost cutting and no concern for the history of the brand is destroying the german car market.
i already flashed the ecu(apr)and added a neuspeed cold air intake with a metallic blitz filter.
there's been a lot of hub-bub around this car lately
but they are better that all  other german cars .
according to all the reviews i found, reliability is average, and customer satisfaction with the a3 is outstanding.
my family has met many many  other  audi groups and even toured with these groups from time to time.
i currently own an q7 and a 2008 tt and would not even consider any other brand at this point.
the car gets 25 to 30 mpg and is a technical and design tour de force.
once again, this is an excellent example of audi not understanding their market here in the usa.
i adored the tt in spite of the four tows that were required in the two years i had the car, but i finally got tired of being stranded on the road.
in closing, i would state that i have had some nice rides in the past, i'm 57 years young, and i never received the attention and positive unsolicited responses that the new tt garners from people of all ages and walks of life.
audi has done an incredible job with the look of this car.
this is my third audi.
and it's design and build ( www.wsw.com/show ).
shepsan new user | posts: 3 | joined: 05/07   posted: 05/18/07 12:45 pm
seabreez: i am a 2008 tt owner also, a 2.0 turbo roadster, and would not  purchase anything but the s-tronic transmission.
and as far as navigation, audi's is twice as good as the navigation in my 2003 clk convertible.
i have owned many cars over the years including many  japanese and german brands .
does anyone know if build quality has improved? docdoc new user | posts: 1 | joined: 04/07  posted:  04/20/07 05:42 am i too have had two audi's,one of which was the first tt.
although on paper the body designs, engine specs and interior ambiance really appeals to me, the extremely poor reliability of these machines keep me from even considering them again for purchase.
in terms of build quality i will always think german engineers are top notch.
soon,they will be buying  korean built 'german cars',rebadging them and selling them worldwide as german.
i bought a 2000 a6  2.7t 6-spd with 165,000 miles on it.
the cost of a quality german luxury sedan is much too high  when compared to the prices asked by acura, infiniti and lexus.
when i meet a new - potential customer for the first time i  take pains in pointing out both the good and bad of german cars .
we have had mild issues with most of the vehicles  but nothing out of the ordinary and the audis tend to have fewer major issues  and fewer visits to the shop.
i leased the car as a project car and plan to do other  upgrades to bring hp levels into the 325 to 350 range... easy to do on this  engine.
every car maker puts out the occasional lemon, but i've yet to own or  drive a german automobile that registered a complaint for me, and that includes  audi's a6.
i fervently hope that it's  problem-free (don't we all), and i believe that it will be or i wouldn't have  bought it, but we will see.
all cars in fact have significantly improved their vehicles in terms of  quality.
rainbowman18 new user | posts: 2 | joined:  01/08  posted: 01/31/08 12:17 am seabreez: the audi today cannot be compared to an  audi of even 10 years ago.
the last was an a6 i had for 4 years.
any problems with a new car will be handled before the warantee expires.
although i am a tt owner, i can tell  you that i will never purchase an automatic tt (s-tronic) they are trying to  push here in the usa.
the only problem i had was with the compressor on my 1993 90cs, with my  1999 a6 no trouble at all and now with my 2001 a8l i just drive and drive.
in fact, i do not know any tt owner that would  purchase the new tt.
although i am a tt owner, i can tell you that i will never  purchase an automatic tt (s-tronic) they are trying to push here in the usa.