the highlander is currently exported to russia and australia, and the indiana production facility will be in charge ...
the consumer union, parent company ofconsumer reports, let  its voice known that it wants california to vote approve the strongest measures  ...
the los angeles small claims court has awarded 2006 honda civic hybrid  owner heather peters $9,867 against american honda in a case stemming from her  car's inability to achieve numbers anywhere close to the epa estimates.
read more matthew askari on january 24, 2012 8:00 am hybrids aren’t as environmentally friendly as you may think.
according to auto123.com, bmw is  axing the 3 series diesel engine for the 2013 bmw 3 series, instead opting to  push forward with the new3 series activehybrid.
the technology of this type of car,  which is a hybrid of electric and conventional gas systems, has progressed over  the past few years to the point that buying one requires quite a bit of  research.
new cars used cars cars for sale car reviews & news tools & advice community
in review: january 23-27 its been a busy week here at automotive.com, and there's a good chance you  missed some of it.
according to auto123.com, bmw is axing the 3 series diesel engine for the 2013 bmw 3 series, instead opting to push forward with the new3 series activehybrid.
the federal agency first became concerned late last year when one of its chevy volt test vehiclesignited at its wisconsin testing facility.
as people's opinions are as reliable as a politician's words,  facts—especially repeatable ones—are as close as inviolable as  possible in a world where belief denies global warming and vaccinations are  viewed with suspicions.
today, general motors chairman and ceo dan akerson went before the u.s. house subcomittee on regulatory affairs, stimulus oversight and spending to answer committee members' concerns on the automaker's chevrolet volt hybrid electric vehicle.
toyota may be hoping to  do the same for hybrid vehicles ...
recently, he came under fire for recharging his car at his apartment building.
read more trevor dorchies  on january 25, 2012 2:00 pm 2 voltgate: gm ceo bares facts, not politics, on chevy volt battery fires to  gop-led committee burn the witch!
read more joel arellano on january 25, 2012 11:49
as reported for months, the federal agency had been  investigating the volt's battery system, which could catch fire undercertain  circumstances, all of which occurred under test ...
the car is manufactured in japan and shipped to the  u.s. that takes a lot of fuel.
we've heard rumblings about toyota's premium sedan for  several months now, that a radical redesign is on the horizon.
in a single-family home, that's no big deal, but in nemat's building ...
read more joel arellano  on january 20, 2012 6:10 pm 5 page 1 of 60 1 2 3 4 5 10 20 30 last » buyers guide get a free and easy new car price
the added support will increase production of thehighlander and highlander hybrid.
debate surrounds high-mileage future
read more jacob brown  on january 27, 2012 5:00 am 0 death rays: are “green” windows melting cars?
subsequent testing revealed ...
out with the old and in with the bold.
we tried to ask apple's siri,  and all we got from her was a bunch of snark.
quote in minutes vehicle information marketplace automotive.com tools automotive.com
read more matthew askari  on january 25, 2012 9:00 am 0
in a single-family  home, that's no big deal, but in nemat's building ...
read more trevor dorchies on february 9, 2012 7:30 am out with the old and in with the bold.
however, infiniti thinks  hybrids and racing can coexist, squaring off its m hybrid against a porsche  panamera s hybrid in the desert.
our writers are among the most expert in the  industry, so you can trust what they say.
our writers are among the most expert in the industry, so you can trust what they say.
in today's video of the day infiniti shows off  its ... read more trevor dorchies  on january 24, 2012 2:00 pm 0 picking up the pieces: gm looks to recharge chevy volt’s reputation two steps forward, one step back.
we're believers in the scientific method here at automotive.com.
read more jacob brown  on january 26, 2012 8:00 am 1 toyota’s le mans racecar entries to feature two hybrid motors
hybrids aren’t as environmentally friendly as you may think.
read more jacob brown on january 24, 2012 6:00 am the national highway traffic safety administration released a statement today that it has closed its investigation of battery fires in the2012 chevrolet volt.
the added support will  increase production of thehighlander and highlander hybrid.
as evs and plug-in vehicles become more common, automakers are being  tasked with creating cars that can function in and withstand varying  environments.
in today's video of the day infiniti shows off its ... read more trevor dorchies on january 24, 2012 2:00 pm two steps forward, one step back.
read more trevor dorchies on february 9, 2012 12:00 pm ford announced today that the all-new 2013 ford fusion and redesignedflex will come standard with sync, the detroit-based auto maker's multi-media player.
as reported for months, the federal agency had been investigating the volt's battery system, which could catch fire undercertain circumstances, all of which occurred under test ...
however, infiniti thinks hybrids and racing can coexist, squaring off its m hybrid against a porsche panamera s hybrid in the desert.
(personally, we think believers of the latter should  ...
read more trevor dorchies  on february 9, 2012 11:00 am 0 we hear: some jaguar c-x75 hybrid’s getting gas-powered turbine  engine tata motors, parent company of jaguar, has announced the latest step in  building thejaguar c-x75 hybrid supercar with the opening of a  gasoline engine factory for the hybrid supercar.
today, general motors chairman and ceo dan akerson  went before the u.s. house subcomittee on regulatory affairs, stimulus  oversight and spending to answer committee members' concerns on the automaker's chevrolet volt hybrid electric vehicle.
read more jason davis  on january 31, 2012 10:00 am 0 continental forecasts fuel economy, safety as consumer priorities auto parts supplier continental sees massive shifts in the  auto industry both here in the u.s. and abroad, and predicts car safety and  fuel economy asnumero uno among automakers' priorities in their future  vehicles.
once dominant players toyota, honda, ford, and chevrolet remain on top,  but each automaker has seen its points gap decrease compared to last year.
am harsh winters take a toll on cars, and electric and plug-in vehicles are no exception.
we've heard rumblings about toyota's premium sedan for several months now, that a radical redesign is on the horizon.
specifically, the committee wanted to know more about the ev's battery fires, whose investigation ...
it's shocking  news, given the popularity of bmw's excellent335d and the  ...
read more trevor dorchies on february 9, 2012 11:00 am tata motors, parent company of jaguar, has announced the latest step in building thejaguar c-x75 hybrid supercar with the opening of a gasoline engine factory for the hybrid supercar.
see, nemat lives in an apartment building, and he owns a chevy volt.
read more joel arellano on january 30, 2012 12:09
and always, please leave comments because some of the most interesting discussions take place over the hybrid.
this is an important development for a  car that hasn't exactly burned with consumer interest.
we had a chance to catch up with continental at the2012 detroit auto show ...
this news, and more, was unveiled last weekend in ...
the move helped shift public perception of diesel vehicles as smoky, slow-moving obstacles to viable performance machines.
this is an important development for a car that hasn't exactly burned with consumer interest.
read more trevor dorchies on january 25, 2012 2:00 pm burn the witch!
the bland jets engineering facility in coventry england will employ 15 people and house all the necessary equipment needed to ...
we had a chance to catch up with continental at the2012 detroit auto  show ...
starting last november, peters filed a claim against honda after her car failed to achieve ...
(personally, we think believers of the latter should ... read more joel arellano on january 26, 2012 11:00 am during its first go around with heather peters small claims court over her 2006honda civic hybrid's dismal gas mileage, honda skipped out on supplying subpoenaed information.
but in the 33-second youtube clip, "morning in hamtramck", general motors shows a different, more somber but equally important, side to the bowtie brand.
in the "morning in ... read more joel arellano  on january 25, 2012 2:44 pm 0 auto makers have fewer differences according to consumers, survey the past few years has seen major shakeups in the automotive industry, and  it shows in a recent survey on brand perception conducted byconsumer reports .
read more trevor dorchies  on february 9, 2012 7:30 am 1 bmw nixes awesome 3 series diesel for 3 series activehybrid?
the federal agency first became concerned late last  year when one of its chevy volt test vehiclesignited at its wisconsin testing  facility.
this news, and  more, was unveiled last weekend in ...
so to help out, we've compiled our top five stories, one from each day, to help you stay on top of what's going on in the automotive world.
the move helped shift public perception of diesel vehicles as smoky,  slow-moving obstacles to viable performance machines.
read more joel arellano on january 24, 2012 1:00 pm picture this: you're mid-conversation at a friend's fundraiser promoting the recycling of recycled napkins (completing the napkin cycle, as it were) when your phone lights up.
if you asked it how to hypermile or get better fuel economy, you might be out of luck.
but in the 33-second youtube clip, "morning in hamtramck",  general motors shows a different, more somber but equally important, side to  the bowtie brand.
read more trevor dorchies on january 31, 2012 3:23 pm the 2012 chevrolet volt will receive the holy grail of california's highway commuting status: an hov-lane sticker enabling its driver(s) to occupy the carpool lane.
the consumer union, parent company ofconsumer reports, let its voice known that it wants california to vote approve the strongest measures ...
take a toyota prius, for instance.
once dominant players toyota, honda, ford, and chevrolet remain on top, but each automaker has seen its points gap decrease compared to last year. ...
the highlander is currently exported to russia and australia, and the indiana  production facility will be in charge ...
toyota moving highlander production to princeton facility, adding 400 jobs  for support toyota announced yesterday it plans to expand its princeton manufacturing  facility in indiana, and will add 400 jobs with it.
as evs and plug-in vehicles become more common, automakers are being tasked with creating cars that can function in and withstand varying environments.
and so here we are to help you understand this new technology and  make the best buying decisions.
first introduced in 2007, sync hasn't turned  out exactly how ford execs had planned, with consumers finding it difficult to  use.
the bland jets engineering  facility in coventry england will employ 15 people and house all the necessary  equipment needed to ...
read more jason davis  on february 8, 2012 12:25 pm 0 spilling the beans: toyota tells dealers new avalon and 18 new models on  the way toyota has big plans for 2013, and aims to introduce 19 new toyota, lexus,  and scion models to the market, including the2013 toyota avalon.
pm mike nemat knows all too well that it's not easy being green.
if you asked it how to hypermile or get  better fuel economy, you might be out of luck.
federal and state governments, as well as  most automakers, keenly watched the proceedings since california environmental  laws tend not only to be stricter than most federal mandates, but followed by  other states ...
but after the case ...
toyota's wildly  successfulprius has become, despite its egg-like shape and  ...
we tried to ask apple's siri, and all we got from her was a bunch of snark.
cold temperatures are one of the toughest, because the chill can  affect battery ...
pm toyota has big plans for 2013, and aims to introduce 19 new toyota, lexus, and scion models to the market, including the2013 toyota avalon.
read more jacob brown on january 26, 2012 8:00 am in 2006, audi surprised the racing world—and pleased oil-burner fans everywhere—when itintroduced its diesel-powered audi r10 tdi at le mans.
read more joel arellano  on january 26, 2012 11:00 am 0 woman’s lawsuit against honda continues; honda shows up this  time…sort of
read more joel arellano  on january 25, 2012 11:49 am 2 winterizing electric and plug-in vehicles harsh winters take a toll on cars, and electric and plug-in vehicles are no  exception.
read more joel arellano  on january 25, 2012 3:00 pm 0 chevrolet builds volt, city, america in latest video chevrolet's upcoming super bowl commercial exemplifies the exuberance  people feel for the brand and its vehicles, in this case achevy camaro .
read more matthew askari  on january 24, 2012 8:00 am 0 how green are hybrids?
with the standardization of a refreshed ...
read more trevor dorchies on january 28, 2012 11:17 am the california air resources board, the state agency in charge of emissions laws, is voting this week on whether it is to adopt the advanced clean cars program.
read more jacob brown  on february 1, 2012 8:35 pm 0 chevy volt owner accused of “stealing” electricity mike nemat knows all too well that it's not easy being green.
in 2006, audi surprised the racing world—and pleased oil-burner fans  everywhere—when itintroduced its diesel-powered audi r10 tdi at le mans.
in the "morning in ... read more joel arellano on january 25, 2012 2:44 pm the past few years has seen major shakeups in the automotive industry, and it shows in a recent survey on brand perception conducted byconsumer reports .
read more jason davis on january 31, 2012 10:00 am auto parts supplier continental sees massive shifts in the auto industry both here in the u.s. and abroad, and predicts car safety and fuel economy asnumero uno among automakers' priorities in their future vehicles.
read more trevor dorchies on february 7, 2012 11:05 am the los angeles small claims court has awarded 2006 honda civic hybrid owner heather peters $9,867 against american honda in a case stemming from her car's inability to achieve numbers anywhere close to the epa estimates.
stay connectedautomotive.com on facebook automotive.com on twitter home | latest news | vehicle types | hybrid car one of the most exciting cars in automotive history is the hybrid, which has caused as much controversy as acclaim.
read more joel arellano  on january 30, 2012 12:09 pm 0 buick teaches drivers how to get better mpgs with smartphone games how smart is your smartphone?
read more jacob brown  on january 24, 2012 6:00 am 0 case closed: nhtsa officially halts chevrolet volt battery fire
and always, please leave comments  because some of the most interesting discussions take place over the hybrid.
latest news | vehicle types | hybrid car hybrid car one of the most exciting cars in automotive history is the hybrid, which  has caused as much controversy as acclaim.
specifically, the  committee wanted to know more about the ev's battery fires, whose investigation  ...
pass along the blog posts to your friends and social media buddies to enjoy.
read  more trevor dorchies  on january 31, 2012 3:23 pm 3 scorchin’ good deal: california volts to receive hov-lane sticker,  state tax rebate the 2012 chevrolet volt will receive the holy grail of  california's highway commuting status: an hov-lane sticker enabling its  driver(s) to occupy the carpool lane.
read more joel arellano  on january 30, 2012 7:00 am 0 week
investigation the national highway traffic safety administration released a statement  today that it has closed its investigation of battery fires in the2012  chevrolet volt.
an alert from onstar notifies you that your husband's plug-in hybrid—which as it turns out just so happens to be at home and plugged ...
read  more joel arellano  on january 24, 2012 1:00 pm 2 onstar shows us the ev future, talks about clouds and stuff picture this: you're mid-conversation at a friend's fundraiser promoting  the recycling of recycled napkins (completing the napkin cycle, as it were)  when your phone lights up.
but there’s more to it than that.
read more matthew askari on january 25, 2012 9:00 am normally when you think of drag racing—or any racing for that matter—a hybrid vehicle doesn't come to mind.
starting last november, peters filed a claim against honda after her car failed  to achieve ...
and so here we are to help you understand this new technology and make the best buying decisions.
as people's opinions are as reliable as a politician's words, facts—especially repeatable ones—are as close as inviolable as possible in a world where belief denies global warming and vaccinations are viewed with suspicions.
read more joel arellano on january 30, 2012 7:00 am its been a busy week here at automotive.com, and there's a good chance you missed some of it.
fortunately, buick sees the need for this information, so it has ... read more jacob brown on january 30, 2012 9:00 am earlier this month, the california air resource board met to vote on the state's latest auto emissions laws.
read more joel arellano on january 25, 2012 3:00 pm chevrolet's upcoming super bowl commercial exemplifies the exuberance people feel for the brand and its vehicles, in this case achevy camaro .
read more trevor dorchies  on february 7, 2012 11:05 am 0 breaking: court awards peters $9,867 in small claims hearing against honda
first introduced in 2007, sync hasn't turned out exactly how ford execs had planned, with consumers finding it difficult to use.
read more joel arellano on january 20, 2012 6:10 pm get a free and easy new car price
pm how smart is your smartphone?
so to help out, we've compiled our top five stories, one  from each day, to help you stay on top of what's going on in the automotive  world.
watch: infiniti m hybrid vs. porsche panamera s hybrid drag race normally when you think of drag racing—or any racing for that  matter—a hybrid vehicle doesn't come to mind.
cold temperatures are one of the toughest, because the chill can affect battery ...
last week, the national highway traffic safety administration officiallyclosed its investigation on the chevrolet volt.
during its first go around with heather peters small claims court over her  2006honda civic hybrid's dismal gas mileage, honda skipped out  on supplying subpoenaed information.
toyota may be hoping to do the same for hybrid vehicles ...
last week, the national highway  traffic safety administration officiallyclosed its investigation on the chevrolet volt.
fortunately, buick sees the need  for this information, so it has ... read more jacob brown  on january 30, 2012 9:00 am 0 california regulators unanimously approve hybrid, ev quotas, strict  emissions laws earlier this month, the california air resource board met to vote on the  state's latest auto emissions laws.
the rare earth metals used in manufacturing the electric motor—neodymium and dysprosium—are ...
toyota's wildly successfulprius has become, despite its egg-like shape and ...
see, nemat  lives in an apartment building, and he owns a chevy volt.
recently, he came  under fire for recharging his car at his apartment building.
read more trevor dorchies  on february 9, 2012 12:00 pm 0 2013 ford fusion and flex to come standard with sync ford announced today that the all-new 2013 ford fusion and  redesignedflex will come standard with sync, the detroit-based  auto maker's multi-media player.
the rare  earth metals used in manufacturing the electric motor—neodymium and  dysprosium—are ...
read more trevor dorchies  on january 28, 2012 11:17 am 0 consumer union urges california to adopt stricter emissions laws the california air resources board, the state agency in charge of emissions  laws, is voting this week on whether it is to adopt the advanced clean cars  program.
it's shocking news, given the popularity of bmw's excellent335d and the ... read more jason davis on february 8, 2012 12:25
read more jacob brown on february 1, 2012 8:35
federal and state governments, as well as most automakers, keenly watched the proceedings since california environmental laws tend not only to be stricter than most federal mandates, but followed by other states ...
read more jacob brown on january 27, 2012 5:00 am we're believers in the scientific method here at automotive.com.
the technology of this type of car, which is a hybrid of electric and conventional gas systems, has progressed over the past few years to the point that buying one requires quite a bit of research.
monday, january 23 ...
an alert from onstar notifies you that your  husband's plug-in hybrid—which as it turns out just so happens to be at  home and plugged ...
take a  toyota prius, for instance.
the car is manufactured in japan and shipped to the u.s. that takes a lot of fuel.
toyota announced yesterday it plans to expand its princeton manufacturing facility in indiana, and will add 400 jobs with it.