see your dealer for complete details on the new vehicle limited warranty, twelve-year limited warranty against corrosion perforation and audi 24/7 roadside assistance.
to protect your privacy and security, we will also take reasonable steps to verify your identity before granting access or making corrections.
these will be available for purchase  from time to time at additional cost.
summer performance tires summer performance tires are  designed for optimum performance and handling in warm climates.
"ipod" is a registered  trademark of apple, inc. ©2010 audi of america, inc. airbags airbags are supplemental restraints only and will not deploy  under all accident circumstances.
they are not  suitable for cold, snowy or icy weather conditions.
periodically the mapping is updated, and a new dvd will be required in order to maintain the latest navigational information available to us.
audi is not responsible for the on-going availability of broadcast content from sirius® satellite radio.
audi is not responsible for the  provision and content of these services, or the views and opinions expressed by  these services.
"fastest" based on independent, amci-certified 0-60 mh testing.
finally, these tires may wear more  quickly than other choices.
always use safety beltsand seat children only in the rear, using restraint systems appropriate for their size and age.
please ask your dealer for advice concerning current availability of standard and optional equipment and your dealer will verify that your vehicle will include the equipment you ordered.
page information may be incomplete.
for example, we may tell an advertising agency that x number of individuals visited a certain area on our website, or that y number of men and z number of women filled out our registration form, but we would not disclose anything that could be used to personally identify those individuals.
"barracuda" is a  registered trademark of mont blanc.
packages packages are not customizable.
if you choose to save information, such as a vehicle configuration, on our website(s), we may contact you to follow up on your interest in our cars.
we may also use these e-mail addresses to provide order status and order tracking information, and to respond to queries.
your mileage may vary.
for more information on all of these topics, please consult the owner's manual, your local authorized audi dealer, or call 1-800-for-audi to speak with an audi customer relations representative.
in this way, we can deliver tailor-made information suiting your personal interests upon your next visit to our site(s).
a pixel tag can collect information such as the ip (internet protocol) address of the computer that downloaded the page on which the tag appears; the url (uniform resource locator) of the page on which the pixel tag appears; the time the page containing the pixel tag was viewed;the type of browser that fetched the pixel tag; and the identification number of any cookie (please see a word on "cookies") on the computer previously placed by that server.
complete detailed  mapping of lanes, roads, streets, toll roads, highways, etc., is not possible,  therefore you may encounter discrepancies between the mapping and your actual  location.
for more information on all of these topics, please consult the owner's manual, your local dealer or call 1-800-for-audi.
test performed by the  insurance institute for highway safety.
some equipment may be unavailable when your car is built.
you can register with our website if you would like to receive our catalog as well as updates on our new products and services.
actual prices are set by the dealer.
for example, if you order a gift online and want it sent directly to the recipient, you will need to submit the recipient's address.
if you drive under those  circumstances, you should equip your vehicle with all-season or winter tires,  which offer better traction under those conditions.
actual prices are set by the  dealer.
tires supplied by various manufacturers.
"bose" and  "audiopilot" are registered trademarks of the bose corporation.
customer order options "customer order" options are exclusively for customers placing unique vehicle orders; dealers cannot order these options for their stock inventories.
information subject to change information shown is subject to  change.
the vehicle's electrical system, receiver and antenna, as well as existing technologies, must be available and operating properly for the system to function.
"most fuel-efficient" based on epa highway fuel economy estimates for  each model; 27 highway mpg for a4 2.0 t quattro® automatic.
"homelink" is a registered trademark of prince corporation, holland, michigan.
in the event of a criminal investigation or a suspected illegal activity, we may be requested by law enforcement agencies to share certain personal information.
the vehicle's electrical system, and existing wireless and satellite technologies, must be available and operating properly for the system to function.
destination charges, taxes, title, dealer and finance charges, as well as all  other options not selected are not included.
emissions requirements for  residents of california, connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new  york, rhode island, and vermont, an additional $150.00 charge to satisfy  current emissions requirements will apply.
summer performance tires summer performance tires are designed for optimum performance and handling in warm climates.
your audi vehicle may be equipped with a phone preparation utilizing bluetooth®interface to enable hands-free functionality (compatible mobile phones sold separately).
please ask your dealer for advice concerning current availability of  standard and optional equipment and your dealer will verify that your vehicle  will include the equipment you ordered.
for details, visit www.iihs.org.
our e-commerce site uses secure sockets layer (ssl) encryption technology supported by microsoft internet explorer, netscape navigator/communicator, and other popular browsers to protect your online transactions.
vehicles on this website may be shown  with optional equipment.
your actual mileage may vary.
manufacturer's suggested retail  price (msrp)
periodically the mapping is  updated, and a new dvd will be required in order to maintain the latest  navigational information available to us.
our commitment to children's privacy protecting the privacy of the very young is especially important.
2010 world performance car of the  year the audi r8 v10 was awarded "2010 world performance car of  the year" by the world car of the year awards.
to enhance your experience on audi brand websites, we might use information you provide to us through your my audi account to pre-populate forms with your name, address, phone, and email address.
for more information about the a3 tdi® clean diesel green car journal award, go to www.greencarjournal.com a8 efficiency *17 city/27 highway mpg (2011 a8).
see  www.fueleconomy.gov for details on fuel economy estimate.
please also remember in making your selection that, while these tires deliver responsive handling, they may ride less comfortably and make more noise than other choices.
the vehicle's electrical system, receiver and antenna, as well as  existing technologies, must be available and operating properly for the system  to function.
destination charges, taxes, title, dealer and finance charges, as well as all other options not selected are not included.
on some pages, you can order products, make requests, and register to receive materials.
we also use additional technologies and measures to prevent unauthorized access or disclosure, maintain data accuracy, and ensure appropriate use of this information.
not all bluetooth® enabled mobile phone models are compatible with audi's  phone preparation.
based on rated  horsepowerand epa combined fuel economy estimate for all models listed.
prince is a wholly owned subsidiary of johnson controls.
mobile phone manufacturer trademarks blackberry®, rim®, research in motion®, suretype®, surepress™ and related trademarks, names and logos are the property of research in motion limited and are registered and/or used in the u.s. and countries around the world.
terms and conditions apply.
an authorized audi dealer in any other country has no obligation to provide warranty service to your vehicle.
sirius® satellite radio sirius® is owned by sirius® satellite radio, inc.
information subject to change information shown is subject to change.
always ask your dealer for the latest information.
please  see specifications section or your dealer for complete details.
to better protect your privacy we provide  this privacy policy, which explains our online information practices and the  choices you can make about the way your information is collected and used.
if you are using your vehicle outside the united states and its territories, and experience a problem with your vehicle, we recommend that you contact the local audi dealer.
all of the information contained in this site is for  information purposes only and in no way constitutes an offer to buy or sell  audi vehicles.
brakes 1 brake pads and discs claim is the result of tests performed by independent testing institute tuv nord.
see www.wcoty.com for details.
finally, these tires may wear more quickly than other choices.
green car of the year®
for  information on how to opt out of certain advertising campaigns, please visit: www.networkadvertising.org our commitment to privacy your privacy is important to us.
your mileage  may vary.
"ipod" is a registered trademark of apple, inc. ©2010 audi of america, inc. airbags airbags are supplemental restraints only and will not deploy under all accident circumstances.
these figures are based on epa estimated ratings.
17 city/21 combined mpg. 2011
a relationship built on trust.
when you present the original owner's warranty and maintenance booklet, complete with stamped maintenance services applicable, the dealer can provide you additional information.
we suggest you use the  recommended winter or all-season tires specified for your car or their  equivalent.
they are not suitable for cold, snowy or icy weather conditions.
carousel audi 9393 wayzata boulevard minneapolis, mn 55426 - sales: (888) 902-4249 - service: (888) 691-7535 - parts: (888) 696-0763 - home - new inventory - vehicle showroom - new audi inventory - new specials - featured vehicles - carfinder - audi brochure - stasis information - audi reviews - audi quattro - 2012 audi a6 - 2012 audi a7 - 2012 audi a8 - pre-owned - audi cpo inventory - certified pre-owned overview - pre-owned inventory - pre-owned specials - featured vehicles - carfinder - finance - finance center - finance application - finance specials - audi executive lease & fleet program - audi owner loyalty program - audi new owner appreciation program - parts & service - parts center - parts specials - service center - schedule service - service specials - performance parts - parts boutique - stasis information - service campaigns - wheels - specials - audi incentives - special offers - new vehicle specials - pre-owned specials - parts specials - service specials - finance specials - featured vehicles - videos -
serious wheel and tire damage may occur if the vehicle is operated on rough or damaged road surfaces, or upon encountering road debris or obstacles.
"biggest" based on manufacturer-published dimensions.
please rely on your individual judgment in determining whether or not to follow a suggested audi navigation system route.
programming subject to change.
audi privacy policy privacy policy it is our  sincere hope at audi of america that what is now a purely digital relationship  will evolve into a more personal one.
these summer performance tires also have a lower aspect ratio that aids performance and handling; however, in order to avoid tire, rim or vehicle damage, it is important that the inflation pressure is regularly checked and maintained at recommended levels.
however, specifications, standard equipment, options and colors are subject to  change without notice.
the system is designed to provide you with suggested routes in  locating addresses, destinations, and other points of interest.
your mileage will  vary.
audi is not responsible for the provision and content of these services, or the views and opinions expressed by these services.
specifications, standard equipment, options, destination charge and colors are subject to change without notice.
audi recommends the use of the audi phone cradle (sold separately) with your mobile phone while operating this vehicle.
a word on "cookies" "cookies" are small items of data that some websites either write to your hard drive upon your visit to their site(s) or store in the browser.
when corresponding with you via html capable email, we may use "format sensing" technology, which allows pixel tags to let us know whether you received and opened our e-mail.
[roadside assistance coverage  provided by road america in the u.s.
the system is designed to provide you with suggested routes in locating addresses, destinations, and other points of interest.
audi of america, inc. believes the  specifications on this website to be correct at the time of publication.
manufacturer's suggested retail price (msrp) all of the information contained in this site is for information purposes only and in no way constitutes an offer to buy or sell audi vehicles.
bigger, faster and more fuel efficient than any  other car in its class.
disclaimer disclaimers please take a moment to read through the  following disclaimers.
changes in  street names, construction zones, traffic flow, points of interest or other  road changes are beyond the control of audi of america, inc.
on some pages, you can submit information about other people.
sanyo is a registered trademark of sanyo electric co., ltd. and is used under  license.
certain conditions apply, see your dealer for details.]
visit our website or contact your local audi dealer, for the  latest listing of compatible phones.
for more information on all of these topics, please  consult the owner's manual, your local dealer or call 1-800-for-audi.
to better protect your privacy we provide this privacy policy, which explains our online information practices and the choices you can make about the way your information is collected and used.
this site shall not be used or relied upon by you as a substitute for information that is available to you from an authorized audi automobile dealer.
and now  that we've taken care of the business that our attorneys advised us had to be  stated, let's get back to something more exciting, more promising: audi and you.
audi a8 4.2l nwb quattro® tiptronic.
audi privacy policy privacy policy it is our sincere hope at audi of america that what is now a purely digital relationship will evolve into a more personal one.
bluetooth® with seatbelt microphone weather conditions, phone equipment and other factors may affect optimal performance.
always use safety beltsand seat children only  in the rear, using restraint systems appropriate for their size and age.
some equipment may be unavailable when your vehicle is built.
in this circumstance, the types of personal information collected may include: - name - address - phone number how we use information we use return e-mail addresses to answer the e-mail we receive.
some of our websites may use "cookie" technology to measure site activity and tailor information to fit your personal interests.
sirius® is responsible for the programming content of its  respective satellite radio broadcasts.
audi navigation system / audi navigation plus system the audi navigation systemdepends upon signals from the worldwide global positioning satellite network.
results depend on driving style.
ssl encrypts your credit card number, name, address, and phone number before they travel over the internet.
on some pages,  you can order products, make requests, and register to receive materials.
"alcantara" is a registered trademark of alcantara s.p.a. "bang  & olufsen" is a registered trademark of the bang & olufsen group.
the  types of personal information collected at these pages include: name
please see specifications section or your dealer for complete details.
- new inventory - certified pre-owned - pre-owned inventory - showroom - featured vehicles - carfinder - finance center - finance application - about us - directions - contact us - sitemap - disclaimer - privacy website by dealer.com audi flagship store | magnasociety
however, specifications, standard equipment, options and colors are subject to change without notice.
"truth in  engineering" is a trademark of audi of america, inc.
audi navigation system / audi navigation plus system the audi  navigation systemdepends upon signals from the worldwide global positioning  satellite network.
visit our website or contact your local audi dealer, for the latest listing of compatible phones.
you will need a bluetooth® enabled mobile phone in order to utilize this function.
fuel economy your  actual mileage may vary.
please rely on your individual judgment in determining whether or not  to follow a suggested audi navigation system route.
mobile phone manufacturer trademarks blackberry®,  rim®, research in motion®, suretype®, surepress™ and related  trademarks, names and logos are the property of research in motion limited and  are registered and/or used in the u.s. and countries around the world.
when you present the original owner's warranty and maintenance  booklet, complete with stamped maintenance services applicable, the dealer can  provide you additional information.
"audi",  "sideguard", "quattro", "singleframe",  "asf", "a8", "a8l", "mmi",  "fsi", "audi financial services" and the four rings logo  are registered trademarks of audi ag.
audi recommends the use of the audi phone  cradle (sold separately) with your mobile phone while operating this vehicle.
"bose" and "audiopilot" are registered trademarks of the bose corporation.
for that reason, we never collect or maintain information at our website from those we actually know are under 13, and no part of our website is structured to attract anyone under 13.
should you have other questions or concerns about this privacy  policy, please email us at: auditalk@audi.com
[roadside assistance coverage provided by road america in the u.s.
audi is not responsible for the on-going availability of  broadcast content from sirius® satellite radio.
not all bluetooth® enabled mobile phone models are compatible with audi's phone preparation.
you will  need a bluetooth® enabled mobile phone in order to utilize this function.
"barracuda" is a registered trademark of mont blanc.
manufacturer's suggested retail price of an audi model selected.
should you have other questions or concerns about this privacy policy, please email us at: auditalk@audi.com for information on how to opt out of certain advertising campaigns, please visit: www.networkadvertising.org our commitment to privacy your privacy is important to us.
sanyo is a registered trademark of sanyo electric co., ltd. and is used under license.
see www.fueleconomy.gov for details on fuel economy estimate.
certain conditions apply, see your dealer  for details.]
your mileage will vary.
"servotronic" is a registered trademark of the am general corporation.
consult your dealer or call 1-800-for-audi for details.
consult your dealer or call  1-800-for-audi for details.
these data files contain information the site can use to organize the pages you have visited on a particular website.
bigger, faster and more fuel efficient than any other car in its class.
we would also remind you that audiusa.com  is a private, copyrighted site and intended solely for personal use.
serious wheel and tire damage may occur if  the vehicle is operated on rough or damaged road surfaces, or upon encountering  road debris or obstacles.
our policy on privacy is simple and unwavering.
always ask your  dealer for the latest information.
sirius® is responsible for the programming content of its respective satellite radio broadcasts.
this amount has not been included in the "price as configured".
we will never sell your personal information to any other company.
"servotronic" is a registered  trademark of the am general corporation.
our commitment to data security because your privacy is important to us, we have installed safeguards to secure the credit card information we collect online.
specifications, standard equipment,  options, destination charge and colors are subject to change without notice.
"truth in engineering" is a trademark of audi of america, inc.
"tiptronic" is a registered trademark of dr. ing h.c.
we use this procedure to better safeguard your information.
for more information  about the a3 tdi® clean diesel green car journal award, go to  www.greencarjournal.com a8 efficiency *17 city/27 highway  mpg (2011 a8).
the types of personal information collected at these pages include: - name - address - e-mail address - survey questions - phone number - credit card/debit card information
audi of america, inc. defines class as automatic transmission versions of the 2009 audi 2.0 t quattro®, and the 2008 bmw 328xi, mercedes-benz c300 4matic and lexus is250 awd.
how-to videos - video gallery - inventory videos - virtual test drive - dealership videos - promotional videos - video blog - historic audi tv commercials - vehicle walk-around videos - about us - about us - staff - news & events - directions - customer reviews - contact us search* search disclaimer disclaimers please take a moment to read through the following disclaimers.
"audi", "sideguard", "quattro", "singleframe", "asf", "a8", "a8l", "mmi", "fsi", "audi financial services" and the four rings logo are registered trademarks of audi ag.
prince is a  wholly owned subsidiary of johnson controls.
"homelink"  is a registered trademark of prince corporation, holland, michigan.
results depend on driving  style.
if you choose to register or receive products or materials from us, or to otherwise give us personal information, we may store some or all of that personal information and use it for marketing research and marketing purposes, which may include sharing it with audi authorized dealerships or with various suppliers that provide marketing, research, or other services for us.
activation fee, other fees and taxes may apply.
top safety pick *"top safetypick" based on 31 mph side-impact crash test, 40 mph frontal-offset crash test, 20 mph rear-impact test, roof strength testing, and the availability of esc.
how you can access or correct your information for your information on the e-commerce site, you can access and maintain all your personally identifiable information that we collect online by visiting the account information section of our website.
this site shall not be used or relied upon by you as a substitute for  information that is available to you from an authorized audi automobile dealer.
warranty is only applicable in the united states the warranty is only applicable in the united states.
changes in street names, construction zones, traffic flow, points of interest or other road changes are beyond the control of audi of america, inc.
brakes 1 brake pads and discs claim is the result of tests  performed by independent testing institute tuv nord.
complete detailed mapping of lanes, roads, streets, toll roads, highways, etc., is not possible, therefore you may encounter discrepancies between the mapping and your actual location.
and now that we've taken care of the business that our attorneys advised us had to be stated, let's get back to something more exciting, more promising: audi and you.
to make this privacy policy easy to find, we make it available on our homepage and at every point where personally identifiable data may be requested.
the vehicle's electrical system, and existing wireless and  satellite technologies, must be available and operating properly for the system  to function.
emissions requirements for residents of california, connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island, and vermont, an additional $150.00 charge to satisfy current emissions requirements will apply.
your audi vehicle may be  equipped with a phone preparation utilizing bluetooth®interface to enable  hands-free functionality (compatible mobile phones sold separately).
pixel tags we may use "pixel tags", which are small graphic files that allow us to monitor the use of our websites.
these summer performance tires also have a lower aspect ratio that  aids performance and handling; however, in order to avoid tire, rim or vehicle  damage, it is important that the inflation pressure is regularly checked and  maintained at recommended levels.
an authorized audi dealer in any other  country has no obligation to provide warranty service to your vehicle.
see www.wcoty.com for  details.
bluetooth® with seatbelt microphone weather conditions, phone  equipment and other factors may affect optimal performance.
"alcantara" is a registered trademark of alcantara s.p.a. "bang & olufsen" is a registered trademark of the bang & olufsen group.
please also remember in making your selection that,  while these tires deliver responsive handling, they may ride less comfortably  and make more noise than other choices.
we suggest you use the recommended winter or all-season tires specified for your car or their equivalent.
sirius® satellite radio sirius® is owned by sirius®  satellite radio, inc.
note: a word about this website.
these will be available for purchase from time to time at additional cost.
based on rated horsepowerand epa combined fuel economy estimate for all models listed.
top safety pick *"top safetypick" based on 31 mph  side-impact crash test, 40 mph frontal-offset crash test, 20 mph rear-impact  test, roof strength testing, and the availability of esc.
"sirius" is a registered  trademark of sirius satelliteradio offers a wide variety of commercial-free  audio channels via sirius®* satellite radio, inc.
our policy  on privacy is simple and unwavering.
satellite radio depends upon signals from orbiting  satellites.
available features features mentioned on this page may not be available on every vehicle trim level.
2010 world performance car of the year the audi r8 v10 was awarded "2010 world performance car of the year" by the world car of the year awards.
see your dealer for complete details on the new  vehicle limited warranty, twelve-year limited warranty against corrosion  perforation and audi 24/7 roadside assistance.
this amount has not been included in  the "price as configured".
warranty is only applicable in the united states the warranty is  only applicable in the united states.
customer  order options "customer order" options are exclusively for  customers placing unique vehicle orders; dealers cannot order these options for  their stock inventories.
audi of america, inc. defines class as  automatic transmission versions of the 2009 audi 2.0 t quattro®, and the  2008 bmw 328xi, mercedes-benz c300 4matic and lexus is250 awd.
"bluetooth" is a registered trademark of bluetooth sig, inc.
if you drive under those circumstances, you should equip your vehicle with all-season or winter tires, which offer better traction under those conditions.
audi of america, inc. believes the specifications on this website to be correct at the time of publication.
in such cases, we may employ an outside research company to call you on our behalf.
restrictions - bluetooth® interface
"most fuel-efficient" based on epa highway fuel economy estimates for each model; 27 highway mpg for a4 2.0 t quattro® automatic.
if you  are using your vehicle outside the united states and its territories, and  experience a problem with your vehicle, we recommend that you contact the local  audi dealer.
we may use non-identifying and aggregate information to better design our website and share with our advertising agencies.
satellite radio depends upon signals from orbiting satellites.
a4 models produced prior to july 2005 are not bluetooth® compatible.
"sirius" is a registered trademark of sirius satelliteradio offers a wide variety of commercial-free audio channels via sirius®* satellite radio, inc.
the information we collect this privacy policy applies to all  information collected or submitted on the audiusa.com website.
test performed by the insurance institute for highway safety.
the information we collect this privacy policy applies to all information collected or submitted on the audiusa.com website.
you can correct factual errors in your personally identifiable information.
some equipment may be unavailable when your vehicle is  built.
"esp" is a registered trademark of daimler ag.
"bluetooth" is  a registered trademark of bluetooth sig, inc.
to  make this privacy policy easy to find, we make it available on our homepage and  at every point where personally identifiable data may be requested.
vehicles on this website may be shown with optional equipment.
our use of "cookie" technology is, thus, to provide you with a more individualized delivery of information and an optimal viewing experience.
activation fee, other fees  and taxes may apply.
available features features  mentioned on this page may not be available on every vehicle trim level.
for more information on all of these topics, please  consult the owner's manual, your local authorized audi dealer, or call  1-800-for-audi to speak with an audi customer relations representative.
we would also remind you that audiusa.com is a private, copyrighted site and intended solely for personal use.