this  is a good thing – and a bad one.
both will soothe your workday stresses and both are big enough to accommodate your family and impress three of your colleagues.
who makes the best all-rounder executive car?
there’s no doubting really that the general consensus is that the bmw is the better car.
it's priced at £26,925.
that’s not to say the a4  is a bad car, far from it.
the  bmw has fluidity and a responsiveness that the audi simply can’t match  and so it takes a well-deserved win here.
the benefit in kind (bik) figures for both cars are broadly similar too.
sign up latest tweets - privacy policy - terms of use
driving this is the weakest category for the a4, as it just  can’t match the 3 series’ chassis.
who does it  best then?
really, the best car will depend on your own personal taste, but most of the journalists that have driven both cars tend to favour the bmw, giving it its first win.
you can also browse user reviews, photos, videos and stats for every new car on sale.
expert reviews here at carbuzz we compile and summarise expert  reviews for each car.
it’ll top 140mph, gets to 60 in 8.2 and returns 61.4mpg; impressive figures and likely to be enough for most drivers.
they are fairly similar in terms of standard kit, but  be careful about how much the options that are important to you cost on each  car.
quality, image, reliability, purchase  price, residual value, performance and fuel efficiency are the cards that  everyone is shuffling, and no-one deals them better than audi with their a4 and  bmw with their 3 series.
we think it is easily the  most handsome car in the segment, which is an astonishing accomplishment given  the main players involved.
the led front lights scowl, and the bonnet and front  wings slide into the a-post like water onto glass.
we think it is easily the most handsome car in the segment, which is an astonishing accomplishment given the main players involved.
however from  reading the bmw reviews, it's clear that the experts say it's clearly the  better car.
the bmw reviews have been unanimously positive, everyone  who has driven it absolutely loves it.
the led front lights scowl, and the bonnet and front wings slide into the a-post like water onto glass.
we’d suggest that you drive both and make up your mind for yourself because they might look similar on paper but they’re very different to drive – and own; brian ferry would choose an a4 because it is so effortlessly cool and offers a bauhaus sobriety that the bmw just doesn’t.
there’s only one way to find out… looks the new bmw is a variation on the familiar 3 series design that we’ve all come to know, love, and lust after.
our benchmark 320 in se guise costs £27,900 and comes with stop/start, air-con and the sort of toys that are almost obligatory at this level.
the audi suffers from the  customarily firm ride (especially when it is fitted with large wheels) and poor  steering feel that is rapidly becoming an audi trademark.
who does it best then?
however from reading the bmw reviews, it's clear that the experts say it's clearly the better car.
the middleweight executive car market is one of the most fiercely  contested there is, with every premium manufacturer looking for the biggest  possible slice of the pie.
the 2.0-litre tdi se with 177bhp costs £27,575 in se form, which just undercuts thebmw 320d se which costs £28,025.
they are fairly similar in terms of standard kit, but be careful about how much the options that are important to you cost on each car.
it produces turnover and profit but  diminishes exclusivity and with exclusivity comes image.
it's more modern and a quick look at the  3-series review page shows it's an outstanding car.
about we aggregate car reviews from the best experts and assign a buzzscore rating that shows the experts' consensus.
whereas steve mcqueen would choose the 3 series; it’s sublime chassis and handling keep it at the top of the list for those customers for whom driving is all about how a car feels round the bends.
interior the interior of both cars is well designed, impeccably  specified, and beautifully installed.
we’d  suggest that you drive both and make up your mind for yourself because they  might look similar on paper but they’re very different to drive –  and own; brian ferry would choose an a4 because it is so effortlessly cool and  offers a bauhaus sobriety that the bmw just doesn’t.
there are no losers here  though, as both cars look great; they ooze class and elegance and no-one is  going to mistake the driver of either for someone who gets his hands dirty at  work.
the 2012 car is a new  model, yet retains the corporate dna - you’ll never mistake it for any  other marque.
both will soothe your workday stresses  and both are big enough to accommodate your family and impress three of your  colleagues.
both are stuffed with neat pieces of design that  wouldn’t look out of place on a high-end stereo.
both are stuffed with neat pieces of design that wouldn’t look out of place on a high-end stereo.
engines the most popular engines in both cars are the high-end diesels, bought because they give great fuel efficiency and an effortless wave of torque that makes for relaxed driving; important when you are pounding the roads of the uk day after day.
engines the most popular engines in both cars are the high-end  diesels, bought because they give great fuel efficiency and an effortless wave  of torque that makes for relaxed driving; important when you are pounding the  roads of the uk day after day.
audi are newer to the market but no less familiar, mainly because they sell more cars in the uk than bmw.
you wouldn’t be unhappy to have either car on your drive, but the one that you choose probably says more about you than you’d care to admit… check out our full guide to each of the cars, with reviews, user reviews, videos, photos and stats: audi a4 guide bmw 3-series guide comments please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
the interior of both cars is well designed, impeccably specified, and beautifully installed.
driving this is the weakest category for the a4, as it just can’t match the 3 series’ chassis.
it's priced at  £26,925.
the simple truth is that few people make cars that drive as well as bmw.
the a4, in 2.0 tdi 143 se spec,  gets climate control, cruise control, rear parking sensors, cloth interior and  17" wheels as standard.
this is a good thing – and a bad one.
it’s an intellectual car, not a sporting one.
this is no  economy-optimised wimp of an engine though; it delivers sparkling performance  (0-60 in 7.5 secs) and, whilst it might not be the most refined engine in its  class, it is still impressively quiet.
standard equipment both cars have a decent level of equipment as standard – and both can quickly become very expensive when you start to dig deep into the options list!
audi are newer to the market but  no less familiar, mainly because they sell more cars in the uk than bmw.
which  isn’t an accusation that can be levelled at the audi a4, which after its  recent facelift is a simpler design, more effortless, and sober.
it’ll top 140mph, gets to 60 in 8.2  and  returns 61.4mpg;  impressive figures and likely to be enough for most  drivers.
bmw’s ubiquitous 320d engine offers 181bhp and a potential fuel economy of 62.8mpg.
if you’ve ever wanted to go to the nürburgring then this is the car for you.
there’s only one  way to find out… looks the new bmw is a variation on the familiar 3 series design  that we’ve all come to know, love, and lust after.
that’s not to say the a4 is a bad car, far from it.
residual values are on a par, just take a look atmotors.co.uk for proof.
the audi a4  puts up a compelling argument of its own too: 177bhp from the 2.0-litre  turbodiesel engine is impressive, but the experts say that it is the quality of  delivery that is so impressive, they love its free-revving nature and smooth,  torquey power output.
the audi  a4 range matches that of the bmw pretty closely as you’d imagine,  stretching from £23,625 for the 1.8 tfsi to the 3.0 tdi quattro at  £38,405.
you wouldn’t be unhappy to have either  car on your drive, but the one that you choose probably says more about you  than you’d care to admit…     check out our full guide to  each of the cars, with reviews, user reviews, videos, photos and stats:      audi a4 guide bmw 3-series guide
this is no economy-optimised wimp of an engine though; it delivers sparkling performance (0-60 in 7.5 secs) and, whilst it might not be the most refined engine in its class, it is still impressively quiet.
popular posts - absurdely expensive car options - top 5 ugliest cars ever - congestion charge exempt cars list - most fuel efficient cars - top 10 7 seater cars categories - articles - car colours - concept cars - funny - guides - infographics - interviews - news - reviews - supercars - top 10s - trends - videos - websites - about us - team - press - contact us leave your email to receive the latest news and reviews from carbuzz.
the  broadly comparable bmw 318d se also gets climate control, cruise control rear  parking sensors, cloth interior and 17" wheels.
the bmw has fluidity and a responsiveness that the audi simply can’t match and so it takes a well-deserved win here.
there are no losers here though, as both cars look great; they ooze class and elegance and no-one is going to mistake the driver of either for someone who gets his hands dirty at work.
the bmw reviews have been unanimously positive, everyone who has driven it absolutely loves it.
bmw’s ubiquitous 320d engine  offers 181bhp and a potential fuel economy of 62.8mpg.
it’s an  intellectual car, not a sporting one.
the 2012 car is a new model, yet retains the corporate dna - you’ll never mistake it for any other marque.
expert reviews here at carbuzz we compile and summarise expert reviews for each car.
it’s as if the original designer had his own way entirely with no input from the marketing department or the grey suits in accounts; he drew, they produced.
audi a4 vs bmw 3 series carlton boyce / march 23, 2012
it’s as  if the original designer had his own way entirely with no input from the  marketing department or the grey suits in accounts; he drew, they  produced.
the audi is slightly more restrained and sober, which we think is a good thing.
the audi a4 puts up a compelling argument of its own too: 177bhp from the 2.0-litre turbodiesel engine is impressive, but the experts say that it is the quality of delivery that is so impressive, they love its free-revving nature and smooth, torquey power output.
the a4, in 2.0 tdi 143 se spec, gets climate control, cruise control, rear parking sensors, cloth interior and 17" wheels as standard.
the broadly comparable bmw 318d se also gets climate control, cruise control rear parking sensors, cloth interior and 17" wheels.
which isn’t an accusation that can be levelled at the audi a4, which after its recent facelift is a simpler design, more effortless, and sober.
try the car chooser and let us help you find your perfect car!
the audi a4 range matches that of the bmw pretty closely as you’d imagine, stretching from £23,625 for the 1.8 tfsi to the 3.0 tdi quattro at £38,405.
the bmw looks a bit more fiddly and yet  simultaneously more expensive.
it produces turnover and profit but diminishes exclusivity and with exclusivity comes image.
price the bmw 3 series range starts at £22,695 for the 318i  es and rises all the way to £38,950 for the 335d m sport.
whereas steve mcqueen would  choose the 3 series; it’s sublime chassis and handling keep it at the top  of the list for those customers for whom driving is all about how a car feels  round the bends.
the bmw looks a bit more fiddly and yet simultaneously more expensive.
really, the best car will depend on your own personal taste, but most of the  journalists that have driven both cars tend to favour the bmw, giving it its  first win.
standard equipment both cars have a decent level of equipment as  standard – and both can quickly become very expensive when you start to  dig deep into the options list!
the reviews of the 2012 a4 have been largely positive, praising the revisions made and new line-up of engines.
the 2.0-litre tdi se with 177bhp costs £27,575 in  se form, which just undercuts thebmw 320d se which costs £28,025.
the audi suffers from the customarily firm ride (especially when it is fitted with large wheels) and poor steering feel that is rapidly becoming an audi trademark.
nonetheless, the bmw just takes the edge in this category, although it is a narrow victory.
the reviews of the 2012 a4 have been largely  positive, praising the revisions made and new line-up of engines.
the benefit in kind (bik) figures for both cars are broadly similar  too.
yet it looks slightly fussy to our eyes; it seems to be trying  just that little bit too hard and there is just a bit too much gilding around  the front end for it to look truly wonderful.
if you’ve ever wanted to go to the nürburgring then  this is the car for you.
price the bmw 3 series range starts at £22,695 for the 318i es and rises all the way to £38,950 for the 335d m sport.
carbuzz - home - about us - car chooser - blog browse by: audi a4 vs bmw 3 series carlton boyce / march 23, 2012
blog comments powered by disqus what's stopping you buying an electric car?
nonetheless, the bmw just takes the edge in this category,  although it is a narrow victory.
the middleweight executive car market is one of the most fiercely contested there is, with every premium manufacturer looking for the biggest possible slice of the pie.
yet it looks slightly fussy to our eyes; it seems to be trying just that little bit too hard and there is just a bit too much gilding around the front end for it to look truly wonderful.
the audi is slightly more restrained and  sober, which we think is a good thing.
the simple truth is that few people  make cars that drive as well as bmw.
our benchmark  320 in se guise costs £27,900 and comes with stop/start, air-con and the  sort of toys that are almost obligatory at this level.
residual values are on a par, just take a look atmotors.co.uk for  proof.
quality, image, reliability, purchase price, residual value, performance and fuel efficiency are the cards that everyone is shuffling, and no-one deals them better than audi with their a4 and bmw with their 3 series.
it's more modern and a quick look at the 3-series review page shows it's an outstanding car.
there’s no doubting really that the general consensus  is that the bmw is the better car.
it's priced at £29,110.