it's  unclear if this will happen electronically, via mmi or some other device, or if  it will be a sold order option only.
audi interiors are so good, one would expect the japanese would simply copy them as they have, historically, copied so many other things.
you have saved this page | see all saved  pages future audi platform models 8 messages,  last post on nov 11, 2010 at 11:33 am you  are in theaudi a6 forum.
fifth gear has a  comparo of the rs4 vs m3csl.
it's unclear if this will happen electronically, via mmi or some other device, or if it will be a sold order option only.
-rocky replies to this message: - wolfsport (may 12, 2007 11:18 am) #6 of 8 re: what is the future of audi here in the u.s. ?
replies to this message: - dhamilton (jan 06, 2007 7:59 am) #4 of 8 re: future audi platform models.
replying to: rockylee (may 08, 2007 7:39 pm)
entry level luxury performance sedans search forums enter keyword(s): advanced search browse by category browse by vehicle select make select model any model view all vehicles browse by board select a board automotive news classic cars convertibles coupes edmunds support finance future vehicles hatchbacks hybrid vehicles insurance maintenance modifications motorsports off-topic chatter pickups prices paid repair sedans smart shopper speed shop suvs tuning vans wagons warranty browse by topic select a topic =buying & selling= car buying car comparisons car financing car leasing car selling car values car warranties certified used (cpo) true market value (tmv) =
edmunds.com welcome, | | | | mobile | help | inside line | call edmunds toll-free - new cars - calculators - car finder - compare cars - find a dealer - get monthly payment - incentives & rebates - search inventory - true cost to own® - used cars - search inventory - appraise
of course the bmw dealer also has zero sticks for sale, too.
hopefully we can discuss the need for audi to increase horsepower in the 6 cylinder range, with light turbo charging as well, ala bmw, or the older, but excellent 2.7t motor.
when you get to  drive these cars extensively back to back, you realize there is much to  recommend the audi.
the s6 beating the m5 in two magazine comparos is certainly a reason to consider audi as a serious competitor.
hopefully we can discuss  the need for audi to increase horsepower in the 6 cylinder range, with light  turbo charging as well, ala bmw, or the older, but excellent 2.7t motor.
boy oh boy, it's been blowing up you as you can see.
you must mean the sales leader in the us market, for the audi is the sales leader in the german market.
however, the difference in sales between the two is typically not as great elsewhere as it is in the us.
rumors are that it can be set up for understeer, or oversteer.
unknown to him, i leased a new 2001 a6 4.2l quattro sport with a built in phone, esp, sat nav and sport everything.
to  me, audi has figured out awd slightly better than bmw -- but the differences  are very very subtle, no matter how you splain it.
i don't know if you've noticed but according to inside line, audi has something set for debut in detroit, on sunday at around noon [tomorrow] i wonder if this is the first official na showing of the r8?
reading history, the bmw reliability was not heads and tails better than the audis over the years.
then you go to the japanese, they are sneaking up on the feel of the germans, if not quite the look.
by dhamilton jan 04, 2007 (1:13 pm) i'm starting this because i'm very exctited about the future of audi.
thus it has almost always been.
these two german rivals are (and have been) close in performance and the nod for value has often gone to audi.
® - shopping - new car inventory - used car inventory - car reviews - car reviews and road tests - consumer car news - best cars lists - awards - long-term road tests - dealer ratings and reviews - read and write consumer reviews - tips & advice - buying a car - leasing a car - selling a car - family and car safety - fuel economy & green cars - car technology - auto financing - auto insurance - auto warranty - driving tips - forums - answers - browse discussions - search forums forums > sedans > audi a6 >future audi platform models you have saved this page | see all saved pages - save | - email | - share | - rss | - newsletter future audi platform models 8 messages, last post on nov 11, 2010 at 11:33 am you are in theaudi a6 forum.
reply #7 of 8 hi: by thefundu nov 11, 2010 (11:33 am) hi guys, i am new to this forum but had  been writing about audi's from since about 6 months.
there is no reason for saturn to hang its head when they can, today, produce such vehicles as the aura and the outlook (the suv?, yes?)
i would gladly have a bmw 530xi or an  audi a6 3.2, price being the reason for the final decision.
at the end, i guess a7 is gonna have a great  future in long luxuries segment, no doubt.
the new segment a7, which is covering the  space between a6 and a8 is till now been good in impressing all the luxury  seekers in its long distinctive look as well as its soothing features.
or,  could it be the a5, surprising us all?
my msrp was within $200 of his.
or, could it be the a5, surprising us all?
this has been the case  for years.
i had an awd v8 sport suspension equipped german lps car that was far more car.
car accessories= audio entertainment system exterior navigation system performance mods security system towing wheels =car insurance= accidents buying insurance insurance claims =car safety= child passenger safety crash test ratings safe driving safety technology =fuel type / drivetrain= alternative fuels biodiesel diesel ethanol hybrid cars electric cars =maintenance & repair= auto body auto repair brakes electrical engine exhaust fuel efficiency (mpg) fuel system heating /
reply #3 of 8 re: future audi platform models.
hi guys, i am new to this forum but had been writing about audi's from since about 6 months.
the bmw can be had with a stick shift.
also in the q7 it went from 0-62 mph in 6.4 seconds with a  top speed of 147 mph.
my buddy, and i remember this as if it were yesterday, leased a new 2001 5 series (6 cylinder, rwd, no sat nav, no sport suspension, tiny tires and wheels, etc.)
my msrp was  within $200 of his.
the audi wins the track event, and the  acceleration event, but loses the drifting competition.
the audi wins the track event, and the acceleration event, but loses the drifting competition.
the fact that they often outsell each other is, at the very least, suggestive.
by dhamilton jan 04, 2007 (1:13 pm) i'm starting this because i'm very exctited  about the future of audi.
) has a little bit of info regarding the new  a5.
gm news, new models and market share - 5.
cooling interior lights oil paint scheduled maintenance steering suspension tires transmission =news & events= automotive news legislation motorsports traffic laws classic cars concept cars future vehicle view all topics learn more, do more - write a car review - maintenance schedules - owner's manuals - vehicle recall information - incentives & rebates - used car appraiser edmunds community advertisement subscribe to edmunds.com newsletter get the latest car buying tips & advice and incentives & rebates email confirm email sign-up explore edmunds site map | glossary | inside line | auto shows | about mobile | call edmunds toll-free © edmunds inc.
messages page 1 of 1 search this discussion go to msg # to post a message, please sign in.
with this new platform, i think audi is poised to make a  serious run at the segment leader bmw.
audi figures it is simply not worth marketing in na,
[markcincinnati] bydhamilton jan 06, 2007 (7:59 am) replying to: markcincinnati (jan 05, 2007 6:20 pm) mark, thanks  for helping out the thread.
your car - certified cars - selling tips - true cost to own
right from a1, the cars are been marked as perfect machines.
the product as of the c6 took a major upgrade  in feature, function and reliability.
- your hosts are kirstie_h & karens what is this discussion about?
the fact that they approach what they do somewhat differently is a given.
audi a5, audi a4, audi a7, audi a6, audi, sedan, wagon messages page 1 of 1 search this discussion go to msg # #1 of 8 future audi platform models.
now, who  knows, the audi quality meter is certainly at a relative zenith but we need at  least a few more years of the kind of reliability these c6's seem to represent  to cement this with the us buying market.
what amazes me is how few people who buy bmws actually buy the  stick shift --
i would gladly have a bmw 530xi or an audi a6 3.2, price being the reason for the final decision.
replies to this message: markcincinnati (jan 05, 2007 6:20 pm) dhamilton (jan 06, 2007 7:59 am) reply #2 of 8 autospies by dhamilton jan 04, 2007 (1:19 pm
[dhamilton] by  markcincinnati jan 05, 2007 (6:20 pm) replying to: dhamilton (jan 04, 2007 1:13 pm) you must mean the  sales leader in the us market, for the audi is the sales leader in the german  market.
what amazes me is how few people who buy bmws actually buy the stick shift --
an a6 2.7t was less money than the bimmer and still was able to outgun the 5 bimmer.
the audi has a better awd system.
your hosts are kirstie_h & karens what is this discussion about?
these are similar cars, very similar.
the bmw can be had with a  stick shift.
[not quite sure who  didn't guess that one] anyway, the debate rages on, two wheel  vs four wheel more after i get back from walking my dogs reply #5 of 8 what is the future of audi here in the u.s. ?
without driving one, i must applaud saturn, for one, for producing convincing contemporary cars.
the americans,  who knows what they are doing -- however, american brands have improved so much  that i would be happy to have several of them in my garage.
now, however, the japanese are starting to move away from innovation to  invention -- and this is good for the market.
unknown to him, i leased a new 2001 a6 4.2l quattro sport with a  built in phone, esp, sat nav and sport everything.
by  rockylee may 08, 2007 (7:39 pm) guys, what is the  horsepower and torque rating on the 4.2 v8 diesel audi uses ?????
audi a5, audi a4, audi a7, audi a6, audi,  sedan, wagon messages page 1 of 1 search this discussion #1 of 8 future audi platform models.
but, none of this should suggest i believe the bmw is  clearly superior or that the audi is likewise.
with this new platform, i think audi is poised to make a serious run at the segment leader bmw.
more performance (year round) better warranty  and service agreements, lower lease payments and tail lights shown to the bmw  due to far more torque from the audis (at lower dollars and for equal dollars.)
according to "quattro quarterly", the audi club magazine: 326hp & 560 lb/ft, although it does not state at which rpm's these values were measured.
from time to time the bmw will be the sales champ, then the audi will swap with it.
#3 of 8 re: future audi platform models.
they do quote a 21 mpg fuel consumption during mixed hwy & city driving.
the new segment a7, which is covering the space between a6 and a8 is till now been good in impressing all the luxury seekers in its long distinctive look as well as its soothing features.
[not quite sure who didn't guess that one] anyway, the debate rages on, two wheel vs four wheel more after i get back from walking my dogs #5 of 8 what is the future of audi here in the u.s. ?
it will be released as a concept at the geneva auto show in february.
every stick audi i have had was a special order.
for years they have been chided for being unbalanced,  under steering pigs.
drive it like you live.
i don't know if you've noticed but according to inside  line, audi has something set for debut in detroit, on sunday at around noon  [tomorrow] i wonder if this is the first official na showing of the r8?
[dhamilton] by markcincinnati jan 05, 2007 (6:20 pm) replying to: dhamilton (jan 04, 2007 1:13 pm)
the a4 segment is quite awesome in both  performance as well as value for money.
the s6 beating the m5 in
anyway, audi has a lot of stuff in the pipeline that looks  exciting and quite possibly class leading (at least for 15 minutes) -- and i  for one continue to believe audi is more like the cars it is often compared to  than it is different.
replies to this message: dhamilton (jan 06, 2007 7:59 am) reply #4 of 8 re: future audi platform models.
to me, audi has figured out awd slightly better than bmw -- but the differences are very very subtle, no matter how you splain it.
its  rivals like bmw gt and mercedes benz cls seem to be on different tracks and  offer a varying platform.
audi interiors are so good, one would expect the japanese would simply  copy them as they have, historically, copied so many other things.
comparos is certainly a reason to consider audi as a serious competitor.
audis reputation for unintended acceleration, its financial woes at the time and a better bmw dealer body by far far far
however, the difference in sales between the two is typically not  as great elsewhere as it is in the us.
its rivals like bmw gt and mercedes benz cls seem to be on different tracks and offer a varying platform.
has certainly  taken its toll.
but the dealer body, er, kinda sucked.
i spotted an (insert obscure car name here) classic car today!
#7 of 8 hi: by thefundu nov 11, 2010 (11:33 am)
i would argue the quality and fit and  finish and design often favored the audi line.
the fact that they approach what they do somewhat  differently is a given.
the fact that they often outsell each other is, at the  very least, suggestive.
there is no reason for saturn to hang its head when they  can, today, produce such vehicles as the aura and the outlook (the suv?, yes?)
my buddy, and i remember this as if it were yesterday, leased a new 2001 5  series (6 cylinder, rwd, no sat nav, no sport suspension, tiny tires and  wheels, etc.)
the product as of the c6 took a major upgrade in feature, function and reliability.
this has been the case for years.
these two german rivals are (and have been) close  in performance and the nod for value has often gone to audi.
i had an awd v8 sport suspension equipped  german lps car that was far more car.
also in the q7 it went from 0-62 mph in 6.4 seconds with a top speed of 147 mph.
the americans, who knows what they are doing -- however, american brands have improved so much that i would be happy to have several of them in my garage.
messages page 1 of 1 search this discussion
has certainly taken its toll.
from time to time the bmw will be the sales champ, then the audi will  swap with it.
now, however, the japanese are starting to move away from innovation to invention -- and this is good for the market.
of course the bmw  dealer also has zero sticks for sale, too.
[markcincinnati] bydhamilton jan 06, 2007 (7:59 am) replying to: markcincinnati (jan 05, 2007 6:20 pm) mark, thanks for helping out the thread.
now, who knows, the audi quality meter is certainly at a relative zenith but we need at least a few more years of the kind of reliability these c6's seem to represent to cement this with the us buying market.
more performance (year round) better warranty and service agreements, lower lease payments and tail lights shown to the bmw due to far more torque from the audis (at lower dollars and for equal dollars.)
audis reputation for unintended acceleration, its financial  woes at the time and a better bmw dealer body by far far far
the a4 segment is quite awesome in both performance as well as value for money.
replies to this message: - markcincinnati (jan 05, 2007 6:20 pm) - dhamilton (jan 06, 2007 7:59 am) #2 of 8 autospies by dhamilton jan 04, 2007 (1:19 pm) has a little bit of info regarding the new a5.
reading  history, the bmw reliability was not heads and tails better than the audis over  the years.
- read new posts - watch this discussion - my watched items advertisement forum tools - my watched items - read new posts - my recent posts - community profile - forum preferences most popular in forums - 1.
an a6 2.7t was less  money than the bimmer and still was able to outgun the 5 bimmer.
right to repair - a hot issue or big problem?
the bmw is better balanced.
but, none of this should suggest i believe the bmw is clearly superior or that the audi is likewise.
by rockylee may 08, 2007 (7:39 pm) guys, what is the horsepower and torque rating on the 4.2 v8 diesel audi uses ?????
they do quote a 21 mpg fuel consumption during mixed hwy &  city driving.
at the end, i guess a7 is gonna have a great future in long luxuries segment, no doubt.
without driving one, i must applaud saturn, for one, for producing convincing  contemporary cars.
the audi  has a better awd system.
fifth gear has a comparo of the rs4 vs m3csl.
-rocky wolfsport (may 12, 2007 11:18 am) reply #6 of 8 re: what is the future of audi here in the u.s. ?
right from a1, the cars  are been marked as perfect machines.
according to  "quattro quarterly", the audi club magazine: 326hp  & 560 lb/ft, although it does not state at which rpm's these values were  measured.
these are  similar cars, very similar.
for years they have been chided for being unbalanced, under steering pigs.
chronic car buyers anonymous - 2.
[rockylee] by wolfsport may 12, 2007 (11:18 am)
then you go to the  japanese, they are sneaking up on the feel of the germans, if not quite the  look.
anyway, audi has a lot of stuff in the pipeline that looks exciting and quite possibly class leading (at least for 15 minutes) -- and i for one continue to believe audi is more like the cars it is often compared to than it is different.
i would argue the quality and fit and finish and design often favored the audi line.
when you get to drive these cars extensively back to back, you realize there is much to recommend the audi.