lincoln has themkz, mkx and the upcoming mkt.
because lincoln designers and engineers research the automotive luxury market and design their cars to meet what the customer is looking for in a luxury car or a luxury crossover!!
too bad some dumbass decided to close pontiac.
cadillac is just more upscale in my opinion.
i’ll take a mkz with ecoboost next year.
leave a reply cancel name (required)
i do love the cts-v but what else does cadillac have?
i’d choose the caddilac without a doubt!
cadillac just seems to be a little more high-end.
they seem to be quite rewarding to drive, as well.
the new style is not only bold – a nice departure from the herd – but gets better with every new model.
like many other’s said they are just rebadged fords and just wayy behind in the game!
meh… i’m still in my 20′s so neither.
cadillac does the exact same thing with the srx, and audi with the a3, q7 and a8.luxury car?
caddy has done a marvelous job of reinventing itself and now makes really world-class luxury cars.
cadillac has been using its hairatage for a long time, and giving it a modern twist.
what ford moco is doing now is taking technology that’s available now and implementing it in their product.
thread of the day: what was your favorite car brand as a child?
the cts-v is one of maybe 5 or 6 american cars actually worth spending hard earned money on.
i like both lincoln and cadillac!!but when it comes to making a choice, i will always choose lincoln!!
the new mkz is suppose to be good, and if the fusion is any indication of it, i have my faith in lincoln.
lincoln seems to only know how to redesign ford grills and tail lights.
i’m rooting for both to make a comeback, but if i had to choose one, i would want the cts.
even if it haves to be in the same platform
i used to prefer lincoln over cadillac, but not anymore.
lincoln was made simply to be profitable (explained by mass sub-luxury platform sharing)
cadillac so far does not have even a concept that matches this!
caddy’s aim is to once again be the luxury standard of the world like it was 60yrs ago.
cts is sigma, american designed.
even the current dts looks great – a very nice job (though not the most up-to-date model, of course.)and.
nothing lincoln makes, or has ever made comes close to a g37 or m35/45.
lincoln is trying really hard, but isn’t quite there yet.
the cts is sexy as hell, especially the coupe.
cadillac was recreated to recapture the soul of american luxury.
lincoln cadillac, no question.lincoln, what happened with the town car that car on it’s own helpped ford make money for yrs and yrs, why not a redesign?
lincoln has a brand new mkz, mks, mkt and coming soon a refreshed mkx, which are every bit if not better than 90% of what is coming out of japan.
if it’s a choice between only those two marques, i choose cadillac.
cadillac, way better i’m a cadillac guy, classic and modern, although i love both.
they share the same engines!
there is something about the town car’s refusal to die that makes it such an awesome reminder of what american luxury once was.
and yet it still says “cadillac.”
email (required, but never shared) web free and fast new car price quote in minutes
each is bred from a major automaker hoping to provide an  avenue for their loyal buyers to aspire to.
lincoln’s lineup now is better organized in terms of design and mission but i would like to see at least one rwd performance based sedan and coupe.
lincoln is just a rebadged ford.
cadillac cts makes the cadillac brand.
lincoln i love cadillacs.
again the mks and mkz are examples.
wow your defensive, both vehicles appeal to different demographs, and if you’ve seriously looked at the new lincolns, you’d realize what fomocofan
if they still existed today, it would be obvious who was the best.
i’m sure they are nice with ford making such a big turnaround, but i just look at them and wonder who would pay for something that looks that cheap.
i bet that you wouldnt see a similarity between the cars you mentioned if you had them in front of you.
who knows how good they could have become had they gone into their 2nd generation.
i like what they’re both doing, however, cadillac has been in the process of reinventing itself ever since the cts came out in 2002.
until caddy brings out its new upcoming lineup, it can’t compete merc or bmw.
i wish the best for both however.
like one of the other posts said, let’s see a thread regarding the entry luxury cars (buick, chrysler, and mercury).
if you say lincoln is a rebaged ford, then likewise cadillac is a rebaged chevrolet!!!!!
lincoln and cadillac appeal to different consumers.
cadillacs are just plane hot!
but i still prefer cadillac for its performance, interior and exterior design, and its uniqueness.
when it comes to quality and luxury the winner is lincoln hands down.
it’s got the cts, and will possibly have ats,and i think the xts.
either way i hope they both do well.
so which do you prefer?
but i wish both lincoln and cadillac the best in there come backs.
get with the times lincoln!
cadillac definitely has pulled off the retro look much better than lincoln’s attempt.
66 comments is this seriously even a question ?
this one is easy – cadillac.
** “it has the power of a v8 but the fuel efficiency of a v6″ *
if neither of these, what’s your favorite american luxury brand?
how about hot rod lincoln ?
the super-epsilon caddy flagship won’t be rwd as most wanted but in the time being if done right might be able to bring some true luxury to caddy (soft ride a la s-class and ls).
@leftbasuhh, what about?
anyways, i have to say caddy, both cause i prefer cadillac, and because lincoln no longer makes lincoln.
the family oriented/non-performance luxury cars.
categories:  miscellaneous thread of the day: best american luxury brand – cadillac, chrysler or  lincoln?
caddilac easily…lincoln vs. buick might get lincoln a few more votes but it’d still lose that comparison too imo.
but lincoln belongs in the entry lux market (chrysler, buick, acura, lexus, infiniti, volvo) not in the mid lux market (bmw, jaguar, mercedes, cadillac, audi) song?
thread of the day: what are your top five favorite american engines?
the interior of the lincoln has a much higher quality of materials and comfort!
that being said, caddy wins this challenge by a landslide.
i do believe that lincoln is only a year or 2 from getting up there.
plus, lincoln can only get better.
they now use mostly fwd platforms, which is a questionable decision given that they want to compete in the luxury market.
your favorite american luxury brand written by:
cadillac has the rwd platform to it’s advantage, imho.
and it definitely shows in the products.
lincoln just makes nicer versions of ford cars.
i agree that caddillac has a more uniqueness to their vehicles, but even though lincoln is a badge engineered for, they are well done.
lexus’ may be boring, they are worlds more luxurious than any lincoln and are actually worth something when you trade them in.
definitely caddy, the cts and escalade really pushed new design.
they look the part and have the kind of engines u would pay that money for.
lincoln cars are just too much like their counterparts, nice yes, but too much like them.
i’d definitely take any lincoln over any lexus, infiniti, or honda whoops i mean acura.
lincoln seems like a new player in the luxury segment after their horrendous 90s and early 00s.
while lincoln’s are fine luxury cars, they’re still not quite up there on the level of cadillac.
lincoln makes some sharp looking cars like the mks, but lacks the sporty driving characteristics that i prefer over “soft” luxury.
thread of the day: cadillac or lincoln?
caddy ftw all the way!
only because it has luxurious components!
theres no substitute for a real v8.
lincoln currently (in my opinion) competes with lexus, acura, infiniti, and acura.
cadillac is arguably the builder of more competitive luxury vehicles, but i personally like lincoln vehicles more.
right now cadillac competes with bmw, audi, and mercedes benz.
im going to have to go with cadillac.
case in point:mks: taurausmkz: fusionmkt: flexmkx: edgeat
sounds more like an edsel to me.
they allowed the sts and xlr to languish.
they were always ahead of lincoln; for example the fins in cadillac .
when you figure in the cost difference, lincoln, but overall, i do like lincoln better.
they’re not in the same league, at least not anymore.
i know, caddy seems to be doing better, but lincoln is making a come back, one that i like more so than cadillac.
mkz fusion mks taurus mkt flex mkx edge navigator epedition and who can forget mark lt
drive them and the differences get even greater.
it also has the 3.6 di v6.
also i feel that lincoln has built higher quality cars and suv’s than cadillac for many years !
cadillac all the way.
and don’t even bring up your stupid ecoboost *
least caddillac has/had semi unique cars: cts, dts, sts, old srx.
lincoln’s classy design and abundance of tech and space suite my needs better than the bling bling of caddy but seriously, i’d pick cadillac because its not just a remake of a chevy.
lincoln has basically failed, until recentely but that is rather debatable.
and (in my opinion) beats all of them.
i might give you the new acura’s are ugly, but they are in a completely different league of mechanics, reliability and driving experience.
thanks to thesavagepony for today’s totd.
cadillac became one of my favorite manufacturers of all time when they put out the cts.
like remdog said, i’m rooting for both and hope to see them go head-to-head one day with mb, bmw, lexus, and audi.
your favorite american  luxury brand wide open throttle thread of the day: cadillac or lincoln?
as he said, lincolns approach is very similar to that of audi’s, all lincoln needs is a rwd flagship for their comeback to be complete.
lincoln cars are to closely related to their ford counterparts.
@anonymous person,calm down man,
i’ve liked cadillacs since they came out with the original cts and even more so with the most recent cts.
thanks to thesavagepony for today’s totd.categories: miscellaneous thread of the day: best american luxury brand – cadillac, chrysler or lincoln?
they were the first to put them in their cars and they were copied by every other luxury brand.
sit inside the mks and cts and they’re a world apart in terms of quality, functionality and fit and finish.
the cts and its variants are the only things holding up daddy’s image.
they have dated escalades and a fancy pants chevy equinox.
it has the same 32 valve v8.
in the old times cadillac was a step behind licoln and his continental four door convertible.
c-a-d-i-l-l-a-cbecause how many songs have been written about a lincoln???
hell, the new taurus is nicer than most acuras.
they may not be fast or handle well, but they are by far one of the best rides i have ever experienced.
it seems like lincoln has only recently started its own reinvention.
i think lincoln should take that old crown vic platform back out, and keep making nice american boats.
for fomoco fan….. the reason the cts is a sport sedan is because that is what everyone wants speed and lux period!
but the mks is also quite a looker.
motor trend said the lincoln mkt had a better interior than an audi (you know the brand that wins the number one interior every single year).
just because they share basic, essential components does not mean they are rebadged.
when i see a lincoln mks, i see a lincoln mks not a taurus.
lincoln definitely, lincoln is pure luxury, not a sport sedan in a luxury sedan guise like the cts.
the dts is not a true competitor to the s class or 7 series.
lincoln’s are very nice cars, but i go for cadillac, why, because cadillac is produces great looking cars and is the only american luxury brand that is a huge rival towards lexus, infiniti and bmw
the lincoln’s are just ugly and ackward looking.
cadillas are the way to go, i’d never buy a lincoln (where’s the luxury?).
and buick is definitely the winner.
cadillac continues to push design to a new level with each new vehicle.
nate martinez on september 3 2009 5:30 pm born-and-raised american luxury can arguably be summed up in two names: lincoln and cadillac.
first of all: microsoft sync is one of the best infotainment systems out there.
only granpas want a floater like the towncar or mks that is why bmw is doing so well is they bring a full package not just a soft ride and lux!
not so long ago, cadillac wasn’t exactly thought of as competitive.
i’ve never really liked any lincolns but glad to see they seem to be turning the corner lately.
cadillac is also building high quality cars and suv’s, but cadillac also thinks they have to build high horse power high perfomance cars like the 6.2l 556 h.p.cts-v series!
so, cadillac is not the standard of the world, but by 2017 they will have a full line up of pure luxury cars.
by the way guys lincoln’s are not rebaged fords!!
cadillac all the way!
the more personal performance luxury cars.
it’s hard to not like gm these days, when they’re putting out real driver’s cars like the g8 and cts.
seriously does ford mo co have the decency to put a v8 into the mks, mkt?
saying cars such as the mkt or mks are incredibly similar is like saying a cts is a g8 or an es350 a camry.
nate martinez on september 3 2009 5:30  pm born-and-raised american luxury can arguably be summed up in two names:  lincoln and cadillac.
then their title will remain true.
thread of the day: what is your favorite car brand?
also ford and lincoln take their time to make sure they get it right on every new model they introduce!
i love the vertical tailights on the cts and other models.
thread of the day: what constitutes a luxury car or luxury brand?
until lincoln offers rear wheel drive products, v-8′s, and a 500 plus horsepower supersedan they will never be in the same league as cadillac or any other luxury car maker’s for that matter.
hey shelby- the g8 and the cts are not built on the same platform.
the american tailfin has evolved, but lives!
thread of the day: does america have a true luxury brand?
an excellent example of this is the new 2010 lincoln mkz and the new top of the line flagship the 2010 lincoln mkt!!
although i would seem to lean toward a bit towards the chrysler 300.
it’ll have, i think it’s right,a 3.6 di v6 competitor.
cadillac lincolns are just rebadged fords
i saw a 75th diamond jubilee anniversary lincoln continental (it was late ’70′s), and it was an awesome looking car.
they’re still spinning their wheels and have a ways to go but starting to gain some traction.
cadillac competes with bmw, audi, and infiniti.
panhard was the best, with superior enginnering, finish trim levels cadillacs were the standard of the world.
that is one of the best looking cars on the road.
wait…and es350 *is* a camry :p it is cadillac without a question.
it also has the option of awd, thenagain, so does cadillac, i think.
i own a mark viii which may as well be a luxo mustang cobra with automatic.
i like too much the lincoln ls, too bad was discontinued.
but, shouldn’t we be comparing lincolns to buicks?
what that would do is only make room for improvements to the ecoboost in the future models, that way ford moco will be years ahead of the competition while gm will be at the starting line.
@coasterkidsorry, but what lincoln is doing is called platform-sharing, not rebadging.
each is bred from a major automaker hoping to provide an avenue for their loyal buyers to aspire to.
thread of the day: what are your top five favorite american engines? 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
i can’t help but laugh at some of the responses on this thread.. especially the claim that one of you would rather have any lincoln over any lexus, infiniti, or acura.
buick is better then lincoln in my book!
just look at the interior of a ford, then look at the interior of a lincoln!
pound for pound if i was going to buy one or the other i’d buy the cadillac.
navigator i like too, but today, the products of cadillac are far better.
that’s closer to lincolns luxury.
i would by an mks if i had the money, thats all i know.
why are we comparing cadillacs to lincolns?
@anonymous person,now you say nothing beats a v-8 and stuff, but what will happen when cafe bumps up the mpg for each company again?
even though they are no longer around, packard cars were the last word in luxury.
in the mainstream marketplace, cadillac once again gets respect when in competition with europe’s best (bmw, mercedes, audi).
lincoln makes luxury cars?
i plan to buy the new 2010 lincoln mkt this year!
but as for right now its not even close!
president’s car and the biggest, most powerful american luxury brand.
however, cadillacs upcoming lineup with a true 3-series fighter would give cadillac some real depth rather than just being the cts.
but admittedly it just doesn’t compare.
but classically, i really like packards and duesenbergs.
themagicalatsi: let’s see…there’s pink cadillac, and hot rod lincoln.
f-150next do a buick, chrysler, mercury totd hey what about chrysler?just kidding!
ford and lincoln/mercury are now very serious about developing and producing cars and trucks with high fuel milage and state of the art technology along with very high quality!!
they are trying to build american acuras as far as i can tell.
http://www.caddydaddy.com/songs.htm
as a ford fan, i’m really pushing for lincoln.
cadillac all the way baby!!!!!!!
and i are talking about.
perfect example the tailfins!
and to me, cadillac is really the only true american luxury brand, lincoln to me is more like a premium brand that more competes with buick.
cadillac cars are so much better in terms of quality and power.
shelby gt500 kamaro racernobody cares!
lincoln competes with lexus, acura, mercedes and sometimes buick.
g8 is autralian, developed 7000 miles away.
just look at the difference the cts went through.
and, if you’re gonna knock ecoboost, please also show me a stat or review that sees our new powertrain in a remotely bad light probably cadillac, but lincoln is not bad.
lincoln does not yet get the same amount of respect.
style is debatable, but then again, cadillac only has one car.
so it reallyis a toss up.
cadillac would say dang we should of done this a lot sooner.
however, both of these companies pale in comparison to the ultimate king of american luxury, packard.
lincoln has developed the lincoln c concept with a 1.6l ecoboost that averages 43 mpg on the highway!!