and of course, still no clue at all  on the premium for their hybrid powertrain.
what luxury features does a current volvo not have?
maybe volvo should think of dropping cloth and going to the fake leather as standard also?
i'll bet most people don't even get 'r' anymore or know where it came from.
gnarsh_darkwatchreply with quote well said, and i can answer your question directly: first, rear wheel drive and secondly, 400+ horsepower.
there are 'performance hybrids' as well, meaning the hybrid tech is used to augment the gasoline engine, ie: porsche cayenne hybrid drive-train; or the ill fated honda accord hybrid.
touring 5mt 1996 ram 1500 i didn't really think about that and don't really know the implications between the two different front wheel drive setups.
mounting inline engines in a longitudinal manner would encroach not only in safety but also in the interior cabin, as far as interior dimensions are concerned.
we all know the 2.5t and the v8 get very similar mileage figures on a  tank of fuel.
audi actually offers a true s, bmw a true m, and mercedes the amg.
the collaboration  with polestar might one day evolve into more, but for now sport volvo's are out  of the question.
suggests to me that volvo does not want to invest in an aging platform that will replaced before long.
problem is, luxury and fuel economy are usually at odds with each other, as  anyone truly concerned with fuel economy is less concerned with pampering  oneself, showboating and seeking prestige by blowing money.
it's a feeling/aspiration that they're really something better.
i don't think they think the xc60 and s60 are lagging behind the luxury brands but the other automobiles like the s80 need to be redone to catch up with the times.
we all know the 2.5t and the v8 get very similar mileage figures on a tank of fuel.
i would not place an s audi on the same level as an m or amg vehicle.
a lot of the reason people are moving to smaller turbo engines is the fuel economy that can be had, remember there is a mandate for cars to have a minimum epa rating.
the whole r-design thing is something everyone does - sport  look packages are offered by many manufacturers, including the amg package from  mb (not the actual amg cars).
the s4 falls in between the 335i and the m3 but it's closer to the 335i.
1st off, fwd architecture is usually transverse, but subaru and the upper-echelon of audis use a longitudinal configuration and still offer fwd base models.
2005 v50 awd mt, ff fmic, kw var.
my wife who is not a car enthusiast at all commented that the audi [really 4-cyls in general] sounds like every 16-year old's honda.
it has been officialised by ceo stefan jacoby.
i just don't, but time will tell... currently driving:reply with quote 2004 v 70 2.5t geartronic titanium 1998 s 90 3.0 m90
make a small displacement i-6.
edit: i found the executive package listed on the australian site.
i don't agree with the "bottom feeders" part but this raises a good point.
they need to come in just under the above mentioned price points and do so with more standard features.
although, of course, i don't think anybody has answered yet exactly where volvo's currently are falling short in the luxury dept.
xc90 v8reply with quote 98 v70 t5m originally posted by maddenreply with quote i wouldn't care if volvos future is 4 cylinders as long as it's a robust 4 that can put down 300+hp otherwise i'll pass.
i don't think suv's need to get much bigger than 6 cyclinders.
bummer..... what does "luxury assault" and "move upmarket" mean?
its unremarkable in its outward appearance, just another two-story warehouse-type building tucked in along a wide, tree-lined parkway.
just seems wierd, r, no r, cosmetic r design , now r-design with performance, and soon only 4 cyls.
wasting gas, otoh,  is a good way to show prestige by blowing money.
four cylinders *might* be even be more stupid than turbo fives, unless they are going to start competing with hyundai and kia for the bottom-feeders of the luxury market.
2007 v70 2.5t black / gray, premium and climate, roof rack, "the hearse"reply with quote originally posted by
i don't know how successful volvo will be without offering something larger, especially on the s80 and xc90.
is volvo going to go back to rwd and transverse engines?
xc90 v8reply with quote 98 v70 t5m generally this all sounds great
if so, we have to analyze just how it is that hyundai and kia are pulling this off, and if volvo is capable of going that far.
is that considered luxury level?
what sort of advantage does audi have by using a longitudinal configuration with their fwd base models?reply with quote originally posted by bd5400 i didn't really think about that and don't really know the implications between the two different front wheel drive setups.
so i'm guessing it isn't available in the u.s.....
1st  off, fwd architecture is usually transverse, but subaru and the upper-echelon  of audis use a longitudinal configuration and still offer fwd base models.
the 4cyl only things bothers me, as we all know, a small engine  needs to work much harder to push a larger car then a slower working larger  engine.
originally posted by thaxman depends.
i didn't even know the executive package was available on the xc90 since it isn't on the site (unless it is now gone for 2012).
but say s, m, or amg, and that's a different story.
it has already made up its mind on what it is that it wants to do.
a lot more will clear up, for you and many others, as we are headed well into year, etc. 2001 volvo v70 t5 m sr, classic red/graphite lthr, tme stage ii ecu, 3" downpipe w/ cat-back exhaust from mte, volvo roadholding & lowering kit w/ nivomats, 17" pegasus, rear spoiler, dolby surround soundreply with quote current company car: 2012 volvo xc70 t6 awd, twilight bronze metallic w/ espresso brown lthr, climate/platinum/technology packages, bi-xenon headlamps, blis, front blindview camera polestar+ software325 hp 354 lbs/ft originally posted by thaxmanreply with quote depends.
another debate is just how 'established' the r name even was given that of all the brands, it was at the bottom of the list and never really ever taken that seriously.
on the other hand, our engines (up to this point) have always been inline (with the exception of the 4.4l v8) whereas audi uses v6s and v8s.
this  company cannot make up it's mind what it wants to do.
i understand how you feel.
2004 v70 t5m: bob villa mod (so far)reply with quote 2006 mazda5
i would add to that list ventilated/cooled seats seats in more cars and a larger nav screen.
is volvo's definition of "luxury assault" the equivalent to what hyundai and kia are doing to nissan, honda, and toyota?
the only different is that they aren't limiting their models to the smaller engines (except the a4), just offering them. .
they are the future so i am glad i like them.
reply with quote originally posted by gnarsh_darkwatch four cylinders *might* be even be more stupid than turbo fives, unless they are going to start competing with hyundai and kia for the bottom-feeders of the luxury market.
the previous  4-banger-exclusively announcement will keep them out of consideration, except  on the compact-car front, with the c/s/v 30-50 cars.
but for the last twenty-five years, this place, better known as the volvo monitoring and concept center, has been the american home for a small handful of the swedish carmakers best thinkers.
there hasn't been an r for a while.
and yet today's t6 r-design is in many people's eyes the sportiest volvo ever.
they are too  enviro for that and will focus on efficiency instead.
hyundai has this, nav, rear camera, and heated seats front band rear, bluetooth, and infotainment in the new azera at low 30s.
over folks new o luxury...ie younger buyers.
they are too enviro for that and will focus on efficiency instead.
there are 'performance hybrids' as  well, meaning the hybrid tech is used to augment the gasoline engine, ie:  porsche cayenne hybrid drive-train; or the ill fated honda accord hybrid.
i wonder if their performance plan will be to utilize the hybrid powertrain with a mode switch to let you decide economy or performance.
full story stefan jacoby revealed that the company’s next wave of products will move upmarket to compete with other established luxury brands (bmw, mercedes-benz and audi in particular).
and it's actually probably a hinderance for audi's fwd cars 06
volvo isnt going to skim off many hardcore audi or bimmers folks.
what gives with only a na 6 cylinder in a vehicle of the xc90's size?
it was quite clear for some time now that the r will not return  as that is not the direction the company wants to head into.
with quote 2012 s60 t-6 r-design
and of course, still no clue at all on the premium for their hybrid powertrain.
it is really odd that the ventilated seats are only available on the s80 (i think).
the 4cyl only things bothers me, as we all know, a small engine needs to work much harder to push a larger car then a slower working larger engine.
originally posted by s80_davereply with quote i would add to that list ventilated/cooled seats seats in more cars and a larger nav screen.
originally posted by pattyweb i wonder if their  performance plan will be to utilize the hybrid powertrain with a mode switch to  let you decide economy or performance.
there are other areas where they could improve their interiors, but i am not one to like long winded posts.
capitalizing on the r name was a smart move as it  used an established name to give credit to the package where before there was  none.
2 coilovers, snow performance meth/water injectionreply with quote 3" dp w/race cat, inlet plenum,3" cat back w/ quad tips, viva drilled and slotted rotors w/ stainless lines, body kit, ipd sway bar, hd tcv, forge cbv, hd endlinks, est strut bar, silicone lines, snabb ss kit, bsr cai spec 2+ clutch,smf,autotech stage 4 tune, enem cams, rs k16 turbo originally posted by madden
i don't know who would spend 30-40-50k for a car with a 4-cylinder engine.
i have said it before and i'll say it again...
audi also has a 4-cylinder in the a6 and bmw has one in the 528i.
the only different is that they aren't limiting their models to the smaller engines (except the a4), just offering them.
they need to focus on style, simplicity, luxury features, and economy and win.
problem is, luxury and fuel economy are usually at odds with each other, as anyone truly concerned with fuel economy is less concerned with pampering oneself, showboating and seeking prestige by blowing money.
and it's actually probably a hinderance for audi's fwd cars but a significant part of audi's engine block hangs over and in front the front axle which increases "plowing" and nose-dive effect when cornering and/or braking.
past: '94 854, '99 s70 t5 se, '99 s70 glt, '04 s60rmreply with quote present: '08 mx5 sport, '12 s60 t5, '05 v70rgt if volvo ditches 5 and esp 6 cylinder engines it will be a big mistake.
[ice white/black, climate, multimedia, blis, pcc] (his) 2010 xc90 3.2 r-design (hers) originally posted by 12_ice_white_s60reply with quote
nitpicking but that would be audi actually offers a true rs, bmw a true m, and mercedes the amg.
what is it about a current volvo s60 or xc60 that they feel isn't to the level of bmw, mercedes, and audi?
2007 v70 2.5t black / gray, premium and climate, roof rack, "the hearse"reply with quote originally posted by v70 brad what irks me is that the t6 is available on the xc60 and not on the xc90.
a lot of hybrids today would actually perform a lot better if the gas and electric worked together when launching.
originally posted by pinstripe but for now sport volvo's are out of the question.
originally  posted bypattyweb just seems wierd, r, no r, cosmetic r  design , now r-design with performance, and soon only 4 cyls.
"the slow" ('59 pv544), "the infected" ('71 p1800), and "the damned" ('01 c70 coupe), all nautic blue, all manual transmission, all normally aspirated and without air conditioning.
but i just don't see this "luxury assault" happening with just 4-cyl engines.
obviously, saying it and actually doing it, are two complete different things.
'98 s-70 t5 black (traded)reply with quote '05 s-60r mt ti with body package '11 xc-90 v8 magic blue originally posted by md2005r 2011 xc-90 with the executive package has ventilated and massaging seats.
originally posted bypattyweb just seems wierd, r, no r, cosmetic r design , now r-design with performance, and soon only 4 cyls.
what sort of advantage does audi have by using a longitudinal configuration with their fwd base models?
with volvo's desire to go more upmarket, they do need a power train with more cylinders than four.
xc90 v8reply with quote 98 v70 t5m they don't have to go rwd to compete with the germans as long as they include awd with every car (primarily because audi uses fwd architecture but offers quattro).reply with quote originally posted by bd5400 they don't have to go rwd to compete with the germans as long as they include awd with every car (primarily because audi uses fwd architecture but offers quattro).
i'll bet many will think that just having the extra letters somewhere on their car along with the styling will to others maybe look like the real thing.
i think that volvo needs to work on its interiors to make them more on the level that you mention.
but does the california volvo monitoring and concept center in camarillo have a lobby with any public displays or mounted drawings of their concept vehicles?
the new bmw 328i is also a turbo 4 (and i really hate the way it sounds).
the power delivery and sound of my t6 are worth the price of admission.
and when they read their magazines and drool over the s, m, and amg reviews, and then they go to buy a regular model car, but then see a cosmetic 'package', well, they know the meaning behind it.
originally posted bypinstripe the whole r-design thing is something everyone does - sport look packages are offered by many manufacturers, including the amg package from mb (not the actual amg cars).
capitalizing on the r name was a smart move as it used an established name to give credit to the package where before there was none.
2012 bmw x5m carbon black/beigereply with quote 2009 xc90 v8 r-design black sapphire/black 2007 xc70 adventure edition willow green/oak http://forums.swedespeed.com/showthr...llow-green-oak 2001 ford explorer limited green/gray originally posted by gnarsh_darkwatch unless they are going to start competing with hyundai and kia for the bottom-feeders of the luxury market.
reply with quote forum rulesfor advertising information click here
maybe volvo will be heading in that direction.
most likely not, but i am curious because i will be visiting camarillo next month.
you'd think they'd advertise that.
the new vehicles is just a hint of what's to come.
i hope this isn't my last volvo.
"horsepower will range from 150 to 300 for gasoline engines and up to 400 with electrification" originally posted by pattyweb i'm just guessing, but i would think audi is more rear wheel bias whereas volvo is more fwd wheel for the awd setups.
imo, the whole r, r-design, and r-design polestar thing is a marketting screwup.
more durable leather is a case in point.
2012 bmw x5m carbon black/beigereply with quote 2009 xc90 v8 r-design black sapphire/black 2007 xc70 adventure edition willow green/oak http://forums.swedespeed.com/showthr...llow-green-oak 2001 ford explorer limited green/gray originally posted by pattyweb bummer..... what does "luxury assault" and "move upmarket" mean?
the whole r-design thing is something everyone does - sport look packages are offered by many manufacturers, including the amg package from mb (not the actual amg cars).
and with the los angeles auto show just around the corner, it seemed the perfect venue for the newly independent brand to show off just a hint of what its future holds.
i wouldn't care if volvos future is 4 cylinders as long as it's a robust 4 that can put down 300+hp otherwise i'll pass.
originally posted by bd5400
i understand that a small displacement engine (e.g. 4-cyl) can be tuned to have high output, but a 4-cyl power delivery and sound is just not sophisticated.
what irks me is that the t6 is available on the xc60 and not on the xc90.
last edited by bd5400; 11-28-2011 at 03:18 pm.
i get your point but the popularity of the a4 and audi's ever increasing sales seems to suggest that the 4-cylinder engine isn't holding back sales despite the price.
xc90 v8reply with quote 98 v70 t5m originally posted by pattyweb although, of course, i don't think anybody has answered yet exactly where volvo's currently are falling short in the luxury dept.
xc90 v8reply with quote 98 v70 t5m originally posted by pattywebreply with quote i think there's a big difference between volvo and the others.
it's crazy o me that a $50000 xc60 can't be had with ventilated seats.
but alas, i doubt it.
luxury is about  being able to do as you wish, about not having to worry about the little things  and about enjoying life.
reply with quote a "luxury assault" would include a rear wheel drive two door coupe (think modern p1800) with at least 400 hp.
the previous 4-banger-exclusively announcement will keep them out of consideration, except on the compact-car front, with the c/s/v 30-50 cars.
2001 volvo v70 t5 m sr, classic red/graphite lthr, tme stage ii ecu, 3" downpipe w/ cat-back exhaust from mte, volvo roadholding & lowering kit w/ nivomats, 17" pegasus, rear spoiler, dolby surround soundreply with quote current company car: 2012 volvo xc70 t6 awd, twilight bronze metallic w/ espresso brown lthr, climate/platinum/technology packages, bi-xenon headlamps, blis, front blindview camera polestar+ software325 hp 354 lbs/ft originally posted by pattyweb this company cannot make up it's mind what it wants to do.
originally posted by pattyweb i wonder if their performance plan will be to utilize the hybrid powertrain with a mode switch to let you decide economy or performance.
hyundai is doing this and i think it will ultimately force fewer and fewer "options" with toyota and honda.
reply with quote originally posted by pattyweb
they dropped the r many moons ago, so the performance thing hasn't been part of volvo for many years now.
reply with quote 2011 xc-90 with the executive package has ventilated and massaging seats.
most c's, glk's, ml's, gl's, r's.
but then that defeats economy.
last edited by pattyweb; 11-16-2011 at 01:06 pm.
originally posted by pattywebreply with quote bummer..... what does "luxury assault" and "move upmarket" mean?
maybe  volvo will be heading in that direction.
worrying about 2 mpg here and there is not luxury.
same with the 335is/m3 coupe and the s5.
wasting gas, otoh, is a good way to show prestige by blowing money.
it will render the already sad and pointless base toyota avalon, even more sad.
it was quite clear for some time now that the r will not return as that is not the direction the company wants to head into.
and a key part of the article is just about getting down to only 4 cyl engines.
forced induction/di be what it may, pushing that much air into  small engines will cause more long-term problems and work the engine that much  harder.
they dropped  the r many moons ago, so the performance thing hasn't been part of volvo for  many years now.
i would have expected the new s60 and the xc60 to have them at least.
originally posted by bd5400reply with quote i get your point but the popularity of the a4 and audi's ever increasing sales seems to suggest that the 4-cylinder engine isn't holding back sales despite the price.
they will also appeal to the practical mass that want to drive something nice but still get good mileage.
this company cannot make up it's mind what it wants to do.
well said, and i can answer your question directly: first, rear wheel drive and secondly, 400+ horsepower.
on another note, what percentage of bmw's and mercedes are sold with that base standard fake leather?
using my 2007 v70 as an example, i also think that they could change the shift linkage so that it has less of a "cheap" feel when you use the "girltronic."
i think there's a big difference between volvo and the others.
11-17-2011 07:15 pm #13
and mercedes-benz, and bmw, and audi....and....etc., etc. 2001 volvo v70 t5 m sr, classic red/graphite lthr, tme stage ii ecu, 3" downpipe w/ cat-back exhaust from mte, volvo roadholding & lowering kit w/ nivomats, 17" pegasus, rear spoiler, dolby surround soundreply with quote current company car: 2012 volvo xc70 t6 awd, twilight bronze metallic w/ espresso brown lthr, climate/platinum/technology packages, bi-xenon headlamps, blis, front blindview camera polestar+ software325 hp 354 lbs/ft i think the point he was trying to make is that the other euros are using turbo 4's for the entry level models and continuing to use 6's and 8's for the flagship models.
forced induction/di be what it may, pushing that much air into small engines will cause more long-term problems and work the engine that much harder.
the reason i bought my s60 over an a4 was the lack of 6-cyl on the a4.
reply with quotereply with quote an hour north of los angeles, in a fairly conventional business park just off the 101 freeway, is volvos north american technology and design center.
the collaboration with polestar might one day evolve into more, but for now sport volvo's are out of the question.
are the majority of their cars upgraded to the real stuff?
i'm just guessing, but i would think audi is more rear wheel bias whereas volvo is more fwd wheel for the awd setups.
if volvo ditches 5 and esp 6 cylinder engines it will be a big mistake.
i like turbocharged, di, 4 cyl.
a lot of hybrids today would  actually perform a lot better if the gas and electric worked together when
what exactly is an r-design wishing it was or aspiring to be?
luxury is about being able to do as you wish, about not having to worry about the little things and about enjoying life.