get in touch and we'll get back to you insights need to find out the stats and facts?
site map ts and cs membership terms privacy policy
that's now a long way ahead of the other premium german brands.
our friday wrap on the important automotive news from the week just ending research in focus information summaries and extracts from just-auto's continually updated  research portfolio bursa's world mark bursa's in-depth look at key trends and companies across the  automotive world golding's take financial analyst and former city slicker rob golding's regular sideways  look at the automotive business leggett at large just-auto editor dave leggett's overview of the auto industry, its  companies, products and people close menu x top 30 automotive companies covered on just-auto in the last month audi
1 mar 2012 - tata nano sales on the rise 1 mar 2012 - geneva and the end of winter currently reading - audi uk powers ahead of bmw and benz 24 feb 2012 - what has vw got up its sleeve for geneva?
by: glenn brooks - 29 february 2012 21:48 just back from the media launch of the facelifted audi a4, where the importer has boasted of a record 6.65% share of the uk market in january.
but in short, the updated a4 line-up is an impressive effort.
22 feb 2012 - chatting about platforms with fiat's a-segment r&d boss get connected: login join now
plus a complete company directory.
i'll publish my thoughts on the new  cars in a few days' time in one of our product eye pieces.
the just-auto author list meet our team of editors who bring you all the latest news and insights.
hot issues the most talked about issues in the industry news archive check out our news archive with over 43,749 articles the daily bulletin get all of your daily automotive industry news in one sitting editor's weekly highlights find out david leggett's top selection from the week's news electric drive technology buyers’
put simply, audi here in the uk does seem to have an enviable image.
of course once you're on top, there's usually only one way to fall but audi  uk thinks it can stay number one, even with the imminent launch of the new bmw  3 series saloon.
aroq publishes just-auto.com | just-food.com | just-drinks.com | just-style.com vat no: gb785642391.
but in short, the  updated a4 line-up is an impressive effort.
browse by automotive sector: close menu x about just-auto find out all about just-auto.
contact just-auto got a question or need to find something out?
the 42-strong model range (e.g. the a4 range comprises the saloon and avant, plus the same again for the s4, and the allroad quattro) helps a great deal, but more than anything, it's about brand perception.
in january, 8,563 audis were sold versus 6,273 for bmw (brand) and 6,249 for mercedes-benz.
22 feb 2012 - chatting about platforms with fiat's a-segment r&d boss get connected: not a member?
join here few of us could have predicted the depths of the economic crisis - all of  us were affected by it.
registered in england no: 4307068.
of course once you're on top, there's usually only one way to fall but audi uk thinks it can stay number one, even with the imminent launch of the new bmw 3 series saloon.
the revised a4 and s4 range is, audi says, all about fewer emissions and better performance.
the industry's leading executives interviewed by just-auto.com management briefings in-depth analysis and information on a range of subjects regular columns the latest musings and thoughts from our editorial team product eye our team bring you informed analysis of selected new vehicle models and put  them in automotive industry perspective brooks on oem product trends analyst glenn brooks looks at oem new product developments in the context  of company strategies and market trends slice of warburton just-auto's business editor simon warburton offers up a range of views in  his distinctive style, informed by his daily contact with the auto industry our man in asean jakarta-based tony pugliese's regular updates, news and analysis from the  asean countries of south-east asia beecham's tech-talk matthew beecham interviews automotive component industry specialists the week that was
electric drive vehicles possessing part or fully electrically driven wheels; includes hybrids, evs, batteries and all associated electric drive components and power control technologies emerging markets vehicle markets, companies and automotive industries in developing economies; includes brics environment vehicle energy efficiency issues in vehicle design, production, use and disposal, sustainability and carbon footprint matters for auto industry manufacturing financial coverage of company financial results and analysis of company financial performance forecasts vehicle market and industry outlook projections regulations national and international regulations and taxation frameworks that impact the vehicle operating environment as well as vehicle/powertrain manufacturing and design retailing, marketing & distribution brand/vehicle advertising and marketing; vehicle distribution and sales service suppliers/supply chain from raw materials providers to small parts suppliers (tier 3s and tier 2s) to the big suppliers (tier 1s and systems integrators) and oems; includes automotive logistics technology/r&d high-tech innovations and research developments including current and future automotive technologies vehicle manufacturers developments for the automotive original equipment manufacturers (oems) that produce/assemble whole vehicles vehicle manufacturing changes to production plans, volumes, assembly lines, plant capacities and related product/model developments as well as production engineering vehicle markets sales trends in regional or national vehicle markets vehicle product & design new and future vehicle product and related design and engineering aspects of their development close menu x your one-stop shop with over 3,000 automotive research reports.
guide all the latest electric drive technology news, company announcements and  industry whitepaper.
sales start on 1 march.
the industry's leading executives interviewed by just-auto.com management briefings in-depth analysis and information on a range of subjects the just-auto blog the latest musings and thoughts from our editorial team product eye our team bring you informed analysis of selected new vehicle models and put them in automotive industry perspective brooks on oem product trends analyst glenn brooks looks at oem new product developments in the context of company strategies and market trends slice of warburton just-auto's business editor simon warburton offers up a range of views in his distinctive style, informed by his daily contact with the auto industry our man in asean jakarta-based tony pugliese's regular updates, news and analysis from the asean countries of south-east asia beecham's tech-talk matthew beecham interviews automotive component industry specialists the week that was
published by aroq ltd. address & registered office: seneca house, buntsford park road, bromsgrove, worcs, b60 3dx, uk.
in january, 8,563 audis were sold versus 6,273 for bmw (brand)  and 6,249 for mercedes-benz.
check out the analysis section comment/opinion find out what top analysts think of challenging topics interviews
audi uk powers ahead of bmw and benz
by: glenn brooks - 29 february 2012 21:48 just back from the media launch of the facelifted audi a4, where the  importer has boasted of a record 6.65% share of the uk market in january.
oh, and the s4 had me intrigued: i know it's got a supercharged v6 under the bonnet but you cannot believe just how much it sounds like a v8.
oh, and the s4 had me intrigued: i  know it's got a supercharged v6 under the bonnet but you cannot believe just  how much it sounds like a v8.
contact the news desk got something to say?
my cart your cart is empty not a member?
i'll publish my thoughts on the new cars in a few days' time in one of our product eye pieces.
why not get in touch.
today's news find out the latest automotive industry news hot issues the most talked about issues in the industry news archive check out our news archive with over 43,749 articles the daily bulletin get all of your daily automotive industry news in one sitting editor's weekly highlights find out david leggett's top selection from the week's news electric drive technology buyers’ guide all the latest electric drive technology news, company announcements and industry whitepaper.
we have a firm commitment to privacy.
join here michelin us chairman and president pete selleck
the following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website: just-auto.com my account check your account details and modify/view your site orders alerts review your newsletters, recent articles viewed and access rss feeds here newsletters manage your newsletter preferences here close menu x ©2012 all content copyright just-auto.com.
toll free from us: 1-866-545-5878.
our friday wrap on the important automotive news from the week just ending research in focus information summaries and extracts from just-auto's continually updated research portfolio bursa's world mark bursa's in-depth look at key trends and companies across the automotive world golding's take financial analyst and former city slicker rob golding's regular sideways look at the automotive business leggett at large just-auto editor dave leggett's overview of the auto industry, its companies, products and people close menu x top 30 automotive companies covered on just-auto in the last month view all companies close menu x aftermarket the aftersales business that includes the manufacture, distribution and sale of replacement parts for vehicles commercial vehicles vehicles, such as trucks and buses, used for the commercial transportation of goods and/or people components companies that produce vehicle parts and vehicle subsystems/modules manufactured for fitment in vehicles being produced as oe (original equipment) or for the aftermarket
my cart login: password: | forgot password?
get in touch and we'll get back to you analysis need to find out the stats and facts?
the revised a4 and s4 range is, audi says, all about fewer emissions and  better performance.
join here not a member?
tel: intl +44 (0)1527 573 600.
the 42-strong model range (e.g. the a4 range  comprises the saloon and avant, plus the same again for the s4, and the allroad  quattro) helps a great deal, but more than anything, it's about brand  perception.
fax: +44 (0)1527 577 423.
how has audi done it?
michelin us chairman and president pete selleck news & insights find out the latest automotive industry news
view next/previous blogs tata nano sales on the rise 1 mar 2012 - geneva and the end of winter currently reading - audi uk powers ahead of bmw and benz 24 feb 2012 - what has vw got up its sleeve for geneva?