this course utilizes a variety of media and texts that permit students to recognize and monitor their short comings that are hindering clear speech.
as the demand for pursuing  higher education in foreign countries is on the rise, so is the need for  proving one's proficiency in english.
back to top request a call back comm100 products: - - customer service software - live chat software - knowledge base software - forum software - email marketing software - email management software english language functional english language advanced english language preparatory course for ielts / toefl english for professionals download application form request free prospectus complaints disclaimer terms & conditions sitemap feedback review articles webmaster resources photo gallery wlci blog ©
english language  programmes preparatory course for ielts / toefl faculty preparatory course for ielts / toefl
to attain high scores, constant guidance, advice and tips on skills  and strategies that are required by students to answer the questions, are  administered.
the ielts / toefl  examination formats are explained and it is ensured that the students  understand the requirements of these exams.
ielts/toefl preparation at wlci in noida, mumbai, india - home - about wlci - chairman's foreword - core philosophy - wlci advisory board - wlci differentials - the traineeship advantage - industry relevant content - cutting edge training - professional development system - placements - international opportunities - professional fellowship programme - alumni network - continued development programme - pan india network - programmes - business - fashion - media / mass communication - advertising & graphic design / visual communication - english language programmes - executive courses - qualifications - mentors & trainers - employer's council - wlc presence - interact with us - admission process - financial assistance - careers - alumni - alumni profiles - business school - alumni profiles - creative school - contact us english language programmes preparatory course for ielts / toefl faculty preparatory course for ielts / toefl
this course prepares a student in all aspects of the ielts / toefl test to enable him to pursue higher education in english-medium universities.
one has to demonstrate not only one's  linguistic skills (reading writing and speaking) but also the familiarity with  computers.
this course utilizes a variety of media and texts  that permit students to recognize and monitor their short comings that are  hindering clear speech.
the ielts / toefl examination formats are explained and it is ensured that the students understand the requirements of these exams.
this course prepares a student in all aspects of the ielts / toefl  test to enable him to pursue higher education in english-medium universities.
we focus on improving the vocabulary of the students, by making them listen to new words, checking their meaning, keeping track of them in a vocabulary notebook and then trying to use them in conversation or writing.
copyright 2009, wlc college (india) ltd.
as the demand for pursuing higher education in foreign countries is on the rise, so is the need for proving one's proficiency in english.
furthermore, the students develop their overall language ability in the four skills of listening, reading, writing and speaking.
aim: this course aims to sharpen the students' linguistic  skills, which helps them to give their ielts / toefl exams with more  confidence, resulting in better scores.
we focus on improving the vocabulary of the students,  by making them listen to new words, checking their meaning, keeping track of  them in a vocabulary notebook and then trying to use them in conversation or  writing.
course structure - essentials of grammar - correct grammatical usage - listening - writing - speaking special features - well equipped classrooms - audio- visual training aids - in house course material of international standards - mock tests with feedback and recommended corrective actions
this course enhances the ability of non-native english speakers to use and understand english as it is spoken, written, and heard in college and university settings.
the strengths and weaknesses for further development are  also identified.
the strengths and weaknesses for further development are also identified.
furthermore, the students develop  their overall language ability in the four skills of listening, reading,  writing and speaking.
one has to demonstrate not only one's linguistic skills (reading writing and speaking) but also the familiarity with computers.
to attain high scores, constant guidance, advice and tips on skills and strategies that are required by students to answer the questions, are administered.
this course enhances the ability of  non-native english speakers to use and understand english as it is spoken,  written, and heard in college and university settings.
aim: this course aims to sharpen the students' linguistic skills, which helps them to give their ielts / toefl exams with more confidence, resulting in better scores.