with both tests now offering the ability to test spoken language, and the toefl spreading its internet-based testing ability across the globe, the toefl has seen upward spikes in number of users in various parts of the world.
the toefl test did not match the ielts in all areas with its live, one-on-one component, the ielts has been viewed by many as a  superior exam for evaluating the spoken english skills of potential students.
for many years, the test of english as a foreign language (toefl) was the  exam most u.s. colleges and universities relied on to measure and test english  language skills exhibited by applicants from non-english speaking countries.
with both tests now offering the ability to test spoken language, and the toefl  spreading its internet-based testing ability across the globe, the toefl has  seen upward spikes in number of users in various parts of the world.
however, its acceptance as an assessment tool has grown in the united states in recent years.
however, its acceptance as an assessment tool has grown in the united  states in recent years.
some schools remain  firmly devoted to the ielts and its interactive, personalized-speech format.
ultimately, the test you take will probably be guided by which test is required by the school(s) to which you are applying.
if both are acceptable,  the availability of testing locations and cost will probably play a significant  role in your decision.
if you’re a foreign student planning to attend college or graduate  school in the united states, chances are you are going to take the  toefl®—the test of english...
test admissions application essay college acceptance college admission  requirements college application college prep: you and your credentials early  decision and early application gap year guide to american universities letters  of recommendation and college interviews visual and performing arts scholarships college scholarship search - free scholarship info college  financial aid college loan types college savings plan college scholarships fafsa federal student aid rotc colleges and military financial aid state financial aid student financial aid for college store select center college search graduate schools  peterson’s home home > college search > test prep > toefl  test > which is better, the ielts or the toefl test?
subject tests test prep tips toefl
your toefl ibt® (internet-based toefl) scores will provide accurate information about your ability to participate and succeed in academic studies in an english-speaking...
step 4: select degree level doctorate master's certificate 0 graduate schools match your criteria advanced search options use the criteria listed below to find colleges that are right for you.
critics of the ielts believe that the panel review of recorded speech for the toefl test is a more accurate, less biased mechanism for evaluation.
the toefl ibt is playing catch up so, which test is better?
another test, the international english language testing system (ielts), was the exam required by most other english-speaking countries, including britain and australia, to test english language skills.
on the other hand, the toefl gained some ground globally when it introduced its internet-based test (toefl ibt) format with its new recorded-speech portion.
select  location complete steps 1 and 2 before selecting a location.
you complete step 1 before selecting a major.
with the advent of the new toefl ibt® (internet-based toefl) and its online delivery, a new and better era of language skill assessment has been introduced.
it depends on who you ask!
another test, the international english  language testing system (ielts), was the exam required by most other  english-speaking countries, including britain and australia, to test english  language skills.
all toefl test info toefl ibt scoring and test structure your toefl ibt® (internet-based toefl) scores will provide accurate  information about your ability to participate and succeed in academic studies  in an english-speaking...
both the toefl ibt and the ielts now evaluate speech
in addition to the toefl, more than 3,000  u.s. institutions and programs now accept the ielts as well.
for the most part, the choice of which test to take is up to you.
the...sample toefl test questions use these sample toefl test questions to find out how to focus your study time, to get prepared for the toefl ibt, and to get familiar with question types colleges near youcolleges near you undergraduate search college search colleges by state college search by major popular college majors prep programs pre dentistry colleges pre veterinary colleges career colleges career college popular career programs argosy art institute essay help college application essay types of colleges / programs american universities community college distance learning historically black colleges honors college late deadline schools study abroad colleges by subject audio engineering schools culinary arts school forensic psychology college nursing school zoology colleges art / performance colleges acting colleges art school dance school modeling colleges music school music management colleges performing arts school graduate school search graduate schools mba programs graduate nursing programs featured grad programs nyu-scps
internet-based testing is just getting started for the ielts.
select  subject area(s) step 2: select majors(s)
certainly, both tests offer sample materials to potential  test-takers, but if you have the choice of preparing for one test or the other  with a professional test coach, you may prefer the ielts, as long as the  schools you're applying to will accept it.
on the other hand, test-prep companies are still a bit stumped by the toefl ibt, and preparation lessons and techniques for the ibt are still being developed.
about the toefl test the test of english as a foreign language (toefl) measures your english skills by testing reading, writing, listening, and now, in most locations, speaking.
if both are acceptable, the availability of testing locations and cost will probably play a significant role in your decision.
some schools remain firmly devoted to the ielts and its interactive, personalized-speech format.
whether or not the ielts is a better exam really seems to be a matter of  opinion.
whether or not the ielts is a better exam really seems to be a matter of opinion.
the web is also a good  access point for sample test materials and testing tips.
the web is also a good access point for sample test materials and testing tips.
sign in | sign up advanced search options search your needs below, and view information about the schools that meet  those needs by clicking "search." step 1: select subject  area(s) step 2: select program(s) that interest you complete step 1 before selecting a program.
as far as speech evaluation goes, there is no definitive rule on which test  is better.
which is better, the ielts or the toefl test?
if you’re a foreign student planning to attend college or graduate school in the united states, chances are you are going to take the toefl®—the test of english...
it is a great place to  begin planning your ielts or toefl preparation so that in the end, you earn the  best ielts or toefl score you can.
for most testing dates and locations, you can  register online for most testing dates and locations.
the... sample toefl test questions use these sample toefl test questions to find out how to focus your study  time, to get prepared for the toefl ibt, and to get familiar with question types help us improve petersons.com
use the criteria listed below to find colleges that are right for you.
tips & strategies you need to know for the toefl test knowing general test-taking strategies for the toefl and tips specific to the format you will take the test in, such as the paper-based test or the ibt, will help...
certainly, both tests offer sample materials to potential test-takers, but if you have the choice of preparing for one test or the other with a professional test coach, you may prefer the ielts, as long as the schools you're applying to will accept it.
a brief introduction to the toefl test
some say the individualized ielts format is great, while others think there's a potential for bias and an even greater chance of inconsistency in scoring due to individual nuances of the examiners.
so, which test is better?
in addition to the toefl, more than 3,000 u.s. institutions and programs now accept the ielts as well.
"step 1: select subject area(s) step 2: select program(s) that interest you complete step 1 before selecting a program.
both tests have web sites that can answer many of your questions and that maintain up-to-date news on the progression of their internet-based test expansions.
it is a great place to begin planning your ielts or toefl preparation so that in the end, you earn the best ielts or toefl score you can.
the ielts is often considered to be the only test that can compete with the toefl test in the united states.
do you need to prepare for the ielts or the toefl test?
the current  ielts format is expected to stay around for at least a few more years and,  worldwide, many test-prep and coaching companies prepare students for the  ielts.
with its live, one-on-one component, the ielts has been viewed by many as a superior exam for evaluating the spoken english skills of potential students.
until recently, the toefl had no such component and many of the countries  requiring the ielts felt that a speech component to an english proficiency exam  was crucial.
you can see a list of these institutions and programs, the ielts recognition list, athttp://ielts.org/usa.aspx.
select degree level associate's bachelor's certificate 0 advanced  search college search college types going back to college career college community college  distance learning programs honors college private college public university  state university how to choose career planning: how to write a resume- overview college  compatibility tool campus life and student life campus tour and college visit  career planning college list planning college programs colleges and universities college and universities: survival tips how to research college sports and  college top universities transfer colleges test prep military tests act ap exams clep test ged test psat sat sat
what's new about the toefl ibt?
worldwide, that was not the case.
as far as speech evaluation goes, there is no definitive rule on which test is better.
for the most part, the choice of which test  to take is up to you.
which will you take, the ielts or the toefl test?
ultimately, the test you take will probably be guided by which test is  required by the school(s) to which you are applying.
until recently, the toefl had no such component and many of the countries requiring the ielts felt that a speech component to an english proficiency exam was crucial.
the ielts is often considered to be the only test that can  compete with the toefl test in the united states.
some say the individualized ielts format is great, while others  think there's a potential for bias and an even greater chance of inconsistency  in scoring due to individual nuances of the examiners.
for many years, the test of english as a foreign language (toefl) was the exam most u.s. colleges and universities relied on to measure and test english language skills exhibited by applicants from non-english speaking countries.
the current ielts format is expected to stay around for at least a few more years and, worldwide, many test-prep and coaching companies prepare students for the ielts.
you can  see a list of these institutions and programs, the ielts recognition list,  athttp://ielts.org/usa.aspx.
click "search" to view your results.
search your needs below, and view information about the schools that meet those needs by clicking "search.
for most testing dates and locations, you can register online for most testing dates and locations.
on  the other hand, the toefl gained some ground globally when it introduced its  internet-based test (toefl ibt) format with its new recorded-speech portion.
tips & strategies you need to know for the toefl test knowing general test-taking strategies for the toefl and tips specific to  the format you will take the test in, such as the paper-based test or the ibt,  will help...
with the advent of the new toefl ibt® (internet-based toefl) and its  online delivery, a new and better era of language skill assessment has been  introduced.
about the toefl test the test of english as a foreign language (toefl) measures your english  skills by testing reading, writing, listening, and now, in most locations,  speaking.
toefl practice sets prepare for the toefl by building basic skills in reading comprehension, vocabulary, and writing and grammar with these simple-to-use online sets.
both tests have web sites that can answer many of your  questions and that maintain up-to-date news on the progression of their  internet-based test expansions.
toefl practice sets prepare for the toefl by building basic skills in reading comprehension,  vocabulary, and writing and grammar with these simple-to-use online sets.
critics of the ielts  believe that the panel review of recorded speech for the toefl test is a more  accurate, less biased mechanism for evaluation.
on the other hand, test-prep companies are still a bit stumped by the  toefl ibt, and preparation lessons and techniques for the ibt are still being  developed.
step 1: select subject area(s) step 2: select majors(s)