toefl – b1 intermediate
the school also offers three part time options; monday only for  3 hours per week, monday and tuesday for 6 hours per week, and wednesday  through friday for 9 hours per week.
accommodation is not included in the course price, but can be arranged in a b&b or hotel upon request.
specific instruction regarding the function and  structure of the test and test taking strategy and practice is also given.
this is a 10 week course covering the four areas of the test; speaking,  listening, reading and writing.
start date for 2009: may 18th.
non-eu visa holders may take 25 weeks of tuition to satisfy the  academic year requirement in ireland and take a part-time job for up to 20  hours per week.
the school also offers three part time options; monday only for 3 hours per week, monday and tuesday for 6 hours per week, and wednesday through friday for 9 hours per week.
toeic – online at any time.
prices (euros): please click here for more information about the school and its location and accommodation options: ennis cambridge fce course
course fee includes the textbook and exam registration.
cae - c1 or advanced.
this is a 10 week course covering the four areas of the test; speaking, listening, reading and writing.
exam dates: ielts - every month in cork.
apply should you have any question on our cambridge cae, fce or toefl, toeic or ielts courses, please ask here:inquiries to go from this page to information on general english courses in ireland page, please click here,english courses ireland,to go from this exam courses ireland page back to the exam courses page, please click here,english exam courses
the course may be repeated as necessary until you are sufficiently prepared  for the test.
toefl – every week in dublin.
you will receive level assessment and recommendations on areas of language skill that you need to work on to be successful with the test.
the course may be repeated as necessary until you are sufficiently prepared for the test.
this is an intensive 3 week course with 20 hours of classes plus 10 hours of guided self-study per week.
ielts - b1 to b2 or intermediate to upper intermediate.
toefl – b1 intermediate toeic –
class size will not exceed 8 students.
cambridge fce, cae + ielts, toefl and toeic courses ireland exam courses in ennis
a full time schedule provides 15 hours of instruction weekly, monday through friday.
required language level: fce - b2 or upper  intermediate.
b1 intermediate start dates for 2009: january 12th, april 14th, july 6th, october 5th.
ielts - b1 to b2 or intermediate  to upper intermediate.
oral portion: between may 25th & june 28th.
price (euros): 1275 please click here for more information about the school and its location and accommodation options: wexford to book a cambridge cae, fce, cpe course in ireland, please complete details here:apply to book an ielts, toefl or toeic course in ireland, please complete details here:
required language level: b2 or upper intermediate.
specific instruction regarding the function and structure of the test and test taking strategy and practice is also given.
fce & cae - mid march, early june, late august and early december.
exam dates: written portion: june 13th & 16th.
a full time schedule provides 15 hours of instruction weekly, monday  through friday.
accommodation is not included in the course price, but can be arranged in a  b&b or hotel upon request.
required language level: fce - b2 or upper intermediate.
non-eu visa holders may take 25 weeks of tuition to satisfy the academic year requirement in ireland and take a part-time job for up to 20 hours per week.