please refer to the program requirements and graduate catalog for more information on the specific programs.
gre or gmat test scores: please submit official gre or gmat test scores depending on your program of interest.
we do not consider photocopies or scanned copies of test scores to be an official score report.
if you have not taken the toefl/ielts or if your score is more than two years old, you will need to take the exam and submit the official score prior to your application's review at the department for the program.
if you have not taken the toefl/ielts or if your score is more than two  years old, you will need to take the exam and submit the official score prior  to your application's review at the department for the program.
utsa recognizes the test of english as a foreign language(toefl) and  the international english language testing system (ielts) as measures of  english language proficiency.
the educational testing service (ets) code for the university of  texas at san antonio is 6919.
• toefl (test of english as a foreign language), institutional code 6919 • ielts (international english language testing system), no institutional code consult the following chart for a list of the minimal acceptable score for toefl/ielts admissions requirements:test toefl internet toefl paper ielts *individual degree programs may have higher toefl or ielts requirements for their program, consult the individual department web sites for more information.
you may contact them for  additional information important admissions dates
gre or gmat test scores: please submit official gre or gmat test scores depending on your program  of interest.
test scores must be received directly from ets to be considered official.
utsa offers preparatory workshops, which are a fraction of the cost, through theoffice of extended education.
please refer to program requirements and application deadline for more information.
institutional code: 6919 international applicants whose first language is not english must provide  proof of english language proficiency before being admitted to a graduate  program.
the educational testing service (ets) code for the university of texas at san antonio is 6919.
test scores  must be received directly from ets to be considered official.
you may contact them for additional information mar 01summer 2012 master’s international application deadline apr 01fall 2012 master’s international application deadline apr 01summer (mini-mester) 2012 master’s application for us citizens & perm.
toefl, ielts, gre & gmat toefl / ielts test scores (international applicants): the toefl or ielts is required for all international applicants.
please refer to the program requirements and graduate catalog for more  information on the specific programs.
please refer to program requirements and application deadline for  more information.
we do not  consider photocopies or scanned copies of test scores to be an official score  report.
institutional code: 6919 international applicants whose first language is not english must provide proof of english language proficiency before being admitted to a graduate program.
please check your program of interest to determine if  gre/gmat scores are required for your program of interest.
we highly recommend all applicants take  the required entrance exam two months prior to the application deadline.
utsa offers preparatory workshops, which are a fraction of the cost,  through theoffice of extended education.
information: 210-458-4011 | utsa police: 210-458-4242 san antonio web designer
utsa recognizes the test of english as a foreign language(toefl) and the international english language testing system (ielts) as measures of english language proficiency.
please check your program of interest to determine if gre/gmat scores are required for your program of interest.
an applicant whose program of interest requires either the gre or  gmat is required to submit the official test scores prior to rendering a  decision.
we highly recommend all applicants take the required entrance exam two months prior to the application deadline.
exempt  100  600  7 master’s admission qualification*  61  500  5 doctoral admission  qualification  79  550  6.5 *individual degree programs may have higher toefl or ielts  requirements for their program, consult the individual department web sites for  more information.
• toefl (test of english as a foreign language), institutional code  6919 • ielts (international english language testing system), no  institutional code consult the following chart for a list of the minimal acceptable score for  toefl/ielts admissions requirements: test  toefl internet  toefl paper   ielts english language assessment program (elap)
applicants 210-458-5327 email: graduatestudies@utsa.edu electronic transcripts can be sent to: gradadmissions@utsa.edu © the university of texas at san antonio | one utsa circle, san antonio tx 78249 |
an applicant whose program of interest requires either the gre or gmat is required to submit the official test scores prior to rendering a decision.
toefl / ielts test scores (international applicants): the toefl or ielts is required for all international applicants.