ibt independent writing  section.
examinations - home - books - exams - business - advanced - intermediate - beginner - lit - ict - jobs - about us exams | cambridge | ielts | toefl | argumentative | academic study | samples ielts & toefl sample answers about the samples these were answers provided by one of my classes, they are marked to ielts writing rubrics with comments and grammar corrections.
the same  exact question is highly unlikely to reappear in ielts although very similar  questions may appear.
they are also useful for toefl as  many are very similar to questions asked in the toefl
these essays are useful to help students to understand the kinds of questions that they will be asked and the quality required to pass the exam.
these essays are useful  to help students to understand the kinds of questions that they will be asked  and the quality required to pass the exam.
although these answers were graded against ielts it is fair to assume that  all of these would receive between a band 4 - 5 in the toefl ibt banding.
some questions here have been simplified, but all cover topics used in the ielts exam.
also note that if you copy these samples and attempt to pass them off as  your own work you are highly likely to be punished for plagiarism.
they are also useful for toefl as many are very similar to questions asked in the toefl ibt independent writing section.
these samples will help you to understand: the quality of answers expected the general topic areas asked for in ielts common errors made by students good structure and vocabulary to use.
although these answers were graded against ielts it is fair to assume that all of these would receive between a band 4 - 5 in the toefl ibt banding.
also note that if you copy these samples and attempt to pass them off as your own work you are highly likely to be punished for plagiarism.
exams | cambridge | ielts | toefl | argumentative | academic study | samples ielts & toefl sample answers about the samples these were answers provided by one of my classes, they are marked to ielts  writing rubrics with comments and grammar corrections.
these samples will help you to understand: - the quality of answers expected - the general topic areas asked for in ielts - common errors made by students - good structure and vocabulary to use.
- careers (53kb pdf) - affirmative action (53kb pdf) - capital punishment (58kb pdf) - culture (55 kb pdf) - censorship (60 kb pdf) - children's rights (57 kb pdf) - drunk driving (61 kb pdf) - generation gap (57 kb pdf) - environmental protection (54 kb pdf) - gender issues (58 kb pdf) - genetic engineering (64 kb pdf) - gun control (66kb pdf) - language (61kb pdf) - parenting (69kb pdf) - poverty (65kb pdf) - traffic (59kb pdf) - advertising (68kb pdf) - sport / health (55kb pdf) - technology (53kb pdf) - university / college (58 kb pdf) sitemap - advanced searches - link to us copyright james abela 2006 - 2009 - books home - speed reading - creative writing - factual writing - elt bookstore - free ebooks - exams home - cambridge - ielts - toefl - argumentative - academic study - sample answers - business homepage - gcse - mindmaps - presentations - powerpoint - impress - resources - speed reading - videos - writing - general business writing - report writing - business books - meetings - advanced home - factual writing - realia - referencing - sound scripting - listening - football and pollution - internet meltdown - airfield tales - indonesian logging - intermediate home - fillers - fillers home - lateral thinking - tv - comics - call - writing - grammar - beginners home - pronunciation - ipa - seating layouts - vocab packs
the same exact question is highly unlikely to reappear in ielts although very similar questions may appear.
how to use these samples to help you study please do not try to memorise these samples!
some questions here have been simplified, but all cover topics used in  the ielts exam.