again, the topics of the  conversations are always university-related.
maybe in reading about the  structure, you thought, “wowtoefl sounds so easy,” or, “oh  the ielts sounds like it’s kind of fun!”
you just try your best and  forget about it until you get your grades.
admissions the ielts test is administrated by the british councils, the university of cambridge, and ieltsaustralia.
the second task asks you to present your opinion on a statement  about a fairly open topic such as: “women should look after children and  not work” or “too many people are moving to cities and rural areas  are suffering.”
if you are more comfortable  with us english, thetoefl is a good bet but if you are used to british english  and accents, you’ll do better on the ielts.
you will be expected to fill out answers as you listen.
the grader gives you a score based on the overall quality of the  essay, including vocabulary, logic, style, and grammar.
one of the most frequent questions  i hear is which test is easier or which test is better.
but you think you  have excellent grammar and vocabulary and overall are a decent writer, the  ielts will probably be easier for you.
the answer depends on  what kinds of tests you excel at, as well as where you plan to apply.
writing finally, there are two short essays on the toefl.
if you don’t feel comfortable writing essays
certain terms are also different and you don’t want to waste time in  your speaking test asking what a flat or a lorry is.
listening the listening section presents long 2-3 conversations and 4-6 lectures.
for some people, it’s very relaxing to just record your answers into a computer because it feels like no one is listening.
the  situations are always related to university life i.e. a conversation between a  student and a librarian about finding research materials or a lecture from a  history class.
there may be multiple-choice questions that ask you about key details.
speaking to a person or a computer?
to do that, you  probably need to know the structure of each exam.
the ielts will not overlook bad grammar.
if you just want to be alone and not feel judged, thetoefl will be more comfortable for you.
so now you have some understanding of what each test involves, but you might be wondering which is better for you.
so whether you are used to british or american english is certainly a factor.
it consists of four sections: reading the toefl reading section asks you to read 4-6 passages of university level  and to answer multiple-choice questions about them (multiple-choice means you  choose the answer from provided options).
questions test you on comprehension  of the text, main ideas, important details, vocabulary, inferring, rhetorical  devices and style.
toefl is administered by ets, a us-based non-profit and is  used widely by american and canadianuniversities.
the good thing about multiple-choice  is that it is easy to pick out wrong answers, whereas the good thing about  copying down is that the answer is sitting there in the text.
two questions will ask you  to summarize information from a short conversation.
one question type asks you to match headings to paragraphs in the text.
multiple choice versus copying down
the questions are the  same for all examinees but some parts may be more in the form of a conversation  than a monologue.
on the other hand, if your grammar and vocabulary are strong but you have trouble expressing your opinion or organizing an essay, you could end up with a lowtoefl score but the ielts will give you good marks for language use.
obviously if you have problems with the british accent (and the test may include a wide variety of accents, including australian, new zealand, irish and scottish).
more concretely, there are  a couple of key differences between the tests.
because the ielts test is done in an  interview format with a native speaker present, you might get nervous or feel  you are being judged.
the first part of the test will be a brief introductory  conversation followed by some short questions about familiar topics.
on the other hand, american accents may throw you  off.
you just have to  find it and repeat it.
the situations are always related to university life i.e. a conversation between a student and a librarian about finding research materials or a lecture from a history class.
because universities want to make sure you have the english language skills necessary to study at their school, almost all institutes of higher learning require you to take a test of english.
two questions will ask you to summarize information from a text and a conversation–and may ask your opinion as well.
more concretely, there are a couple of key differences between the tests.
obviously if you have problems with the british accent  (and the test may include a wide variety of accents, including australian, new  zealand, irish and scottish).
that might be a good sign  that one test will be easier for you than the other.
or you may have to fill in a table or chart or picture with words from the text.
you will have to speak for two minutes on this topic, which may be about your daily routine, the last time you went to the movies, your favorite part of the world or a similar familiar topic.
the ielts by contrast  is marked by individual criteria and you are scored individually for grammar,  word choice, fluency, logic, cohesion, and a dozen other criteria.
maybe in reading about the structure, you thought, “wowtoefl sounds so easy,” or, “oh the ielts sounds like it’s kind of fun!”
speaking finally, the speaking section will be held on a different day from the rest of the test and in the presence of a trained interviewer.
thetoefl emphasizes the ability to put together a logical and detailed argument (or summary) and looks at clarity, word choice, and style above all.
because the ielts test is done in an interview format with a native speaker present, you might get nervous or feel you are being judged.
source: associatedcontent enter your email address:
e. on the other hand, the ielts certainly keeps you on your toes and that  can keep you more alert.
as of last year, official toefl is almost universally given in the ibt  (internet based testing) format.
british versus american english while both the uk and the us accept both tests, and while british english and american english are not as different as some think, the fact of the matter is the ielts tends to use british english and thetoefl uses exclusively american english.
finally, some questions are short-answer but the answers will be  taken directly from the text itself.
thetoefl, on the other hand, is pretty much the same test every time–pick a, b, c, d, or
the variety of questions on the ielts is quite broad, and not every text will have every question type.
why do people like the movies?
there may be  multiple-choice questions that ask you about key details.
you will speak into a microphone and a grader will listen to your answers at a later date and grade you.
in any case, i recommend you go to the websites ofielts and toefl and get some more detail on each test, and also try out some practice problems on your own.
some questions come before the text and may not require careful reading to  answer.
the answer depends on what kinds of tests you excel at, as well as where you plan to apply.
the questions are the same for all examinees but some parts may be more in the form of a conversation than a monologue.
in the second part, you will be given a card with a topic and a few specific questions to address.
others come after the text and may expect you to have read the text thoroughly.
as of last year, official toefl is almost universally given in the ibt (internet based testing) format.
you may also be asked to match words and ideas.
on the other hand, you might feel more relaxed in a  conversation, with a person there to explain if you don’t understand a  question, or simply having a face to look at, instead of a computer screen.
for the reading and listening sections, toefl gives you multiple-choice  questions, whereas ielts generally expects you to copy down words from the text  or the conversation word-for-word.
the ielts by contrast is marked by individual criteria and you are scored individually for grammar, word choice, fluency, logic, cohesion, and a dozen other criteria.
however, these days, in order  to make it easy on international students,universities all over the world take  bothtoefl and ielts.
e. on the other hand, the ielts certainly keeps you on your toes and that can keep you more alert.
so, concrete thinkers will tend to do better on the  ielts and abstract thinkers will tend to excel on thetoefl.
the speaking section is recorded.
the questions are multiple choice and ask you about important  details, inferences, tone, and vocabulary.
or you may have to fill in a  table or chart or picture with words from the text.
for all sections you may be asked to fill out a summary, fill in a table, answer multiple-choice questions, label a diagram or picture, or classify information into different categories.
one will ask you to write  your opinion on a broad topic, such as whether it is better to live in the  country or the city.
in the last section, the interviewer will ask you to discuss a  more abstract side of the topic in part 2–why do people prefer daily  routines?
if you are more comfortable with us english, thetoefl is a good bet but if you are used to british english and accents, you’ll do better on the ielts.
so  while it may sound like the ielts is much tougher since it grades you on  everything, in fact you can get quite a good score if you are strong in a  number of areas.
and they take notes: oh god, did he write down something good or something bad?
thetoefl emphasizes the ability to put together a logical and  detailed argument (or summary) and looks at clarity, word choice, and style  above all.
so that’s one worry off your mind.
you will  be expected to fill out answers as you listen.
predictable or different every time
you may be asked to complete a summary of the passage using words from the text.
third is a conversation in an academic context and the final section will be an academic lecture.
one of the hardest question types presents statements and asks you whether these statements are true, false or not included in the text.
in any case, i  recommend you go to the websites ofielts and toefl and get some more detail on  each test, and also try out some practice problems on your own.
the interviewer may ask your name, your job, what kinds of sports you like, what your daily routine is, and so on.
for the reading and listening sections, toefl gives you multiple-choice questions, whereas ielts generally expects you to copy down words from the text or the conversation word-for-word.
so whether you are used to  british or american english is certainly a factor.
two  questions will ask you to summarize information from a text and a  conversation–and may ask your opinion as well.
one of the hardest  question types presents statements and asks you whether these statements are  true, false or not included in the text.
the first asks you to  summarize a table or chart in about 300 words.
the second section is an  informational lecture of some kind, possibly a dean explaining the rules of the  university.
andtoefl and ielts are the two biggest standardized tests of the english language.
admissions the ielts test is administrated by the british councils, the university of  cambridge, and ieltsaustralia.
the second section is an informational lecture of some kind, possibly a dean explaining the rules of the university.
on the ielts, this difference will have a larger effect  because spelling counts, and that is one area where britain and the us do not  always see eye-to-eye.
you may also be asked to match words  and ideas.
ielts structure the ielts contains the same 4 sections, reading, listening, speaking and  writing, but the format is very different.
you will have to speak  for two minutes on this topic, which may be about your daily routine, the last  time you went to the movies, your favorite part of the world or a similar  familiar topic.
holistic versus criteria finally, the speaking and writing sections of the toefl are graded  holistically.
the conversations and lectures are very natural and include informal english, interruptions, filler noises like “uh” or “uhm.”
in the second part, you will be given a card  with a topic and a few specific questions to address.
the grader gives you a score based on the overall quality of the essay, including vocabulary, logic, style, and grammar.
you may be asked to complete a  summary of the passage using words from the text.
structure of the toefl
you will have to identify  important information, compare and contrast different figures or maybe describe  a process.
the variety of questions on the ielts is quite  broad, and not every text will have every question type.
you will speak into a microphone and a  grader will listen to your answers at a later date and grade you.
listening the ielts has four listening sections.
mar 31, 2012 toefl or ielts – which is better?
british versus american english while both the uk and the us accept both tests, and while british english  and american english are not as different as some think, the fact of the matter  is the ielts tends to use british english and thetoefl uses exclusively  american english.
of course, the toefl is also more predictable than the ielts.
this  article breaks down the differences between the two tests so that you can make  your own decision.
i hope this essay was helpful in making your choice.
it consists of four sections: reading the toefl reading section asks you to read 4-6 passages of university level and to answer multiple-choice questions about them (multiple-choice means you choose the answer from provided options).
that is to say, it is associated with the  british government and traditionally was used by britishuniversities, as well  as new zealand and australianuniversities to determine the language capability  of foreign students.
one of the most frequent questions i hear is which test is easier or which test is better.
third is a conversation in an academic context and the final  section will be an academic lecture.
one will ask you to summarize information from a text and a lecture–often the two will disagree with each other and you will need to either compare and contrast, or synthesize conflicting information.
the  interviewer may ask your name, your job, what kinds of sports you like, what  your daily routine is, and so on.
getting feedback from a native speaker can be helpful too, in order to correct mistakes and improve during the test.
speaking finally, the speaking section will be held on a different day from the rest  of the test and in the presence of a trained interviewer.
because universities want to make sure you have the english language skills  necessary to study at their school, almost all institutes of higher learning  require you to take a test of english.
while you should check with the specific university you  want to apply to, in general any school in the us, the uk,australia or new  zealand will take either test score.
so now you have some understanding of what each test involves, but you  might be wondering which is better for you.
certain terms are also different and you don’t want to waste time in your speaking test asking what a flat or a lorry is.
one will always be an opinion piece–i.e. a text  arguing for one point of view.
if  you just want to be alone and not feel judged, thetoefl will be more  comfortable for you.
two questions will be on familiar topics and ask you to give your opinion and/or describe something familiar to you, like your town or your favorite teacher.
questions test you on comprehension of the text, main ideas, important details, vocabulary, inferring, rhetorical devices and style.
the ielts throws lots of different question types at you, and the instructions are often slightly different every time.
the first asks you to summarize a table or chart in about 300 words.
in other words, if you write well but have a lot of small grammar mistakes, yourtoefl score might be quite good because graders will ignore small mistakes if the overall essay is logical and detailed.
getting feedback from a native speaker can be helpful too, in order to correct  mistakes and improve during the test.
the ielts  throws lots of different question types at you, and the instructions are often  slightly different every time.
how does travel affect local life?
so it depends on what you are more comfortable with.
if you like talking to people, the ielts is a better bet.
so while it may sound like the ielts is much tougher since it grades you on everything, in fact you can get quite a good score if you are strong in a number of areas.
writing there are two writing tasks on the academic ielts.
multiple-choice questions will tend to be require slightly better abstract thinking, but the ielts favors people who have good memories and think more concretely.
that is to say, it is associated with the british government and traditionally was used by britishuniversities, as well as new zealand and australianuniversities to determine the language capability of foreign students.
thetoefl,  on the other hand, is pretty much the same test every time–pick a, b, c,  d, or
to do that, you probably need to know the structure of each exam.
you just try your best and forget about it until you get your grades.
the questions are multiple choice and ask you about important details, inferences, tone, and vocabulary.
the first is a “transactional conversation” in which someone may be applying for something (a driver’s license, a library card) or asking for information (say calling for more details about an advertisement or a hotel).
which is better for me?
two questions  will be on familiar topics and ask you to give your opinion and/or describe  something familiar to you, like your town or your favorite teacher.
ielts structure the ielts contains the same 4 sections, reading, listening, speaking and writing, but the format is very different.
and they take notes: oh god, did he write down something  good or something bad?
for  some people, it’s very relaxing to just record your answers into a  computer because it feels like no one is listening.
holistic versus criteria finally, the speaking and writing sections of the toefl are graded holistically.
that might be a good sign that one test will be easier for you than the other.
one question type asks  you to match headings to paragraphs in the text.
this article breaks down the differences between the two tests so that you can make your own decision.
one will ask you to write your opinion on a broad topic, such as whether it is better to live in the country or the city.
others come after the text and may expect you to have read the text  thoroughly.
on the other hand, you might feel more relaxed in a conversation, with a person there to explain if you don’t understand a question, or simply having a face to look at, instead of a computer screen.
the conversations and lectures are  very natural and include informal english, interruptions, filler noises like  “uh” or “uhm.”
so it depends on what you are more  comfortable with.
source:  associatedcontent
two questions will ask you to summarize information from a short conversation.
the first part of the test will be a brief introductory conversation followed by some short questions about familiar topics.
andtoefl and ielts are the two biggest  standardized tests of the english language.
again, the topics of the conversations are always university-related.
one will ask you to summarize information from a text and  a lecture–often the two will disagree with each other and you will need  to either compare and contrast, or synthesize conflicting information.
in the last section, the interviewer will ask you to discuss a more abstract side of the topic in part 2–why do people prefer daily routines?
toefl is administered by ets, a us-based non-profit and is used widely by american and canadianuniversities.
the good thing about multiple-choice is that it is easy to pick out wrong answers, whereas the good thing about copying down is that the answer is sitting there in the text.
that makes it harder to prepare for.
the reading section of the ielts gives you 3 texts, which may be from academic textbooks or from a newspaper or magazine–but all at the level of a university student.
on the ielts, this difference will have a larger effect because spelling counts, and that is one area where britain and the us do not always see eye-to-eye.
in other  words, if you write well but have a lot of small grammar mistakes, yourtoefl  score might be quite good because graders will ignore small mistakes if the  overall essay is logical and detailed.
on the other hand, american accents may throw you off.
so, concrete thinkers will tend to do better on the ielts and abstract thinkers will tend to excel on thetoefl.
but you think you have excellent grammar and vocabulary and overall are a decent writer, the ielts will probably be easier for you.
however, these days, in order to make it easy on international students,universities all over the world take bothtoefl and ielts.
on the other hand, if your grammar and vocabulary are strong but you have  trouble expressing your opinion or organizing an essay, you could end up with a  lowtoefl score but the ielts will give you good marks for language use.
the reading section of the ielts gives you 3 texts, which may be from  academic textbooks or from a newspaper or magazine–but all at the level  of a university student.
you will have to identify important information, compare and contrast different figures or maybe describe a process.
while you should check with the specific university you want to apply to, in general any school in the us, the uk,australia or new zealand will take either test score.
finally, some questions are short-answer but the answers will be taken directly from the text itself.
for all sections you may be asked to fill  out a summary, fill in a table, answer multiple-choice questions, label a  diagram or picture, or classify information into different categories.
you just have to find it and repeat it.
multiple-choice questions will tend to be  require slightly better abstract thinking, but the ielts favors people who have  good memories and think more concretely.
pick the test you think will be easier for you to complete.
one will always be an opinion piece–i.e. a text arguing for one point of view.
another large difference is in how the speaking section is carried out.
the first is a “transactional  conversation” in which someone may be applying for something (a  driver’s license, a library card) or asking for information (say calling  for more details about an advertisement or a hotel).
some questions come before the text and may not require careful reading to answer.
the second task asks you to present your opinion on a statement about a fairly open topic such as: “women should look after children and not work” or “too many people are moving to cities and rural areas are suffering.”