ielts (academic) you need to meet the university's ielts (academic test) requirements within  the 24 months preceding application.
if you offer is conditional on you meeting the  english language requirements, you must meet the minimum toefl, pearson or  ielts scores above to be eligible for a place.
2:52pm - last modified: 16 nov 2011 1:26pm - authoriser: executive director, office of admissions - page contact: future students group - email: office of admissions email us
the following scores are required: paper based test - a score of 577 or more including a score of 4.5 in the  test of written english.
site overview future students site search our courses - the melbourne degrees - undergraduate courses - graduate courses - course search - career pathways - single subject study (cap) - study abroad and exchange - extension program admissions and applications - atar calculator - fees - scholarships - entry requirements - access melbourne - applications - important dates - accept your offer and prepare for study the university - events - about the university - reputation and rankings - colleges and accommodation - student support - student experience - study abroad and exchange - graduate schools information for: - international students - school students - indigenous students - careers practitioners - graduate researchers - staff - overseas representatives - mature age applicants contact us: - contact us: domestic students - contact us: international students - order a brochure - subscribe to our newsletters - enquiries social media - facebook: join our group - follow me at twitter - view our youtube channel - unimelb iphone app about this page - date created: 25 nov 2010
the following scores are required: - paper based test - a score of 577 or more including a score of 4.5 in the test of written english.
further information required scores must be achieved from a single test report, even if you  have sat for multipletoefl or ielts tests.
- guaranteed entry for access melbourne applicants 2012 - frequently asked questions - year 11/12 special consideration - graduate access melbourne - benefits of graduate access melbourne - am i eligible?
if a faculty has a lower toefl/ielts requirement, students may be required to enrol in, and pass, english as a second language subjects as part of their degree program.
note: some specific courses may have  differenttoefl or ielts score requirements.
hawthorn - melbourne hawthorn - melbourne (previously hawthorn english language centre) offers a  range of english language programs that prepare international students for  further university study (including ielts preparation).
pearson test of english (academic) you need to meet the university's pearson test of english (academic test) requirement within the 24 months preceding you application.
english for immigration requirements while the ielts, toefl and pearson test of english tests are acceptable for  meeting the university's english language requirements, the requirements of the  australiandepartment of immigration and citizenship (diac) may differ.
certified copies andtoefl examiner's score records are not  accepted.
in order to ascertain the english requirements for obtaining a student visa.
- skip to content - skip to navigation - university home page future students future students home > admissions > entry requirements > english language requirements > undergraduate ielts, toefl and pearson test of english requirements - not sure where to start?
- internet based test - a score of 79 and scores of: - writing: 21 - speaking: 18 - reading: 13 - listening 13 students with a toefl (ibt) score of less than 94 will be required to take a diagnostic english language assessment (dela) on enrolment at the university and to follow recommendations for language support.
it is important to note that applicants who have undertaken their final year of study in less than the usual amount of time, for example a fast-track, accelerated or intensive program, will be required to meet the university'stoefl or ielts requirements.
- an overall band score of 6.5 or more in the academic international english language testing system (ielts), with no bands less than 6.0.
hawthorn - melbourne hawthorn - melbourne (previously hawthorn english language centre) offers a range of english language programs that prepare international students for further university study (including ielts preparation).
details about toefl, ielts and pearson testing are available by following  these links: toefl testing information pearson testing information conditional offers
- how to apply - graduate equity scholarships - non-school leaver entry pathway - mature age applicants - elite athletes and artistic performers entry scheme - guaranteed entry pathways - high-achieving students pathways - guaranteed entry pathways to graduate courses - other guaranteed entry pathways with atar - other guaranteed entry pathways without atar - guaranteed entry pathways by course - faqs about guaranteed entry - chancellor’s scholars programs - selection appeals - access melbourne - applications - undergraduate domestic - deferral policy for undergraduate studies - undergraduate international - graduate coursework domestic - graduate coursework international - graduate research degrees - complete the application form - defer your offer - other application processes - non-school leaver - mid-year entry - mid-year entry 2011:
details about toefl, ielts and pearson testing are available by following these links: - toefl testing information - ielts testing information - pearson testing information conditional offersif you offer is conditional on you meeting the english language requirements, you must meet the minimum toefl, pearson or ielts scores above to be eligible for a place.
your original toefl or ielts test report form must be included with your  application.
the following scores are required: students with an ielts overall score of less than 7 will be required to take a diagnostic english language assessment (dela) on enrolment at the university and to follow recommendations for language support.
it is  recommended that you contact your nearest australian embassy or high commission
it is important to note that applicants who have undertaken  their final year of study in less than the usual amount of time, for example a  fast-track, accelerated or intensive program, will be required to meet the  university'stoefl or ielts requirements.
computer based test - a score of 233 or more including an essay rating  score of 4.5.
note: some specific courses may have differenttoefl or ielts score requirements.
pearson test of english (academic) you need to meet the university's pearson test of english (academic test)  requirement within the 24 months preceding you application.
english for immigration requirements while the ielts, toefl and pearson test of english tests are acceptable for meeting the university's english language requirements, the requirements of the australiandepartment of immigration and citizenship (diac) may differ.
- computer based test - a score of 233 or more including an essay rating score of 4.5.
your original toefl or ielts test report form must be included with your application.
certified copies andtoefl examiner's score records are not accepted.
readfurther information  about dela.
the following scores are required: an overall band score of 6.5 or more in the academic international english  language testing system (ielts), with no bands less than 6.0.
- our courses - admissions and applications - explore the university - information for - contact us admissions and applications - atar calculator - fees - undergraduate domestic students - fee tables and calculations - other fees and costs - payments and hecs-help - faqs about fees - undergraduate international students - international undergraduate fee tables - other fees and costs - payments and refunds - australian permanent residency - faqs about fees - graduate domestic students - commonwealth supported places - fee tables and calculations - other fees and costs - payments and hecs-help - faqs about fees - research training scheme places - other fees and costs - faqs about fees - australian fee place fees - fee tables and calculations - other fees and costs - payments and fee-help - faqs about fees - options to finance your graduate study - graduate international students - fee tables and calculations - other fees and costs - payments and refunds - australian permanent residency - faqs about fees - single subject study (cap) - how to calculate cap fees - student services and amenities fee for 2012 - fees faqs - fees glossary - scholarships - domestic undergraduate scholarships - international undergraduate scholarships - domestic graduate scholarships - international graduate scholarships - travelling scholarships - faculty-based scholarships - graduate school scholarships - jason - sports and performance scholarships - other undergraduate scholarships - other graduate scholarships - entry requirements - undergraduate domestic - equivalent qualifications - undergraduate international - australian year 12 - trinity college foundation studies program - gce 'a' levels - international baccalaureate - graduate domestic - graduate international - early offers for graduate study - english language requirements - undergraduate ielts, toefl and pearson test of english requirements - graduate ielts, toefl and pearson test of english requirements - graduate research degrees - other ways to get in - access melbourne - why should i apply?
if a faculty has a lower toefl/ielts requirement, students may be required  to enrol in, and pass, english as a second language subjects as part of their  degree program.
students with an ielts overall score of less than 7 will be required to take a  diagnostic english language assessment (dela) on enrolment at the university  and to follow recommendations for language support.
further information required scores must be achieved from a single test report, even if you have sat for multipletoefl or ielts tests.
undergraduate domestic students - mid-year entry 2011:
it is recommended that you contact your nearest australian embassy or high commission in order to ascertain the english requirements for obtaining a student visa.
- which courses can i apply for?
the following score is required: an overall score of between 58-64 inclusive and achieve no pte  communicative skills score below 50.
ielts (academic) you need to meet the university's ielts (academic test) requirements within the 24 months preceding application.
undergraduate ielts, toefl and pearson test of english requirements toefl you need to meet the university's toefl (academic test) requirements within  the 24 months preceding application.
undergraduate international students - mid-year entry 2011:
internet based test - a score of 79 and scores of: writing: 21 reading: 13 listening 13 students with a toefl (ibt) score of less than 94 will be required to take  a diagnostic english language assessment (dela) on enrolment at the university  and to follow recommendations for language support.
readfurther information about dela.
the following score is required: - an overall score of between 58-64 inclusive and achieve no pte communicative skills score below 50.
graduate students - access melbourne - graduate access melbourne - how to transfer from another course - guaranteed transfer - international student transfer policy - important dates - accept your offer and prepare for study - undergraduate domestic - undergraduate international - graduate domestic - graduate international undergraduate ielts, toefl and pearson test of english requirements toefl you need to meet the university's toefl (academic test) requirements within the 24 months preceding application.