however, it is much more critical on the toefl exam.
in the toefl, you will have 40 - 60 minutes worth of listening selections from lectures or campus conversations.
questions are multiple choice.
ielts - the ielts also has two tasks: the first a short essay  of 200 - 250 words.
reading materials are academic in nature.
the listening selection very different from the  ielts.
take notes and respond to multiple choice questions.
the toefl lasts approximately four hours, whereas the ielts is significantly shorter - about 2 hours 45 minutes.
the  ielts, on the other hand, has a much wider range of question types including  multiple choice, gap fill, matching exercises, etc.
speaking toefl - once again the speaking section differs greatly between the toefl and the ielts exams.
take note of your answers: these questions are very important because the ielts exam is maintained by the university of cambridge, whereas the toefl exam is provided by ets, a us company based in new jersey.
you will answer questions as you move  through the listening selection of the test.
writing toefl - two written tasks are required on the toefl and all  writing is done on the computer.
same answer as above!
the ielts asks you to  answer questions as you listen to the exam.
reading toefl - you will have 3 - 5 reading selections of twenty minutes each.
the largest difference between the two exams is in  listening.
important related resources
you will answer questions as you move through the listening selection of the test.
on the toefl you are asked to record  responses on the computer of 45 - 60 seconds to six different questions based  on short descriptions / conversations.
do you feel more comfortable with a wide range of north american vocabulary and idiomatic expressions or british english vocabulary and idiomatic expressions?
ielts for british english toefl for american english.
if you type very slowly, i would strongly recommend taking the ielts as you handwrite your essay responses.
major differences between the ielts and the toefl
as you will read below in the section on key differences between the ielts  or toefl, the toefl requires that you type your essays in the written section  of the test.
it is much easier than either the ielts academic version or the toefl!
the listening selection very different from the ielts.
here are considerations for each question when deciding between  the ielts or the toefl.
if you type very slowly, i would strongly recommend taking the  ielts as you handwrite your essay responses.
if you have more experience with british english (or australian english), take the ielts as vocabulary and accents tend more towards british english.
can you type relatively fast?
often it is the students' choice as both exams are accepted as meeting the entry requirements for academic settings.
if  you watch a lot of hollywood movies and like us idiomatic language, choose the  toefl as it reflects american english.
the speaking section of the test lasts 20 minutes.
are you proficient at taking notes?
take note of your  answers: do you need the ielts or the toefl for academic english?
the ielts speaking section lasts from 12 to 14  minutes and takes place with an examiner, rather than a computer as on the  toefl.
if you do not feel comfortable with multiple choice questions, the toefl is not the test for you.
do you need the ielts or the toefl for academic english?
you are then asked to respond using notes by writing a 150 - 225  word selection integrating both the reading and listening selection.
task one involves writing a five paragraph essay of 300 to 350 words.
do you want to finish the test as quickly as possible?
there are multiple type questions (gap fill, matching, etc.)
ielts exam exam study resources
if you do not feel  comfortable with multiple choice questions, the toefl is not the test for you.
note taking is important as the second task asks you to take notes from a reading selection in a text book and then a lecture on the same topic.
a part of the new york times company.
writing toefl - two written tasks are required on the toefl and all writing is done on the computer.
the ielts asks you to answer questions as you listen to the exam.
if you need the ielts or toefl for academic english, then keep answering  these questions.
here are considerations for each question when deciding between the ielts or the toefl.
in the toefl, you will have 40 - 60 minutes worth of listening  selections from lectures or campus conversations.
as you will read below, the listening section in particular depends on note taking skills in the toefl as you answer questions after you have listened to a longer selection.
task one involves writing a five paragraph  essay of 300 to 350 words.
if you have more experience with british english (or australian english),  take the ielts as vocabulary and accents tend more towards british english.
important related resources free toefl exam preparation free ielts exam preparation toefl - test of english as a foreign language ielts - international english language testing system kenneth beare english as 2nd language guide ©2012 about.com.
the ielts, on the other hand, has a much wider range of question types including multiple choice, gap fill, matching exercises, etc.
note taking is important on both the ielts and the toefl.
ielts - the ielts also has two tasks: the first a short essay of 200 - 250 words.
do you feel comfortable with a wide range of question types?
if you become extremely nervous during a test and want the experience to  end as quickly as posable, the choice between ielts or toefl is easier.
questions are multiple  choice.
speaking toefl - once again the speaking section differs greatly  between the toefl and the ielts exams.
if this is not the case, you  have even more to choose from and may want to review this guide to choosing an  engish test before you decide on the ielts or toefl.
if you don't need the ielts or toefl for academic english, for example for immigration, take the general version of the ielts.
there is a short warm up exercise consisting mainly of small talk,  followed by a response to some sort of visual stimulus and, finally, a more  extended discussion on a related topic.
however, in some cases the ielts is requested for visa  purposes to canadian or australian immigration.
to begin with, here are some points to take into consideration before you decide whether to take the ielts or the toefl exam.
the toefl exam is made up of almost entirely multiple choice questions.
in the ielts exam there are a wider variety of question types, as  well as exercises of differing lengths.
to begin with, here are some points to take into consideration before  you decide whether to take the ielts or the toefl exam.
you are then asked to respond using notes by writing a 150 - 225 word selection integrating both the reading and listening selection.
take notes and respond to  multiple choice questions.
as you will read below in the section on key differences between the ielts or toefl, the toefl requires that you type your essays in the written section of the test.
both tests are also different in how the test is  administered.
it is much  easier than either the ielts academic version or the toefl!
if you watch a lot of hollywood movies and like us idiomatic language, choose the toefl as it reflects american english.
if you become extremely nervous during a test and want the experience to end as quickly as posable, the choice between ielts or toefl is easier.
there is a wide choice of english tests available, but often english  students are asked to choose between the ielts or toefl exam.
the speaking section of the test lasts  20 minutes.
if you don't need the ielts or toefl for academic english, for  example for immigration, take the general version of the ielts.
discuss in my forum by kenneth beare, about.com guidesee more about: there is a wide choice of english tests available, but often english students are asked to choose between the ielts or toefl exam.
often it is the  students' choice as both exams are accepted as meeting the entry requirements  for academic settings.
the largest difference between the two exams is in listening.
in the ielts exam there are a wider variety of question types, as well as exercises of differing lengths.
however, it is  much more critical on the toefl exam.
reading toefl - you will have 3 - 5 reading selections of twenty  minutes each.
are you more comfortable with north american or british / uk accents?
the  toefl lasts approximately four hours, whereas the ielts is significantly  shorter - about 2 hours 45 minutes.
if you need the ielts or toefl for academic english, then keep answering these questions.
remember, however, that shorter does not necessarily mean easier!
the second ielts writing task asks you to look at an infograhic such as a graph or chart and summarize the information presented.
materials are, as in the case of the toefl, related to an academic setting.
remember, however, that shorter does not  necessarily mean easier!
ielts - 3 reading selections of twenty minutes each.
as it is often up to the english test taker to decide which of these two  (or three as ielts has two versions) exams, here is a guide to making the  decision.
on the toefl you are asked to record responses on the computer of 45 - 60 seconds to six different questions based on short descriptions / conversations.
the second ielts writing task asks you to look at an  infograhic such as a graph or chart and summarize the information presented.
the ielts speaking section lasts from 12 to 14 minutes and takes place with an examiner, rather than a computer as on the toefl.
as it is often up to the english test taker to decide which of these two (or three as ielts has two versions) exams, here is a guide to making the decision.
both tests are also different in how the test is administered.
as you will read below, the listening  section in particular depends on note taking skills in the toefl as you answer  questions after you have listened to a longer selection.
there is a short warm up exercise consisting mainly of small talk, followed by a response to some sort of visual stimulus and, finally, a more extended discussion on a related topic.
these questions are very important because the ielts exam is maintained by  the university of cambridge, whereas the toefl exam is provided by ets, a us  company based in new jersey.
note taking is important as the second task asks you  to take notes from a reading selection in a text book and then a lecture on the  same topic.
if this is not the case, you have even more to choose from and may want to review this guide to choosing an engish test before you decide on the ielts or toefl.
however, in some cases the ielts is requested for visa purposes to canadian or australian immigration.
do you feel more comfortable with a wide range of north american  vocabulary and idiomatic expressions or british english vocabulary and  idiomatic expressions?