in general, grammar scores go up faster than the scores on any other section.
you should keep track of time and allow a few minutes before the 30 minutes have ended to read over your essays and make any changes.
institution and department codes.
you should try to cover the topics as well as you can within your own abilities.
also, the cbt toefl has some new question types that we have not seen before on the paper toefl.
university of colorado at denver and health sciences center total score: 80, with a recommended score of 89 university of denver total score: 80 for most graduate departments university of illinois - chicago total score: 80, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 19 speaking: 20 listening: 17 writing: 21 university of lethbridge total score: 93 university of minnesota total score: 79, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 19 writing: 21 university of missouri - rolla total score: 80 university of tennessee at chattanooga total score: 79-80 university of texas - arlington total score: 79, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 20 listening: 16 speaking: 21 writing: 22 university of texas - austin minimum required total score: 79, with a preferred score of 21 for each section university of texas - san antonio total score: 100 for admission with exemption from the utsa english language assessment program (elap)
no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts taking and analyzing practice toefl tests is only a part of comprehensive plan for toefl preparation.
however, remember, these  scores are not accepted by most schools and are not considered official scores.
in august, 2006, the ibt will  be given in china.
in every country except china, you will probably have to take the computer test.
selected cities in north africa, the middle east, eurasia, europe and the americas will offer the ibt for the first time on march 25, 2006.
for the conduct of the test,  ets has appointed testing agencies in various countries, which act as  franchisee for ets.
where can people take the test?
what is the best way to raise my toefl score quickly?
an essay that is not about the topic presented will receive a score of “0,” and this will have a serious effect on the structure/writing score.
ets has tried very hard to make the tests equally difficult.
if you arrive late, you may not be admitted, and your test fee will be forfeited.
- review of idiomatic  expressions and responses that they are likely to encounter in american  campuses and in professional settings.
however, some schools think that  the price of the nternational toefl is too high (about us $130) and will still  accept scores from the institutional toefl, which is given on paper.
you should also write neatly and legibly.
a lesser requirement of a 76 minimum total score is sufficient for entry to the english bridge program, an advanced esl term taken in preparation for undergraduate or graduate degree study.
most people agree: the paper toefl is much easier than the cbt  toefl.
this implies that ets sets the questions, conducts the  test, and sends each examinee the score report.
fees are subject to change without notice.
writing section the writing section measures the ability to write in english, including the ability to generate, organize, and develop ideas, to support those ideas with examples or evidence, and to compose a response to one assigned topic in standard written english.
the following table gives out the format of the toefl-cat no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation importance of essay writing in toefl and a few tips ‘n’ tricks to handle it !!
the score that you need depends on the university that you want  to go to; you will need to contact the university to find out.
ph: 91-532-2622477 bangalore (8904)
prometric senior plaza, 160-a, gautam nagar, yusuf sarai, behind indian oil building, new delhi-110049, india.
- from the start, students focus on  all the important components of the toefl test: grammar, reading, vocab,  listening comp, writing an essay and targeted.
in areas where access to computer-based testing or  internet-based testing is limited, a paper-based version of the test is  administered on specific dates.
more than 6,000 colleges, universities, and licensing agencies in 110 countries accept toefl scores.
in addition, many government, licensing, and  certification agencies and exchange and scholarship programs use toefl scores  to evaluate the english proficiency of people for whom english is not their  native language.
pencils and erasers will not be supplied at the test center.
some people have heard about the  “institutional toefl.”
for how long is my toefl score valid?
toefl classes in new delhi, india council for american education (cae) -409, defence colony, new delhi tel: (+91-11) 24330007, 41552577, 24330509 jamboree toefl preparation 9 - ab, taimoor nagar, new friends colony, new delhi tel: (+91-11) 55654789/90, 26330336 b - 1/16, vasant vihar, new delhi tel: (+91-11) 41661811, 26140741, 26142857 2530, hudson lines, 2nd floor, near kingsway camp, north delhi tel: (+91-11) 27225695/98, 55650582 edstar toefl preparation 1212-1213, ansal tower, 38 nehru place, new delhi - 19 tel: (011) 41674227, mobile: 9818469221 toefl classes in mumbai, india edstar toefl prep d-wing, central bombay infotec park, 101, sane guruji marg, jacob circle, mahalaxmi, mumbai - 400011
test centers assume no responsibility for candidates’ personal belongings.
you will  have to ask the school that you want to attend to find out whether they will  accept the institutional toefl or not.
saki naka, andheri (e) mumbai – 400072 ph: 91-22-28573160 / 28573171 trivandrum (8912) prometric testing (p) ltd. ptc towers, 2nd floor, ss coil road, thampanoor, trivandrum – 695001 ph: 91-471-2338662 no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts details of preparation classes for toefl in india.
admission to the test center report to the test center at least 30 minutes before your scheduled time.
- review of idiomatic expressions and responses that they are likely to encounter in american campuses and in professional settings.
nearly 2400 education institutes in the united  states and canada require toefl scores from each applicant.
you will not be graded on the neatness of your handwriting, but the readers who evaluate the essays must be able to read the handwriting.
some people can raise their scores by speaking and watching television and american movies, other people can raise their scores by studying the toefl.
be sure the correct photograph is displayed on your assigned testing station.
what’s the difference between the computer toefl and the  paper toefl?
make sure to call at least three business days  before the test date.
what are the topics covered under toefl?
who administers the toefl test?
you may have official score reports sent directly to four institutions if you mark and grid their code numbers on your answer sheet.
tel : 020-25459589-90,30915612, 9850611830
some universities will tell you that they don’t have a minimum requirement; usually these universities are the best ones, such as stanford or harvard.
some students feel that the pbt is easier because it does not always contain a writing section–and it contains a grammar section.
grammar,  reading, vocabulary, listening comp, writing and targeted toefl test taking  skills and strategies.
your toefl score is valid for only two years.
mechanical pencils are not permitted.
essay ratings each essay is assigned one of the ratings listed at the end of this page by two independent readers.
seating the test administrator/supervisor will assign you a seat.
there are three ways to register: registering by phone: you may call up prometric office  until 12:00 noon to register.
prometric testing (p) ltd. 301-302, abhijeet-ii, mitha kali, 6 road, ellisbridge, ahmedabad ph: 91-79-6561088 allahabad (8903) prometric testing (p) ltd. 119/25a, mahatma gandhi marg, civil lines, allahabad – 211001
the cbt: the computer-based toefl (cbt) is still being used in some countries such as japan and korea–and will still be used even after the ibt is administered in selected cities.
you should not use large handwriting, skip lines, or leave large margins to make your essays appear longer; readers look at the development of the essay and how the ideas are expressed and elaborated on, not at how many words are written or appear to be written.
no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts review of the various questions asked frequently by toefl aspirants.
some people have heard about the “institutional toefl.”
confirmation letter or number who accepts toefl scores?
tel : 022 - 23015639 / 23015602 / 23015591 center for american education (cae) f-34 , dhanraj mahal, next to honkong restaurant, near regal cinema, appollo bunder, mumbai - 400 039.
you must bring the following to the test center: computer-based testing acceptable and valid identification document(s) with a signature and photograph.
- english language training through american films.
the score you receive from this test is not accepted by every university in the world.
non-native english  speakers at the 11th-grade level or above should take the toefl test to provide  evidence of their english proficiency before beginning academic work.
22 writing: 19 minimum speaking score for international teaching assistants: 26 oregon state total score: 80, with a minimum of 18 for each section total score: 60 for conditional admission, with no section requirements purdue university total score: 77, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 19 listening: 14 speaking: 18 writing: 18 queen’s university total score: 88, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 22 listening: 20 speaking: 22 writing: 24 quinnipiac university total score: 90 saint cloud university - school of graduate studies total score: 79, with a minimum of 17 for each section savannah college of art & design total score: 85, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 18 listening: 20 speaking: 23 writing: 24 simmons college - college of arts and sciences total score: 100 for communications management, matesl, special education, gender/cultural studies total score: 80 for mat, children’s literature, english, spanish other graduate programs may have different requirements simmons college - school for health studies total score: 88 other graduate schools may have different requirements simmons college - school for library and information science total score: 79 other graduate schools may have different requirements simon fraser university total score: 88, with a minimum required score of 20 for each section.
the test is also  used by institutions in other countries where english is the language of  instruction.
choice of style you have a 30-minute time limit to write your essay.
different students will have different reactions to the different tests.
the easy answer is this: you should type your toefl essay if you can!
however, if you cannot type very fast, you should handwrite your toefl essay.
the toefl test is developed and administered by the us-based “educational testing service” (ets).
to make best use of the score information, some institutions plan to set section or skill score requirements either by themselves or in combination with a total score, while others plan to set a total score standard.
what’s the difference between the institutional toefl and the international toefl?
- university admission guidance, exercises and information.
if you still have a copy  of your original score, you can ask the university whether they will accept it,  but most universities will not accept a copy from you; they require a score  sent directly from toefl.
cat gmat gre gate preparation website !
no 15, 2nd floor, romar house, jagannathan road, nugambakkam, chennai – 600034
therefore, it is very important that you accurately complete area 3 on your admission ticket using the institution and department code lists.
however, universities and colleges normally do not accept this test for admission unless it is used in a local context (in other words, if the english language institution is located in close proximity to a university or college, then the university or college might accept it for admission).
most people take the toefl test as a prerequisite for admission into colleges and universities where english is used or required.
how many kinds of toefl tests are there?
in other words, two years after you take  your toefl, your score will be deleted from the official toefl database, and  toefl will not send you another report of your score.
if you want your toefl score to be accepted at every university in the  world, then you need to take the international toefl.
(you will be provided with a twosided sheet on the day of the test.)
the computer toefl or the paper toefl?
the institutional toefl is the toefl that is  given by an “institution” (such as a company or a language school)  so that they can measure the english level of the people who take the test.
if you refuse to participate, you will not be permitted to test and you will forfeit your test fee.
how can i get a copy of the toefl bulletin?
such a draft is usually available with the main branches of most banks (which have a foreign exchange counter) in most of the big cities for a nominal charge (around rs. 200).
this implies that ets sets the questions, conducts the test, and sends each examinee the score report.
what’s the difference between the computer toefl and the paper toefl?
get on-line and read electronically on the internet
immediately after reading the essay question, you should take some time to think about the topic before you start to write.
in every country except china, you will probably have to take the computer  test.
the test has four sections : listening, structure, reading and writing.
the name you give when you register must match the name on the identification document(s) you present at the test center.
again, check the official toefl web  site to be sure.
for example, the listening on the cbt toefl is much harder than the  listening on the paper toefl and the cbt toefl has an essay that you have to  write.
the credit card need not necessarily be yours - you can get your father to sign for you!
the test content is considered too difficult for students below 11th grade.
you should do your best to write about what the essay question asks for.
the test is also used by institutions in other countries where english is the language of instruction.
you will not have access to your personal items during the test or break.
which toefl is easier?
some departments may have higher scores than the minimum.
the lowest toefl score that you  will need is probably about 450.
case western reserve university - school of graduate studies total score: 79, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 19 listening: 15 writing: 22 speaking: 23 carson-newman college total score: 79 central queensland university postgraduate coursework - total score: 79, including a score of 20 or more in the writing section clarkson university total score: 90, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 21 listening: 20 speaking: 27 writing: 22 dalhousie university total score: 92 duke university total score: 83, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 21 listening: 20 speaking: 22 writing: 20 east carolina university total score: 80, with a minimum of 20 for each section grand valley state university total score: 80* *specific healthcare-related graduate degrees require a total score of 101-102 lakehead university total score: 80 lehigh university target scores refer to the minimum university scores that students should not fall below to be admitted without some remedial language assistance.
your identification will be checked before you are admitted.
the name given when making your appointment must match the name on the identification document you present at the test center.
however, everybody is different, and you may find the cbt toefl easier.
some schools require no toefl score, but, be careful!
however, many colleges will accept a toefl score from the institutional toefl.
for most schools, the answer is “no.”
ph: 91-44-28241875 hyderabad (8908)
if schools accept the institutional  toefl, you will have to find a place to take it.
no comments page 4 of 6  « first   ... « 2  3  4   5  6 » search coaching centre - career forum viewed 40,110 times gk questions - snap viewed 22,860 times role of a leader
making a brief outline or some notes on scratch paper may help organize the essay.
the toefl test is created and produced by the educational testing service.
some signature bearing identification, i.e., driving license,  notarized identification.
prometric testing (p) ltd. maini sadan, 1st floor, no 38 lavelle road, 7th cross, bangalore – 560001
if you do not complete and sign the statement, you cannot test and your fee will not be refunded.
however, this test will be completely phased out by the end of 2006 according to ets.
the institutional toefl is the toefl that is given by an “institution” (such as a company or a language school) so that they can measure the english level of the people who take the test.
the score that you need depends on the university that you want to go to; you will need to contact the university to find out.
most  people now still use the paper toefl scores, even though most students take the  computer toefl.
the highest score on the paper toefl is 677.
may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts review of the various questions asked frequently by toefl aspirants.
score is valid for only two years.
the  score you receive from this test is not accepted by every university in the  world.
no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts these are some very essential points which are needed to be taken proper care of - on the day of exam.
obtain the “toefl information bulletin” available free with prometric testing services and usefi.
can i still take the paper toefl instead of the computer toefl?
can i  still take the paper toefl instead of the computer toefl?
friends or relatives who accompany you to the test center are not allowed to wait in the test center or be in contact with you while you take the test.
alternately, the payment can also be made through a credit card which has global acceptance.
non-native english speakers at the 11th-grade level or above should take the toefl test to provide evidence of their english proficiency before beginning academic work.
in may, 2006, selected test centers in japan and korea will begin to offer the ibt.
prometric testing (p) ltd. avenue 1, street 20, plot 1672, road 12, banjara hills hyderabad – 500034 ph: 91-40-23308504 mumbai (8921) prometric testing (p) ltd. marwah house, saki vihar road,
- from the start, students focus on all the important components of the toefl test: grammar, reading, vocab, listening comp, writing an essay and targeted.
there are three ways to register: registering by phone: you may call up prometric office until 12:00 noon to register.
in general, better universities require higher  toefl scores and worse schools require lower toefl scores.
below are some specific suggestions for activities to build skills for specific parts of the toefl: - listening - listen to the radio - watch tv - go to the movies - use the telephone (in english) - buy books on tape - go to bars or restaurants and eavesdrop - look in the boston globe calendar for lectures, readings or free classes - visit the courthouse - start conversations with strangers - get a job or volunteer structure study the list of most frequently tested grammar points, and then… - look for grammar exercises in your favorite grammar book on those points - when you read, identify sentence components - practice writing toefl grammar questions - study lists of regularities, such as make/do, infinitive/gerund, etc. vocabulary and reading comprehension - read for pleasure, every day or night - read the newspaper and look up 5 new words each day - own an english language dictionary and thesaurus and use them - study the list of reading passage topics, and… - read popular science articles whenever possible - read encyclopedia articles on science and history - read introductory-level college textbooks - become familiar with english roots, prefixes and suffixes - buy a television with close-captioning -
in india, this fee is us $130, payable at the time of registration.
different students  will have different reactions to the different tests.
however, this test will be completely phased out by the end of 2006 according  to ets.
- practice test sessions are given monthly under “real test” conditions (virtual reality) individualized profile for learning style.
the biggest difference between the cbt toefl and the paper  toefl is that thecbt toefl requires an essay.
which kind of toefl test do i need to take?
- practice test sessions are given monthly under “real test”  conditions (virtual reality) individualized profile for learning style.
verifying your id you must present valid and acceptable identification documents.
test of english as foreign language is  a standardized test that evaluates the english proficiency of people whose  native language is not english.
different universities accept different toefl tests.
if you arrive late, you may not be admitted and your fee will not be refunded.
the highest toefl score that you will need is probably about 630.
check the  bulletin section of our website or you can download it or order it from the  official toefl web site: you can download a free copy of the information  bulletin at the official toefl web site.
the answer really  depends on the student.
the lowest toefl score that you will need is probably about 450.
if you type your toefl essay, you should receive your toefl score within two weeks.
however, some schools think that the price of the nternational toefl is too high (about us $130) and will still accept scores from the institutional toefl, which is given on paper.
the test scores are valid for two years.
some schools require  no toefl score, but, be careful!
the name you give when you make your appointment must match the name on the identification document(s) you present at the test center.
registering by mail/courier: fill in the form,  get the draft made (if you are not paying by credit card), and submit these to  the prometric centre either by hand or by registered post/courier.
who makes the toefl test?
most people take the toefl  test as a prerequisite for admission into colleges and universities where  english is used or required.
some signature bearing identification, i.e., driving license, notarized identification.
why take the toefl test?
your cbt voucher (if you have one).
st. john’s college - graduate institute (annapolis, md/santa fe, nm) master of arts in liberal arts and master of arts in eastern classics programs - total score: 112, with a minimum of 27 for each section the university of the arts total score: 79 university of arkansas total score: 80 university of buffalo (suny) -
a rating between two points on the scale (5.5, 4.5, 3.5, 2.5, 1.5) can also be reported.
the toefl test is  offered in 180 countries around the world at institutional locations, such as  colleges and universities testing centers operated by prometric, a division of  thomson learning.
health professional associations educational commission for foreign veterinary graduates (u.s.) total score: 80, with the following minimum section requirements speaking: 26 listening: 26 writing: 17 international medical graduates - ontario (canada) total score: 93, with a minimum of 24 for speaking candidates applying to community medicine must also achieve a minimum of 22 for writing national board for certification in occupational therapy (u.s.) total score: 89, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 18 speaking: 26 listening: 21 writing: 24 national association of boards of pharmacy (u.s.)
the toefl class in pune, india the princeton review - pune galani chamber, near income tax office, plot no. 14, lane no. 14, prabhat road, pune - 411004
the highest score on the computer toefl is 300.
you must  send the documents at least three weeks before your choice of a test day.
the essay question should be answered carefully.
important: the name on the registration form should be exactly the same as in your passport or you may not be allowed to test.
it can be useful to understand in more detail how the essay readers evaluate the essay.
check the bulletin section of our website or you can download it or order it from the official toefl web site: you can download a free copy of the information bulletin at the official toefl web site.
but, the additional questions are for research purposes only and the scores of all test takers are based on the same number of questions.
c. you should become familiar with the scoring guide.
however, even though they don’t have a “requirement,” most of the people who go to these universities have toefl scores from 267 to 300.
bring your appointment confirmation number.
what is a good score on the toefl?
roswell park cancer institute division total score: 96, with a minimum of 24 for speaking university of california - berkeley total score: 68, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 17 listening: 16 speaking: 17 writing: 18 minimum speaking score for appointment as a graduate student instructor (ta): 26 individual departments or programs may set higher minimum scores.
the test  content is considered too difficult for students below 11th grade.
some students feel that the ibt is more difficult because it contains more  difficult reading and listening tasks–and it contains a speaking section.
delayed or rescheduled tests weather conditions or other circumstances beyond the test administrator or ets’s control may require a delayed start or the rescheduling of your test appointment.
the toefl ibt score scale is: test section score range listening 0 to 30 reading 0 to 30 speaking 0 to 30 writing 0 to 30 total score 0 to 120 toefl ibt provides more information about the applicant’s abilities to communicate in an academic english language environment.
some people  can raise their scores by speaking and watching television and american movies,  other people can raise their scores by studying the toefl.
you must send the documents at least three weeks before your choice of a test day.
a term used in the scoring guide is “development.”
essays are also judged on organization.
what score do i need on the toefl?
for example, the listening on the cbt toefl is much harder than the listening on the paper toefl and the cbt toefl has an essay that you have to write.
viewed 10,984 times recent articles your preparation schedule for cat simple steps of college essay writing 4 things to help you in background research for college essay 5 simple ways to improve your college application essay 5 ways to manage feedbacks on your college application essay categories
this will be given to you when you schedule your appointment.
more than 6,000 colleges,  universities, and licensing agencies in 110 countries accept toefl scores.
the paper-based toefl test is generally offered  at institutional locations such as colleges and universities.
arizona state university total score: 83 auburn university total score: 80, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 20 listening: 20 speaking: 20 writing: 20 brigham young university total score: 85, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 21 listening: 21 speaking: 22 writing: 21 specific graduate programs may require higher scores.
the answer really depends on the student.
in the group discussion viewed 20,208 times training institutes - gate viewed 19,792 times gd topics - iim bangalore viewed 18,594 times coaching centre - time viewed 18,161 times mba specializations faqs viewed 17,808 times fms gd topics viewed 17,699 times
they judge whether the errors make the meaning of the essay difficult to understand.
in august, 2006, the ibt will be given in china.
in india, this agency is the “prometric testing services pvt. ltd” which administers the test at 9 centers in the country: ahmedabad, allahabad, bangalore, calcutta, chennai, hyderabad, mumbai, new delhi, and trivandrum.
before the test, you will be assigned a locker or receive instructions from test center staff regarding where you must deposit personal items.
your appointment confirmation number.
- developing a personalized structured self-study plan.
no comments page 4 of 6 « first ... « 2 3 4 5 6 »page 4 of 6 « first ... « 2 3 4 5 6 » © koolkareers.com — copyblogger theme design by chris pearson, 3 column modification byoscandy.com
the number of questions and the time allocated to each question may vary.
paper-based testing acceptable and valid identification document(s) with a signature and photograph.
make sure to call at least three business days before the test date.
your id will be checked before you are admitted.
the essay rating comprises one half of the structure/writing score (1/6 of the total score); it is also reported separately on the score report, for informational purposes.
three or four sharpened soft-lead (no. 2 or hb) pencils and a good eraser.
essay readers judge how well details, examples, and reasons support or illustrate the points being made.
b. you will be given scratch paper to organize their thoughts; however, only the essays written on the official answer sheet are scored.
you will be required to write (not print) and sign a confidentiality statement.
no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts anyone and everyone is eligible for taking the toefl test - there are no restrictions based on age or qualifications.
the pbt: the paper and pencil toefl, also called the institutional toefl.
gk questions - irma viewed 17,518 times now understand logical reasoning with examples viewed 16,733 times free mock snap 1 viewed 13,306 times list of xat essay topics viewed 13,099 times what is a group discussion viewed 12,931 times b-schools accepting xat scores viewed 11,073 times how to prepare for cat quant??
your admission ticket indicates your registration number.
the same ideas can be communicated in various ways, depending on skill with vocabulary and sentence structure.
all reimbursements are made in u.s. dollars.
the toefl test is created  and produced by the educational testing service.
you are required to bring your valid passport on the day of your exam.
i.e., most universities accept scores up to two years old.
for  most schools, the answer is “no.”
there are no plans to phase out this test.
except for ets-authorized observers, visitors are not allowed in the testing room white testing is in progress.
however, many colleges will accept a toefl score from the institutional  toefl.
do i have to take the computer toefl or the paper toefl?
check: ets.org/toefl for details.
toefl test skills and strategies.
the fees has to be paid through a us dollar denominated draft, made out in favour of “ets - toefl” payable in the u.s.
may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts toefl ibt scores set by universities and other score users graduate health professional associations universities and other institutions that use toefl® scores have begun to set their toefl ibt score recommendations or requirements.
they also judge the variety, effectiveness, and appropriateness of the sentence structures and vocabulary used in an essay.
these schools are usually not good schools!
registering by fax: if registering  by fax, you must send your fax at lest seven days prior to your first choice of  a test day.
the average of the two ratings is reported on a raw score scale of 1 to 6.
the toefl test is  developed and administered by the us-based “educational testing  service” (ets).
the highest score  on the paper toefl is 677.
grammar, reading, vocabulary, listening comp, writing and targeted toefl test taking skills and strategies.
1 comment may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts these are the test centres where toefl is conducted in india.
these initial score standards will be reviewed by the institutions after the first year of testing.
therefore, one student may get 35 questions in listening section while another may get 45.
the cbt: the computer-based toefl  (cbt) is still being used in some countries such as japan and korea–and  will still be used even after the ibt is administered in selected cities.
reading: 21 speaking: 26 listening: 18 writing: 24 no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts these are some general etiquettes required to be followed while giving the prestigious exam called toefl.test center procedures and regulations (cbt) admission to the test center (cbt) report to the test center at least 30 minutes before your scheduled arrival time for check-in procedures.
the student must ask the educational institution which type of toefl test it accepts.
ph: 91-80-2292553 / 54 calcutta (8906) prometric testing (p) ltd. flat 1/c, 1st floor, sukh sagar bldg, sarat bose road,calcutta – 700020 ph: 91-33-24852792 chennai (8909)
you will be required to sign the test center log before and after the test session and any time you leave or enter the testing room.
you will not receive an admission ticket.
in india, this agency is the “prometric testing  services pvt. ltd” which administers the test at 9 centers in the  country: ahmedabad, allahabad, bangalore, calcutta, chennai, hyderabad, mumbai,  new delhi, and trivandrum.
which toefl test is the easier: the ibt, the cbt, or the pbt?
however, universities and colleges  normally do not accept this test for admission unless it is used in a local  context (in other words, if the english language institution is located in  close proximity to a university or college, then the university or college  might accept it for admission).
selected cities in north africa, the middle east,  eurasia, europe and the americas will offer the ibt for the first time on march  25, 2006.
there are currently 3 kinds of toefl tests being used around the world: the ibt: the internet based toefl test (ibt) is currently being used in the u.s., france, italy, germany, and canada…and will soon appear in many other countries.
fortunately, there are many activities in which you can combine two or even all three of these goals.
ph: (011) 26511649, 26531442 fax: (011) 2652-9741 ahmedabad (8902)
total score: 61 for qualified admission and participation in zero to three elap courses university of toronto total score: 93, with a minimum of 22 for writing and for speaking university of virginia total score: 90, with following minimum section requirements reading: 23 speaking: 22 listening: 23 writing: 22 some departments may require higher minimum section scores university of washington admission with english language requirement: score of 45 in reading, listening, and writing admission with no english language requirement: score of 70 in reading, listening, and writing some graduate programs may require a score higher than 45 for admission.
individual skill section score recommendations* are as follows: total score: 85, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 21 listening: 15 speaking: 24 writing: 25 manhattanville college total score: 85, with a minimum of 21 for listening and speaking mcgill university total score: 86; with a minimum of 20 for each section individual departments may set higher minimum scores, depending on the requirements of their programs michigan state university total score: 80 section scores to be determined middle tennessee state university total score: 71 national american university total score: 61 new york institute of technology total score: 61-79 students who score 79 or above are not required to take internal english placement exam students who score between 61-78 must take internal english placement exam upon arrival to nyit and prior to registration northern arizona total score: 80 north park university total score: 90, with a minimum of 21 for each section northwestern state university total score: 61, with a minimum of 20 for speaking and for writing pennsylvania state university total score: 80, with a minimum of 23 for speaking ohio state university total score: 79 old dominion university total score: 80, with the following minimum section requirements reading: 21 listening: 18 speaking:
if there is a discrepancy of more than one point, a third reader independently reads the essay.
if an essay is well organized, a reader will be able to read from the beginning to the end without becoming confused.
there are many differences between the cbt toefl and  the paper toefl.
the pbt: the paper and pencil toefl, also  called the institutional toefl.
there are  currently 3 kinds of toefl tests being used around the world: the  ibt: the internet based toefl test (ibt) is currently being used in  the u.s., france, italy, germany, and canada…and will soon appear in  many other countries.
test of english as foreign language is a standardized test that evaluates the english proficiency of people whose native language is not english.
- university  admission guidance, exercises and information.
your admission ticket.
writing strategies below are some specific strategies for the writing section: a. you should look over the essay topics published in the bulletin, and practice writing several 30-minute essays using the topics there or on this site.
your signed photo-file record, with a recent, recognizable photo.
registering by mail/courier: fill in the form, get the draft made (if you are not paying by credit card), and submit these to the prometric centre either by hand or by registered post/courier.
some students feel that the pbt is easier because it does not always contain a  writing section–and it contains a grammar section.
who should take the toefl test?
there are many differences between the cbt toefl and the paper toefl.
you should practice handwriting an essay, using a two sided sheet of lined paper.
test center procedures and regulations (cbt) general guidelines dress so that you can adapt to any room temperature.
if you handwrite your toefl essay, it might take up to five weeks to receive your toefl score.
the easy answer is this: you should type your toefl essay if you  can!
the toefl test is offered in 180 countries around the world at institutional locations, such as colleges and universities testing centers operated by prometric, a division of thomson learning.
in may, 2006, selected test centers  in japan and korea will begin to offer the ibt.
d. you should plan and organize before beginning to write.
most people agree: the paper toefl is much easier than the cbt toefl.
for the conduct of the test, ets has appointed testing agencies in various countries, which act as franchisee for ets.
e. time management is the key.
in areas where access to computer-based testing or internet-based testing is limited, a paper-based version of the test is administered on specific dates.
identification verification at the test center may also include thumb printing photographing/videotaping other forms of electronic id confirmation.
however, if you cannot type very fast, you should handwrite your toefl  essay.
it is advisable to attach the photocopy of the passport with the application form to avoid any faulty registration.
prometric testing (p) ltd.
what are the materials required on the test day?
you cannot pay in indian rupees.
in general, better universities require higher toefl scores and worse schools require lower toefl scores.
if schools accept the institutional toefl, you will have to find a place to take it.
some students feel that the ibt is more difficult because it contains more difficult reading and listening tasks–and it contains a speaking section.
the  student must ask the educational institution which type of toefl test it  accepts.
you  are required to bring your valid passport on the day of your exam.
the  test scheduling form comes with the bulletin.
registering by fax: if registering by fax, you must send your fax at lest seven days prior to your first choice of a test day.
this test is still being used by english  language institutions around the world.
in addition, you should continue to work on improving your global level of english fluency, keep in good physical shape, and relax and enjoy american culture.
the biggest difference between the cbt toefl and the paper toefl is that thecbt toefl requires an essay.
bring your cbt voucher, if you have one.
you should start writing the essay on the first line of the sheet and use the other side if necessary.
the toefl tests the ability to understand north american english.
if you still have a copy of your original score, you can ask the university whether they will accept it, but most universities will not accept a copy from you; they require a score sent directly from toefl.
how can i raise my score on the toefl?
bring your official photobearing identification.
should i type or handwrite the essay for the computer toefl?
personal items personal items other than id are not allowed in the testing room.
cell phones are not permitted in the test room.
however, remember, these scores are not accepted by most schools and are not considered official scores.
however, toefl has closed many cbt test centers in the last few years and  is giving the paper-based toefl instead.
obtain the “toefl information  bulletin” available free with prometric testing services and usefi.
if your test session is canceled or if it is later determined that your scores could not be reported, you can retest free of charge receive a full refund of the original test fee seek reimbursement from ets for reasonable and documented expenses (for yourself only) associated with traveling to the test center.
the test scheduling form comes with the bulletin.
to request reimbursement, contact toefl services within 30 days of your original test date.
again, check the official toefl web site to be sure.
this test is still being used by english language institutions around the world.
what’s the difference between the institutional toefl and the  international toefl?
in general, however, the score requirements range from 133 to 250 (cbt scoring) or 450 to 600 (pbt scoring).
some universities will tell you that they don’t have a  minimum requirement; usually these universities are  the best ones, such as stanford or harvard.
no comments may 29th, 2007 — toefl & ielts a general idea of the content & format of toefl.
in other words, two years after you take your toefl, your score will be deleted from the official toefl database, and toefl will not send you another report of your score.
the highest toefl  score that you will need is probably about 630.
readers judge essays on how the ideas are presented and developed as well as on the use of language.
you will have to ask the school that you want to attend to find out whether they will accept the institutional toefl or not.
the paper-based toefl test is generally offered at institutional locations such as colleges and universities.
reimbursement requests must include your name, date of birth mailing address daytime telephone number e-mail address original test date cbt appointment number a brief description of what occurred at the test center.
in general,  however, the score requirements range from 133 to 250 (cbt scoring) or 450 to  600 (pbt scoring).
most people now still use the paper toefl scores, even though most students take the computer toefl.
the essay will also be judged on the use of language.
if you type your toefl essay, you should receive your toefl score within  two weeks.
if you handwrite your toefl essay, it might take up to five weeks to  receive your toefl score.
your picture will be taken and will be reproduced at your testing station.
be prepared to select the institutions to which you would like your scores sent.
nearly 2400 education institutes in the united states and canada require toefl scores from each applicant.
also, the cbt  toefl has some new question types that we have not seen before on the paper  toefl.
naturally the readers will notice grammatical errors and thenumber of errors in a paper.
india tel. 91-22-56372944
however, toefl has closed many cbt test centers in the last few years and is giving the paper-based toefl instead.
however, even though they  don’t have a “requirement,” most of the people who go to  these universities have toefl scores from 267 to 300.
if you want your toefl score to be accepted at every university in the world, then you need to take the international toefl.
development is the gradual expansion of an idea throughout an essay, not simply the number of words written.
in addition, many government, licensing, and certification agencies and exchange and scholarship programs use toefl scores to evaluate the english proficiency of people for whom english is not their native language.