- required by many universities and colleges for entrance and to work as a nurse.
this will show them you have what it takes for the job.
toeic test of english for international communication.
australia canada england ireland scotland usa to book a cambridge cae, fce, cpe course, please complete details here: apply to book an ielts, toefl or toeic course, please complete details here:
to achieve these aims, specific examinations and tests of student ability  in the english language have been in place for a number of years.
other courses focus on preparing you for study at college or university, which also includes preparation for the english exam that you will have to take for admission to your chosen university or college.
- many employers in the legal field require english language skills.
cae fourth of the cambridge esol  general english exams.
many employers in the legal field require english language skills.
required by many universities and colleges for entrance and to work as a  nurse.
all of these courses are specifically designed to prepare you for a particular english test that you plan to take.
esol - english for speakers of other languages.
bookings and inquiries
this will greatly improve your chances of being hired  or accepted into a school.
if you already know which course you would like to take and in which  country, please click on a country location link below.
cambridge fce, cae, cpe courses more focused on functional english than academic or professional english, are the highly regarded and widely recognised range of cambridge certificates.
ets - educational testing service.
recognized by educational institutions and employers worldwide, greatly  improving your chances of being hired or accepted into a school.
the  materials and course books used on these courses is created and/or endorsed by  the organizations that developed these tests.
ielts - international english language testing system.
recognised by over a thousand employers, educational organisations,  government bodies and professional organisations worldwide as a qualification  for business use, improving the chances of acquiring that desired position.
cpe fifth of the cambridge esol  general english exams.
toefl   - test of english as a foreign language.
cae - certificate in advanced english.
fce - first certificate in english.
pet second of the cambridge esol  general english exams.
chinese courses :: arabic courses :: japanese courses :: resources copyright © 2007 languagesinaction.com.
- b1-c1 levels of cefrl.
cpe     - certificate of proficiency in english.
for more details on exam courses in an english speaking country, please  choose a country below.
ucles - university of cambridge local examinations syndicate.
to earn a cambridge certificate, student’s must sit and pass a  cambridge test of english.
australia adelaide (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts) airlie beach (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts)
c2 “mastery” level of the cefrl.
- b1-c2 level of cefrl.
a2  “waystage” level of cefrl.
- measures english language skills for business.
- b2-c1 of the cefrl .
b2-c1 of the cefrl .
fce third of the cambridge esol  general english exams.
recognized by thousands of government departments, employers and  universities as an intermediate english qualification.
cefrl   - common european framework of reference for languages.
toeic   - test of  english for international communication.
ielts, toefl, toeic courses to meet academic and professional needs, several internationally recognized standard tests, such as the toefl (test of english as a foreign language), ielts (international english language testing system), and toeic (test of english for international communication) are available to establish benchmarks of proficiency in the english language.
- c1 “effective operational proficiency” level of cefrl.
ilec     - international legal english certificate.
ets exams toefl - test of english as a foreign language.
ielts international english language testing system.
- second of the cambridge esol general english exams.
oxford (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, bec, toeic) london (fce, cae, cpe, ielts) scarborough (ielts) shrewsbury (fce, cae, cpe,   ielts, toefl) ireland ennis (fce, cae, ielts, toefl, toeic) wexford (fce)
- not recommended for students under the age of 16.
los angeles (fce, cae, toefl, toeic)
- recognized by over 6000 institutions and employers the world over and taken in 120 countries.
this will greatly improve your chances of being hired or accepted into a school.
ucles - university of cambridge  local examinations syndicate.
passing the toefl or ielts is essential for gaining entrance to university  in an english speaking country.
new york (toefl) all the tests described here measure the four linguistic areas of: speaking first of the cambridge esol  general english exams.
- recognised by over a thousand employers, educational organisations, government bodies and professional organisations worldwide as a qualification for business use, improving the chances of acquiring that desired position.
edinburgh (fce, cae, cpe, ielts) usa boston (toefl, fce, cae, toeic) chicago (toefl)
brisbane (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toeic) hobart (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts) surfer’s paradise  (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toeic)
australia - adelaide (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts) - airlie beach (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts) - brisbane (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toeic) - hobart (pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts) - surfer’s paradise (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toeic) - sydney (fce, cae, cpe, bec ielts, toefl, toeic) - new york (toefl) canada - edmonton (toefl) - ottawa (toefl, toeic) - montreal (ket, pet, fce, cae, cpe, bce toefl ) - toronto (fce, cae, toefl, toeic) england - brighton (fce, cae, ielts) - bristol (ket, pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toefl, toeic) - great yarmouth (fce, cae, ielts, toefl) - oxford (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, bec, toeic) - london (fce, cae, cpe, ielts) - scarborough (ielts) - shrewsbury (fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toefl) ireland - ennis (fce, cae, ielts, toefl, toeic) - wexford (fce) scotland - edinburgh (fce, cae, cpe, ielts) usa - boston (toefl, fce, cae, toeic) - chicago (toefl) - los angeles (fce, cae, toefl, toeic)
ilec - international legal english certificate.
- recognized by educational institutions and employers worldwide, greatly improving your chances of being hired or accepted into a school.
- fourth of the cambridge esol general english exams.
to achieve success on one of the cambridge tests, many students enroll on  courses specifically designed to cover the language elements on which you will  be assessed.
apply should you have any question on our cambridge cae, fce or toefl, toeic or ielts courses, please ask here:inquiries to go from this english exam courses page back to the learn english page, please click here,learn english home :: spanish courses :: italian courses :: english courses :: french courses :: german courses :: portuguese courses russian courses ::
to achieve these aims, specific examinations and tests of student ability in the english language have been in place for a number of years.
cambridge cae, fce, ielts, toefl, toeic courses the english language is prevalent in academic and business environments  throughout the world.
the toeic examination focuses on english for business purposes.
- internationally recognized by employers and educational institutions, greatly enhancing your chances of finding a job or being accepted into a school.
recognized by over 6000 institutions and employers the world over and  taken in 120 countries.
english exam preparation courses languages in action offers english exam preparation courses at 24 locations in australia, canada, england, ireland, scotland and the usa.
- b2 “vantage” level of cefrl.
some courses are combined with general english language courses and include sections that focus on test preparation.
- a2 “waystage” level of cefrl.
measures english language skills for business.
this  will show them you have what it takes for the job.
some courses are combined with general english language courses and include  sections that focus on test preparation.
b2 “vantage” level of cefrl.
esol    - english for speakers of other languages.
ets      - educational testing service.
recognized by thousands of government departments, employers and  universities as a basic english qualification.
cambridge fce cae ielts toefl toeic exam courses course fees course options accommodation testimonials faq’s accreditations about us english exam courses - ielts, toefl, toeic courses - cambridge fce, cae courses - exam courses australia - exam courses canada - exam courses england - exam courses ireland - exam courses scotland - exam courses usa customer support choose a language select spanishenglishitalianfrench germanportuguesejapanesechineserussianarabic choose a country select choose a city select courses - spanish courses - english courses - french courses - german courses - italian courses - portuguese courses - arabic courses - japanese courses - chinese courses - russian courses languages.in.action home > ielts-toefl-toeic-fce-cae-courses cambridge cae, fce, ielts, toefl, toeic courses the english language is prevalent in academic and business environments throughout the world.
b1-c2 level of cefrl.
b1-c1 levels of cefrl.
toefl - test of english as a foreign language.
b1 “threshold” level of cefrl.
english exam preparation courses languages in action offers english exam preparation courses at 24 locations  in australia, canada, england, ireland, scotland and the usa.
to achieve success on one of the cambridge tests, many students enroll on courses specifically designed to cover the language elements on which you will be assessed.
passing the toefl or ielts is essential for gaining entrance to university in an english speaking country.
other courses focus on preparing you for study at college or university,  which also includes preparation for the english exam that you will have to take  for admission to your chosen university or college.
c1 “effective operational proficiency” level of cefrl.
based on realistic tasks of the kind that legal practitioners would be  expected to encounter in their daily working lives.
pet - preliminary english test.
as a result, many english language learners wish to attend institutions of  higher learning in english speaking countries and to attain employment in  positions that require proficiency in the english language.
internationally recognized by employers and educational institutions,  greatly enhancing your chances of finding a job or being accepted into a  school.
ket      - key english test.
- b1 “threshold” level of cefrl.
ielts   - international english language testing system.
these tests range in ability levels from the first level ket (key english test) to the fifth level cpe (cambridge proficiency exam).
- third of the cambridge esol general english exams.
the materials and course books used on these courses is created and/or endorsed by the organizations that developed these tests.
holding a toeic certificate demonstrates a good command on the english language for such purposes and thus enhances the employment prospects of certificate holders.
cae - cambridge advanced exam.
- fifth of the cambridge esol general english exams.
cefrl - common european framework of reference for languages.
ielts, toefl, toeic courses to meet academic and professional needs, several internationally recognized  standard tests, such as the toefl (test of english as a foreign language),  ielts (international english language testing system), and toeic (test of  english for international communication) are available to establish benchmarks  of proficiency in the english language.
demonstrates to potential employers that you the english language skills  necessary for the job.
these tests range in ability levels from the first  level ket (key english test) to the fifth level cpe (cambridge proficiency  exam).
cpe - certificate of proficiency in english.
the materials and course books used on these courses is often  designed and/or endorsed by the cambridge organization that prepares and grades  the tests.
- demonstrates to potential employers that you the english language skills necessary for the job.
cpe - cambridge proficiency exam.
administered by ets (sat, gre, etc.)
abbreviations: bec - business english certificate.
- recognised by the european company lawyers association, the european law students association, the international association of young lawyers and the european young bar association.
bec business english certificate.
for more details on exam courses in an english speaking country, please choose a country below.
ilec international legal english certificate.
passing this test will greatly enhance your chances of finding a job or a placement in an educational institution.
recognised by the european company lawyers association, the european law  students association, the international association of young lawyers and the  european young bar association.
most widely accepted english language test (over 6000 institutions in 110  countries).
fce      - first certificate in english.
- recognized by thousands of government departments, employers and universities as an intermediate english qualification.
- recognized by thousands of government departments, employers and universities as a basic english qualification.
ket - key english test.
to gain a high test score in any of the above exams, many students enroll on courses specifically designed to meet the needs of the examination.
- c2 “mastery” level of the cefrl.
as a result, many english language learners wish to attend institutions of higher learning in english speaking countries and to attain employment in positions that require proficiency in the english language.
- most widely accepted english language test (over 6000 institutions in 110 countries).
abbreviations: cae     - certificate in advanced english.
if you already know which course you would like to take and in which country, please click on a country location link below.
not recommended for students under the age of 16.
cambridge fce, cae, cpe courses more focused on functional english than academic or professional english,  are the highly regarded and widely recognised range of cambridge certificates.
to earn a cambridge certificate, student’s must sit and pass a cambridge test of english.
- first of the cambridge esol general english exams.
the tests an overview all the tests described here measure the four linguistic areas of: - speaking - writing - listening - reading cambridge exams ket - key english test.
all of these courses are specifically designed to prepare you for a  particular english test that you plan to take.
holding a  toeic certificate demonstrates a good command on the english language for such  purposes and thus enhances the employment prospects of certificate holders.
- based on realistic tasks of the kind that legal practitioners would be expected to encounter in their daily working lives.
- administered by ets (sat, gre, etc.)
sydney (fce, cae, cpe, bec ielts, toefl, toeic) new york (toefl) montreal (ket, pet, fce, cae, cpe, bce toefl ) toronto (fce, cae, toefl, toeic) england bristol (ket, pet, fce, cae, cpe, ielts, toefl, toeic) great yarmouth (fce, cae, ielts, toefl)
toeic - test of english for international communication.
passing this test will greatly enhance your chances of finding a  job or a placement in an educational institution.
ets exams toefl test of english as a foreign language.
to gain a high test score in any of the above exams, many students enroll  on courses specifically designed to meet the needs of the examination.
the materials and course books used on these courses is often designed and/or endorsed by the cambridge organization that prepares and grades the tests.
bec - business english certificate.