toefl (test of english as a foreign language) is an american exam and is recognised by american colleges and universities, as well as most british universities.
if your level is lower than intermediate, we may suggest that you study intensive general english before starting any exam preparation.
my lessons were serious and never boring.
you will also improve your pronunciation, so you can  communicate more fluently and effectively in english, in an academic or  work-based environment.
usually students take general english classes in the morning and exam preparation classes in the afternoon.
tel: +44 1865 724312 fax: +44 1865 251360 © 2002–2009 the lake school of english oxford.
english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation english and cambridge exam preparation individual tuition lake school of english: home > courses > short  courses > english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation general english and ielts, toefl or toiec exam preparation
every year, the lake school  successfully prepares students for higher education by helping with their  university applications and arranging campus tours or interviews with  department tutors.
you will achieve a formal qualification in english.
you will improve all your language skills, increase your range of vocabulary and develop your understanding of grammar.
excursions and activities were great.
you have practice exams, including oral  interviews.
your score shows how well you can communicate in english with others in business, commerce and industry.
course content your lessons are dynamic and demanding: our experienced teachers motivate  and encourage you to achieve success.
you can take ielts in oxford, there are test dates every month.
if your level is lower than intermediate, we may suggest that you study  intensive general english before starting any exam preparation.
ielts, toefl and toeic are recognized by universities and employers all over the english-speaking world.
it tests your ability to read, write, speak and  listen in academic contexts.
+ weekly cultural/social and sporting activities intermediate (cefr level b1) or above.
we prepare students for popular english language exams including ielts,  toefl and toeic.
we will advise you on your ielts, toefl or toeic registration in oxford: exams are held every month.
designed and maintained byoxlink
toefl (test of english as a foreign language) is an american exam and is  recognised by american colleges and universities, as well as most british  universities.
you have practice exams, including oral interviews.
designed and  maintained byoxlink
• familiarization with the form of the test • techniques for answering exam questions • vocabulary extension and grammar analysis • practice in reading, writing, speaking and listening skills 21 (see timetable)
you will gain confidence in speaking, listening, reading and writing.
ielts (international english language testing system) is used to test your  ability to follow a course of study in an english-speaking college or  university and is recognised all over the world, including the uk, australia,  new zealand and north america.
you will receive all the materials you need to use in class; but please bring a notebook with you.
we advise you  on the best combination of general english and exam preparation.
you can take ielts in oxford, there are test dates  every month.
your lessons are dynamic and demanding: our experienced teachers motivate and encourage you to achieve success.
you can take the toeic exam in oxford, almost every month.
different teachers have different styles of teaching, but the lake school 'style of teaching' is dynamic and communicative.
ielts, toefl and toeic exam preparation is available for students who are  intermediate or above and are studying for a minimum of 4 weeks.
you will gain confidence in speaking, listening,  reading and writing.
ielts, toefl and toeic are recognized by universities  and employers all over the english-speaking world.
toeic (test of english for international communication) measures the everyday english skills of people working in an international environment.
in class you will often work  in pairs or small groups so you have the chance to speak as much english as  possible.
if you are not sure which is the best english language exam for you, we  will be happy to give youexam guidance.
toeic (test of english for international communication) measures the  everyday english skills of people working in an international environment.
you can take the toefl exam (ibt, internet based test) in oxford, there are test dates every month.
your specific exam training includes: • familiarization with the form of the test • techniques for  answering exam questions • vocabulary extension and grammar analysis • practice in reading, writing, speaking and listening skills general english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation course details hours per  week 21 (see timetable) + weekly cultural/social and sporting activities maximum class size 12, 8 average minimum age 16 language level intermediate (cefr level b1) or above.
- gianni tommaso, italy intensive general english lake school of english: home > courses > short courses > english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation ielts, toefl and toeic exam preparation is available for students who are intermediate or above and are studying for a minimum of 4 weeks.
the lake school also provides university placement advice for students who wish to go on to further education in the uk.
you will have homework every night and a revision  test at the end of each week, which will help you monitor your own progress.
different teachers have different styles of teaching, but the lake school  'style of teaching' is dynamic and communicative.
follow @englishinoxford join  us on facebook the lake school of english, 14 park end street, oxford ox1  1jq
ielts (international english language testing system) is used to test your ability to follow a course of study in an english-speaking college or university and is recognised all over the world, including the uk, australia, new zealand and north america.
your teachers discuss your progress with you in individual  tutorials and help you with your personal study programme.
teachers and students take their studies seriously and work very  hard, but you will also have a lot of fun in class.
your teachers discuss your progress with you in individual tutorials and help you with your personal study programme.
usually  students take general english classes in the morning and exam preparation  classes in the afternoon.
it tests your ability to read, write, speak and listen in academic contexts.
you will also learn a lot about british culture and make friends from all  over the world: our students are of all ages and nationalities.
the lake school also provides university placement advice for students who  wish to go on to further education in the uk.
“i think my stay in oxford has helped me to improve my english.
at the end of your course, you will receive a detailed certificate of your proficiency in english showing your level as defined by thecommon european framework.
lake school is very good.”
you will have homework every night and a revision test at the end of each week, which will help you monitor your own progress.
your  score shows how well you can communicate in english with others in business,  commerce and industry.
every year, the lake school successfully prepares students for higher education by helping with their university applications and arranging campus tours or interviews with department tutors.
teachers and students take their studies seriously and work very hard, but you will also have a lot of fun in class.
if you are not sure which is the best english language exam for you, we will be happy to give youexam guidance.
achieving your goals you will achieve a formal qualification in english.
you will also learn a lot about british culture and make friends from all over the world: our students are of all ages and nationalities.
you are responsible for your exam fees.
exam registration we will advise you on your ielts, toefl or toeic registration in oxford:  exams are held every month.
you can take the toefl exam (ibt, internet based test) in oxford,  there are test dates every month.
you will also improve your pronunciation, so you can communicate more fluently and effectively in english, in an academic or work-based environment.
in class you will often work in pairs or small groups so you have the chance to speak as much english as possible.
we advise you on the best combination of general english and exam preparation.
you can take the toeic exam in oxford, almost every  month.
at the end of your course, you will receive a detailed certificate of your  proficiency in english showing your level as defined by thecommon european  framework.
you will improve all  your language skills, increase your range of vocabulary and develop your  understanding of grammar.
fax: +44 1865 251360 © 2002–2009 the lake school of english oxford.
you will receive all the materials you need to use in class; but please  bring a notebook with you.