location details are available when you  register online.
on this page... no toefl required for asu toefl preparation at aecp
for test dates and information, and for registration  details, visit theasu institutional toefl webpage.
website: http://www.ielts.org (on the website, click “test takers” for  details.)
the toefl test (test of english as a foreign language) measures your  ability to use and understand the english language as it is read, written,  heard and spoken in the university classroom.
graduate admissions will not accept any advanced 2 grades lower than  “b.” seeasu international graduate admissions policies.
asu undergraduate english language requirements for a toefl waiver
the asu undergraduate catalog states: “applicants who have completed the advanced 2 level of the american english and culture program are exempt from the english proficiency requirement.”
http://www.asu.edu/uts/e_institutional_toefl.htm global education contacts
a toefl waiver from aecp is valid for 2  years from the completion date, exactly like a toefl score.
undergraduate admissions will not accept aecp advanced 2 core class  grades lower than “b.” seeasu international undergraduate  admissions policies.
a toefl waiver from aecp is valid for 2 years from the completion date, exactly like a toefl score.
if you complete the aecp's advanced 2 level with grades of “a” or “b” in core andrequired elective classes, you do not need a toefl score for admission to most graduate programs at arizona state university.
if you complete the aecp's advanced 2 level with grades of “a”  or “b” in core andrequired elective classes, you do not need a  toefl score for admission to most graduate programs at arizona state
asu graduate english language requirements for a toefl waiver
more contact information is available on the uts website.
taking the toefl asu university testing and scanning services (uts) offers the asu  institutional toefl.
in addition to completing aecp,  for asu undergraduate or graduate admission you must also fulfill all other asu  admission requirements.
aecp has full-time student advisors to help students with admission to  asu.
test seats are limited and fill up quickly.
test seats are limited and fill up  quickly.
the asu graduate catalog states: “applicants who have completed the american english and culture program advanced 2 level are exempt from the english proficiency requirement.”
if you complete aecp's advanced 2 level with grades of “a” or “b” in all core and elective classes, you do not need a toefl score for admission to most undergraduate programs at arizona state university.
aecp offers intermediate and advanced toefl preparation courses.
the toefl test (test of english as a foreign language) measures your ability to use and understand the english language as it is read, written, heard and spoken in the university classroom.
as the most accepted english-language test in the world.
no toefl required for asu toefl preparation at aecp ielts & other english language proficiency tests
other english language proficiency tests that are accepted for asu admission include: more contact information is available on the uts website.
directions are available when you register.
the  asu undergraduate catalog states: “applicants who have completed the  advanced 2 level of the american english and culture program are exempt from  the english proficiency requirement.”
to receive a toefl waiver for admission to the sandra day o’connor  college of law mls program, you must have grades of “a” in all  advanced 2 classes.
tucson is approximately than 2 hours away by car from asu.
for more information, please see an aecp student advisor.
no toefl required for asu
the ibt is given at  locations in tempe and phoenix.
asu global education home › aecp home  ›about aecp › toefl, ielts & other english language tests toefl, ielts & other english language tests on this page...
for f-1 visa students, all advanced 2 classes must be satisfactorily completed within a single aecp session (or within a single asu semester if doing aecp/asu concurrent enrollment).
for more  information, please see an aecp student advisor.
after successfully completing the aecp advanced 2 level, you may request  an official aecp completion letter addressed to asu graduate admissions.
ielts & other english language proficiency tests other english language proficiency tests that are accepted for asu  admission include: ibt (internet-based toefl):
asu university testing and scanning services (uts) offers the asu institutional toefl.
scores from this exam can be used by corporations, governments, and other organizations to assess your english language proficiency.
website: http://pearsonpte.com/pteacademic.
toefl preparation at aecp
admission if you successfully complete the aecp advanced 2 level, you can receive a  toefl waiver for admission to arizona state university unless the degree  program has a special or higher requirement.
if you complete aecp's advanced 2 level with grades of “a” or  “b” in all core and elective classes, you do not need a toefl score  for admission to most undergraduate programs at arizona state university.
to learn more about taking the toefl at other locations, visit the official toefl website.
after successfully completing the aecp advanced 2 level, you may request  an official aecp completion letter addressed to asu undergraduate admissions.
taking the toefl ielts & other english language proficiency tests if you successfully complete the aecp advanced 2 level, you can receive a toefl waiver for admission to arizona state university unless the degree program has a special or higher requirement.
early registration is encouraged.
in addition to completing aecp, for asu undergraduate or graduate admission you must also fulfill all other asu admission requirements.
as the most accepted  english-language test in the world.
for test dates and information, and for registration details, visit theasu institutional toefl webpage.
scores from this exam can be used by  corporations, governments, and other organizations to assess your english  language proficiency.
the asu institutional toefl is offered only to current aecp and asu  students, and the test score can only be used at asu, not any other  institutions.
see aecp's elective courses page for a list of courses highly recommended  for students who wish to enroll as an asu undergraduate (recommended courses  are marked with  .)
the asu institutional toefl is offered only to current aecp and asu students, and the test score can only be used at asu, not any other institutions.
website:http://www.ets.org/toefl/ibt pte academic (pearson):  there is a testing center in  phoenix.
http://www.asu.edu/uts/e_institutional_toefl.htm aecp
currently, the nearest test location is in tucson, arizona.
the asu graduate catalog states: “applicants who have  completed the american english and culture program advanced 2 level are exempt  from the english proficiency requirement.”
for f-1 visa students, all advanced 2 classes must be satisfactorily  completed within a single aecp session (or within a single asu semester if  doing aecp/asu concurrent enrollment).
you must select your advanced 2 elective classes from the courses  marked with on the aecp elective courses page.