your specific exam training includes: • familiarization with the form of the test • techniques for  answering exam questions • vocabulary extension and grammar analysis • practice in reading, writing, speaking and listening skills general english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation course details hours per  week 21 (see timetable) + weekly cultural/social and sporting activities maximum class size 12, 8 average minimum age 16 language level intermediate (cefr level b1) or above.
ielts (international english language testing system) is used to test your ability to follow a course of study in an english-speaking college or university and is recognised all over the world, including the uk, australia, new zealand and north america.
your teachers discuss your progress with you in individual  tutorials and help you with your personal study programme.
you will receive all the materials you need to use in class; but please  bring a notebook with you.
toefl (test of english as a foreign language) is an american exam and is recognised by american colleges and universities, as well as most british universities.
if your level is lower than intermediate, we may suggest that you study intensive general english before starting any exam preparation.
you will also improve your pronunciation, so you can  communicate more fluently and effectively in english, in an academic or  work-based environment.
teachers and students take their studies seriously and work very  hard, but you will also have a lot of fun in class.
usually students take general english classes in the morning and exam preparation classes in the afternoon.
tel: +44 1865 724312 fax: +44 1865 251360 © 2002–2009 the lake school of english oxford.
english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation english and cambridge exam preparation individual tuition lake school of english: home > courses > short  courses > english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation general english and ielts, toefl or toiec exam preparation
your teachers discuss your progress with you in individual tutorials and help you with your personal study programme.
every year, the lake school  successfully prepares students for higher education by helping with their  university applications and arranging campus tours or interviews with  department tutors.
it tests your ability to read, write, speak and listen in academic contexts.
you will achieve a formal qualification in english.
you will improve all your language skills, increase your range of vocabulary and develop your understanding of grammar.
usually  students take general english classes in the morning and exam preparation  classes in the afternoon.
you will also learn a lot about british culture and make friends from all  over the world: our students are of all ages and nationalities.
the lake school also provides university placement advice for students who  wish to go on to further education in the uk.
you have practice exams, including oral  interviews.
your score shows how well you can communicate in english with others in business, commerce and industry.
at the end of your course, you will receive a detailed certificate of your proficiency in english showing your level as defined by thecommon european framework.
your  score shows how well you can communicate in english with others in business,  commerce and industry.
you can take ielts in oxford, there are test dates every month.
you will have homework every night and a revision test at the end of each week, which will help you monitor your own progress.
every year, the lake school successfully prepares students for higher education by helping with their university applications and arranging campus tours or interviews with department tutors.
teachers and students take their studies seriously and work very hard, but you will also have a lot of fun in class.
course content your lessons are dynamic and demanding: our experienced teachers motivate  and encourage you to achieve success.
if your level is lower than intermediate, we may suggest that you study  intensive general english before starting any exam preparation.
ielts, toefl and toeic are recognized by universities and employers all over the english-speaking world.
it tests your ability to read, write, speak and  listen in academic contexts.
+ weekly cultural/social and sporting activities intermediate (cefr level b1) or above.
if you are not sure which is the best english language exam for you, we will be happy to give youexam guidance.
we prepare students for popular english language exams including ielts,  toefl and toeic.
achieving your goals you will achieve a formal qualification in english.
we will advise you on your ielts, toefl or toeic registration in oxford: exams are held every month.
you are responsible for your exam fees.
you will also learn a lot about british culture and make friends from all over the world: our students are of all ages and nationalities.
you have practice exams, including oral interviews.
designed and maintained byoxlink
toefl (test of english as a foreign language) is an american exam and is  recognised by american colleges and universities, as well as most british  universities.
exam registration we will advise you on your ielts, toefl or toeic registration in oxford:  exams are held every month.
you can take the toefl exam (ibt, internet based test) in oxford,  there are test dates every month.
you will also improve your pronunciation, so you can communicate more fluently and effectively in english, in an academic or work-based environment.
designed and  maintained byoxlink
• familiarization with the form of the test • techniques for answering exam questions • vocabulary extension and grammar analysis • practice in reading, writing, speaking and listening skills 21 (see timetable)
you will gain confidence in speaking, listening, reading and writing.
ielts (international english language testing system) is used to test your  ability to follow a course of study in an english-speaking college or  university and is recognised all over the world, including the uk, australia,  new zealand and north america.
you will receive all the materials you need to use in class; but please bring a notebook with you.
“with help of academic resources such as study room, reading room and listening room i improved my english very fast.”
in class you will often work in pairs or small groups so you have the chance to speak as much english as possible.
we advise you  on the best combination of general english and exam preparation.
you can take ielts in oxford, there are test dates  every month.
your lessons are dynamic and demanding: our experienced teachers motivate and encourage you to achieve success.
we advise you on the best combination of general english and exam preparation.
you can take the toeic exam in oxford, almost every month.
different teachers have different styles of teaching, but the lake school 'style of teaching' is dynamic and communicative.
ielts, toefl and toeic exam preparation is available for students who are  intermediate or above and are studying for a minimum of 4 weeks.
you will gain confidence in speaking, listening,  reading and writing.
ielts, toefl and toeic are recognized by universities  and employers all over the english-speaking world.
toeic (test of english for international communication) measures the everyday english skills of people working in an international environment.
you can take the toeic exam in oxford, almost every  month.
in class you will often work  in pairs or small groups so you have the chance to speak as much english as  possible.
at the end of your course, you will receive a detailed certificate of your  proficiency in english showing your level as defined by thecommon european  framework.
- valentina ghone, italy intensive general english lake school of english: home > courses > short courses > english and ielts, toefl or toeic preparation ielts, toefl and toeic exam preparation is available for students who are intermediate or above and are studying for a minimum of 4 weeks.
you will improve all  your language skills, increase your range of vocabulary and develop your  understanding of grammar.
if you are not sure which is the best english language exam for you, we  will be happy to give youexam guidance.
toeic (test of english for international communication) measures the  everyday english skills of people working in an international environment.
you can take the toefl exam (ibt, internet based test) in oxford, there are test dates every month.
fax: +44 1865 251360 © 2002–2009 the lake school of english oxford.
the lake school also provides university placement advice for students who wish to go on to further education in the uk.
you will have homework every night and a revision  test at the end of each week, which will help you monitor your own progress.
different teachers have different styles of teaching, but the lake school  'style of teaching' is dynamic and communicative.
follow @englishinoxford join  us on facebook the lake school of english, 14 park end street, oxford ox1  1jq