your experiences can help fellow  learners.
you have time to read questions before you listen.
in ielst test you  are given separete room with examiner(human).
reading: here i’d prefer toefl to ielts also for some reasons: 1.
toefl is easier than ielts good luck!
speaking-the person who carry out my test her face to irritate.
the similarities both are english language tests aimed at pre-university students planning to make the step to higher education.
will there be any problem regarding visa if take ielts exam for entering us does american embassy accept ielts even if i get i20 with ielts
toefl is harder than ielts speaking section =
for toefl the speaking test consists of six  questions which you answer into a microphone.
toefl  is harder than ielts speaking section =
both evaluate how well you can combine  your listening, reading, writing and speaking skills.
microphone itself was not of good qualiti and i had to halfy close it with hands.
may be my score due to spelling error.
click here to cancel reply.
marsellina purnawan says: april 4, 2011 at 5:57 am from my experience: reading section =
let us know your impressions, what you thought was good and bad about each test and most importantly which you would recommend.
its really pyscho me.
especially when i express something wrong her face suddenly change.
so here are my impressions( i would like to describe each section of one test and compare it to respective one in another and give my honest opinion): let me start with listening: as you know in ielts it consisitsof 4 sections and 10 questions inn each.
finally, it may be necessary to check that your chosen institution accepts the test.
let me explain  why: first of all you type essays instead of writing it by hand.
however, came  across this site that discusses toefl vs. ielts.
the differences although both tests ostensibly focus on the same thing, they do so in  different ways, which is why so many students want to know which is better (and  even more commonly, which is easier).
august 20th, 2010 posted by paul mcwilliams
you could also fill out an enquiry form at  i-studentenquiry- our free matching service that can help match you with  institutions according to your preferences.
toefl may tend to favour more abstract learners as many of the questions are multiple choice whereas ielts may be more suited to concrete learners as it involves memory recall.
this is actually not true.
many more students who make better score in ielts fail to make 80 in toefl ibt.
there are two main english language tests  accepted by universities around the world,ielts (international english language  testing service)
ilyas says: january 24, 2012 at 2:48 pm hello everybody.
they are trained to make you feel  as if you are talking to one of your friends.
may be i can improve this part.
also not having much  time.
hopefully this information will help, best of luck with your research best wishes from the i-studentgroup team hello everyone, i see a lot of opinions right here and really i’m not quiet sure what is the best to study?
in the majority of cases this  involves taking a standardised test.
the similarities both are english language tests aimed at pre-university students planning  to make the step to higher education.
the face to face speaking section of the ielts may be daunting to some candidates who would be more comfortable speaking into a microphone
that isn’t necessarily correct; the  language tests accepted will vary from institution to institution – you  should contact the institutions you are interested in to ask about their  english language requirements and what tests they will accept as proof of your  ability.
so here are my impressions( i would like to describe each section of  one test and compare it to respective one in another and give my honest  opinion): let me start with listening: as you know in ielts it consisitsof 4  sections and 10 questions inn each.
may be my score due to spelling  error.
rahman says: september 29, 2010 at 5:47 am i want to take ielts test
so, according to my overall experience, i really dont know which is more  suitable fro me.
and pleas, would  you recommend what to choose.
i am from indonesia
i think a student having better toefl score is much more qualified than having better ielts scores.
for toefl the speaking test consists of six questions which you answer into a microphone.
the question of which is easier is largely irrelevant as both tests will grade you accurately according to your level of english.
you have time to read questions before you  listen.
i am really a poor person, help me please!
hopefully this information will help, best of luck with your research best wishes from the i-studentgroup team ahmed abouzeid mahmoud ;) says: may 11, 2011 at 2:28 pm hello everyone, i see a lot of opinions right here and really  i’m not quiet sure what is the best to study?
as a result you can easily correct it or reorgonize without changing the visiual impression.
to fully enjoy this website/publication javascript must be enabled.
especially  when i express something wrong her face suddenly change.
but the big  question that faces students is; which one is better?
mansoori says: september 8, 2011 at 10:32 am ielts is better than toefl okawah elisabeth ambamben says: october 2, 2011 at 7:55 pm application requirement to study english as a second language george says: october 31, 2011 at 4:03 pm hi, which ielts should i do the general or the academic module for  undergraduate studies at uk universities.
i took both ielts and toefl(ielts: listening-7.5,  writing-7.0, speaking-7.5 nad reading:7.0.
the scoring system is also different, with ielts rating between 0 and 9, with halfway points in between.
these are recorded and sent to an  examiner to mark.
one of the main differences is the speaking part of the test.
australia  canada  ireland  new zealand   uk  usa  countries and/or  subjects i-bel  i-esl  i-ht  i-lash  i-mad   i-mhs  i-sect  subjects go back ielts vs toefl: which is better?
hi supertramp, as the article mentions, it depends on how you best learn.
with halfway points in between.
for advice, please complete the form below:your name: your email:
ielts is administered jointly by thebritish council, the university of cambridge esol examinations and idp education australia, and conducts its test in uk english.
i plan to have another  test this year, but i’m not either ielts or toefl.
unfortunately javascript is disabled on your internet browser.
toefl is easier than ielts listening section =
some other students were talking when i was trying to do the same.
in ielst test you are given separete room with examiner(human).
however, came across this site that discusses toefl vs. ielts.
the ielts listening section features dialog from english speakers all around the world; british, north american, australian etc.
in the majority of cases this involves taking a standardised test.
reading passages are not so long 2.
writing-my hand writing was too bad.
kapulito says: april 29, 2011 at 10:49 am my teacher said if i would study in england, i should take ielts,but if i  would study in usa i should take toefl.
the question of which is easier is largely irrelevant as  both tests will grade you accurately according to your level of english.
so i thought in this section toefl was more difficult.
i am  really a poor person, help me please!
but the big question that faces students is; which one is better?
writing: absolute winner, in my opinion, is toefl ibt.
ielts is actually a much easier test than toefl  ibt.
either way, you should do everything you can to improve your english before  taking the test – read english websites and watch tv and movies that are  in english.
it seems for ielts i have very much weaknesses in reading- the passage was too long, i cant concerntrate and nervous, plus worried for not having much time.
if you are good  at memorising things and repeating them, ielts will be better, and toefl is  better for people who are more abstract learners.
toefl is administered by theeducational testing service, a  non-profit us based organisation, and conducts its test according to us  english.
my name is rahman thanyou i hope you can reply as soon  as possible because i want to countinue my study and get a job in overseas.
by now :ielts :2 toefl: 0
however, in toefl, you are given slightly more questions but more situations.
let me explain why: first of all you type essays instead of writing it by hand.
it seems for ielts i have very much weaknesses in reading- the passage was too long, i cant concerntrate and nervous, plus  worried for not having much time.
finally, it may be necessary to check that your chosen institution accepts  the test.
toefl  may tend to favour more abstract learners as many of the questions are multiple  choice whereas ielts may be more suited to concrete learners as it involves  memory recall.
secondly, you are given plenty of time(so if you can type  quickly it is big plus) conclusion: everything i have written is only my opinion of both tests and  i hope that my ” review will be helpful for some of you in future.
lol,,lol ielts is better than toefl application requirement to study english as a second language hi, which ielts should i do the general or the academic module for undergraduate studies at uk universities.
again i spend to much time to understand the  long passage, and i missed to answer correctly the last part of reading which  is much easier.
again i spend to much time to understand the long passage, and i missed to answer correctly the last part of reading which is much easier.
while the differences are not as great as some assume, accents  and spelling variations can cause a problem for some students.
depending on what type of learner you are and depending on you like to be tested – this might [...] i have taken ielts 2 years before, my score not so good, 5.5 (6.5-listening, 5.5 reading, 4.5-writing, 5.5-speaking).
i took both ielts and toefl(ielts: listening-7.5, writing-7.0, speaking-7.5 nad reading:7.0.
for ielts you are required to take this with an  ielts examiner face to face.
although both are accepted at more than 6,000 institutions and  organisations worldwide, so there is a fairly good chance you will be able to  use either, it is always necessary to check beforehand.
many more students who make better score in ielts  fail to make 80 in toefl ibt.
we can’t recommend one over the other, as which one is best will depend on your individual circumstances.
you have to pay a fee to  take both tests, for both it can vary depending on where exactly you take the  test but expect to pay between $150 to $250.
please anybody advice accordingly.
depending on what type of  learner you are and depending on you like to be tested – this might [...] supertramp says: march 6, 2012 at 6:33 am i have taken ielts 2 years before, my score not so good, 5.5  (6.5-listening, 5.5 reading, 4.5-writing, 5.5-speaking).
thanx dear kapulito, thank you for your comment.
this structure is quite simple, and you can spend less energy on each question.
some other  students were talking when i was trying to do the same.
have you taken either or perhaps both of these tests?
the face to face speaking section of the ielts may be daunting  to some candidates who would be more comfortable speaking into a microphone
let us know your  impressions, what you thought was good and bad about each test and most  importantly which you would recommend.
from my experience: reading section =
we can’t recommend one over the other, as which one is best will  depend on your individual circumstances.
the differences although both tests ostensibly focus on the same thing, they do so in different ways, which is why so many students want to know which is better (and even more commonly, which is easier).
i want to take ielts test but i do not have any money to cover all my recuirements such as passport,test ielts,letter of medichal checkup.
one of the main differences is the  speaking part of the test.
as a  result you can easily correct it or reorgonize without changing the visiual  impression.
this structure is quite simple, and you can spend less energy on each  question.
but i do not have any money to cover all my  recuirements such as passport,test ielts,letter of medichal checkup.
if you are applying to university in an english speaking country  and english is not your first language, you may need to meet certain language  requirements dictated by the institution.
that’s why ielts is now very popular.
in total:7.0 i havent recieved toefl
the problem isn’t the course type or name but the real problem is the difference between the two courses and how their vocabulary spilling various ,,, any way good luck with any of them ,,,
a+ would read again people choose easy one to take.
find someone to practice with, and write each other letters in  english and have conversations with english speakers.
this gives an insight into another key difference.
ielts is actually a much easier test than toefl ibt.
outsourcing software testing says: august 21, 2010 at 9:19 am i guess they are both okay and real good to used.
this gives an insight into another  key difference.
toefl is administered by theeducational testing service, a non-profit us based organisation, and conducts its test according to us english.
for ielts you are required to take this with an ielts examiner face to face.
if you would like more information  about studying in the usa or the uk, see ourusa magazines (click here), and our  uk magazine (click here).
speaking-this is ok for me..more relax.
sazzad says: december 24, 2011 at 7:59 pm i think a student having better toefl score is much more qualified than  having better ielts scores.
while the differences are not as great as some assume, accents and spelling variations can cause a problem for some students.
i am  from indonesia
microphone itself was not  of good qualiti and i had to halfy close it with hands.
toefl gives a more numerical sat-type grade, totalling your scores from all the areas.
march 7, 2012 at 6:17 pm hi supertramp, as the article mentions, it depends on how you best learn.
these are recorded and sent to an examiner to mark.
[...] took because both could be useful for your studies.
thanx may 3, 2011 at 8:54 am dear kapulito, thank you for your comment.
educational testing service, english as a foreign language, english language course, english language requirements, english language tests, esol, idp education australia, ielts, study english uk, study english usa, toefl, univeristy of cambridge categories: australasia, australia, canada, international students, ireland, languages, new zealand, north america, uk, usa, i-esl i guess they are both okay and real good to used.
esl school vancouver - city-data forum says: february 24, 2012 at  5:44 pm [...] took because both could be useful for your studies.
that isn’t necessarily correct; the language tests accepted will vary from institution to institution – you should contact the institutions you are interested in to ask about their english language requirements and what tests they will accept as proof of your ability.
speaking to microphone(conversation with computer) in toefl, for me was more complicated for several reasons: 1.
either way, you should do everything you can to improve your english before taking the test – read english websites and watch tv and movies that are in english.
if you would like more information about studying in the usa or the uk, see ourusa magazines (click here), and our uk magazine (click here).
ggggg says: december 11, 2011 at 7:38 pm i will prefer ielts as no sectionwise cut off scors are mentioned as they  have given for toegfl by universities.
the scoring system is also different, with ielts rating between 0 and 9,
you have to pay a fee to take both tests, for both it can vary depending on where exactly you take the test but expect to pay between $150 to $250.
“ielts is administered jointly by the british council, the university of cambridge esol examinations and idp education australia, and conducts its test in uk english.”
both evaluate how well you can combine your listening, reading, writing and speaking skills.
and pleas, would you recommend what to choose.
if you are good at memorising things and repeating them, ielts will be better, and toefl is better for people who are more abstract learners.
ielts is administered jointly by thebritish council, the university of  cambridge esol examinations and idp education australia, and conducts its test  in uk english.
andtoefl (test of english as a foreign language).
the answer really depends on you; what kind of learner you are and where you want to study.
the answer really depends on you; what kind of learner you are and where  you want to study.
secondly, you are given plenty of time(so if you can type quickly it is big plus) conclusion: everything i have written is only my opinion of both tests and i hope that my ” review will be helpful for some of you in future.
find someone to practice with, and write each other letters in english and have conversations with english speakers.
i will prefer ielts as no sectionwise cut off scors are mentioned as they have given for toegfl by universities.
i plan to have another test this year, but i’m not either ielts or toefl.
speaking to microphone(conversation with computer) in toefl, for  me was more complicated for several reasons: 1.
however, in toefl, you are given slightly more questions but more  situations.
my teacher said if i would study in england, i should take ielts,but if i would study in usa i should take toefl.
you could also fill out an enquiry form at i-studentenquiry- our free matching service that can help match you with institutions according to your preferences.
although both are accepted at more than 6,000 institutions and organisations worldwide, so there is a fairly good chance you will be able to use either, it is always necessary to check beforehand.
my name is rahman thanyou i hope you can reply as soon as possible because i want to countinue my study and get a job in overseas.
in total:7.0 i havent recieved toefl score yet)
they are trained to make you feel as if you are talking to one of your friends.
this is in my opinion one advantage the ielts has over the toefl.
toefl is harder than ielts writing section =
i’m prefer writing using computer.
your experiences can help fellow learners.
also not having much time.
so, according to my overall experience, i really dont know which is more suitable fro me.
toefl gives a more numerical sat-type grade,  totalling your scores from all the areas.
moreover, the examiners are from numerous english speaking countries as well.
educational testing service, english as a foreign  language, english language course, english language requirements, english  language tests, esol, idp education australia, ielts, study english uk, study  english usa, toefl, univeristy of cambridge categories: australasia, australia, canada, international students, ireland,  languages, new zealand, north america, uk, usa, i-esl 20 responses to “ielts vs toefl: which is better?”
anil says: december 22, 2011 at 8:01 pm will there be any problem regarding visa if take ielts exam for entering us anil says: december 22, 2011 at 8:10 pm does american embassy accept ielts even if i get i20 with ielts
if you are applying to university in an english speaking country and english is not your first language, you may need to meet certain language requirements dictated by the institution.
the problem  isn’t the course type or name but the real problem is the difference  between the two courses and how their vocabulary spilling various ,,, any  way good luck with any of them ,,, lol,,lol rbn.
mode20100 says: august 25, 2010 at 8:28 pm a+ would read again august 30,  2010 at 12:58 pm people choose easy one to take.
the ielts listening section features dialog from  english speakers all around the world; british, north american, australian etc.
there are two main english language tests accepted by universities around the world,ielts (international english language testing service)
felix dowling says: november 2, 2011 at 5:17 pm “ielts is administered jointly by the british council, the university  of cambridge esol examinations and idp education australia, and conducts its  test in uk english.”
i also saw a lot of english movie.