there is a wealth of preparation material to use on these courses, including plenty of mock exam material.
some  universities will ask for higher grades for all courses, or for specific  programmes.
both exams are used by universities to assess the english language ability of applicants.
there  is a wealth of preparation material to use on these courses, including plenty  of mock exam material.
for language school owners the preparation courses for the ielts exam are  frequently a major source of income.
free esl magazines employers click here to get started!
details can be found on the ielts website (www.ielts.org).
the ielts exam can be taken at centres worldwide and at frequent intervals throughout the year.
the ielts exam can be taken at centres worldwide and at frequent  intervals throughout the year.
next month we will examine the toefl exam; this month we will focus on ielts.
generally speaking,  undergraduate students need to obtain a score of 5.5 overall to gain university  admission and postgraduate students need a score of 6.5 overall.
teachers who are asked to teach ielts should be given a  thorough briefing on the demands of the exam and a brief training course.
join 198,068 esl professionals today!
some universities will ask for higher grades for all courses, or for specific programmes.
it operates on a nine point band, where a nine  indicates that the student has a level of english equivalent to a highly  educated native speaker, and it tests all four skills ( reading, writing,  listening and speaking) in an academic context.
teachers who are asked to teach ielts should be given a thorough briefing on the demands of the exam and a brief training course.
ielts is widely used in the uk and australia and also recognised by most american and canadian universities, including harvard business school; toefl is used mainly by american universities, though also accepted in the uk and australia.
ielts is widely used in the uk and australia and also  recognised by most american and canadian universities, including harvard  business school; toefl is used mainly by american universities, though also  accepted in the uk and australia.
ielts and toefl - what they are, what they mean to you tweet the ielts and toefl exams are known and feared by english language students  worldwide.
candidates pay a fee to take the exam.
generally speaking, undergraduate students need to obtain a score of 5.5 overall to gain university admission and postgraduate students need a score of 6.5 overall.
for language school owners the preparation courses for the ielts exam are frequently a major source of income.
ielts is becoming increasingly popular throughout asia and students usually need to attend a year long preparation course to do well enough in the exam to apply to an overseas university.
the ielts and toefl exams are known and feared by english language students worldwide.
it operates on a nine point band, where a nine indicates that the student has a level of english equivalent to a highly educated native speaker, and it tests all four skills ( reading, writing, listening and speaking) in an academic context.
preparation  course to do well enough in the exam to apply to an overseas university.
both exams are used by universities to assess the english language  ability of applicants.
ielts stands for the international  english language testing system.
hot new jobs direct to your inbox.
ielts is becoming increasingly popular  throughout asia and students usually need to attend a year long
ielts stands for the international english language testing system.
next month we will examine the toefl exam;  this month we will focus on ielts.
by carl newbauer these jobs need you now critical need esl/tefl/tesol jobs how do you apply for openings at 9714 schools?