the sectional scores are then added to arrive at a total score of 0 to 120.
some universities or colleges accept slightly lower band scores, but follow it up with english language training for students before they start their formal studies abroad.
several popular exams are receiving the computer facelift.
the toefl score is equally divided between all four skills, and therefore, a student must do well in all sections.
• practice one-minute responses: think up a list of familiar topics and practice speaking about them.
you will be faced with two types of rhetorical structure questions.
engrain the  habit of revising your answer before you proceed to the next section.
each passage you are given will have between 12-14 questions, and we’ll cover what types of questions you can except.
the recent reports of fraudulent documentation have caused the testing process of ielts to lose credibility.
the toefl is now internet based (toefl ibt).
the toefl test however, is internet-based and oral proficiency is tested by speaking to a computer.
the new features  that make the testing experience easier and even include a glossary and review  feature.
look for cohesive devices (which may be adverbs, adjectives, transitions, repetition, etc) that connect various ideas in the text.
two tasks are based on reading and listening material.
international students still need to  prove that they have adequate english skills.
remember, the focus of these questions is to test your ability to recognize a summary, which usually means a collection of important, but general points.
* facts/details choices.
ibt - getting started september 18th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation test of english as a foreign language (toefl) evaluates a student’s
both, ielts and toefl determine english language ability for admission to  international institutions.
the uk, other  european countries, australia, new zealand, japan, korea, hong kong and  singapore all accept toefl scores.
these questions can be recognized relatively easily as they most often include the words infer, suggest, or imply.
both, ielts and toefl determine english language ability for admission to international institutions.
are you looking at a description, a definition, an example, or an explanation?
is the author attempting to demonstrate, clarify, distinguish, expand, emphasize prove or refute something?
this section includes classifying information and/or filling in a chart or completion of a summary.
develop greater concentration skills: toefl ibt requires the student to sit at the computer for atleast four hours at a stretch.
using examples to support your essay adds credibility.
toefl ibt tests students for english language communication skills such as  reading, listening (receptive skills) and speaking and writing (expressive  skills).
describe a familiar place or recount a personal experience and see how spontaneously you can come up with interesting points.
watch for answers with synonyms, change of tense, or change in sentence structure yet still contain the key ideas of the highlighted passage.
types of questions you can except.
while the passages are all basically the same length, they become increasingly difficult as you progress, so while 20 minutes is allotted for reading and answering questions on the first passage, 40 minutes is given for reading and answering questions of the second, third, fourth and fifth passages.
these questions will provide you with a highlighted passage in the text and ask you which of the follow options best paraphrase the highlighted words.
toefl ibt is not computer adaptive as was the case with toefl cbt (computer based test).
the conversations may include two  or more speakers in each.
here, all the test takers receive the same set of questions.
however, there are many training institutes in india  that do a commendable job in preparing candidates for the test.
the  questions require test takers to summarise key ideas from the talks in the  responses.
identify the key ideas of the questions, locate them in the passage and reread the surround area carefully.
the sectional scores are then added to arrive at  a total score of 0 to 120.
last » © koolkareers.com — copyblogger theme design by chris pearson, 3 column modification byoscandy.com
international students still need to prove that they have adequate english skills.
then, return to the passage for  details to answer those questions.
the digital recording is then transmitted to ets online scoring network to be rated by human scorers.
there will be no more then 2 question of this type per reading passage, and there may not be any at all.
delivery: the ability to use clear, smooth, sustained speech.
no comments september 18th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation • research: do your homework to find out the toefl score requirements of the college/ university you are interested in applying to.
yes, you need to take ielts to study in uk!
the test involves the student listening to two to three conversations on their headphones.
students can view their scores within 15 working days of the test.
the conversations may include two or more speakers in each.
try rephrases the highlighted passage in your own words, the comparing your notes to the presented options.
can you guess the number one tip?
• read, answer and revise: skim through the passage  given and read the questions that follow.
if the given sentence is a description of the physical characteristics of a specific bird, look for the sentence that names, or provides an example of a unique bird.
trained evaluators measure the ability to understand the material, as well  as write clearly, accurately and in an organized manner.
a positive development is that test-takers  can now write down notes while listening.
the remaining two tasks are based on listening material, including a short lecture or conversation.
students  applying for further studies in an english speaking country must have the  required english language ability for success their objectives.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions 4 comments august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation inference questions these questions will be asking you to find the implicit, inferred, or implied meaning of a passage - to understand ideas that have not be directly stated by the author.
answering these questions will require you to pay attention to the details that are mentioned and use logic to fid the implied meaning.
the ielts remains the preferred test accepted by almost all higher education institutions in the uk.
the internet too, has copious amounts of free  samples and information that you can have access to, in addition to your  textbooks.
the  reading passage appears first, and then it is removed from the screen during  the lecture.
the six individual scores are averaged to arrive at  an aggregate value.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions quick tips: * familiarize yourself with the basic structure of the passages.
toefl & ielts, toefl preparation the toefl ibt (internet based test) evaluates test-takers on the basis of four sections of english language skills.
no comments 8 ways to prepare for toefl ibt september 18th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation • research: do your homework to find out the toefl  score requirements of the college/ university you are interested in applying  to.
here, all the  test takers receive the same set of questions.
textbooks,  encyclopedias, journals and research articles will get you acquainted with this  kind of language.
the test taker is required to state, explain and support their response  using personal knowledge and experience.
september 18th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation the toefl ibt (internet based test) evaluates test-takers on the basis of  four sections of english language skills.
the reading section usually consists of three to five passages each of around 700 words.
the toefl test however,  is internet-based and oral proficiency is tested by speaking to a computer.
in this series of posts we will cover the types of questions you will  encounter on thereading section of the toefl ibt test, as well  as strategies you can use to improve your score in this section.
practice giving one-minute responses to topics.
• keep writing simple: language used must be simple  and clear.
cat gmat gre gate preparation website !
of late, there  has been an increase in the number of uk visa application rejections.
the second task is an independent task about a familiar topic.
it has been newly designed to churn out students capable of a better academic performance than before in the same english-speaking environment.
* answers that use similar words but change the meaning.
the question types are similar to those that appeared in the computer based toefl.
identify the key idea(s) or theme in question.
the student’s ability to understand the matter and draw connections between topics as well as their capability to convey relevant information.
these notes cannot be carried outside the examination center.
these tasks include a short reading passage and a short talk.
as mentioned above, they can be used as clues, but do not necessarily indicate a correct answer.
the maximum score of 120 has a percentile of 100.
• practice, practice, practice: several textbooks with exercises, vocabulary, practice tests, cds and explanatory answers are freely available in the market.
do they match some existing key ideas already in the paragraph?
these are reading, listening,  speaking and writing.
again, the questions are similar to those that appeared in the toefl cbt.
structure of writing test the writing test consists of a total of two tasks to be completed by the test taker.
in addition, ielts test centre administrators are extensively  trained to detect imposters and fraudulent documents.
hence, students must thoroughly check the educational qualification requirements listed by the college or university they wish to apply to.
ex: why does the writer mention x?
for the speaking section, students are provided with headphones and must speak into a microphone.
be prepared to use the present details, combined with your own logic to figure out what the author is inferring/implying, even when they don’t directly say it.
the toefl ibt allows the test-taker to hear everything only once, without the option of replaying the passage.
remember the square indicates exactly where the new sentence will be inserted, so pay close attention.
stay away from unsure vocabulary and  over-punctuating your sentences.
find the overall sequence of ideas in the passage.
put the given sentence in the remaining options and reread them.
the student’s ability to understand the  matter and draw connections between topics as well as their capability to  convey relevant information.
using examples to support your essay adds  credibility.
most candidates prefer ielts because it is a written test and they can interact in person for their speaking module.
ability to understand and use english in a college and university environment  — particularly in usa and canada.
test  takers must state their response and support it with information from personal  knowledge and experience.
no comments september 18th, 2009 —
structure of listening test the listening section has  anything from 34-51 questions.
you may be require to connect multiple phrases to form the complete answer.
two of the tasks are independent tasks about familiar  topics.
students can view their scores within  15 working days of the test.
prepare for paraphrasing - the key ideas are important in these questions, not the specific vocabulary used.
watch out for: * wrong answers that list information that isn’t correct.
if the university  or college has asked for proof of english language as part of their admission  requirements, the applicant needs to provide the same documentary evidence to  the visa officer when they lodge their visa application.
as a rule, revise what you have written.
this section has the maximum  number of questions with about 36-70.
solving several practice tests helps gain a  picture of the kind of questions that could be asked in the exam.
while completing your initial reading of the passage make brief notes on each paragraph (the key ideas or details given) to refer to later.
the ielts score requirement is established by the universities or colleges,  not the ielts partners.
the student’s knowledge of english grammar is tested through actual usage in speaking and writing sections.
apart from this, there are four to six lectures, which include classroom dialogue.
this notes will come in handy when you answering the questions.
the questions usually come in the order the information appears in the passage.
the ielts partners are not responsible for controlling the quality standards of these training institutes.
there will be no more then 1 question of this type per reading passage.
these notes cannot be  carried outside the examination center.
inferred information must still be correct.
not surprisingly then, more indians take ielts than toefl.
no comments august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation
the first task could be  a reading, listening or writing one — an academic reading followed by a  lecture.
1) fact/detail questions
score sheets will be delivered to the test-takers by mail.
recognize types of details and other rhetorical structure.
the ielts remains the preferred  test accepted by almost all higher education institutions in the uk.
compare the rhetoric structure of the given sentence and the existing passages.
the reading section of the toefl present you with 3-5 passage of approximately 700 words.
by comparing b and c. there will be no more then 2 question of this type per reading passage.
a positive development is that test-takers can now write down notes while listening.
the student’s  knowledge of english grammar is tested through actual usage in speaking and  writing sections.
students will also receive information of what the numeric scores mean in terms of language skills and proficiency (high/medium/low), along with performance feedback including suggestions for improvement.
then, return to the passage for details to answer those questions.
these notes come in handy during responses.
again, test takers can take notes and use  the information to shape their responses.
each passage you are given will have between 12-14 questions,  and we’ll cover what types of questions you can except.
the average minimum score required is approximately 70.
concentrate on the english used in these environments.
read english magazines, newspapers, blogs, books - anything that is interesting to you and will expose you to more of the english language.
the reading test includes three to five academic reading passages followed by comprehension questions.
the reading section of the toefl present you with 3-5 passage of  approximately 700 words.
for the speaking section, students are provided with  headphones and must speak into a microphone.
the six tasks in the speaking section are rated by at least two human scorers on a scale of 0-4.
toefl score each of the four sections of toefl ibt is scored on a scale of 0 to 30.
no comments toefl reading section august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation
toefl score each of the four sections of toefl ibt is  scored on a scale of 0 to 30.
candidates usually hear of the notorious institutes through the grapevine and avoid the same.
organizing  personal test sessions at home will help build performance and concentration  and also help you time yourself.
which makes the most logical sense?
the uk, other european countries, australia, new zealand, japan, korea, hong kong and singapore all accept toefl scores.
they can  write down points while they listen and/or read before they start to speak or  write.
lectures and conversations that appear in the listening section maybe  longer than before, but speech is more natural.
test takers can view the passage again while responding to the question.
listen carefully: in the toefl ibt you are allowed  to take notes in the listening section.
before you can answer these questions you will have to know what details are being used and why they are being used.
watch out for: * answers that have added or subtracted key points of information from the highlighted passage.
the writing section has been expanded to include one integrated writing task in addition to the independent writing task.
engrain the habit of revising your answer before you proceed to the next section.
what are the key ideas of your given sentence?
these tasks include  a short reading passage and a short talk.
ielts is recognized in over 2,000 uk universities and professional bodies  whereas toefl is more popular in the us.
in addition, ielts test centre administrators are extensively trained to detect imposters and fraudulent documents.
the english language requirements to study in the uk remain the same,  despite the uk recently introducing new immigration rules for foreign students  under tier 4 of the points based system.
delivery: the ability to  use clear, smooth, sustained speech.
however, prestigious universities may demand higher scores.
the reading passage appears first, and then it is removed from the screen during the lecture.
again, test takers can take notes and use the information to shape their responses.
you must choose at least 2 of the 3 correct sentences to be awarded any points for this question.
recognize what types of sentences belong in which area of paragraph, for example, if you’re given a description sentence, you’ll know it belong near the beginning of the paragraph somewhere after the opening sentence.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions 3 comments august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation rhetorical structure questions these questions will be about how the author of the passage supports key points of the passage through the use of details, specifically, description, examples, definitions and explanation.
the reading section usually  consists of three to five passages each of around 700 words.
since the second sentence is a direct explanation of the first, they should not be separated.
there will be a few new question types  that measure ability to understand a speaker’s attitude or meaning.
one question is based on a campus-related situation, and the other is based on academic classroom material.
choose answers that support this thesis.
stay away from unsure vocabulary and over-punctuating your sentences.
ask yourself if the sentences can be separated to narrow your choices.
if the university or college has asked for proof of english language as part of their admission requirements, the applicant needs to provide the same documentary evidence to the visa officer when they lodge their visa application.
hence,  students must thoroughly check the educational qualification requirements  listed by the college or university they wish to apply to.
the recent reports of fraudulent documentation have caused the testing  process of ielts to lose credibility.
the two tasks are  scored by at least two human scorers from 0 to 5 and then the raw scores are  totaled/averaged before scaling them to the range of 0 to 30.
solving several practice tests helps gain a picture of the kind of questions that could be asked in the exam.
some universities or colleges accept slightly lower  band scores, but follow it up with english language training for students  before they start their formal studies abroad.
all ielts test centers follow a detailed code of practice ensuring the highest standards of security throughout the testing process.
1) fact/detail questions 2) not/
toefl ibt tests students for english language communication skills such as reading, listening (receptive skills) and speaking and writing (expressive skills).
the questions require test takers to answer using the information provided in the reading and the listening material.
toefl ibt is not computer  adaptive as was the case with toefl cbt (computer based test).
test-takers are judged on the basis of the following criteria: 1.
trained evaluators measure the ability to understand the material, as well as write clearly, accurately and in an organized manner.
you would be able to rule this option out as a potential place to insert your new sentence.
the computer tutorial is absent.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions 2 comments page 1 of 6 1 2 3 4 5 » ...
the toefl is for a duration of four hours with maximum time spent in the reading and listening sections.
ex: the highlighted passage specifically mentions a tsunami, but one of the answers merely mentioned ‘waves’.
no comments what to expect in the toefl?
they can write down points while they listen and/or read before they start to speak or write.
organizing personal test sessions at home will help build performance and concentration and also help you time yourself.
structure of speaking test the speaking test consists  of a total of six tasks.
treat the thesis provided as your guide.
there are a few things you can do to improve your overall score on this section.
campus and classroom conversation in the us is a little different that colloquial english spoken in india.
depending upon the number of test takers  and the capacity, a test center will normally have 30 to 40 test dates in a  year.
structure of speaking test the speaking test consists of a total of six tasks.
when you come across words you don’t recognize, use your english language dictionary to translate the word and make a record of it in a journal you can refer to later.
students will also  receive information of what the numeric scores mean in terms of language skills  and proficiency (high/medium/low), along with performance feedback including  suggestions for improvement.
this section  includes classifying information and/or filling in a chart or completion of a  summary.
however,  prestigious universities may demand higher scores.
this displays how an individual’s score compares with that of other students answering the test.
the test taker is required to state, explain and support their response using personal knowledge and experience.
your job is to find where the given sentence fits in with the passage.
the documents they send to the uk university for admission will also be seen by the visa officer and if the visa office isn’t convinced with the documents the case may get rejected.
be familiar with paragraph structure.
why is the author presenting this description?
the  ielts partners are not responsible for controlling the quality standards of  these training institutes.
the question is asking you to infer something, meaning the answer won’t be stated in the passage.
the two tasks are scored by at least two human scorers from 0 to 5 and then the raw scores are totaled/averaged before scaling them to the range of 0 to 30.
details will not always be presently openly to you.
a tsunami is not simply a regular wave, it significantly larger and causes much more destruction!
the questions require test takers to  answer using the information provided in the reading and the listening  material.
although work  continues on creating a computer-based ielts test, the pen and paper version  will continue due to its popularity with the teast takers.
students are expected to demonstrate that they have learned what they have read, either by filling out a table or completing a narrative summary.
watch out for: * answers that refer to another part of the passage * answers that provide similar, but unmentioned or altered ideas.
this can be another clue as to wear to put the new sentence.
structure of writing test the writing test consists of  a total of two tasks to be completed by the test taker.
although the focus of the listening tasks remains american, expect at least one lecture in british /australian accent.
[black square] the peacock’s tail features have an eye pattern on them which serve as a defense mechanism, frightening away potential predators.
there will be a few new question types that measure ability to understand a speaker’s attitude or meaning.
the remaining two tasks are  based on listening material, including a short lecture or conversation.
train your  ears to take in all the information in the first listen itself.
while the passages are all basically the same length,  they become increasingly difficult as you progress, so while 20 minutes is  allotted for reading and answering questions on the first passage, 40 minutes  is given for reading and answering questions of the second, third, fourth and  fifth passages.
these are reading, listening, speaking and writing.
apart from this, there are four to six lectures,  which include classroom dialogue.
the first task could be a reading, listening or writing one — an academic reading followed by a lecture.
watch out for: * assume that because two sentences share the same vocabulary, they must belong together.
no comments august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation prose summary questions these questions are also ‘drag and drop’ style questions that will ask provide you with a main idea from the presented passage, and asks you to pick 3 sentences (out of a given 6) that express the most important ideas in the passage.
watch out from wrong answers that leave out important information, or add information that was not covered.
so take a moment to ask yourself, am i reading a description or an explanation?
test takers must state their response and support it with information from personal knowledge and experience.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions 2 comments august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation paraphrasing questions these questions are about taking what you’ve just read, and figuring out a new way to say it.
the internet too, has copious amounts of free samples and information that you can have access to, in addition to your textbooks.
it has been newly designed to churn out students capable of a better academic  performance than before in the same english-speaking environment.
get ready to infer meaning.
in this series of posts we will cover the types of questions you will encounter on thereading section of the toefl ibt test, as well as strategies you can use to improve your score in this section.
most classes in colleges are for a span of two hours.
the toefl is for a duration of four hours with maximum  time spent in the reading and listening sections.
most candidates prefer ielts because it is a written test and  they can interact in person for their speaking module.
many institutions and recognizing  authorities prefer ielts and feel that the test gives a more accurate  indication of a candidate’s english language proficiency.
candidates  usually hear of the notorious institutes through the grapevine and avoid the  same.
although the focus of the  listening tasks remains american, expect at least one lecture in british  /australian accent.
candidates are required to provide their passport as identity proof during registration.
remember to pack in a good night’s sleep before the test to kill fatigue before the big day.
when practicing at home, don’t  replay the cd more than once.
the exam has no grammar or sentence structure section.
the documents they  send to the uk university for admission will also be seen by the visa officer  and if the visa office isn’t convinced with the documents the case may  get rejected.
candidates are required to provide their passport as identity  proof during registration.
inserting the answer next to the correct sentence, but on the wrong side.
1 comment september 18th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation test of english as a foreign language (toefl) evaluates a student’s ability to understand and use english in a college and university environment — particularly in usa and canada.
check your final choice against the given passage and ask yourself, does this make logical sense?
• read, answer and revise: skim through the passage given and read the questions that follow.
you’ll easily recognize these questions as the passage will be marked with black squares showing you where the sentences may be inserted.
the reading test includes three to five  academic reading passages followed by comprehension questions.
depending upon the number of test takers and the capacity, a test center will normally have 30 to 40 test dates in a year.
once you locate the key idea/theme, read the relevant sentences carefully to make sure you completely understand the information 3.
this section has the maximum number of questions with about 36-70.
the six tasks in the speaking section are rated by at least two human  scorers on a scale of 0-4.
textbooks, encyclopedias, journals and research articles will get you acquainted with this kind of language.
develop greater concentration skills: toefl ibt  requires the student to sit at the computer for atleast four hours at a  stretch.
the writing section has been expanded to include one integrated writing  task in addition to the independent writing task.
the question types are similar to those that appeared in the  computer based toefl.
the toefl ibt allows the test-taker to hear  everything only once, without the option of replaying the passage.
the six individual scores are averaged to arrive at an aggregate value.
not  surprisingly then, more indians take ielts than toefl.
indian students should first check with their chosen university or college  the minimum english language ability required for admission.
look for matching vocabulary.
although work continues on creating a computer-based ielts test, the pen and paper version will continue due to its popularity with the teast takers.
each score corresponds to a percentile ranking.
last »page 1 of 6 1 2 3 4 5 » ...
choose a correct paraphrase of a reading.
locate the most important words within the highlighted passage and focus on them.
students are expected to demonstrate that they have  learned what they have read, either by filling out a table or completing a  narrative summary.
test takers must answer a question discussing the key points in the  lecture and explain how they relate to those in the reading passage.
remember, what’s important here is keeping the meaning the same, not structure.
they are also required to carry the same on the day of the test.
toefl ibt has fixed test dates.
indian students should first check with their chosen university or college the minimum english language ability required for admission.
structure of listening test the listening section has anything from 34-51 questions.
the first asks you to identify a particular idea, or ideas and questions you on the purpose.
the toefl score is a yardstick to  measure adequate english skills necessary for admission to over 5000 colleges  and accredited educational institutions across 90 countries.
eliminate the overly specific options, or points that offer minor details.
the ielts score requirement is established by the universities or colleges, not the ielts partners.
however, there are many training institutes in india that do a commendable job in preparing candidates for the test.
two of the tasks are independent tasks about familiar topics.
there is a possibility of questions that measure understanding of a speaker’s attitude, degree of certainty and purpose.
close notice is paid to the response of logical answers.
describe a familiar place or  recount a personal experience and see how spontaneously you can come up with  interesting points.
the new features that make the testing experience easier and even include a glossary and review feature.
beyond this period, the student’s concentration ability starts to dwindle.
make note of the key idea of each paragraph, and look for a combination of one paragraph or more in the offered summary sentence.
test takers can view the passage again while responding to the  question.
• practice, practice, practice: several textbooks  with exercises, vocabulary, practice tests, cds and explanatory answers are  freely available in the market.
the  student’s ability to understand and analyse the meaning of the passages  is tested.
many institutions and recognizing authorities prefer ielts and feel that the test gives a more accurate indication of a candidate’s english language proficiency.
• learn academic english:
structure of reading test
the questions usually come in the order the  information appears in the passage.
all ielts test centers follow a detailed  code of practice ensuring the highest standards of security throughout the  testing process.
the toefl score is equally divided between all four skills, and  therefore, a student must do well in all sections.
the student’s ability to understand and analyse the meaning of the passages is tested.
a new development is that students are allowed to take notes.
the questions require test takers to summarise key ideas from the talks in the responses.
ex: an example of such a bird is the peacock.
ielts is recognized in over 2,000 uk universities and professional bodies whereas toefl is more popular in the us.
of late, there has been an increase in the number of uk visa application rejections.
the toefl score is a yardstick to measure adequate english skills necessary for admission to over 5000 colleges and accredited educational institutions across 90 countries.
as a rule,  revise what you have written.
the second type of question presents a type of rhetorical structure and asks you how the writer accomplishes it.
except questions 3) referent questions 4) vocabulary questions 5) inference questions 6) rhetorical structure questions 7) coherence questions 8) paraphrasing questions 9) table completion questions 10) prose summary questions 1 comment august 20th, 2009 — toefl & ielts, toefl preparation coherence questions these questions, also called ‘insert the text’ provide you with sample sentences that can be inserted into your reading passage at various points.
beyond this  period, the student’s concentration ability starts to dwindle.
ex: if the questions is asking ‘which of the following can be inferred about jim’s time as a student’ look for the paragraph that discusses jim’s time at school.
again, the questions are similar to  those that appeared in the toefl cbt.
language use: trained evaluators pay attention to the use of correct grammar and vocabulary.
test your answer by reading it into the passage; check to ensure the same information is still being conveyed.
transitional words and phrases makes the essay breezy.
the english language requirements to study in the uk remain the same, despite the uk recently introducing new immigration rules for foreign students under tier 4 of the points based system.
students are at loggerhead over which is the better test to take.
test takers must answer a question discussing the key points in the lecture and explain how they relate to those in the reading passage.
• keep writing simple: language used must be simple and clear.
these are short essays, expect and introduction, some body paragraphs in which the details of the thesis will be expanded upon, and a concluding paragraph.
train your ears to take in all the information in the first listen itself.
one question is based on a campus-related situation, and the other is  based on academic classroom material.
• learn academic english: campus and classroom  conversation in the us is a little different that colloquial english spoken in  india.
september 18th, 2009 — ielts preparation, toefl & ielts
students applying for further studies in an english speaking country must have the required english language ability for success their objectives.
lectures and conversations that appear in the listening section maybe longer than before, but speech is more natural.
• practice one-minute responses: think up a list of  familiar topics and practice speaking about them.
they are also required to carry the same on the day  of the test.
students are at loggerhead over which is the better  test to take.
* choices offering information that was never mentioned in the passage * choices offering information similar to what was in the passage, but that has been altered or distorted in some day.
ielts training institutes have been burgeoning all over the country.
this aggregate is converted to the scale of 0 to 30.
toefl ibt scores are reported online.
this  displays how an individual’s score compares with that of other students  answering the test.
remember to pack in a good night’s sleep  before the test to kill fatigue before the big day.
listen carefully: in the toefl ibt you are allowed to take notes in the listening section.
ex: how does the author explain a?
when practicing at home, don’t replay the cd more than once.
make sure you’re looking for the idea and not the word since you’re attempting to infer something you won’t find in the text.
the digital recording is then  transmitted to ets online scoring network to be rated by human scorers.
there is a possibility of questions that measure  understanding of a speaker’s attitude, degree of certainty and purpose.
the test involves the student listening to two  to three conversations on their headphones.
score sheets will be delivered to the test-takers  by mail.