financial affidavit for international students accompanied with a bank letter and/or other approved financial documentation  listed under i-20 and visa process below.
below you will find information and advice regarding our undergraduate  admission process for international students.
the  letter must include the signature of a bank official.
all of your application's supporting documents must be sent directly to: pace university application processing center 861 bedford road pleasantville, ny 10570 or faxed to: (914) 773-3851 required documents for international applicants: - application & fee: a completed application and $50 nonrefundable application fee.
- toefl or ielts scores.
once you submit an application, the admission committee will advise you about being admitted into this program.
entering first-year students who meet eligibility criteria will be invited to join the honors college upon review of completed application for admission.
academic achievement is the primary factor for admission to pace,  but qualities such as motivation, creativity, and community involvement are  also considered in evaluating the applicant.
international students must complete the same application for admission as domestic applications.
apply now to pace university college coursework completed in high school applicants who completed ap, ib , or other college-level coursework while attending high school may be eligible for transfer credit.
there are, however,  additional forms and information required from international students in order  to be considered for study at pace university.
future undergraduate students - future undergraduates - undergraduate application process - international student information - application/toefl requirements - important deadlines - international recruitment - international scholarships - international student stories - contact international admissions - english language institute - international students services - transfer student information - visiting & events - campus locations - academics - tuition & net price calculator - financial aid - career preparation - veterans - pace student body profile - housing and residential life - student life - pforzheimer honors college - browse our viewbook - forms & brochures - pace undergraduate faqs - undergraduate admission contacts - request more information - 866-722-3338 general information 800-874-pace admissions - new york city westchester - future students | - current students | - parents & families| - alumni & friends| - faculty & staff - © 2011
a letter from a bank on bank letterhead indicating the date, account  number, account holder’s name, and amount on deposit in u.s. dollars.
pace offers online and print  application options, which vary by student type.
pay stubs for the last six months.
once you submit an application, the admission committee will  advise you about being admitted into this program.
admission to the program is competitive.
if you are currently in the united states on an f-1 student visa: - also provide the transfer recommendation form completed by you and your international student adviser.
a competitive performing arts program is thriving at the nyc campus, fueled by the acting (bfa), musical theater (bfa), and theater arts (ba) majors as well as the actors studio mfa.
the computer science, environmental science, and  physics departments grant credit for a score of 3 or better.
four-year bs in nursing program ( westchester campus only) the four year bs in nursing program is offered only on the westchester campus in pleasantville.
official test scores and other educational materials  must be sentdirectly from the testing authority or institution: official transcripts, diplomas, and leaving examination scores from  secondary and post-secondary schools (in english).
the computer science, environmental science, and physics departments grant credit for a score of 3 or better.
click to view a complete list ofadmission deadlines.
requests for deferred  admission should be made in writing to the office of undergraduate admission.
in general, ap scores of 4 or better are awarded credit at pace.
students must  provide evidence of additional financial support of $10,000 per year for a  spouse and/or child who accompanies them to the u.s. applicants  who will require a student (f-i) visa must submit thefinancial affidavit for  international students.
students will be notified on or about march 31st
applicants for admission to pace university are considered in terms of past achievement and future promise.
- written statement/essay: a personal statement, approximately 500-700 words in length.
if your toefl or ielts scores are below the minimums stated above or admission  determines that you need additional english language preparation to be a fully  matriculated student, you could be a candidate for thepace
an application for admission must be filed prior to  scheduling an audition.
application process- international › - about us - academic programs - news - events - support pace - athletics - apply now - learn more - contact us application/toefl requirements congratulations on your decision to apply to pace university.
the letter must include the signature of a bank official.
identification: send a photocopy or fax of your valid  passport/national identity card displaying your photo and name.
the cap program is a one- year program designed to help first-year students meet the academic demands of a college education and is geared toward applicants whose potential is not fully reflected in their academic profile.
written statement/essay: a personal statement,  approximately 500-700 words in length.
toefl or ielts scores.
university global  pathways program.
income tax returns with most recent pay stub.
(a student who attends another college prior to enrolling at pace must  file a new application for admission.)
program specific admission information pforzheimer honors college (fall admission: first-year students only)
the admission committee considers the record of each applicant individually.
there are, however, additional forms and information required from international students in order to be considered for study at pace university.
course descriptions or syllabus (in english) from each  post-secondary school attended (transfer applicants only).
a letter of support from a sponsoring scholarship program, fellowship  program, or grant organization.
the student will be notified as to whether the deferral has been granted.
proof of government or employer sponsorship.
theater and performing arts (nyc campus only) please note that the application deadline for this program is january 15th for first-year and transfer students.
an international student is  defined as any student studying at pace university who is neither a u.s.  citizen nor a u.s. permanent resident.
the admission committee considers the record of each applicant  individually.
deadline for first –year and transfer applications isfebruary 15th.
incomplete early action applications will be reviewed for regular decision.
- course descriptions or syllabus (in english) from each post-secondary school attended (transfer applicants only).
(a student who attends another college prior to enrolling at pace must file a new application for admission.)
the cap program is a one- year program designed to help first-year students  meet the academic demands of a college education and is geared toward  applicants whose potential is not fully reflected in their academic profile.
it is recommended that the financial affidavit be submitted with the application for admission.
all monies pledged  on the pace university financial affidavit for international students form must  be verified by one or more of the following: bank statements for the last six months showing regular deposits, owner's  name, and current balance greater than the amount listed on the financial  affidavit.
carefully designed courses, small classes, seminars, work-shops, and tutorials assist students in achieving their potential.
it is recommended that the financial affidavit be  submitted with the application for admission.
carefully designed courses, small classes, seminars, work-shops, and tutorials  assist students in achieving their potential.
additional information all accepted students are required to take university placement exams prior to registration.
deadline for first –year and transfer  applications isfebruary 15th.
students may be restricted to intensive english course work  for at least one semester, which may extend the length of time and cost of  completing a degree.
you may submit an essay on a subject of your choice or on one of the following subjects: test/form new york city code westchester code act 2852 2855 sat 2635 2685 toefl 2635 2685 - a discussion of a personal, local, or national issue; - an autobiographical account; or - a representative sample of your creative ability.
bank statements are also accepted.
letters of recommendation: two letters of recommendation  from a faculty member or counselor who knows you well and can attest to your  academic potential and personal characteristics.
future undergraduate students
- official test scores and other educational materials must be sentdirectly from the testing authority or institution: - official transcripts, diplomas, and leaving examination scores from secondary and post-secondary schools (in english).
bank statements are also  accepted.
new york city campus: 2635 westchester campus: 2685
you may submit an essay on a subject of  your choice or on one of the following subjects: test/form new york city code westchester code act  2852  2855 a discussion of a personal, local, or national issue; an autobiographical account; or a representative sample of your creative ability.
auditions will be conducted late fall 2010 and january- february 2011.
admission decision notification pace university allows a rolling decision notification plan and the  admission committee makes every effort to notify students with a decision in a  timely fashion.
act/sat are not mandatory for international students.
transcripts are considered official only if they are sent directly to pace university from the education institution of origin, or are certified as true copies by the student’s ministry of education or a u.s. consular office.
i-20 & visa process to receive a form i-20 from  pace university for obtaining a student (f-i) visa, the applicant must  demonstrate that he or she has sufficient funds available to pay for tuition  and living expenses for at least one year of study in the u.s.
applicants for admission  to pace university are considered in terms of past achievement and future  promise.
admission decision notification pace university allows a rolling decision notification plan and the admission committee makes every effort to notify students with a decision in a timely fashion.
photocopies, facsimiles, and  notarized copies of academic records arenot considered to be official  and will not be accepted.
to receive a form i-20 from pace university for obtaining a student (f-i) visa, the applicant must demonstrate that he or she has sufficient funds available to pay for tuition and living expenses for at least one year of study in the u.s.
a  student who defers his or her admission will bereconsidered for  academic scholarship, housing, and financial aid prior to enrolling at pace  university.
the admission committee may require additional testing if there are  concerns about your ability to read, write, and speak english sufficiently to  meet the demands of your intended curriculum, based on the materials you  submitted as part of your application or on written or verbal communications  with you after you submitted your application.
program specific admission information pforzheimer honors college (fall admission: first-year  students only)
entering first-year students who meet eligibility criteria will be invited to  join the honors college upon review of completed application for admission.
all of your  application's supporting documents must be sent directly to: pace  university application processing center or faxed to: (914) 773-3851 required documents for international applicants: application & fee: a completed application  and $50 nonrefundable application fee.
students may be restricted to intensive english course work for at least one semester, which may extend the length of time and cost of completing a degree.
international students must complete the  same application for admission as domestic applications.
apply for fall admission by january 15th, and schedule your audition by  february 15th.
in most cases an accepted student may defer his or her enrollment for up to  one year, provided the student does not attend another college during this time.
in general, a minimum toefl score of570 (paper-based version), 230 (computer-based version), or 88/89 (internet-based version),or a minimum ielts score of6.5 is sufficient to demonstrate the required proficiency in english for admission directly into pace university programs.
- letters of recommendation: two letters of recommendation from a faculty member or counselor who knows you well and can attest to your academic potential and personal characteristics.
below you will find information and advice regarding our undergraduate admission process for international students.
in most cases an accepted student may defer his or her enrollment for up to one year, provided the student does not attend another college during this time.
- pay stubs for the last six months.
to get started, please visit ourapply today web page and select an application based upon your student type.
in general, a  minimum toefl score of570 (paper-based version), 230 (computer-based version), or 88/89 (internet-based  version),or a minimum ielts score of6.5 is sufficient to  demonstrate the required proficiency in english for admission directly into  pace university programs.
toefl requirements students who graduated from a high school in a  country where english is not the official language and for whom english is not  their first language must submit scores from the test of english as a foreign  language (toefl), or the international english language testing system (  ielts) that are no more than two years old.
photocopies, facsimiles, and notarized copies of academic records arenot considered to be official and will not be accepted.
an international student is defined as any student studying at pace university who is neither a u.s. citizen nor a u.s. permanent resident.
- auditions will be conducted late fall 2010 and january- february 2011.
an application for admission must be filed prior to scheduling an audition.
to get started, please visit  ourapply today web page and select an application based upon your student type.
information about scheduling an audition will be sent to each applicant upon receipt of the application.
the deadline for scheduling an audition is february
toefl requirements students who graduated from a high school in a country where english is not the official language and for whom english is not their first language must submit scores from the test of english as a foreign language (toefl), or the international english language testing system ( ielts) that are no more than two years old.
- apply for fall admission by january 15th, and schedule your audition by february 15th.
home › guidance counselors ›  application process- international › application/toefl requirements congratulations on your decision to apply to pace university.
academic records issued in a language other than english arerequired to be translated and attested to be the institution of origin by a pace-approved translation agency.
entering first-year students must  apply to the university and then be invited to join by the cap admission  committee.
academic achievement is the primary factor for admission to pace, but qualities such as motivation, creativity, and community involvement are also considered in evaluating the applicant.
the toefl codes for pace university are as  follows:     new york city campus: 2635  westchester campus: 2685
apply now to pace university college coursework completed in high school applicants who completed ap, ib , or other college-level coursework while  attending high school may be eligible for transfer credit.
the honors college is open to all majors within the university.
pace university| - site map| - a-z index | - directions | - employment opportunities | - contact us
the pforzheimer honors college is a community of high-achieving  undergraduate scholars studying under the distinguished faculty of a great  university.
the pforzheimer honors college is a community of high-achieving undergraduate scholars studying under the distinguished faculty of a great university.
challenge to achievement at pace (cap) (fall admission: first-year  students only)
the student will be notified as to whether the deferral  has been granted.
the admission committee may require additional testing if there are concerns about your ability to read, write, and speak english sufficiently to meet the demands of your intended curriculum, based on the materials you submitted as part of your application or on written or verbal communications with you after you submitted your application.
- income tax returns with most recent pay stub.
information about scheduling an audition will be sent to each applicant upon  receipt of the application.
act/sat are not mandatory for international  students.
the toefl codes for pace university are as follows:
university global pathways program.
- identification: send a photocopy or fax of your valid passport/national identity card displaying your photo and name.
a student who defers his or her admission will bereconsidered for academic scholarship, housing, and financial aid prior to enrolling at pace university.
additional information all accepted students are required to take university placement exams prior  to registration.
admission to the program is  competitive.
academic records issued in a language other than  english arerequired to be translated and attested to be the institution  of origin by a pace-approved translation agency.
- proof of government or employer sponsorship.
although, if submitted, students may be considered for merit-based scholarships.
a  competitive performing arts program is thriving at the nyc campus, fueled by  the acting (bfa), musical theater (bfa), and theater arts (ba) majors as well  as the actors studio mfa.
early action applicants will be notified in early january.
challenge to achievement at pace (cap) (fall admission: first-year students only)
requests for deferred admission should be made in writing to the office of undergraduate admission.
- a letter from a bank on bank letterhead indicating the date, account number, account holder’s name, and amount on deposit in u.s. dollars.
pace offers online and print application options, which vary by student type.
four-year bs in nursing program ( westchester campus only) the four year bs in nursing program is offered only on the westchester  campus in pleasantville.
if your toefl or ielts scores are below the minimums stated above or admission determines that you need additional english language preparation to be a fully matriculated student, you could be a candidate for thepace
if you are currently in the united states on an f-1 student visa: also provide the transfer recommendation form completed by you and your  international student adviser.
students must provide evidence of additional financial support of $10,000 per year for a spouse and/or child who accompanies them to the u.s. i-20 & visa process applicants who will require a student (f-i) visa must submit thefinancial affidavit for international students.
regarding audition results.
theater and performing arts (nyc campus only) please note that the application deadline for this program is january 15th for first-year and transfer students.
entering first-year students must apply to the university and then be invited to join by the cap admission committee.
transcripts are considered  official only if they are sent directly to pace university from the education  institution of origin, or are certified as true copies by the student’s  ministry of education or a u.s. consular office.
dyson college of arts and science lubin school of business college of health professions school of education seidenberg school of computer science and information systems school of law honors college new york city | westchester future students - a - z | - pace home | - site map - future students - current students - parents & families - alumni & friends - faculty & staff quick links - apply now - academics - fast facts - visit pace - contact admissions home › guidance counselors ›
for evaluation of credits, forward official college transcripts and/or test score reports to the undergraduate admission office.
although, if submitted, students may be considered  for merit-based scholarships.
for evaluation of  credits, forward official college transcripts and/or test score reports to the  undergraduate admission office.
- a letter of support from a sponsoring scholarship program, fellowship program, or grant organization.
- financial affidavit for international students accompanied with a bank letter and/or other approved financial documentation listed under i-20 and visa process below.
all monies pledged on the pace university financial affidavit for international students form must be verified by one or more of the following: - bank statements for the last six months showing regular deposits, owner's name, and current balance greater than the amount listed on the financial affidavit.
students will be notified on or about march 31st regarding audition results.
in general, ap scores of 4 or better are  awarded credit at pace.