to have a perfect picture, you must be able to break a sentence into component units.
it is not correct to use a preposition and article together without a noun.
so don’t use this kind of english  forielts or toefl.
to the railway station.. to see… my friend off.’
these tests assess your reading, listening, speaking and writing  skills.
isn’t it absurd to break sentences in the manner of ‘ this is my…..book and….. that is my…..pen..’
this article is a brief introduction about learning english forielts or  toefl.
railway  station to… see my… friend off.’
when learning english for ielts or toefl, your reading, listening and understanding skills should be  brought to perfection.
it is not correct to use a preposition and  article together without a noun.
the eye (physical eye and mind’s eye) plays a major role in your  english language learning process.
as you read a sentence, the picture drawn by its words should appear to  your mental eye.
isn’t it absurd to break sentences in  the manner of ‘ this is my…..book and….. that is  my…..pen..’
these tests assess your reading, listening, speaking and writing skills.
they should be read or  spoken as,’this is….my book…and….
they should be read or spoken as,’this is….my book…and….
to have a perfect picture, you must be able to break a sentence into  component units.
if you break the part of a sentence in wrong places, the examiner will grade your performance very poor.
moststudents preparing for ielts and toefl  never pay any attention to this.
if you break the part of a sentence in wrong places, the examiner will  grade your performance very poor.
toefl and ielts are the two biggest standardized tests of the english language.
this article is a brief introduction about learning english forielts or toefl.
‘ then i….. went to the….
this is highly important in speaking.
apr 19, 2012 learning english for ielts or toefl toefl and ielts are the two biggest standardized tests of the english  language.
if you are unable to  see this mental picture or get an unclear picture, you won’t be able to  give the correct answer to the question set to test you english language  skills.
when learning english for ielts or toefl, your reading, listening and understanding skills should be brought to perfection.
but we commonly hear sound units like ‘in the’, ‘on the’, ‘ at the’, ‘under the’, ‘over the’ etc.
moststudents preparing for ielts and toefl never pay any attention to this.
as you read a sentence, the picture drawn by its words should appear to your mental eye.
so don’t use this kind of english forielts or toefl.
eye contact processes ideas unit by unit,  helps to break sentences in correct places and to use stress on words which we  wish to focus on before we begin to write or speak.
the eye (physical eye and mind’s eye) plays a major role in your english language learning process.
railway station to… see my… friend off.’
eye contact processes ideas unit by unit, helps to break sentences in correct places and to use stress on words which we wish to focus on before we begin to write or speak.
if you are unable to see this mental picture or get an unclear picture, you won’t be able to give the correct answer to the question set to test you english language skills.
a complete sentence is a perfect picture.
but we commonly hear sound units like  ‘in the’, ‘on the’, ‘ at the’, ‘under  the’, ‘over the’ etc.
to the railway station.. to  see… my friend off.’
source: myteofl enter your email address: