if you’re still unsure of yourself, you can always  trywriting your own sentences using the words, making flash cards of antonyms,  and utilizing other methods of learningvocabulary.
once you’ve read each word and definition a single time, you’ll probably realize something.
unfortunately, it is necessary to actually read the words and definitions.
if there are quizzes in thestudy book you’re using, you can either do these quizzes now or wait until later.
there is no point in  making great flash cards if you aren’t ever going to look at them.
the good news is, once you’ve made some recordings you can start listening to them over and over right away.
otherwise, unfortunately you’ll be stuck making them yourself.
this will help to give you an idea of  how much you’ll need tostudy.
unfortunately, making thousands of flash cards just takes way too much work.
and you’re already familiar with most of the gre vocabulary words.
studying for the gre can be difficult for anyone, but trying to  learn thousands of new words with a reading disability can be a daunting task.
if you already have  procrastinated and don’t have that kind of time, my best advice at this  point is to focus on one of the lists of the most frequently used gre words.
studying for the gre can be difficult for anyone, but trying to learn thousands of new words with a reading disability can be a daunting task.
if not, it’s time to start some serious studying.
if you are lucky enough to have a friend who is also studying for the gre, you might be able to get them to help you with making these recordings.
make the flash cards any size you want and use whichever colors will help you read them more easily when you’re studying them later.
you still don’t know all these words.
unfortunately, for those of us with reading disabilities, that is way too time consuming.
mar 31, 2012 disabled student’s guide: studying vocabulary for the gre
taking  quizzes can also help to reduce the monotony of this horrible task.
if possible, use a computer program like kurzweil to scan in thevocabulary lists and then convert them into audio files.
if you already know most of these words,  good for you.
at this point, these words should be solidly stuck in your memory.
luckily, there are a few tactics that will help you maximize what you can get out of yourstudy time.
glance over the words take a quick look at all the words you will need to learn before you begin reading their definitions word for word.
read all of the words and definitions this part is going to take a lot of time and is unfortunately very  difficult.
if there are quizzes in thestudy book  you’re using, you can either do these quizzes now or wait until later.
even if your classmates might be able to breeze through this section of the gre due to their reading habits, you are not likely to be able to get through this part quickly.
i  think this step is very important for being able to learn the words.
this method will not involve any reading on your part so it is obviously  preferable.
this will involve you reading the words out loud into a microphone and gradually putting a list of all the words you don’t know into audio format.
if you don’t have access to such equipment however, you’ll be stuck with the manual method.
a lot of people make the mistake of making flash cards immediately.
now you  have a better understanding of most of them, but you couldn’t solidly define them or produce antonyms on demand.
so here’s how you’re going to avoid reading these words and definitions multiple times: you will have to make recordings of these words to listen to them later on audio.
so here’s how you’re going to avoid reading these words  and definitions multiple times: you will have to make recordings of these words  to listen to them later on audio.
first of all, you’ll want to start studying these vocabulary words as  soon as possible.
the good news is, once you’ve made some  recordings you can start listening to them over and over right away.
so i would recommend waiting until you’ve been listening to the recordings for awhile
this will help to give you an idea of how much you’ll need tostudy.
taking quizzes can also help to reduce the monotony of this horrible task.
this method will not involve any reading on your part so it is obviously preferable.
set aside at least a month tostudy vocabulary , preferably three months or more for better results.
if possible, use a computer program  like kurzweil to scan in thevocabulary lists and then convert them into audio  files.
this will involve you reading the  words out loud into a microphone and gradually putting a list of all the words  you don’t know into audio format.
this is not something that you can reasonably put off until  the last minute.
put a mark by each word that you still do not know the meaning of.
not to mention wholly  unpleasant.
source: associatedcontent enter your email address:
this will help you to learn the words even when you don’t feel like putting in the tons of effort required to actually physically read these words from paper.
if not, just pace yourself and try to get done  with as much as you can each day.
most of the word lists  have anywhere from 1,000 to 5,000 words in them.
unfortunately, it is necessary to actually read the words and  definitions.
unfortunately, for those of us with  reading disabilities, that is way too time consuming.
most of the word lists have anywhere from 1,000 to 5,000 words in them.
so  i would recommend waiting until you’ve been listening to the recordings for awhile
source: associatedcontent
even if you only study a list of the most common words, you’re still stuck studying over 100 words.
keep them simple and look at them daily.
now you’ll want to quickly glance over your list of  words again.
if you need to take the gre sometime in the near future, you’ve  probably already looked at a fewvocabulary word lists.
otherwise, unfortunately you’ll  be stuck making them yourself.
once you’ve read each word and definition a single time, you’ll  probably realize something.
make those recordings and save yourself the pain of reading over and over.
even though learning new words may seem to be an insurmountable task, it is not so bad if you break up the work into segments and do the least amount of reading possible.
at this point, these words should be solidly  stuck in your memory.
this will  help you to learn the words even when you don’t feel like putting in the  tons of effort required to actually physically read these words from paper.
how you do that is up to you, but there are a few recommendations that i have to offer.
people without a reading disability would probably just read these word lists over and over again until they understood the words sufficiently.
despite  your disability, you too can learn thisvocabulary and take the gre successfully.
i enjoyed taking the quizzes at this stage just to see how i was doing.
this is not something that you can reasonably put off until the last minute.
even if you only study a list of the most common words, you’re still stuck studying  over 100 words.
i  enjoyed taking the quizzes at this stage just to see how i was doing.
if you need to take the gre sometime in the near future, you’ve probably already looked at a fewvocabulary word lists.
if reading isn’t easy for you, don’t trick yourself into thinking you’ll force yourself to actually read the words over and over just because this is the gre.
the words you mark off are the words you are going to make flash cards of.
if you have a computer program where you can scan in the words and  have the computer read, do that.
if you already have procrastinated and don’t have that kind of time, my best advice at this point is to focus on one of the lists of the most frequently used gre words.
glance over the words take a quick look at all the words you will need to learn before you begin  reading their definitions word for word.
it helps to use a talking dictionary to  verify that you are pronouncing the words correctly.
make  the flash cards any size you want and use whichever colors will help you read  them more easily when you’re studying them later.
despite your disability, you too can learn thisvocabulary and take the gre successfully.
if you don’t have access to such equipment however,  you’ll be stuck with the manual method.
now you have a better understanding of most of them, but you couldn’t solidly define them or produce antonyms on demand.
people without a reading  disability would probably just read these word lists over and over again until  they understood the words sufficiently.
it helps to use a talking dictionary to verify that you are pronouncing the words correctly.
i think this step is very important for being able to learn the words.
now you’ll want to quickly glance over your list of words again.
even if your classmates might be able to breeze through this  section of the gre due to their reading habits, you are not likely to be able  to get through this part quickly.
not to mention wholly unpleasant.
luckily, there are a few tactics that will help you maximize what you can get  out of yourstudy time.
read all of the words and definitions this part is going to take a lot of time and is unfortunately very difficult.
if not, just pace yourself and try to get done with as much as you can each day.
keep  them simple and look at them daily.
how you do that is up to you, but there are a  few recommendations that i have to offer.
if you already know most of these words, good for you.
even though learning new  words may seem to be an insurmountable task, it is not so bad if you break up  the work into segments and do the least amount of reading possible.
first of all, you’ll want to start studying these vocabulary words as soon as possible.
if you have a computer program where you can scan in the words and have the computer read, do that.
there is no point in making great flash cards if you aren’t ever going to look at them.
if you’re still unsure of yourself, you can always trywriting your own sentences using the words, making flash cards of antonyms, and utilizing other methods of learningvocabulary.
if you are lucky enough to  have a friend who is also studying for the gre, you might be able to get them  to help you with making these recordings.
make those recordings and save yourself the pain of reading over and  over.
if reading  isn’t easy for you, don’t trick yourself into thinking you’ll  force yourself to actually read the words over and over just because this is  the gre.