now, the soft drink industry has been dominated by three major player - (1)  the new york based
coca-cola is one of the world's most recognizable trademarks recognized in  countries that account for 98 percent of the world's population.
soft drink industry is on amazing growth; ultimately these are only one  person who will determine their fortunes.
in india it has 44% of the market share making it the largest selling soft drink, but the second largest company in terms of sales.
this image turnaround is no small achievements,  considering that since it was established in 1989, taking the hardship route  prior to liberalization and weighed down by export commitments.
in the meantime, india's two largest soft-drink producers have gotten rich and lazy while controlling 80% of the indian market.
these controversies are a reminder of "india's  sometimes acrimonious relationship with huge multinational companies."
pemberton & robinson laid the first  foundation of this beverage when an average nine drinks per day to begin with,  upping volumes as sales grew.
equally oblivious to the historic value of his actions was frank ix.
coke may have gained an early advantage over pepsi since it took over parle in 1994.
the huge amount invested in fracture has never been seen  before.
tested products included coke, pepsi, 7 up, miranda, fanta, thumps up, limca, and sprite.
these are the major conclusion that can be drawn about a consumers' behavior.
coca-cola new tag line in this advertisement is "real shopping, real refresher".
in 1946, inflation forced pepsi to increase prices.
pepsi has sought a permanent injunction and an ex parte order against coke, restraining it from taking away pepsi's employees and business associates.
in delhi it has 35% of the market share.
pepsi also owns gatorade and quaker foods, having acquired quaker oats last year.
pepsico's food division, frito-lay, is the leader in the branded salty snack market and all frito lay products are free of trans-fat and msg.
after the fall of the berlin wall, the company invested heavily to build plants in eastern europe.
keeping in view of tapping the indian soft drink market and also developing soft drinks as a drinking product among indians.
the segment is also in the bottling plants and distribution facilities and also distributes the ready to drink tea products of lipton in north america.
3% of the respondents were not aware of all the activities and were modest to admit it.
pepsi holds the major market share followed by coke.
the segment is also  in the bottling plants and distribution facilities and also distributes the  ready to drink tea products of lipton in north america.
youngsters were more acceptable to change.
soon were born other non- cola variants of this product like  orange & lemon.
the company's high fiber  breakfast cereal, quaker oats, and low fat and roasted snack options enhance  the healthful choices available to consumers.
as of march 31, pepsi was the seventh-largest holding in the armada tax managed equity fund and the tenth-largest holding in the armada equity growth fund.
consumers angrily demanded that the old formula be returned, and coca-cola responded three months later with classic coke.
as % 70% of total sales rs.
it's better than sex!" 2006-2007: "why you dogging' me"/"taste the one that's forever young" 2007-2008: "more happy"/"taste the once that's forever young" 2008: "yeh hai youngistan meri jaan!"
their efforts were boosted by major  progress in bottling technology, which improved efficiency and product quality.
international expansion led by longtime company leader robert w. woodruff, chief executive officer  and chairman of the board, the company began a major push to establish bottling  operations outside the u.s. plants were opened in france, guatemala, honduras,  mexico, belgium, italy, peru, spain, australia and south africa.
for e.g. fountain pepsi increased sales of pepsi cans increased sales of coca-cola.
pepsi is not as big globally but currency fluctuations are still a factor, as international sales accounted for 29 percent of revenue in 2001.
in any marketing situation, the behavioral / environmental variables relating to consumers, competition and environment are constantly influx.
soft drinks in various flavors and  tastes are widely patronized by urbane population at various occasions like  dinner parties, marriages, social get together, birthday calibration etc.
it covers some of the major strategies adopted by pepsi and coca-cola  like their pricing policy, sales promotion and advertising policy, distribution  policy etc.
it has a u.s. fortune rank of 50.the company profits for 1997 were $2.14 billion on revenues of $20.92 billion and pepsi is bottled in nearly 190 countries.
it couldn't continue the lower price positioning for long.
coca-cola using syrup shipped from atlanta, during a hot summer in 1894.
pepsi is the 2nd largest selling soft drink in india today.
pepsi, hydrating and nutritional beverages such as aquafina drinking water,  isotonic sports drinks - gatorade, tropicana100% fruit juices, and juice based  drinks - tropicana nectars, tropicana twister and slice.
the indian consumer the real war to  quench his thirst has just begun.
delicious 1908 - sparkling - harmless as water, and crisp as frost 1909 - delicious, wholesome, refreshing 1910 - it satisfies 1910 - quenches thirst as nothing else can 1911 - its time to drink coca-cola 1911 - real satisfaction in every glass 1912 - demand the genuine - refuse substitutes 1913 - the best beverage under the sun 1913 -
this is apart from money that company's franchised bottles spend in upgrading their plants all this has contributed to substantial gains in the market.
these domestic producers have little incentive to expand their plants or develop the country's potentially enormous market.
as we moved through the years, both colas incorporated some of their best slogans ("pepsi generation" and "the real thing") into subsequent commercials.
it is more often the latent company than the current competitor who busies the company.
1942 - refreshment that can't be duplicated 1942 -
the largest representation of the world's best known package 100 foot tall  glass contour bottle is located at world of coca-cola, las vegas history in india coca-cola in india coca-cola, the corporation nourishing the global community with the world's  largest selling soft drink concentrates since 1886, returned to india in 1993  after a 16 year hiatus, giving new thumbs up to the indian soft drink market.
it begins with the introduction of soft drink industry and introduction of these two companies of soft drink industry.
these are only some of the facts that speak about our commitment to the  growth of the indian economy promise by coca-cola
consequently, by world standards india's per capita consumption of cold drinks as going by survey results is rock bottom, less than over neighbors pakistan & bangladesh, where it is four times as much.
such customers required a  new approach.
with the growing popularity of soft drinks, the technology of its production, preservation, transportation and or marketing in the recent years has witnessed phenomenal changes.
the company ventured into restaurant business with taco bell, kfc, pizza hut ended last year when they were spanned off from the company.
to increase sale of cans, this price should be brought down.
and, extending the idea even further, we are now getting pepsi twist, a new product with a twist of lemon flavor.
only if the consumer liked the taste of drink, he would have it again.95% of the consumers felt that marketing strategies of the company did affect the sales of their soft-drink.
however, media reports, quoting sources, said that srinath's contract had been only in the verbal stage.
the reason given for choice of favorite's soft drink was taste and easy availability.
a third chattanooga lawyer, john t. lupton, soon joined  their venture.
it manufactures lay's potato chips; cheetos extruded snacks, uncle chips and traditional snacks under the kurkure and lehar brands.
and as the century closed,  more than $1.5 billion was committed to new bottling facilities in africa.
too really drive the market, as coke wants to you must go down to rs. 3'.
on the distribution front, 10-tonne trucks - open bay three-wheelers that  can navigate the narrow alleyways of indian cities - constantly keep our brands  available in every nook and corner of the country's remotest areas.
fabulous facts about coca-cola
whereas in 1990, they accounted for a third of all soft drinks sold, now their share is well over half.
as the soft drinks are consumed chilled so cooling them plays a vital role  in boosting up the sales.
it was  painted in 1894 in cartersville, georgia.
with in 4 year his merchandising flair helped to expand the consumption of coca-cola to over $25 million.
"what attracts me to pepsi is i have more faith in their ability to grow earnings.
it covers an extensive survey and depicts  all graphs, fact and figures of two companies.
coca-cola, along with the parle brands it acquired when it came into india -- thums up, limca, and gold spot - continue to dominate india with a 55 per cent market share to pepsi's 43 per cent.
thumps up accounts for 40% of coca cola company's turn over, followed by coca cola which has a 23% share and limca which accounts for 17% of the turn over of the company.
of franchises 53 4000 no.
it consists of many  companies amongst which the prominent once are pepsi-cola, frito-lay and pepsi  food international.
the huge amount invested in fracture has never been seen before.
for his efforts, dr. pemberton grossed $ 50 and spent $ 73.96 on advertising, by 1891, atlanta chemist as a g.canler had acquired complete ownership of the coca-cola business.
if a product is now available at any outlet and the competitor brand is available, the consumer will go for it because generally the consumption of any soft drink is an impulse decision and not predetermined one.
coke has further expanded its distribution network.
as was true  a century ago, strong locally based relationships between coca-cola bottlers,  customers and communities are the foundation on which the entire business grows.
the name was then revived in 1955 in naples, italy, when it was used for the:" fanta "orange drink we know today.
diet coke quickly becomes the number - one selling low -calorie soft drink in the world.
just for the taste of it (diet coke) 1985 -
in the past, this has shown up in its stubborn insistence on junking the franchisee network it had acquired from parle; in its dependence on its own feedback mechanism over that of its bottlers;' and on its headquarters-led approach.
the brand, which is available chilled, gets more  sales then the one which is not, even if it is more preferred one.
desai claimed coke's actions would directly harm the business interests of pepsi, which had invested over $300 million in the country in establishing business infrastructure.
the companies should go in for diversification once the brand is known, it is easier to sell more of its products.
1986 - red, white and you (coca-cola classic) 1987 - you can't beat the real thing 1989 - can't beat the feeling 1990 - can't beat the real thing 1993 -
advertisements began to appear on billboards, newspapers, and streetcars.
by this time, it had realized that the coca-cola brand did not hold enough attraction for customers to fork out a premium.
behind the hype, in an effort invisible to consumer pepsi pumps in rs 3000  crores (1994) to add muscle to its infrastructure in bottling and distribution.
pepsi's frito-lay brand of snack foods, which include fritos, doritos and rold gold, accounted for 61.2 percent of revenue and 65.3 percent of operating profits in the first quarter.
pepsico's portfolio of beverage brands in india includes the flagship cola  brand pepsi; diet pepsi; two flavors of mirinda - orange and lemon; 7up;  mountain dew; packaged drinking water - aquafina; variants of the fruit drink  brand slice; the 100 per cent fruit juice brand tropicana in several variants  and the world's leading sports drink gatorade.
meet me at the soda fountain 1932 - ice-cold sunshine 1933 - don't wear a tired, thirsty face 1934 - carry a smile back to work 1935 - all trails lead to ice-cold coca-cola 1936 -
young and the old liked to watch the advertisements on television.
due to this disparity in valuation, jeff kanter, an analyst with prudential securities, says he has a "buy' rating on pepsi and "hold" on coke.
in the 1970s, market research showed that consumers preferred the taste of pepsi over coke.
this provides a number of advantages to the company.
expect  now to hear the boon of cannons when the coca cola & pepsi co. battles it  out for, as the jordon goes a bigger share of throat.
thumps up: in 1993, the coca-cola company acquired this brand, which was originally introduced in 1977.
the only route open to him for achieving this is the manipulation of  his marketing tactics.
nothing else is a pepsi 1997 generation next 1998 same great taste 1999
the sales of pepsi is approximately rs.
the success of soft drink industry depends upon 4 major factors viz.
on the other hand 22% of the respondents felt that coca-cola [i] ltd. is not trailing back.
a packaged  goods company comprised of pepsi-cola company and frito-lay will continue to  bear the pepsico name.
that is the key to fulfilling our ultimate obligation to provide consistently attractive to the owner so four business.
the coca-cola in india has  setup an independent organizations which is h.c.c & b.c.c with a capital of  350 u.s.$ each by virtue of sellout decision of the passed managing director  sh. s. c. aggarwal.
the sing is a  double sphere constructed from more then 46 tone of steel, more 940meter of  neon tubing, and more then, 879 light bulbs.
in the modern urban culture consumption of soft drinks particularly among younger generation has become very popular.
a pure commitment to the indian economy the company has shaken up the indian carbonated drinks market greatly,  giving consumers the pleasure of world-class drinks to fill up their hydration,  refreshment, and nutrition needs.
like pepsi, coke is picking up equity in its bottles to guarantee their financial support; one side coke is trying to increase its popularity through.
by the 1950's colas was a daily consumption item, stored in house hold fridges.
brand pepsi is now the 2nd biggest brand in the country.
this is more so because coke has hiked the price of its concentrate by rs. 8
creating enormous job opportunities with virtually all the goods and services required to produce and market  coca-cola being made in india, the business system of the company directly  employs approximately 6,000 people, and indirectly creates employment for more  than 125,000 people in related industries through its vast procurement, supply,  and distribution system.
whether by design or accident, carbonated water was  teamed with the new syrup, producing a drink that was proclaimed  "delicious and refreshing".
our promise to deliver that quality is the most important promise we make.
the price being fixed by industry, leaving very little role for the players to play in the setting of the price, in turn making it difficult for competitors to compete on the basis of price.
thus companies should used advertising only for long advertising can be used for: television advertising seems to make a impact on the consumers (based on questionnaire answers)
all these factors together have contributed to a 20% growth in the soft drinks industry..
in the end, all parties involved seem to come out ahead: pepsi gains access to a potentially enormous market; indian bottlers will get to serve a market that is expanding rapidly because of competition; and the indian consumer benefits from the competition from abroad and will pay lower prices.
these soda companies have been leading the way in advertising ever since.
you've got a lot to live and pepsi's got a lot to give 1973 - join the pepsi people feelin' free 1975 - have a pepsi day 1978 - catch that pepsi spirit 1981 - pepsi's got your taste for life!
it has scores of big brands available in nearly 150 countries across the globe.
once a week 5% other 50% pepsi 40% coke 60%
today hundreds of other brands are offered to meet consumer  preferences in local markets around the world.
coke per bottle 200 ml 6 coke 300 ml 10 coke 500 ml (plastic / glass)
not to mention the best selling soft drink in the world.
1886, united states of america.
even before the first bottle of pepsi hit the shelves, local soft drink manufacturers increased the size of their bottles by 25% without raising costs.
pepsico's business is based on its sustainability vision of making tomorrow better than today.
the may introduce or initiate an aggressive promotion campaign or announce a price reduction.
all kinds or events, whether big (wills worked cup) or small (college contests) have either pepsi or coke banners of sponsorship.
most of the consumers felt that pepsi was the market leader in the soft-drink industry, in delhi well as in india.
whether these activities increase sales or not is a big huge question mark.
as the soft drinks are consumed chilled so cooling them plays a vital role in boosting up the sales.
15 rs. 23 and rs. 40 respectively (according to the current survey).
5oo crores total investment rs.
pemberton & robinson laid the first foundation of this beverage when an average nine drinks per day to begin with, upping volumes as sales grew.
similarly, pepsi has charged coke with inducing the board of control for cricket in india to give the sponsorship of the recently concluded pepsi triangular cricket series to coke, as acknowledged in the bcci submission before the bombay high court, even while a contract was signed with pepsi.
one thing that was common amongst all the consumers who were once a day or once a week.
five other indian states have  announced partial bans on the drinks in schools, colleges and hospitals.
quick and responsive to different occasions and events.
in 1991, ray charles sang, "you got the right one baby, uh-huh!"
jon styth pemberton first introduced the refreshing taste of coca-cola in atlanta, georgia it was may 1861 when the pharmacist concocted caramel colored syrup in three- legged brass kettle in his backyard.
1979 catch that pepsi spirit 1981 pepsi's got your taste for life 1983
these two american companies long ago took their battle worldwide, and although there are other colas in the market, these giants occupy this high-stakes arena by themselves.
soon there were serving trays with images of people enjoying coca-cola, and glasses with the cola's name on them.
but as the market got more and more lucrative, professional advertising became more and more important.
eventually, new coke quietly disappeared.
but coke has had problems with its bottlers as the required profits for the bottlers have not been forthcoming.
bottle in some parts of the country-including agra.
if this demand continues to grow at 20% grow at 20% annually, within 10 years the volumes could reach 1 billion cases.
this is apart from money that company's franchised bottles spend in upgrading  their plants all this has contributed to substantial gains in the market.
visibility visibility is the presence felt, if any outlet has a particular brand of  soft drink say-
as the 1920s dawned, more than 1,000 coca-cola bottlers were operating in  the u.s. their ideas and zeal fueled steady growth.
22 coke 2 litre 60 diet coke (can) 330 ml can 35 coke (can) 330 ml
led by longtime company leader robert w. woodruff, chief executive officer and chairman of the board, the company began a major push to establish bottling operations outside the u.s. plants were opened in france, guatemala, honduras, mexico, belgium, italy, peru, spain, australia and south africa.
it begins with the introduction  of soft drink industry and introduction of these two companies of soft drink  industry.
that is the  key to fulfilling our ultimate obligation to provide consistently attractive to  the owner so four business.
the move should enhance both corporations ability to prosper with their own fully dedicated structure and management team.
but now coke is also entering into local actions.
coke just needs to juggle these brands around dextrously to meet its objectives, to ensure that pepsi does not gain market share in t today, coke's product line includes, coca-cola, thumps up, fanta, gold spot, maaza, citra, sprite, bisleri club soda and diet coke.
he first distributed the  new product by carrying coca-cola in a jug coin enjoys in a glass of coca-cola  at the soda fountain.
the marketing man of the firm has to meet all these maneuver and care of competitive position of his firm and his brand in the market.
that's because a weaker dollar helps boost the profits of international subsidiaries, since profits made in a foreign currency are converted back to dollars.
in a meeting with candler, benjamin f.  thomas and joseph b. whitehead obtained exclusive rights to bottle coca-cola  across most of the united states (specifically excluding vicksburg) - for the  sum of one dollar.
if the economy continues to improve, the stocks could fall victim to what is known as sector rotation, the selling of defensive companies like food and beverages in order to buy more economically sensitive companies in the financial services and technology sectors.
the atlanta based coca- cola and u.k. based cadbury schweppes.
not to mention the best  selling soft drink in the world.
always and  every where , we pursue continuous innovation in the products we offer the  processes we use to make them, the package we develop and the way we bring them  to market.
pepsi, meanwhile, had its own flop, crystal pepsi, which was supposed to catch the strange wave of the times when everything colorless was clean and desirable (zima, bottled water).
by the end of the  1920s, bottle sales of coca-cola exceeded fountain sales.
on the distribution front, 10-tonne trucks - open bay three-wheelers that can navigate the narrow alleyways of indian cities - constantly keep our brands available in every nook and corner of the country's remotest areas.
dating back to '93', when pepsi hiked the price of pepsi - cola from rs. 5 to rs. 6 per 250 ml.
and these  bottles were distributed to each person in the world.
in its defense, coke is expected to seek relief in the indian constitution which states that there can be no restriction on the movement of labor.
political and economic changes opened vast markets that were closed or underdeveloped for decades.
for e.g. coke knows that americans see 69 of its commercials every years , put 5.2 ice cubes in a glass and prefer cans to pop out of vending machines at a temperature of 35 degrees.
the light refreshment 1954 - refreshing without filling 1958 - be sociable, have a pepsi 1961 -
on the other side of coin pepsi has introduced amitabh bachhan for capturing the lemon market through mirinda - lemon with "zor ka jhatka dhere se lage".
the coke copy : flexibility is the weapon that coca-cola, fettered as it is by the need for approvals from atlanta for almost everything.
coca cola has entered new markets and also developing market economics (like india) with much-needed jobs.
the companies should conduct studies to get to know about consumer habits.
now this battle has begun  in india too.
thus we see that pepsi has followed aggressive marketing strategies making they get into the minds of the consumer by being visible inside and outside the consumers home by way of television, radio newspapers, hoarding, sales-promotion schemes, etc.
children of all ages and groups are especially attracted by the mere mention of the word soft drinks.
core brands: coca-cola: developed in a brass pot in 1886, coca-cola is the most  recognized and admired trademark around the globe.
the company has shaken up the indian carbonated drinks market greatly, giving consumers the pleasure of world-class drinks to fill up their hydration, refreshment, and nutrition needs.
advertising is a way building brand image.
but to win them, coke is copying pepsi.
pepsi, on the other hand, is promoting itself as something new, young, and hip, which seems a little odd after over 100 years.
the  competitors in a given industry may be making many tactical maneuvers in market  all the time.
tested products included coke, pepsi, 7  up, miranda, fanta, thumps up, limca, and sprite.
it's the cola 2000-2003: "aazadi dil ki" (hindi- meaning "freedom of the heart")(india) 2003: "it's the cola"/"dare for more" (pepsi commercial) 2003-2005: "yeh pyas hai badi" (hindi meaning "this thirst is too much") (india) 2005-2006: "an ice cold pepsi.
sprite: in 1961, a citrus-flavored drink made its u.s debut, using  "sprite boy "as inspiration for its name.
a practical man mohan singh realized that to popularize coca-cola, and make it a best seller it was necessary to "catch them young."
the respondents were asked to compare between pepsico and coca-cola
a point which is worth a mention is that coca- cola gets 80% of its profits for international operations while the same figure for pepsico stands at 6%.
regardless of which soda you like better though, pepsi seems the better value than coke right now.
recently, pepsi has had commercials by bob dole and faith hill, among others.
the atlanta based coca-  cola and u.k. based cadbury schweppes.
retailers were displaying their coke bottles in distinctive racks, also with specially-designed iceboxes to keep coke bottles cold.
the three pioneer bottlers divided the country into territories and sold bottling rights to local entrepreneurs.
in 2006, the cse again found that soda drinks, including both pepsi and coca-cola, had high levels of pesticides in their drinks.
in a candy store in vicksburg, mississippi, brisk sales of the new fountain beverage called coca-cola impressed the store's owner, joseph a. biedenharn.
analysts feel that this strategy may help coke since it has 2 cola brands in comparison to pepsi which has just one.
the effectiveness of this can be questioned.
with launch of  the carbonated organize drink crush, few year ago in banaras ., the first in a  series of a launches , cadbury schweppes beverage india (csbi) has planned:-
coca cola india has positioned thumps up as a beverage associated with adventure because of its strong taste and also making it compete with pepsi as even pepsi is associated with adventure, youth.
oxbridge essays undergraduate services masters services phd services law services llb services gdl services llm services lpc services bptc (bvc) services free essays verify your card sitemap links free essays this project is an extensive research on the marketing strategies of the two cola giants pepsi and coca cola.
coke was back with a bang after its exit in 1977.
consequently, by world standards india's per capita consumption of cold drinks  as going by survey results is rock bottom, less than over neighbors pakistan  & bangladesh, where it is four times as much.
the company trucks supplied coke to even the remotest village.
the cold, crisp taste of coke 1959 - be really refreshed 1960 -
ever since coke's entry in india in 1993, coke made a come back (after quitting in 1977), in october 24 in agra, the city was flooded by trucks, there wheelers, tricycle cards-all with huge red coke-emblazoned umbrellas.
this was true for all the consumers who were interviewed.
the international operations of this segment extend to  the markets of mexico, the uk and canada.
red has been a distinctive color associated with the no.1 soft drink brand ever since.
india has 850 million potential customers, 150 million of whom comprise the middle class, with disposable income to spend on cars, vcrs, and computers.
whatever strategy is followed by one company,  it is copied by the other.
a day 1919 - quality tells the difference 1920 - drink coca-cola with soda 1922 -
this was one big jolt to pepsi.
200 million people worldwide love it.
it's no wondering our brands assumed an iconic status in minds of world's consumers.
pepsi which had some of its early investment tied up in 250ml bottles, went the fountain way.
in 1921, pepsi went bankrupt, but continued to appear on the scene, although not nearly so successfully as coca-cola.
this is very low, even as compared to pakistan and bangladesh.
this would increase revenues of the company.
when we bring refreshment, value, joy and fun to our stakeholders then we  successfully nurture and protect our brand, particularly coca-cola.
major number of people found television advertising to be the most effective.
brand advantage pepsi has become a friend to the youth and has led many youth cultures.
one of the main reasons the stock has outperformed pepsi this year was because it reported a better than expected gain in unit volume in the first quarter.
and then pepsi aired commercials featuring the aggravating little girl (halide eisenberg) with her troubling male voice.
total sample of size of 200 respondents selected on the basic of convenience  was surveyed which include consumers.
in today's highly competitive market place, three players have dominated  the industry; the new york based pepsi company inc.
the major players in the soft drink industry in india are coke and pepsi.
so there is a real crush in the soft drink market.
and in 1950, pepsi offered a larger 26- ounce bottle to court the young american housewife.
the beverages segment primarily markets its pepsi, diet pepsi, mountain dew  and other brands worldwide and 7-up outside the u.s. markets.
thirst knows no season 1922 - thirst can't be denied 1922 - thirst reminds you - drink coca-cola 1923 -
always and every where , we pursue continuous innovation in the products we offer the processes we use to make them, the package we develop and the way we bring them to market.
cola - it will satisfy you 1928
coke and pepsico opposed the move, arguing that lab tests aren't reliable enough to detect minute traces of pesticides in complex drinks.
cadbury schweppes is hoping that crush is going well and well not suffer the same fate as the rs. 175 crore cadbury india's apple drink apella.
it's a great american custom 1949 why take less when pepsi's best?
coca-cola india is among the country's top international investors, having invested more than us$ 1 billion in india in the first decade, and further pledged another us$100 million in 2003 for its operations.
pepsi also tried this but was trapped by a series of competitive price increase and changes in bottle sizes by parle.
in the first three months of last year, pepsi grew by 18 per cent only.
the fixed cost structure in carbonated soft drinks industry, and the intense competition make it very difficult to change or alter the prices.
the group is presently into two of the most profitable and profitable and growing industries namely, beverages and snack foods.
it's clear in looking at the slogans over the years that coke and pepsi have very different targeting strategies.
the total no. of case sold is 140 million of these 77 million cases of cola drinks are sold and 63 million of non-cola drink.
as of 2005, the coca-cola company and pepsico together hold 95% market  share of soft-drink sales in india.
coca-cola begins as a never tonic, but candy merchant joseph a. biedenharn of mississippi was looking for awry to serve refreshing beverages.
one of the reasons for this could be the aggressive marketing strategies for cola drinks by pepsi and coca-cola.
my accountquick links...
frito lay's core products, lay's, kurkure, uncle chipps and cheetos are cooked in rice bran oil to significantly reduce saturated fats and all of its products contain voluntary nutritional labeling on their packets.
in a joint venture with orient spray juice products pepsico also manufactures and distributes fruit juices.
it covers an extensive survey and depicts all graphs, fact and figures of two companies.
pepsico is a world leader in the food chain business.
youngsters over the generations have grown up with pepsi and share an emotional  connect with it, unlike any other cola brand.
gold spot: this orange carbonate soft drink was introduced in the early 1950c, and acquired by the coca-cola company in 1993, its tangy taste has been popular with indian teenagers limca: it is thirst-quenching beverage features a fresh and light lemon-lime taste and lighthearted attitude.
the latter deal bars employees joining its rivals for at least a year.
csbi o wholly  owned subsidiary of the london based $ 6.52billion.
the various suggestions that can be made are as follows: soft drinks retail at prices between rs. 6 and rs. 10.
like pepsi, coke is picking up equity in its bottles to guarantee their  financial support; one side coke is trying to increase its popularity through.
the memorabilia, the jingles, the trivia - all still popular.
a point which is  worth a mention is that coca- cola gets 80% of its profits for international  operations while the same figure for pepsico stands at 6%.
coca-cola employed a host of celebrity singers to promote the product, including connie francis , tom jones, the new beats, nancy sinatra, and the supremes.
sinc118+e the entry of coca-cola into the country the industry is growing at a rate of 20% annually.
others claim that firstly pepsi was banned from import in india, in 1970, for having refused to release the list of its ingredients and in 1993, the ban was lifted, with pepsi arriving on the market shortly afterwards.
it is estimated that this drink is served more than one thousand million times in a day.
there would be 678  bottles or over 42 gallons for each person.
and celebrities continue to be important promoters.
for the purpose of the study, questionnaires were prepared for the consumers.
adults stick to one and they prefer drinks that do not affect their health, like limca.
coke and its product were available in over 2, 50,000 outlets (in contrast with pepsi's 2, 00,000).
to be sure, coke is still the market share leader in soft drinks.
rapid growth the three pioneer bottlers divided the country into territories and sold  bottling rights to local entrepreneurs.
this joint venture marketed and sold lehar pepsi until 1991, when the use of foreign brands was allowed; pepsico bought out its partners and ended the joint venture in 1994.
the largest single selling soft drink brand in india is the ubiquitous'socialiser'at every occasion.
the majority of coke's sales are from its international operations, with just 38 percent of revenue coming from the u.s. last year.
$28 billion turnover $16 billion 32% int.
this followed an urgent request for bottling equipment and  materials from general eisenhower's base in north africa.
besides, any effort by a company to restrict its employees from joining other companies might fall foul of the monopolies and restrictive trade practices act as an unfair trade practice.
this heritage serves the company well today as people seek brands  that honor local identity and the distinctiveness of local markets.
though out the glove these major players have been battling it.
range availability means the availability of all flavors in all sizes.
pepsico gained entry to india in 1988 by creating a joint venture with the punjab government-owned punjab agro industrial corporation (paic) and voltas india limited.
one important thing must be noticed that thumps up is a strong brand in western and southern india, while coca cola is strong in northern and eastern india.
but no doubt' that uk based cadbury is also recognizing its presence.
's was the first multinational to enter india, in the soft drinks sector.
in 1934, he marketed pepsi in a 12-ounce bottle for a nickel.
coke's strategy at that time being able to expand the availability of soft drinks even in rural india.
they should all try to increase the total market along with their individual shares.
coke and pepsi have devised strategies to get rid of middlemen in the distribution network.
but in the cola segment, coke comes a poor third after thumps up and pepsi.
these are expensive when measured against purchasing power.
this elf with silver hair and a big smile was used in 1940s advertising for coca-cola.
you've got a lot to live; pepsi's got a lot to give 1973 join the pepsi people feeling' free 1976 have a pepsi day!
look up, america 1976 - coke adds life 1979 - have a coke and a smile 1982
many of these  war-time plants were later converted to civilian use, permanently enlarging the  bottling system and accelerating the growth of the company's worldwide business.
in the same year, the company took over ownership of the nation's top soft-drink brand and bottling network.
the group has established for itself once of the strongest brands in various segments of its operations.
the pause that refreshes 1930 -
so easy to serve and so inexpensive 1938 - the best friend thirst ever had 1938 - pure sunlight 1938
pepsi charged that while initially these approaches were sporadic, over the last six months it is clear that coca-cola has changed its strategy and has decided to consciously target and approach key employees of pepsi at various locations in india.
some were open only during hot-weather months when  demand was high.
our promise to deliver that quality is the  most important promise we make.
the general bottle size freed has settled at 300 ml.
along the highway to anywhere 1950 - help yourself to refreshment 1951 - good food and coca-cola
the charge: coca-cola has snatched employees, bottlers, and agents, all of whom are bound to pepsi by a contract.
pepsico pepsico is one the largest companies in the u.s. it figures amongst the  largest 15 companies worldwide according to the number of employees hired.
it is also recommended that companies should launch soft drink in small pack 200 ml and 150 ml.
soon were born other non- cola variants of this product like orange & lemon.
coke's red color catches attention easily and also the diet coke which it introduced was taking the cake, as pepsi has not come out with this in india.
few products appears to be more similar than soft drinks, yet the cola wars that mark the competition between coke and pepsi show how even organizations with highly similar product can be differentiated by their business strategies.
post-war growth during the war, 64 bottling plants were set up around the world to supply  the troops.
this kind of growth is the reason for the entry of the two giants of the soft drink industry of the world.
for his efforts, dr. pemberton grossed $ 50 and spent $ 73.96  on advertising, by 1891, atlanta chemist as a g.canler had acquired complete  ownership of the coca-cola business.
one of his nephews already had  urged that coca-cola be bottled, but candler focused on fountain sales.
by the time  world war ii began, coca- cola was being bottled in 44 countries.
the prices of 500 m, 1 litre.
during the war, 64 bottling plants were set up around the world to supply the troops.
the extension of the coca-cola name began in 1982 with the introduction of diet coke (also called coca-cola light in some countries).
it has also been instrumental in giving an exponential growth to the country's job listings.
the snack food division manufactures and distributes and markets chips and other snacks worldwide.
visibility is the presence felt, if any outlet has a particular brand of soft drink say-
so companies should concentrate more on television advertisements.
dr. pemberton's sold 25 gallons of syrup, shipped in bright red wooden  kegs.
it is recommended that company should introduce more and more customer oriented schemes and contexts.
the coke copy: instead of creating a bond with the customers through small but high-impact events, coca-cola chose to associate itself with national and international mega events like the world cup cricket, 1996, and world cup football 1998.
pepsi has definitely leaned towards the appeal of celebrities, popular music, and young people in television commercials, while coke relies more heavily on images of happiness and togetherness, tradition, and nationalism, perpetually trying to cash in on its original lead.
to do this the industry has to take certain steps.
also in the 1990s, cindy crawford and the spice girls pitched pepsi.
when a person is thirsty, he would first think of water or tea.
expect now to hear the boon of cannons when the coca cola & pepsi co. battles it out for, as the jordon goes a bigger share of throat.
but an indian parliamentary committee, in 2004, backed up cse's findings and a government-appointed committee, is now trying to develop the world's first pesticides standards for soft drinks.
but an indian parliamentary committee, in  2004, backed up cse's findings and a government-appointed committee, is now  trying to develop the world's first pesticides standards for soft drinks.
(pepsi's are actually a shade higher.)
this landmark was recalled in christmas versions in 1983 and 1984, and a 1990 super bowl ad, which was enough to make some baby boomers weep with nostalgia.
they said if one of the companies sponsors one event it's sure that the other will definitely go on for the next.
these are  positioned in close competition with coca-cola inc. of usa.
since pepsi's entry into the indian  market in 1989, several brands from its portfolio have become established  category leaders.
coca-cola, the corporation nourishing the global community with the world's largest selling soft drink concentrates since 1886, returned to india in 1993 after a 16 year hiatus, giving new thumbs up to the indian soft drink market.
this move set off a shock wave across america.
pepsi has claimed that a dozen middle-level managers and three territory managers broke their contracts with pepsi to join coke in recent months, while during the last year and half, seven managers quit pepsi to join coca-cola.
coca-cola and pepsi have taken up sponsoring of events on a major scale.
it was this doctor's potion that was to become pepsi cola in 1898, and  eventually, pepsi in 1903.
local brands - lehar evervess soda, dukes lemonade and mangola add to the diverse range of brands.
1,000 crore annually in india of this only about rs.
1950 more bounce to the ounce 1954
all the companies are fighting to get a major share of this growing market.
the company should maintain a small group of "missionary sales man" whose functions should be to guide distributors and retailers, keep a constant watch over the prevailing situation to provide the continuous feedback to the company.
refresh yourself 1924 - pause and refresh yourself
the  foremost is its image.
the limca brand was introduced in  1971 and acquired by the coca-cola company in 1993.
vat registration no: 842417633.
the rest of the conclusions as deducted from the questionnaires are as follows: the younger generation preferred soft drinks to the older generation.
in  colas, pepsi is already market leader and in certain cities like banaras, pepsi  outlets are on one side & all the other colas put together on the other.
by the 1950's colas was a daily consumption item, stored in house  hold fridges.
it was so popular that it was played in jukeboxes and became a hit record coca-cola hit the airwaves in 1941.
just naturally go together 1952 - what you want is a coke 1953 - dependable as sunrise 1954 -
it's a tough tussle and is really difficult to demarcate today.
its strong and fizzy taste makes it unique  carbonated indian cola.
when we bring refreshment, value, joy and fun to our stakeholders then we successfully nurture and protect our brand, particularly coca-cola.
consolidation to serve customers as technology led to a global economy, the retailers who sold coca-cola  merged and evolved into international mega-chains.
the 1980s brought diet coke and cherry coke, followed by powerade and dasani in  the 1990s.
with the growing popularity of soft drinks, the technology of its  production, preservation, transportation and or marketing in the recent years  has witnessed phenomenal changes.
new and growing markets political and economic changes opened vast markets that were closed or  underdeveloped for decades.
availability is a major factor, which makes the consumer buy a soft drink.
sample of to brands were selected on the basis of there uses and noticeciability.
one of the world's largest signs for coca-cola is located on a hill called  "elhacha" in america, chile.
the only route open to him for achieving this is the manipulation of his marketing tactics.
apparently they didn't expect us to because later they gave us pepsi one, using the same concept, but a completely different taste.
the only thing like coca-cola is coca-cola itself.
the second time round it was the consumers choice himself and not strategy could affect that.
gone are days of ramesh  chauhan, india's one time cola king and his bouts of pistol shooting.
and as the century closed, more than $1.5 billion was committed to new bottling facilities in africa.
now, at present as there are three major players coke, pepsi and cadbury  and there is stiff competition between first two, both pepsi and coke have  started, sponsoring local events and staging frequent consumer promotion  campaigns.
as the 1920s dawned, more than 1,000 coca-cola bottlers were operating in the u.s. their ideas and zeal fueled steady growth.
we can see that by the brilliant advertising done by pepsi, which can be seen on every hook and corner of metro cities consumers, so prefer pepsi advertisements and other activities of pepsi, to that of coca- cola.
however coca-cola wants to accomplish this feat by them.
the limca brand was introduced in 1971 and acquired by the coca-cola company in 1993.
it also includes various stands to display pepsi and other flavors of the company.
1932 sparkling, delicious 1933 it's the best cola drink 1934 double size 1938 join the swing to pepsi 1939 twice as much for a nickel 1943 bigger drink, better taste 1947
these tempt a person into buying the soft drink.
brands in india brand in indian origin gold spot: this orange carbonate soft drink was introduced in the  early 1950c, and acquired by the coca-cola company in 1993, its tangy taste has  been popular with indian teenagers limca: it is thirst-quenching beverage features a fresh and light  lemon-lime taste and lighthearted attitude.
there is a rapid increase in the sale of cola soft drinks.
just for the free of it (caffeine free coke) 1985 -
example-300 ml plastic bottles, which the consumer can take with him, unlike the glass bottles, which he has to return.
something more than a soft drink 1966 - coke . . .
after the fall of the berlin wall, the company  invested heavily to build plants in eastern europe.
thus to increase the total market of soft drinks, manufactures should try and decrease the prices, so as to increase sales.
the coca-cola company and pepsico angrily denied allegations that their products manufactured in india contained toxin levels far above the norms permitted in the developed world.
the indian consumer the real war to quench his thirst has just begun.
they tried different drinks, cola and non-cola.
the light refreshment 1958 be sociable, have a pepsi 1961
another point which attributed to pepsi's success is the bottling operations.
now this battle has been evolved up to india too with the arrival of these three giants.
such customers required a new approach.
(coke and pepsi both have their own brands of water, dasani and aquafina, respectively.)
innovations increase sales of company.
it covers some of the major strategies adopted by pepsi and coca-cola like their pricing policy, sales promotion and advertising policy, distribution policy etc.
the indian soft drinks market is at 140 million cases per year.
a fortune 500 company in india pepsico, which ranks among the world's five largest food and beverage  companies with 16 brands, and its partners have invested more than us$ 700  million in india - building businesses, which today provide direct or indirect  employment to more than 60,000 people.
however, justice nayar refused to grant the ex parte injunction sought by pepsi india to stop the alleged inducements by coke in offering employment to pepsi's employees while the suit was pending in court.
young adults liked pepsi.
the may introduce or initiate an aggressive promotion campaign or  announce a price reduction.
najibabad took the complete possession of this plant, land, machinery, & intellectuals on february 14' 1998 and since then h.c.c, looking after all its affairs under company owned bottling plant to establish integrated marketing system in the area.
of employees 140 13 no.
red has been a distinctive color associated with the no.1 soft drink  brand ever since.
for e.g.: but in fact cola drinks contain no calories from fat they contain calories from sugar which can be easily burned off.
according to one study, it takes indian 50 minutes of work to be able to buy a bottle in other countries, the norm is five minutes.
1932 - sparkling, delicious 1934 - refreshing and healthful 1939 -
they have a cut throat  competition between themselves.
fountain mix dispensers, carry home bottles, even 1.50 plastic bottle with caps good enough to keep them lying down and still preserve the fizz.
to obtain the license for india, pepsi had to export $5 of locally made products for every $1 of materials it imported, and it had to agree to help the indian government to initiate a second agricultural revolution.
by 1909, nearly 400 coca-cola bottling plants were operating, most of them  family-owned businesses.
the outer shape features the  coca-cola logo and contour bottle, while the inner sphere portrays a comic  scene with twinkling planets and stars.
india, now left without both coca-cola and pepsi, became a protected market.
coke was had a better distribution network, owing to the wide network of parle drinks all over india.
beverages pepsico india's expansive portfolio includes iconic refreshment beverages  pepsi, 7 up, nimbooz, miranda and mountain dew, in addition to low calorie  options such as diet.
coke is touting itself as the original, the authentic, and appealing to a sense of tradition, positioning itself as an integral part of daily american life.
comparing pepsico and coca-cola [i] ltd, 55% of the respondents replied that it was undoubtedly pepsico.
99% of the consumers interviewed felt that the marketing strategies of the coca-cola and pepsi have helped them in attaining the huge market share that they possess.
relax with coke 1961 - coke and food - refreshing new feeling 1962 - coca-cola refreshes you best 1963 - things go better with coke 1965 -
pepsico has also been accused by the puthussery panchayat in the palakkad district in kerala, india, of practicing "water piracy" due to its role in exploitation of ground water resources resulting in scarcity of drinking water for the panchayat residents, who have been pressuring the government to close down the pepsico unit in the village.
pepsi has been voted the number one customer service company across categories in terms of regularity, availability responsiveness and initiative.
and it involves a world-wide, yet distinctively local, network of bottling partner, supplier, distributor and retailers whose success is paramount to our own.
pepsico and coca cola (i) ltd. should reduce their massive spending on sponsoring events and try and channel this money into more productive activities, like innovative packaging etc.
in the 1960's, the cola ad wars moved to television.
thus retailing outlets should be increased.
the largest single selling soft drink brand in india is the  ubiquitous'socialiser'at every occasion.
an overview it all began in 1886, when a tree legged brass kettle in hohn styth  pemberton's backyard in atlanta was brewing the first p of marketing legeent  unaware the pharmacist has given birth to a caramel colored syrup, which is now  the chief ingredient of the world's favorite drink.
pepsico has also been accused by the  puthussery panchayat in the palakkad district in kerala, india, of practicing  "water piracy" due to its role in exploitation of ground water  resources resulting in scarcity of drinking water for the panchayat residents,  who have been pressuring the government to close down the pepsico unit in the  village.
the syrup combined with  carbonated the soft drink market.
bottlers of the 2 multinationals have strongly felt the need to remove these middlemen from the distribution system, but very little success has been achieved in doing so.
the soft drink must be shown off properly and attractively so as to catch the attention of the consumer immediately pepsi achieves visibility by providing glow signboards, hoarding, calendars etc. to the outlets.
home essays marketing competitive analysis  between coke and pepsi competitive analysis between coke and pepsi executive summary
coke is trading at 7 time's estimated 2002 sales while pepsi is trading at 3.5 times 2002 revenue estimates.
the coca-cola company and pepsico angrily denied allegations that their  products manufactured in india contained toxin levels far above the norms  permitted in the developed world.
but no doubt' that uk based cadbury is also recognizing  its presence.
as the mega event of this century has started, and the marketers are  using this event - world cup football, cricket events and many more other  events.
if all the coca-cola ever produced were in 8 - ounce bottles, placed side  by side and end to end to from a lane highway, it would wrap around the earth  82 times.
both companies are expected to post slight declines in sales this year and an increase of about 4 percent in 2003.
not only are they successful on the beverage side but they are successful with salty snack foods," says crit thomas, director of growth equity for national city investment management co., the sub advisor for armada funds.
it added that coca-cola had approached many key managers and had successfully lured a commercial manager of its bottling business gaurav duggal, and a manager in surat sailesh joshi, besides others.
the coca-cola bottling system grew up with roots deeply planted in local communities.
the soft drink cans and plastic bottles should mention the calories and other related information on the packing.
coca-cola is, finally, redoing the real thing to the replicate the success that it's arch-rival, pepsico.
he first distributed the new product by carrying coca-cola in a jug coin enjoys in a glass of coca-cola at the soda fountain.
through the globe, these major players have been battling it out for a  bigger chunk of the ever-growing soft drink market.
they gave much importance to the distributive network.
it is 400 feet wide and 131 feet high  and is made from 70,000, 26 ounce bottles.
in 1894, this beverage got into bottle, courtesy a candy merchant from mississippi.
ever since, coca-cola india has made significant investments to build and continually consolidate its business in the country, including new production facilities, waste water treatment plants, distribution systems, and marketing channels.
in 1894, this beverage got into bottle, courtesy a candy merchant from  mississippi.
however, 50% of the industry unfortunately depends on these middlemen.
there was no indication of the product.
to promote a brand and even to spend a lot on advertising, the company must be aware of the perceived quality of the brand, its brand power (if at all there is) since consumers make purchase decision based on their perceptions of value i.e., of quality relative to price.
drink only coca cola.
by 1909, nearly 400 coca-cola bottling plants were operating, most of them family-owned businesses.
cse  said it had tested the same products in the us and found no such residues.
robinson, his partner and book keeper.
hence, it had ready access to over 2, 00,000 retailer outlets and 60 bottlers.
on the other side of coin pepsi has introduced amitabh bachhan for  capturing the lemon market through mirinda - lemon with "zor ka jhatka  dhere se lage".
it must be remembered that soft drinks purchases are an "impulse buy low involvement products" which makes promotion and advertising an important marketing tool.
no law bans the presence of pesticides in drinks in india.
cola 1919 pepsi: cola - it makes you scintillate 1920 drink pepsi:
to support its operations, pepsico has 42 bottling plants in india, of which 13 are company owned and 29 are franchisee owned.
for a number of days, the hindustan times and other newspapers of new banaras carried full page advertisement showing a big boy in uniform with a soft-drink crown as the cap.
has achieved with its fast and furious marketing.
twice as much for a nickel too 1943 - bigger drink, better taste 1949 - why take less when pepsi's best?
but coke came up with what is arguably the best of all cola commercials, the 1971 i'd like to buy the world coke ad.
pepsico's commitment to living by this vision every day is visible in its contribution to the country, consumers and farmers.
while coke executive scruff at pepsi's claims as well as targets, industry observers are of the view that pepsi has definitely stolen a march over its competitor coke.
instead of harping on its global lineage, ergo, it tries to plug into ethnic festivals, use the vernacular indifferent part of the country, and blend into the local fabric.
in a simplified sense, you could sum up the strategies as coke: old, pepsi: new.
now it's pepsi for those who think young 1963 come alive!
out for a bigger chunk of the ever-growing cold drink market.
out for a  bigger chunk of the ever-growing cold drink market.
by buying over local competition, the two american cola giants have cleared up the arena and are packing all their power behind building the indian franchisee of their globe girdling brands.
50% of the respondents replied in favor of pci while 30% responded in favor of cci.
both players seen an enormous potential in his country where swigging a  carbonated beverage is still considered a treat, virtually a luxury.
it  manufactures lay's potato chips; cheetos extruded snacks, uncle chips and  traditional snacks under the kurkure and lehar brands.
in the 1980's, pepsi lined up the celebrities, starting with late michael jackson, then madonna, michael j. fox, billy crystal, lionel ritchie, gloria stefan, joe montana, and others.
pepsi has also had to take on indian partners.
the advertisement that came in second was the coca-cola advertisement of the people cricket and the song must-kalander going on at the back.
coke 56% pepsi 35% pure drinks 9% in a survey done by a & m magazines on the best marketing companies in india.
in response, many small and medium-size bottlers consolidated to  better serve giant international customers.
whether by design or accident, carbonated water was teamed with the new syrup, producing a drink that was proclaimed "delicious and refreshing".
(thumps up being the local drink, its share in the market is intact, forcing the company to service the brand, as it did last year mr. donald short ceo, coca cola india, said that, " we will be absolutely comfortable if thumps up is no. 1 brand for us in india in the year 2000.
hindi - meaning "this is the young era my dear" (india and pakistan) 2008: "pepsi stuff" super bowl commercial 2008: "pepsi is #1" tv commercial 2008: "pepsify karo gai!"
it is not just a pack but a style statement for today's youth.
in a joint venture with  orient spray juice products pepsico also manufactures and distributes fruit  juices.
najibabad took the complete  possession of this plant, land, machinery, & intellectuals on february 14'  1998 and since then h.c.c, looking after all its affairs under company owned  bottling plant to establish integrated marketing system in the area.
also cola sales are growing at a faster rate than non-colas.
whenever you hear "have a coke," you hear the voice of america 1947 -
local brands - lehar  evervess soda, dukes lemonade and mangola add to the diverse range of brands.
these, advertisement remained most in the minds of the people.
1984 - pepsi, the choice of a new generation 1992 - gotta have it 1993 -
their efforts were boosted by major progress in bottling technology, which improved efficiency and product quality.
you're in the pepsi generation 1967 - taste that beats the others cold 1967 - pepsi pours it on 1969 -
he purchases it from the dr.pemberton family for $ 2300.
both pepsico and the  coca-cola company maintain that their drinks are safe for consumption and have  published newspaper advertisements that say pesticide levels in their products  are less than those in other foods such as tea, fruit and dairy products.
thumps up: in 1993, the coca-cola company acquired this brand, which  was originally introduced in 1977.
coke is trading at a nearly 20 percent premium to pepsi based on 2002 p/es even though the two companies' earnings growth rates are nearly identical.
he responded to this demand began offering bottle
six-bottle cartons were a  huge hit after their 1923 introduction.
the coca-cola company exists to benefits and refreshes every one it  touches.
they supported their statement with reasoning, saying so that pepsico was first to associate with india's 50 years of independence.
coca-cola was invented and first marketed in 1886, followed by pepsi in 1898.
companies must take the initiative of finding out the habits of the consumers and then changing them, in their favor.
- anytime is the right time to pause and refresh 1939 - coca-cola goes along 1939 - make lunch time refreshment time 1939 - makes travel more pleasant 1939 -
in any marketing situation, the behavioral / environmental variables  relating to consumers, competition and environment are constantly influx.
cse found that the  indian-produced pepsi's soft drink products had 36 times the level of pesticide  residues permitted under european union regulations; coca cola's 30 times.
this followed an urgent request for bottling equipment and materials from general eisenhower's base in north africa.
caleb brad man, the man with a plan, got  on to formulate a blockbuster digestive drink and decided to call it brad's  drink.
prudential does not do investment banking.
availability range availability availability means the presence of a particular brand at any outlet.
pepsi has reported a growth of 27 per cent compared to coke's 21 per cent during the same period.
the rest is all earned by the soft drinks.
it launched the 500 ml bottle in 1994 at rs. 8 versus thumps up's rs. 9, in april, 1996, its 1.5 liters bottle followed coke into the marketplace at rs. 30 - rs 5 less than coke's .but
they deserve the highest quality - every time.
pepsico, which ranks among the world's five largest food and beverage companies with 16 brands, and its partners have invested more than us$ 700 million in india - building businesses, which today provide direct or indirect employment to more than 60,000 people.
the company has alleged that in most cases, the employees have not been given time to adhere to the 90-day notice period and the one-year confidentiality agreement.
for many years, coca-cola had the cola market cornered.
this joint venture marketed and sold lehar pepsi until 1991,  when the use of foreign brands was allowed; pepsico bought out its partners and  ended the joint venture in 1994.
in  the indian state of kerala, sale and production of pepsi-cola, along with other  soft drinks, was banned by the state government in 2006, but this was reversed  by the kerala high court merely a month later.
india is now the part of cold drink war.
"every generation refreshes the world" the ongoing cola war between global rivals pepsi and coca-cola has taken a weird twist in india with the former dragging the latter to court.
30 crore annually is credited to the foods section of pepsi.
this is the last but not the least factor, which affects the sale of the  products of a particular company.
the 1980s brought diet coke and cherry coke, followed by powerade and dasani in the 1990s.
coke is also trying to make their brand synchronize with localized events traditions and festivals.
in this way coke is copy pepsi.
apart from numbers, pepsi has made qualitative gains.
sample of to brands were selected on the basis of there uses and  noticeciability.
of fountain 1500 n.a. total investment rs 125 cr 6 new plants planned n.a.
the drink everybody knows 1939 - thirst stops here 1940 - bring in your thirst and go away without it 1941 - completely refreshing
in response, many small and medium-size bottlers consolidated to better serve giant international customers.
to punish coca-cola's principal bottler, a congress party stalwart and longtime gandhi supporter, the janata government demanded that coca-cola transfer its syrup formula to an indian subsidiary.
the project has been made interesting with the inclusion of the topics, which covers the 4p's of marketing.
as the mega event of this century has started, and the marketers are using this event - world cup football, cricket events and many more other events.
mr. pibb and mello yello was added in the 1970s.
now, it plans to convert then into cobos.
the restaurant segment earlier primarily consists of the operations of the worldwide pizza hut, taco bell and kfc chains.
pepsi has also reserved the right to seek financial damages from coke at a later date if necessary.
name bottle size mrp (in rs.)
children preferred coca-cola fanta, mirinda orange.
the older generation preferred coca-cola, limca & mirinda lemon.
coke was launched in india in agra, october 24, in '93', soon after its traditional all indian launch of its cola.
our investment in local communities in over  200 countries totals billions of dollars in jobs, facilities, marketing, the  purchase of local good and services, and local business partnership.
also related to this point, is vending machines.
copyright  oxbridge writers is a brand of all answers ltd. company registration no: 4964706.
new brands introduced following fanta in the 1950s, sprite, minute maid, fresca and tab joined  brand coca-cola in the 1960s.
the soft drink must be shown off properly and  attractively so as to catch the attention of the consumer immediately pepsi  achieves visibility by providing glow signboards, hoarding, calendars etc. to  the outlets.
in 1909, pepsi used its first celebrity endorser, automobile race driver barney old-field, in newspaper ads.
coke  and pepsico opposed the move, arguing that lab tests aren't reliable enough to  detect minute traces of pesticides in complex drinks.
a welcome addition to any party - anytime - anywhere 1914 - exhilarating, refreshing 1914 - demand the genuine by full name 1914 - pure and wholesome 1916 -
bottle fountain pepsi, and bottles of 1 and 2 litre.
it is expected that with the sort of mass advertising, reaching almost the entire country and offering various varieties annual demand for the product is expected to rise sharply in the times to come.
the brand, which is available chilled, gets more sales then the one which is not, even if it is more preferred one.
the name was then revived in 1955 in naples,  italy, when it was used for the:" fanta "orange drink we know today.
brand facts pepsico nourishes consumers with a range of products from tasty treats to  healthy eats that deliver enjoyment, nutrition, convenience as well as  affordability the group has built an expansive beverage and foods business.
a modest start for a bold idea in a candy store in vicksburg, mississippi, brisk sales of the new fountain  beverage called coca-cola impressed the store's owner, joseph a. biedenharn.
structure questionnaire was use to collect primary data
pepsico nourishes consumers with a range of products from tasty treats to healthy eats that deliver enjoyment, nutrition, convenience as well as affordability
the company realized that to become a mass consumption product, one has to go to the village.
maximum retail price of 300 ml bottles is controlled by the central government.
the main advantage the pepsi has over its nearest competitor i.e., coca-cola is that of it
in 1985, responding to the pressure of the pepsi challenge taste tests, which pepsi always won, coca-cola decided to change its formula.
can 38 however, the trends may have been in the early '90's, now the prices of pepsi and coke are the same making it difficult in future and present to compete on the basis of price.
biedenharn sent a case to asa griggs candler, who owned the company.
this heritage serves the company well today as people seek brands that honor local identity and the distinctiveness of local markets.
mass media, particularly the  emergence of television, has contribute to a large extent of the ever growing  demand for soft drinks the attractive jingles and sport make the large audience  remember this product at all times.
in addition to this, pepsico's  frito lay division has 3 state-of-the-art plants.
the company encouraged and invested  in a number of bottler consolidations to assure that its largest bottling  partners would have capacity to lead the system in working with global  retailers.
after a few days, coke was introduced.
the results were as follows: pepsi - 5h coca-cola - 4h the results of 95 were: pepsi - 7th coca-cola - 9h this shows that both the companies are paying more attention to the marketing of their products.
coke bottle is available for rs. 6 to8
it's the real thing 1943 - a taste all its own 1943 -
sponsoring events, outdoor advertising and sales promotion schemes were second choice of the consumers.
two young attorneys from chattanooga, tennessee believed they could build a business around bottling coca-cola.
the other size and packs are priced keeping factors like competition, internal costs, external costs, and the corporate objective of the company in the mind.
it  has a u.s. fortune rank of 50.the company profits for 1997 were $2.14 billion  on revenues of $20.92 billion and pepsi is bottled in nearly 190 countries.
coke attributes its success to bottlers, the coca cola system itself, i.e., its executive committees, employees, bod, company presidents but above all from the consumer.
thus sales promotion tools such as coupons, contests, premiums and the like should be used to dramatize product offers and to boost sales.
now it's pepsi, for those who think young 1963 - come alive!
some even would prefer 'nimbooz " the indian population is the largest in the world today, there can be no other country in the world, which provides so much of an opportunity for the soft-drink manufacturers.
there are only 300, 000 retailers stocking soft drinks in india.
the joy of cola 2000 the joy of pepsi 2003 pepsi.
then comes battles over the issue of bottle size standardization.
the first magazine ad for coca-cola appeared in munsey's in 1902.
he  began bottling coca-cola to sell, using a common glass bottle called a  hutchinson.
to that end, shares of pepsi and coke fell slightly on wednesday during the cisco-induced market rally.
brad's drink 1903 exhilarating, invigorating, aids digestion 1906 original pure food drink 1908 delicious and healthful 1915 for all thirsts - pepsi: cola 1919 pepsi: cola - it makes you scintillate 1920 drink pepsi:
cse found that the indian-produced pepsi's soft drink products had 36 times the level of pesticide residues permitted under european union regulations; coca cola's 30 times.
every manager and salesperson has the authority to take whatever steps he, or she, feels will make consumers aware of the brand and increase its consumption.
17% of the respondents thought that both were equally good and it varied with time, place and occasions.
its strong and fizzy taste makes it unique carbonated indian cola.
in addition to this, pepsico's frito lay division has 3 state-of-the-art plants.
in 1931, pepsi went bankrupt again, but the new owner, roy megargel, would hit upon an idea that would finally give coca- cola some competition.
the foremost is its image.
pepsi has listed the case of coke trying to induce its music consultant dna networks private ltd, which organized the yanni show, to snap its ties with pepsi and join coke.
youngistan loves it.
frito lay's core products, lay's,  kurkure, uncle chipps and cheetos are cooked in rice bran oil to significantly  reduce saturated fats and all of its products contain voluntary nutritional  labeling on their packets.
shah rukh khan, sachin tendulkar, saif ali khan, amitabh bachchan,  kareena kapoor, priyanka chopra, virender sehwag, m. s. dhoni, john abraham,  ranbir kapoor and deepika padukone are a few celebrities who will go any length  for a chilled pepsi.
soft drinks in various flavors and tastes are widely patronized by urbane population at various occasions like dinner parties, marriages, social get together, birthday calibration etc.
frito-lay represents this segment of pepsico.
this is straining the relationship between the coke and its bottlers.
take a journey through our past and see the key milestones that define pepsico.
the impact of coke and pepsi on popular culture is indisputable, and i have observed in my time managing this web site that america has not become jaded about the cola wars.
further, coke's operations in india are 100% fobs.
pepsi has always targeted the youth market more aggressively than coke.
one of the selected brands is no1 brand in their respective  product categories the other one brand is close competitor of the no 1 brands.
but what has  made pepsi the single largest selling soft drink brand in india is actually a  formula concocted a century ago in a far away continent.
for people on the go 1955 - america's preferred taste 1956 - coca-cola - making good things taste better 1956 - feel the difference 1957 - sign of a good taste 1958 -
the great national temperance 1907 - delicious coca-cola, sustains, refreshes, invigorates 1907 - cooling . . .
some were open only during hot-weather months when demand was high.
a pure drink of natural flavors 1929 -
the indian soft drink market is at 140 million cases per year, this is very low.
1950 - more bounce to the ounce 1950 -
the 2 arch rivals have spent a lot on advertising and on promotional activities.
many of these war-time plants were later converted to civilian use, permanently enlarging the bottling system and accelerating the growth of the company's worldwide business.
that apart, a network of 21 contract packers manufactures a range of products for the company.
we will sell whatever consumers want us to".
at this time, coca-cola and pepsi were served in drugstore soda fountains.
six-bottle cartons were a huge hit after their 1923 introduction.
children of all ages and groups are especially attracted by the mere mention of  the word soft drinks.
the pepsi challenge is still being conducted today.
the international operations of this segment extend to the markets of mexico, the uk and canada.
in today's highly competitive market place, three players have dominated the industry; the new york based pepsi company inc.
bill cosby was the pitchman.
pepsico is a world leader in convenient snacks, foods and beverages with  revenues of more than $43 billion and over 198,000 employees.
dr. pemberton's partner and bookkeeper, mr. frank robinson, suggested the  name and penned as "coca-cola" in the unique flowing script that is  still famous worldwide today.
in the new century, both colas continue to battle it out on the television screen.
and it involves a world-wide, yet distinctively  local, network of bottling partner, supplier, distributor and retailers whose  success is paramount to our own.
total sample of size of 200 respondents selected on the basic of convenience was surveyed which include consumers.
cse said it had tested the same products in the us and found no such residues.
some analysts reason that the indian market may be more lucrative than the chinese market.
women and children prefer cans as compared to men.
companies should try to build high brand equity.
with in 4 year his  merchandising flair helped to expand the consumption of coca-cola to over $25  million.
it has also been instrumental in giving an  exponential growth to the country's job listings.
the coca-cola bottling system grew up with roots deeply planted in local  communities.
behind the hype, in an effort invisible to consumer pepsi pumps in rs 3000 crores (1994) to add muscle to its infrastructure in bottling and distribution.
pepsico is one the largest companies in the u.s. it figures amongst the largest 15 companies worldwide according to the number of employees hired.
the beverages segment primarily markets its pepsi, diet pepsi, mountain dew and other brands worldwide and 7-up outside the u.s. markets.
the refreshing thing to do 1937 - america's favorite moment 1937 -
the world's largest spherical coca-cola sign is in nagoya, japan a top the  dial - nagoya building in front of the nagoya railway station.
the pepsi process: once of the strongest weapons in pepsi's armory is the flexibility it has empowered its people with.
coca-cola india is among the country's top international investors, having  invested more than us$ 1 billion in india in the first decade, and further  pledged another us$100 million in 2003 for its operations.
that extra something 1944 - how about a coke 1945 - passport to refreshment 1945 -
pepsi is higher up on the scale than coca-cola.
this project is an extensive research on the marketing strategies of the  two cola giants pepsi and coca cola.
in 2006, the cse again found that soda drinks, including both pepsi and  coca-cola, had high levels of pesticides in their drinks.
the  group has established for itself once of the strongest brands in various  segments of its operations.
where there's coke, there's hospitality 1949 - coca-cola . . .
a packaged goods company comprised of pepsi-cola company and frito-lay will continue to bear the pepsico name.
mr. short also realized that india is a price sensitive market and the company would have to absorb in the increase in excise duty and said that in the long run coke will have to slash prices for the benefit of the consumers and said that they were considering a cut in the prices of their fountain soft drinks.
coke knows no season 1947 - serving coca-cola serves hospitality 1948 -
cadbury schweppes is hoping  that crush is going well and well not suffer the same fate as the rs. 175 crore  cadbury india's apple drink apella.
the choice of a new generation 1987 america's choice 1989 a generation ahead 1992 gotta have it 1993 be young, have fun, drink pepsi 1995
if this rate is maintained, then by the year 2005 the market of soft drink would be 1 billion cases annually.
for e.g. pepsi's new campaign "pepsi cool mal" in which they are giving free gifts to their customers.
for the first time, a soft-drink was available from one corner of the country to another.
it does not promote quick selling.
the first bottling agreement two young attorneys from chattanooga, tennessee believed they could build a  business around bottling coca-cola.
the pepsi process: despite being a global brand, pepsi has built its success on meeting the indian consumer's needs, particularly in terms of making the brand synchronize with localized events and traditions.
the indian operations comprises of 50 bottling operations, 25 owned by the  company, with another 25 being owned by franchisees.
no, not if it goes back into a recession.
one of the selected brands is no1 brand in their respective product categories the other one brand is close competitor of the no 1 brands.
it has  scores of big brands available in nearly 150 countries across the globe.
mass media, particularly the emergence of television, has contribute to a large extent of the ever growing demand for soft drinks the attractive jingles and sport make the large audience remember this product at all times.
with virtually all the goods and services required to produce and market coca-cola being made in india, the business system of the company directly employs approximately 6,000 people, and indirectly creates employment for more than 125,000 people in related industries through its vast procurement, supply, and distribution system.
coke has a greater advantage in terms of geographical coverage.
the conclusions that one can draw from these answers provided by the consumers showed that marketing activities do form a major part of the decision.
1100 crore markets with 10% market share and cola heaving 50% is followed by lemon segment with 25%.
pepsico's business is based  on its sustainability vision of making tomorrow better than today.
pepsico's portfolio of beverage brands in india includes the flagship cola brand pepsi; diet pepsi; two flavors of mirinda - orange and lemon; 7up; mountain dew; packaged drinking water - aquafina; variants of the fruit drink brand slice; the 100 per cent fruit juice brand tropicana in several variants and the world's leading sports drink gatorade.
fanta: the name "fanta " was first registered as a trademark in germany in 1941, when it was used for a few year for a soft drink created from available materials and flavors .
we've got a taste for you (new coke) 1985 - america's real choice (coca-cola classic) 1986 - catch the wave (new coke)
one potential risk for both pepsi and coke is the economy.
1100  crore markets with 10% market share and cola heaving 50% is followed by lemon  segment with 25%.
the company's high fiber breakfast cereal, quaker oats, and low fat and roasted snack options enhance the healthful choices available to consumers.
the company ventured into restaurant business with taco bell, kfc, pizza  hut ended last year when they were spanned off from the company.
under television advertising, pepsi came in as the number 1 favorite of the people the advertisement of shah-rukh khan and the dog was the favorite of the consumers.
by buying over local  competition, the two american cola giants have cleared up the arena and are  packing all their power behind building the indian franchisee of their globe  girdling brands.
and last month, coke entered into an agreement with group danone to distribute evian bottled water in north america.
"every generation refreshes the world" coca-cola comes to india with fanfare in the fifties.
the first out door paint sign advertising coca-cola still exists.
it poured in vast sums to whip up its visibility at the retail level, so that consumers were greeted virtually at every street corner by pepsi's blue, red and white colors, because they have perception "the thing on display sells more."
it sponsors mega events like different cricket tournaments, olympic games, world cup football etc.19% of the respondents came up with a more balanced answer.
plastic bottles can even be used again by households for various purposes.
quick facts pepsico established it's business operations in india in 1989 invested more than usd 1 billion since inception well known and loved global brands that delight and nourish consumers it provides direct and indirect employment to 150,000 people in india it has more than 42 bottling plants in india, of which 13 are company  owned & 29 franchisee owned 3 state-of-the-art food plants in punjab, maharashtra and west bengal pepsi co india:
robert w. woodruff become the president of the coca-cola company in  1923 and his more than six decades of leadership took the business of  commercial success making coca-cola an institution the world over.
eat food, enjoy food.
structure  questionnaire was use to collect primary data introduction: in the modern urban culture consumption of soft drinks particularly among  younger generation has become very popular.
pepsi company's restaurant  distribution operation, supplies company owned and franchise restaurants in the  u.s.
maaza: maaza, launched in 1984 and acquired by the coca-cola company in 1993, is a non carbonated mango soft drink with a rich, juice & natural mango taste.
both pepsico and the coca-cola company maintain that their drinks are safe for consumption and have published newspaper advertisements that say pesticide levels in their products are less than those in other foods such as tea, fruit and dairy products.
15 before raising it to rs. 18.
fountains have considerably increased sales of pepsi, as they have offered consumers a whole new way to experience soft drink.
sprite is now the  fastest growing major soft drink in u.s and the world's most popular lemon-lime  soft drink.
it soon became the national drink.
he responded to this demand  began offering bottle
the basic proposition of our business is simple, solid and timeless.
the marketing man of the firm has to meet all these  maneuver and care of competitive position of his firm and his brand in the  market.
the various costs incurred by the individual company's are almost unavoidable.
if the companies know all this and more about indian consumer behavior, it could tell them how to sell their drinks, so as to increase sales.
the so-called competition for this product in  the market is from different other brands.
coke was planning to launch in next summer the orange drink, fanta-with the clear lemon drink, sprite, following later in the year.
companies should try to educate the consumer about the health related subject.
as of now, around 100 agents are present in bananas.
if all the coca-cola ever produced were flowing over niagara fall at its  normal rate of 105 million gallons per second instead of water, the falls would  flow for about a day and a half 38 hours and 46 minutes.
the indian middle class is growing at 10% per year.
pepsi and coca-cola are so busy fighting with each other, that they have left the non-cola sector open for cadbury-schweppes.
through the globe, these major players have been battling it out for a bigger chunk of the ever-growing soft drink market.
coke penetrated the market with price of rs. 5 for a 300 ml.
both players seen an enormous potential in his country where swigging a carbonated beverage is still considered a treat, virtually a luxury.
care was taken to interview all types of consumers, i.e.: in all about 60 consumers were interviewed.
as orange drinks are the smallest of non-cola categories that is rs.
soft drink cans which are very convenient, as the consumer can take them anywhere, unlike a bottle, are very expensive retailing from rs.
for e.g. coca-cola clothes have sold about $100 million worth of clothes and accessories.
the indian operations comprises of 50 bottling operations, 25 owned by the company, with another 25 being owned by franchisees.
a few years later, open-top metal coolers became the forerunners of automated vending machines.
the world third largest soft drink marketers all over the country.
the person who brought coca- cola to india was the father of late sardar charanjit singh, sardar mohan singh.
just one glass will tell you 1917 - three million
it is expected that with the sort of mass advertising, reaching almost the  entire country and offering various varieties annual demand for the product is  expected to rise sharply in the times to come.
maaza: maaza, launched in 1984 and acquired by the coca-cola company  in 1993, is a non carbonated mango soft drink with a rich, juice & natural  mango taste.
the number one factors the influences a customer while buying a soft-drink was taste.
and the company has taken steps to cement its carbonated beverage lead as well gain ground in the bottled water market.
coca-cola india chief executive donald short had announced that coke would grow by at least 20 per cent for the whole of 1998.
the coke copy: initially, coke carbon-copied the strategy by introducing its 330ml cans in january 1996, at an invitation price of rs.
what refreshment ought to be 1936 -
the current summer season is the most important for the cola giants, with consumption at its peak.
data was collected from secondary as well as primary sources.
coca-cola india limited (ccil) has bottled its cola drink in different sizes and different packaging i.e., 200 ml bottle, 300 ml.
pepsi, cricket and bollywood have been joined at the hip since the  beginning.
the project has been made interesting with the inclusion of the  topics, which covers the 4p's of marketing.
be young, have fun, drink pepsi1995
be it parties, hangouts, or just  another day at home, a day is never complete without the fizz of pepsi!
foods pepsico's food division, frito-lay, is the leader in the branded salty  snack market and all frito lay products are free of trans-fat and msg.
thus we see that there various steps which can be taken by the companies to increase their sales and to increase the total market share.
more then a billion times every day, thirsty people around the world reach  for coca-cola products for refreshment.
coca-cola controlled the indian market until 1977, when the janata party beat the congress party of then prime minister indira gandhi.
the company encouraged and invested in a number of bottler consolidations to assure that its largest bottling partners would have capacity to lead the system in working with global retailers.
no law  bans the presence of pesticides in drinks in india.
it all began in 1886, when a tree legged brass kettle in hohn styth pemberton's backyard in atlanta was brewing the first p of marketing legeent unaware the pharmacist has given birth to a caramel colored syrup, which is now the chief ingredient of the world's favorite drink.
the syrup combined with carbonated the soft drink market.
on tuesday, coke announced that it was acquiring the seagram's line of mixers, tonic, ginger ale and seltzer from diageo and per nod richard.
soft drink industry is on amazing growth; ultimately these are only one person who will determine their fortunes.
pepsi does most of its bottling on its own.
soft drink industry:
the snack food division manufactures and distributes and markets chips and  other snacks worldwide.
in fact, as we will see, when coca-cola tried something new, it was disaster.
pepsi's soft drink business made up 19 percent of sales and 23.2 percent of operating profit.
pepsi is using both national campaigns-such as the drink pepsi, get stuff scheme, which offers large discounts on other products to pepsi-buyers as well as local.
candler thanked him but took no action.
these being the costs of concentrates, standard bottling operations, distributor and bottlers commissions, distribution expenses and the promotional and advertising expenditure (as far as coke is concerned, it had to incur a little more than pepsi as pepsi paved its way to india in 1989 while coke made a come back in 1993.)
these controversies are a reminder of "india's sometimes acrimonious relationship with huge multinational companies."
it is estimated that this drink is served  more than one thousand million times in a day.
while coke executive scruff at pepsi's claims as well as targets, industry  observers are of the view that pepsi has definitely stolen a march over its  competitor coke.
it consists of many companies amongst which the prominent once are pepsi-cola, frito-lay and pepsi food international.
five other indian states have announced partial bans on the drinks in schools, colleges and hospitals.
1925 - six million a day 1925 - the sociable drink 1926 - stop at the red sign 1927 - around the corner from anywhere 1928 -
the 200ml coke, launched so far in parts of eastern, western, and northernindia, is priced at rs. 5, lowering the entry-barriers.
however, this was the european standard for water, not for other drinks.
pepsi officials and 'dial-a-pepsi' scheme to grow the market, instead of giving discounts at the retail level.
since pepsi's entry into the indian market in 1989, several brands from its portfolio have become established category leaders.
it was an entirely new drink which fascinated people.
50 respondents were chosen among different age groups for conducting the survey soft drinks are an impulse product.
a few years later, open-top metal  coolers became the forerunners of automated vending machines.
it is now the trademark name for a line of flavored drinks around the world.
csbi is now with orange (crush), and  schweppes soda in the market.
gone are days of ramesh chauhan, india's one time cola king and his bouts of pistol shooting.
frito-lay represents this segment of  pepsico.
these are only some of the facts that speak about our commitment to the growth of the indian economy the coca-cola company exists to benefits and refreshes every one it touches.
now this battle has been  evolved up to india too with the arrival of these three giants.
pepsico's  commitment to living by this vision every day is visible in its contribution to  the country, consumers and farmers.
pepsi racked up another first by airing the first radio jingle in 1939.
on behalf of pepsi, ashok desai and arun jaitley contended that coca-cola had been "rattled by the huge success of pepsi in india entered into a conspiracy during the last six months to cause loss and damage to pepsi's business interests by adopting unfair and illegal means."
in colas, pepsi is already market leader and in certain cities like banaras, pepsi outlets are on one side & all the other colas put together on the other.
coke's priority being to first increase the number of drinks per drinker, and then the number of drinkers itself.
eat movies, sleep movies.
this is the last but not the least factor, which affects the sale of the products of a particular company.
coca-cola and pepsi together control 97% of the 4 entire indian markets.
as technology led to a global economy, the retailers who sold coca-cola merged and evolved into international mega-chains.
it also includes various stands to display pepsi and other flavors  of the company.
thus the companies hav constantly come out with innovative ideas.
as of 2005, the coca-cola company and pepsico together hold 95% market share of soft-drink sales in india.
as was true a century ago, strong locally based relationships between coca-cola bottlers, customers and communities are the foundation on which the entire business grows.
eat cricket, sleep cricket.
the coca-cola in india has setup an independent organizations which is h.c.c & b.c.c with a capital of 350 u.s.$ each by virtue of sellout decision of the passed managing director sh. s. c. aggarwal.
the 330 can was initially available for rs. 13 and now, since the price has gave up to rs. 18 per can.
coke the arch rival tried to offering more cola at a lower price.
our investment in local communities in over 200 countries totals billions of dollars in jobs, facilities, marketing, the purchase of local good and services, and local business partnership.
sprite: in 1961, a citrus-flavored drink made its u.s debut, using "sprite boy "as inspiration for its name.
coca-cola: developed in a brass pot in 1886, coca-cola is the most recognized and admired trademark around the globe.
pepsi cola and this brand is not displayed in the outlet, then  its availability is of no use.
after coke 1970 - its the real thing 1971 - i'd like to buy the world a coke 1974 -
(per crate) (per crate) price per bottles the empty bottles are priced at rs 120 per crate and the shell at rs 100.
pepsi company's restaurant distribution operation, supplies company owned and franchise restaurants in the u.s.
pepsi has always played on the front foot and since its inception has come  out with revolutionary concepts like diet, 2l bottles, recyclable plastic cola  bottles and the enviable my can.
csbi o wholly owned subsidiary of the london based $ 6.52billion.
now this battle has begun in india too.
brad's drink 1903 exhilarating, invigorating, aids digestion 1906 original pure food drink 1908 delicious and healthful 1915 for all thirsts - pepsi:
he began bottling coca-cola to sell, using a common glass bottle called a hutchinson.
others claim that firstly pepsi was banned  from import in india, in 1970, for having refused to release the list of its  ingredients and in 1993, the ban was lifted, with pepsi arriving on the market  shortly afterwards.
pepsi was a distant, no threatening contender.
companies could have commercials which show people enjoying their drink with a good meal, so that consumers associate drinking soft drinks while having food.
this image turnaround is no small achievements, considering that since it was established in 1989, taking the hardship route prior to liberalization and weighed down by export commitments.
at the sparking new bottling plants at hathra, near agra.
a healthy growth to the indian economy ever since, coca-cola india has made significant investments to build and  continually consolidate its business in the country, including new production  facilities, waste water treatment plants, distribution systems, and marketing  channels.
with volumes of thumps up being low in the capital, there are likely chances of coca cola slashing the prices of thumps up to rs. 5 and continue to sell coca cola at the same rate.
whatever strategy is followed by one company, it is copied by the other.
dr. pemberton's partner and bookkeeper, mr. frank robinson, suggested the name and penned as "coca-cola" in the unique flowing script that is still famous worldwide today.
so i am offering this page in an attempt to assuage a wee bit of the coke and pepsi thirst that is thriving on our planet.
now, the soft drink industry has been dominated by three major player - (1) the new york based pepsi co. inc.(2)
the race to quench the great indian thirst had deigned.
hindustan coca-cola bottling (n-w) pvt. ltd.
it's no wondering our brands assumed an  iconic status in minds of world's consumers.
coca-cola balked and withdrew from the country.
pepsi has charged coke with having entered into a conspiracy to disrupt its business operations by inducing key employees and associates to break existing contracts illegally.
always coca-cola 1993 - taste it all 1903 - exhilarating, invigorating, aids digestion 1907 - original pure food drink 1909 - delicious and healthful 1915 -
the group is presently into two of the most profitable and  profitable and growing industries namely, beverages and snack foods.
coca-cola  begins as a never tonic, but candy merchant joseph a. biedenharn of mississippi  was looking for awry to serve refreshing beverages.
if a  product is now available at any outlet and the competitor brand is available,  the consumer will go for it because generally the consumption of any soft drink  is an impulse decision and not predetermined one.
pepsi and coca-cola were also entered.
pepsico in india pepsico gained entry to india in 1988 by creating a joint venture with the  punjab government-owned punjab agro industrial corporation (paic) and voltas  india limited.
pepsi - yeh hai youngistan meri jaan brand history pepsi is a hundred year old brand loved by over 200 million people  worldwide.
by the time world war ii began, coca- cola was being bottled in 44 countries.
the company had decided to create a fund to reimburse performing bottlers for the extra costs incurred on account of the hike in prices of soft drink concentrates.
so he focused on youngsters in the society.
if all the coca-cola ever produced were in 8- ounce bottles.
but while coke relies solely on beverages for growth, another factor in pepsi's favor is its diversity.
one of his nephews already had urged that coca-cola be bottled, but candler focused on fountain sales.
but the prices of soft drinks have shot up since pepsi's arrival and the current prices are being mentioned as under.
the companies should not have competitor myopia.
the atlanta based coca cola co. (3) the united kingdom based cadbury schweppes.
coca -cola company profile keeping in view of tapping the indian soft drink market and also developing  soft drinks as a drinking product among indians.
pepsi cola and this brand is not displayed in the outlet, then its availability is of no use.
dr. pemberton's sold 25 gallons of syrup, shipped in bright red wooden kegs.
following fanta in the 1950s, sprite, minute maid, fresca and tab joined brand coca-cola in the 1960s.
1886 - drink coca-cola 1904 - coca-cola satisfies 1904 - delicious and refreshing 1905 - coca-cola revives and sustains 1905 - good all the way down 1906 - the drink of quality 1906 -
history of coca-cola jon styth pemberton first introduced the refreshing taste of coca-cola in  atlanta, georgia it was may 1861 when the pharmacist concocted caramel colored  syrup in three- legged brass kettle in his backyard.
and then there was pepsi lite with the lemony flavor and one calorie, introduced in 1975.
their new advertisement of mirinda lemon is also lifted by the people.
you're in the pepsi generation 1967 taste that beats the others cold, pepsi pours it on.
csbi is now with orange (crush), and schweppes soda in the market.
marketing strategies made the consumer try a drink for the first time.
bottling overtakes fountain sales
in fact, pepsi's carbonated beverages are not even the biggest generator of sales and earnings for the company.
another significant investment of pepsi has been fountains.
availability means the presence of a particular brand at any outlet.
in 2003, the centre for science and environment (cse), a non-governmental  organization in new delhi, said aerated waters produced by soft drinks  manufacturers in india, including multinational giants pepsico and the  coca-cola company, contained toxins, including lindane, ddt, malathion and  chlorpyrifos pesticides that can contribute to cancer, a breakdown of the  immune system and cause birth defects.
pepsico is a world leader in convenient snacks, foods and beverages with revenues of more than $43 billion and over 198,000 employees.
coke signed on michael jordan, new kids on the block, aretha franklin, elton john, and paula abdul.
on the basis of all the field work and table work done, some suggestions can be made, which may help the company in increasing the total market as well as the sale of the companies.
300 crores proposed rs.
sales-promotion effects are usually short run and induce the people to purchase soft drinks, now.
the pepsi my can is undoubtedly the most popular cola pack of all times.
[i] ltd. in terms of who comes up with innovative and exciting offers, or rather things which are lively and interesting to participate.
it is seen in india, that people prefer having their drinks with or after food.
there's little doubt that the most spirited and intense competition in the beverage world is between coca-cola and pepsi.
still, thomas says signs that the dollar is starting to weaken compared to other currencies should prop up both stocks.
the rest of the 3% is shared by companies like cadbury-schweppes and campa-cola.
now, at present as there are three major players coke, pepsi and cadbury and there is stiff competition between first two, both pepsi and coke have started, sponsoring local events and staging frequent consumer promotion campaigns.
the atlanta based coca cola co. (3) the  united kingdom based cadbury schweppes.
so if vending machines are put in strategic areas, it would definitely increase consumption of soft drinks.
100 ml more than the pre mnc standard.
soft drinks should be made available more readily than present.
coke already owns more brands than it will over need, since it has bought out ramesh chauhan.
the group has built an expansive beverage and foods business.
with launch of the carbonated organize drink crush, few year ago in banaras ., the first in a series of a launches , cadbury schweppes beverage india (csbi) has planned:-
at the time, coca-cola was sold in a 6-ounce bottle for ten cents.
pepsi products in india slogans used by pepsi company 1898
the so-called competition for this product in the market is from different other brands.
this elf with silver hair  and a big smile was used in 1940s advertising for coca-cola.
pepsico india's expansive portfolio includes iconic refreshment beverages pepsi, 7 up, nimbooz, miranda and mountain dew, in addition to low calorie options such as diet.
once a day 25% twice a day 20%
indeed, some argue that pepsico and the coca-cola company have "been major targets in part because they are well-known foreign companies that draw plenty of attention." in 2003, the centre for science and environment (cse), a non-governmental organization in new delhi, said aerated waters produced by soft drinks manufacturers in india, including multinational giants pepsico and the coca-cola company, contained toxins, including lindane, ddt, malathion and chlorpyrifos pesticides that can contribute to cancer, a breakdown of the immune system and cause birth defects.
pepsi has cited the instance of coke snapping up cricketer javagal srinath in spite of the latter signing a contract with pepsi's sports consultant, 21st century media.
to  support its operations, pepsico has 42 bottling plants in india, of which 13  are company owned and 29 are franchisee owned.
but coke was first, after all.
2,400c investments 2400 no.
whoever you are, whatever you do, wherever you may be, when you think of refreshment, think of ice-cold coca-cola.
in the indian state of kerala, sale and production of pepsi-cola, along with other soft drinks, was banned by the state government in 2006, but this was reversed by the kerala high court merely a month later.
fanta: the name "fanta " was first registered as a trademark in  germany in 1941, when it was used for a few year for a soft drink created from  available materials and flavors .
in developed machines, vending machines are kept in all consumer areas, like super markets, schools, amusement parks, local markets, etc.
the restaurant segment earlier primarily consists of the operations of the  worldwide pizza hut, taco bell and kfc chains.
commercial (hindi meaning "wanna pepsify!") 2008-2009: "something for everyone." 2009-present: "refresh everything" and (during many commercials)
indeed, some argue that pepsico and the coca-cola company have "been major  targets in part because they are well-known foreign companies that draw plenty  of attention."
price promotions often produce short-term sales increases.
take a journey  through our past and see the key milestones that define pepsico.
thus the consumption of soft drink can go up.
biedenharn sent a case to asa griggs candler, who owned the  company.
they have a cut throat competition between themselves.
the competitors in a given industry may be making many tactical maneuvers in market all the time.
more then a billion times every day, thirsty people around the world reach for coca-cola products for refreshment.
according to paul stobart, advertising encourages customers to recognize the quality the company offers.
the move should enhance both corporations ability to  prosper with their own fully dedicated structure and management team.
in a meeting with candler, benjamin f. thomas and joseph b. whitehead obtained exclusive rights to bottle coca-cola across most of the united states (specifically excluding vicksburg) - for the sum of one dollar.
sprite is now the fastest growing major soft drink in u.s and the world's most popular lemon-lime soft drink.
in the same year, the company took over ownership of the nation's top  soft-drink brand and bottling network.
bottle, making it cheaper by rs. 1 and 50 ml.
justice c m nair of the delhi high court on april 17 issued notices and summons to coca-cola and 15 others for may 6.
today hundreds of other brands are offered to meet consumer preferences in local markets around the world.
a third chattanooga lawyer, john t. lupton, soon joined their venture.
incidentally, in results announced for the first three months of the year, pepsi has swept coca-cola aside.
that apart, a network of  21 contract packers manufactures a range of products for the company.
these are positioned in close competition with coca-cola inc. of usa.
pepsi is a hundred year old brand loved by over 200 million people worldwide.
robert w. woodruff become the president of the coca-cola company in 1923 and his more than six decades of leadership took the business of commercial success making coca-cola an institution the world over.
for all thirsts - pepsi-cola 1919 - pepsi-cola - it makes you scintillate 1920 - drink pepsi cola.
diet  coke quickly becomes the number - one selling low -calorie soft drink in the  world.
the pepsi process: pepsi has consistently wielded its pricing strategy as in invitation to sample, aiming to turn trial into addiction.
and when you look at revenues, the gap is even more dramatic.
according to a study done, 80% of all soft drinks are consumed on premise, at the point of purchase, rather than at home; thus the fountain initiative has paid off.
the extension of the coca-cola name began in 1982 with the  introduction of diet coke (also called coca-cola light in some countries).
by the end of the 1920s, bottle sales of coca-cola exceeded fountain sales.
pepsi, hydrating and nutritional beverages such as aquafina drinking water, isotonic sports drinks - gatorade, tropicana100% fruit juices, and juice based drinks - tropicana nectars, tropicana twister and slice.
sales promotion tools create a stronger and quicker response.
coca-cola using syrup shipped from atlanta, during a hot  summer in 1894.
coca- cola was named after the coca leaves and kola nuts john pemberton used to make it, and pepsi after the beneficial effects its creator, caleb brad ham, claimed it had on dyspepsia.