in other words – at least as far as the research is concerned – pepsi actually “tastes” better than coke, but doesn’t taste as good as coke plus coke’s brand value (or viewed another way,coke has a stronger brand than pepsi and as a result influences people's opinions of which soda tastes better - good thing they have a strong branding campaign!).
in the context of the cfp marks, this leads us to several important conclusions.
when consumers saw which drink they were consuming, they chose coke.
many planners report that the primary reason their clients choose to work  with them is a foundation of trust built with that individual client, which  subsequently blossoms forth into a bona fide planner-client relationship.
in response, pepsi initiated the so-called “pepsi challenge”  where consumers were given two unidentified soft drinks (one coke, one pepsi),  were instructed to try each and report which one they liked better, and  after-the-fact found out which one they had chosen.
in essence, the coke brand  – and the way our brain processes it – is so powerful, that we  literally, biochemically and physiologically, enjoy coke more when we can see  and associate the coke brand with the beverage that we are drinking.
and the fact that the typical planner experience  suggests the cfp marks are not a part of the client decision-making process are  not necessarily a contradiction of this, since people are generally unaware of  the impact that branding has on their own decisions, and in reality there  really isn’t very much branding for the cfp marks in the eyes of the  public in the first place.
to paraphrase it, the assertion was “i have never had a client state that they chose to work with me because of my cfp certification.
but the board of directors, and  cfp board staff, have been very clear that there is a huge focus on delivering  measurable results.
amongst the various messages posted on the financial planning magazine discussion forums (you can view the two separate threads here and here) regarding the recent cfp board announcement that it isconsidering an 80% fee increase to help fund a public awareness campaign for the cfp marks, a common theme began to emerge.
it's worth  noting that the cfp board's public awareness campaign is not an offering of $9  million per year with zero metrics.
the first is that, even if people are being affected by what limited branding exists already with respect to the cfp marks, they are almost certainly unaware that the cfp marks influenced their decision (and to say the least, will not likelysay that the cfp marks were a factor in making the choice).
or are you still unconvinced?
yet as the research shows,  consumersdid choose coke in large part because of its brand, and  actually enjoyed the taste of coke more as a result.
interesting, regardless #1  chuck  rylant ( homepage) on 2010-11-13 01:10 ( reply) chuck,
but i think to also imply that people don’t find the cfp marks relevant in the decision-making process – especially because they don’t ask questions about the cfp marks or state that they were a factor in initial client meetings – is to ignore the powerful reality that is “branding.”
second, to the extent that very limited branding has been done in the  past, it may in fact be true that the cfp marks are rarely a factor in the  decision-making process; but this is not because branding doesn’t matter,  it’s because the branding hasn’t actually been done enough to have  a broad reaching impact in the first place!
in point of fact, they are  outlining multiple metrics to evaluate results, and one of the reasons that the  cfp board chose arnold advertising is for their strong reputation in the  advertising industry for delivering measurable results (which means both that  measurable change happened, and that they create metrics to measure and affirm  that change).
2010 is there value to developing a brand for the cfp marks?
– but it is equally  important to note that we are generally completely unaware of this phenomenon  (and as discussed ina previous post in this blog, we are often remarkably  oblivious of the actual factors that influenced and led to a decision that we  made).
so the bottom line is that the research – both with respect to branding overall, and the value of the marks in particular given their rigor – indicates that public awareness of the requirements for cfp certification and branding of the cfp marks really does have value, at least to the extent that the marketing/advertising efforts themselves are delivered properly and effectively.
in this context,no one who consumed coke in the taste test ever stated “i think the pepsi tastes better, but i prefer coke because i just think it’s a better brand.”
but again, they were completely unaware of the impact that branding was having on them.
of course, this doesn’t necessarily address whether the cfp board has  the right price-tag on their public awareness campaign, whether this is the  “right” time for a fee increase, whether they can reach a  sufficient audience to have impact, or many of the other issues regarding the  debate on the proposed fee increase that have beendiscussed previously in this  blog, as well as whether the cfp board is even the right choice to  "champion" the cause.
many planners report that the primary reason their clients choose to work with them is a foundation of trust built with that individual client, which subsequently blossoms forth into a bona fide planner-client relationship.
however, the focus-group research showed that the marks can only be a factor if/when/once the consumer actually becomes familiar with the ethics, experience, education, and examination requirements that the marks entail.
of course, this doesn’t necessarily address whether the cfp board has the right price-tag on their public awareness campaign, whether this is the “right” time for a fee increase, whether they can reach a sufficient audience to have impact, or many of the other issues regarding the debate on the proposed fee increase that have beendiscussed previously in this blog, as well as whether the cfp board is even the right choice to "champion" the cause.
i think all marketing expenses should be measured against results.
does financial planning and the cfp certification  need to get onto the public awareness bandwagon and develop its value as a  brand?
so what’s the point of big fee increase, especially when it’s going to fund something that isn’t relevant in the decision-making process when individuals select a financial planner anyway?”
in  other words, the research further shows that until there is awareness, the cfp  marks are not a factor; but once there is awareness, the cfp marks become an  important (albeit still not the only) conscious factor in choosing an advisor,  not to mention any subconscious branding impact.
i don't believe they will be able to create a powerful  enough "brand" to justify the cost.
amongst the various messages posted on the financial planning magazine  discussion forums (you can view the two separate threads here and here)
they choose to work with me because of my individual trustworthiness, credibility, and ability to deliver the guidance they need.
you did  address my comment before i posted it, but to answer your question, i'm still  not convinced.
if they didn’t know which was  coke and which was pepsi, though, they chose pepsi.
when consumers saw which  drink they were consuming, they chose coke.
yes weblog: kitces.com | nerd's eye view tracked: nov 03, 12:23 cfp board 80%  fee increase - it's official
in response, pepsi initiated the so-called “pepsi challenge” where consumers were given two unidentified soft drinks (one coke, one pepsi), were instructed to try each and report which one they liked better, and after-the-fact found out which one they had chosen.
nonetheless, when it comes to the fundamental question of whether there is value itself in having more public awareness of the cfp marks for advancing the delivery of financial planning by cfp professionals, the answer appears to be “yes,” most definitely.
after taking up the issue at their board  meeting yesterday, the cfp board officially announced this morning that the 80%  fee increase for cfp certificants to support a public awareness campaign for  the cfp marks has been approved.
so the bottom line is that the research – both with respect to  branding overall, and the value of the marks in particular given their rigor  – indicates that public awareness of the requirements for cfp  certification and branding of the cfp marks really does have value, at least to  the extent that the marketing/advertising efforts themselves are delivered  properly and effectively.
branding is an often misunderstood phenomenon; in part, i think  that’s because we as financial planners are not trained in marketing, but  more significantly i think it’s because, as research on branding itself  ironically shows, we are often not even aware of the impact that branding is  actually having on our own decision-making process.
in these situations we write a blank check to a marketing firm with absolutely  no way to track the results.
and what accounted for the difference?
on a side note, did you read blink?
nonetheless, if consumers drink coke but don’t know it’s coke – or worse, see it presented as some never-heard-of “no name” cola drink – they prefer pepsi instead.
however,  the focus-group research showed that the marks can only be a factor  if/when/once the consumer actually becomes familiar with the ethics,  experience, education, and examination requirements that the marks entail.
but i think to also imply that people don’t find the cfp marks  relevant in the decision-making process – especially because they  don’t ask questions about the cfp marks or state that they were a factor  in initial client meetings – is to ignore the powerful reality that is  “branding.”
they choose to work with me because of my individual  trustworthiness, credibility, and ability to deliver the guidance they need.
i don't believe in brand  marketing.
he  attributed it to a sip verses drinking a whole glass.
granted, they are still sorting out some of the exact  metrics details that will be used, because the reality is that the campaign  itself is still in the design phases.
certainly, i won’t deny that the ability to communicate effectively with prospective clients and to inculcate a trust relationship is crucial to an individual’s decision-making process about who to work with for financial guidance.
however, it seems that a few of the weblog: kitces.com | nerd's eye view tracked: nov 01, 19:45 cfp board  responds to fact sheet follow-up questions earlier in the week, this blog  posed a number of questions to the cfp board in response to the fact sheet that  the organization had issued, seeking to address a number of issues the planning  community has raised that still appeared to be unanswered.
nonetheless, the impact is there, and it’s significant.
i  think in that book gladwell talked about the coke/pepsi taste test.
to paraphrase it, the assertion was “i have never  had a client state that they chose to work with me because of my cfp  certification.
does financial planning and the cfp certification need to get onto the public awareness bandwagon and develop its value as a brand?
in the pepsi challenge  blind-taste-test version, a significant majority now chose pepsi as the drink  of choice.
in the initial version, coke conducted an extensive series of taste tests where consumers were presented with a can of coke and a can of pepsi, tasted each one, and reported which one tasted better; the majority of consumers chose coke.
accordingly, many planners have recently begun to ask: why the cfp board fee  increase to support public awareness of the cfp marks, if that’s not
if they didn’t know which was coke and which was pepsi, though, they chose pepsi.
or are you still unconvinced?posted by michael kitces at 14:34 | comments (2) | trackbacks (3)
so not only does the impact of a solid brand have an incredible impact  – it doesn’t just affect our choice, it actually changes the experienceitself to be more positive when we can associate a good brand  with the product or service we’re consuming!!!
this isn't just throwing $9+ million at a black hole with  no plan or intention of evaluating whether it did anything.
so  what’s the point of big fee increase, especially when it’s going to  fund something that isn’t relevant in the decision-making process when  individuals select a financial planner anyway?”
posted by michael kitces at 14:34 |  comments (2) | trackbacks (3) trackbacks trackback  specific uri for this entry cfp board issues fee increase fact sheet -  some questions remain as debate - and some confusion - continues  regarding the cfp board's proposed fee increase, the organization has made a  new fact sheet available to help address many of the questions and concerns  that have been raised.
in the pepsi challenge blind-taste-test version, a significant majority now chose pepsi as the drink of choice.
nonetheless, the impact is  there, and it’s significant.
and what accounted for the  difference?
in addition, it is notable that in support of the cfp board’s own pre-research (see their extensive discussion in thiscfp board certificant connection video) in considering the public awareness initiative, they conducted significant focus-group marketing research, and their results indicated that in fact, the value and virtues of the cfp marks are so significant that consumers actuallydo state that the marks would be a material factor in their decision-making process.
we would never do this with our clients' money yet  we are doing it with ours.
in essence, the coke brand – and the way our brain processes it – is so powerful, that we literally, biochemically and physiologically, enjoy coke more when we can see and associate the coke brand with the beverage that we are drinking.
kitces.com | nerd's eye view monday, october 25.
is there value to developing a brand for the cfp marks?
in this context,no one who consumed coke in the taste test ever stated “i think the pepsi tastes better, but i prefer coke because i  just think it’s a better brand.”
in the context of the cfp marks, this leads us to several important  conclusions.
so now the only question weblog: kitces.com | nerd's eye view tracked: nov 12, 10:48  comments display comments as (linear | threaded) well done michael.
in more recent research replicating these results, scientists have actually shown using neurological imaging scans that the brain actually responds differently to a blind-taste-test version of coke, than a version of coke where the subject sees and knows that it’s coke.
branding is an often misunderstood phenomenon; in part, i think that’s because we as financial planners are not trained in marketing, but more significantly i think it’s because, as research on branding itself ironically shows, we are often not even aware of the impact that branding is actually having on our own decision-making process.
so what do you think?
certainly, i won’t deny that the ability to communicate effectively  with prospective clients and to inculcate a trust relationship is crucial to an  individual’s decision-making process about who to work with for financial  guidance.
so not only does the impact of a solid brand have an incredible impact – it doesn’t just affect our choice, it actually changes the experienceitself to be more positive when we can associate a good brand with the product or service we’re consuming!!!
in other  words – at least as far as the research is concerned – pepsi  actually “tastes” better than coke, but doesn’t taste as good  as coke plus coke’s brand value (or viewed another way,coke has a  stronger brand than pepsi and as a result influences people's opinions of which  soda tastes better - good thing they have a strong branding campaign!).
and the fact that the typical planner experience suggests the cfp marks are not a part of the client decision-making process are not necessarily a contradiction of this, since people are generally unaware of the impact that branding has on their own decisions, and in reality there really isn’t very much branding for the cfp marks in the eyes of the public in the first place.
in more recent research replicating these results, scientists have actually  shown using neurological imaging scans that the brain actually responds  differently to a blind-taste-test version of coke, than a version of coke where  the subject sees and knows that it’s coke.
in addition, it is notable that in  support of the cfp board’s own pre-research (see their extensive  discussion in thiscfp board certificant connection video) in considering the  public awareness initiative, they conducted significant focus-group marketing  research, and their results indicated that in fact, the value and virtues of  the cfp marks are so significant that consumers actuallydo state that  the marks would be a material factor in their decision-making process.
in other words, the research further shows that until there is awareness, the cfp marks are not a factor; but once there is awareness, the cfp marks become an important (albeit still not the only) conscious factor in choosing an advisor, not to mention any subconscious branding impact.
in perhaps one of the most infamous examples  (at least in the world of marketing and branding), think back to the popular  coke versus pepsi taste tests that have occurred over the past few decades.
– but it is equally important to note that we are generally completely unaware of this phenomenon (and as discussed ina previous post in this blog, we are often remarkably oblivious of the actual factors that influenced and led to a decision that we made).
second, to the extent that very limited branding has been done in the past, it may in fact be true that the cfp marks are rarely a factor in the decision-making process; but this is not because branding doesn’t matter, it’s because the branding hasn’t actually been done enough to have a broad reaching impact in the first place!
but again, they were  completely unaware of the impact that branding was having on them.
nonetheless,  if consumers drink coke but don’t know it’s coke – or worse,  see it presented as some never-heard-of “no name” cola drink  – they prefer pepsi instead.
nonetheless, when it comes to the fundamental  question of whether there is value itself in having more public awareness of  the cfp marks for advancing the delivery of financial planning by cfp  professionals, the answer appears to be “yes,” most definitely.
how  clients select their planners anyway?
after a whole glass the  results were opposite, if i remember right.
regarding the recent cfp board announcement that it isconsidering an 80% fee  increase to help fund a public awareness campaign for the cfp marks, a common  theme began to emerge.
in  the initial version, coke conducted an extensive series of taste tests where  consumers were presented with a can of coke and a can of pepsi, tasted each  one, and reported which one tasted better; the majority of consumers chose  coke.
accordingly, many planners have recently begun to ask: why the cfp board fee increase to support public awareness of the cfp marks, if that’s not how clients select their planners anyway?
these are some pretty astounding results.
yet as the research shows, consumersdid choose coke in large part because of its brand, and actually enjoyed the taste of coke more as a result.
the first is that, even if people are being affected by what  limited branding exists already with respect to the cfp marks, they are almost  certainly unaware that the cfp marks influenced their decision (and to say the  least, will not likelysay that the cfp marks were a factor in making the  choice).
in perhaps one of the most infamous examples (at least in the world of marketing and branding), think back to the popular coke versus pepsi taste tests that have occurred over the past few decades.