this is an extremely important question.
in sum, i'd like to say congratulations to subway.
" i'm sure subway got a good deal from coke, but i wouldn't say it's inconceivable this decision was made on product quality as well.
which only leaves us with one question: what in the world is wrong with the taste buds of 32% offool employees?
if the waiter/waitress asks me, "is pepsi ok?," i make it a point to give a disappointing look, sometimes settling for water.
a spokesman for pepsi said, "it's inconceivable to think this has  anything to do with products or service.
if the waiter/waitress asks me, "is pepsi ok?," i make  it a point to give a disappointing look, sometimes settling for water.
(side note: for purposes of this discussion, and really for purposes of my life, i'm ignoring that mountain dew and mello-yellow exist.)
coke simply has better products, and coca cola, co.'s superiority over  pepsico with respect to their flagship colas is substantially comparable to the  superiority the 1927 yankees would have over the little league team i played on  when was 11.
the wall street journal reports (sub. req'd) that subway is  switching its fountain business from pepsi to coke.
the wall street journal reports (sub. req'd) that subway is switching its fountain business from pepsi to coke.
on monday, motley fool writer rex moore reported the results of a highly scientific blind taste test atfool headquarters between vanilla coke and pepsi vanilla.
a spokesman for pepsi said, "it's inconceivable to think this has anything to do with products or service.
if i go somewhere i don't know what they sell, i order a coke.
posted on november 27, 2003 at 12:36 am in food | permalink save to del.icio.us | tweet this!
you have chosen wisely.
on monday, motley fool writer rex moore reported the results of a  highly scientific blind taste test atfool headquarters between vanilla  coke and pepsi vanilla.
this is about an incredibly big bag of cash, and we hope coke is offering the same deal to the rest of its customers.
more...blog powered by typepad
(note #2: i have never tasted pepsi vanilla.
(note  #2: i have never tasted pepsi vanilla.
| trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e554b64ce0883300e554bd898c8833
if the answer is the latter, then the food  simply must beoutstanding, so that i'm willing to put up with pepsi.
coke simply has better products, and coca cola, co.'s superiority over pepsico with respect to their flagship colas is substantially comparable to the superiority the 1927 yankees would have over the little league team i played on when was 11.
this  is an extremely important question.
if i go somewhere i don't know what they sell, i  order a coke.
which only leaves us with one question: what in  the world is wrong with the taste buds of 32% offool employees?
according to the article, subway has more u.s. and canadian restaurants than mcdonald's, which i was unaware of.
according to the article,  subway has more u.s. and canadian restaurants than mcdonald's, which i was  unaware of.
when deciding which restaurant to eat at, the first question that invariably comes to my mind is, "do they sell coke products, or pepsi products?"
(side note: for purposes of this discussion, and really for  purposes of my life, i'm ignoring that mountain dew and mello-yellow exist.)
« "preserve me, o god: for in thee do i put my trust" | main | hawks headed to outback bowl »
i do not believe, however, that in any  way hinders my comparison of the two products.)
| trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e554b64ce0883300e554bd898c8833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference subway switches from pepsi to coke: the comments to this entry are closed.
it is for this reason that i largely avoid the pizza hut, kentucky fried  chicken, taco bell triumvirate, all formerly owned by pepsico, inc., and still  selling that inferior product.
if the answer is the latter, then the food simply must beoutstanding, so that i'm willing to put up with pepsi.
this is about an incredibly big bag of  cash, and we hope coke is offering the same deal to the rest of its  customers.
and i don't have to avoid you anymore.
it is for this reason that i largely avoid the pizza hut, kentucky fried chicken, taco bell triumvirate, all formerly owned by pepsico, inc., and still selling that inferior product.
when  deciding which restaurant to eat at, the first question that invariably comes  to my mind is, "do they sell coke products, or pepsi products?"
out of 19 taste-testers, 68% chose the  correct response, vanilla coke.
i do not believe, however, that in any way hinders my comparison of the two products.)
books my 'read' shelf: « "preserve me, o god: for in thee do i put my trust" |  main | hawks headed to outback bowl » november 27, 2003 subway switches from pepsi to coke
out of 19 taste-testers, 68% chose the correct response, vanilla coke.