impact investing offers a new way to bring capital to improving lives and a new way for people to connect with each other based on mutual benefit.
recently thelow income investment fund, a  calvert foundation borrower for the last five years, provided a $7 million loan  to enable st. john’s to expand their facilities and serve a total of  450,000 meals annually.
required fields are marked * name (required)
in fact, in many cases, we see the clear benefit in having both, working in  partnership.
email (will not be published) (required)
at st. john’s, naishaune receives nutritional counseling, health and hygiene products, and social services such as workforce development, literacy training, psychiatric services, and substance-abuse counseling.
but it is not a coke-or-pepsi decision with one  option being clearly superior.
as a nonprofit, however, we recognize and value the vital role that philanthropy plays even within the impact investing sector, for things like risk capital and technical assistance for social entrepreneurs.
to oversimplify, investment capital can help build things like small businesses, affordable housing, community health clinics, senior centers, schools, water systems in the developing world, etc.
every day at st. john’s more than 1,000 hungry brooklyn children, families, and individuals receive nutritious meals.
website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                calvert foundation
using a loan to fund st. john’s space needs meant  that more philanthropy was available to provide services to the recipients of  the meals, like naishaune spencer (pictured right with his daughter).
as for soda, i put my money on plain water or fruit juices rather than  carbonated water … reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
i look forward to the day when we stop viewing philanthropy and impact  investing as a coke-or-pepsi choice and start to see them for what they are:  natural allies in the struggle to make the world a better place for all of us  to live, work, raise our families, and perhaps have a little fun.
to oversimplify, investment capital can help build things like small  businesses, affordable housing, community health clinics, senior centers,  schools, water systems in the developing world, etc.
a prime example of the investment-philanthropy partnership can be seen at  st. john’s bread & life in brooklyn, ny.
every day at st.  john’s more than 1,000 hungry brooklyn children, families, and  individuals receive nutritious meals.
slide 1 photo courtesy of chf international due to blue sky regulations, the current offering of the community investment note cannot be offered or sold in the states of pennsylvania, south carolina, or washington.
a prime example of the investment-philanthropy partnership can be seen at st. john’s bread & life in brooklyn, ny.
recently thelow income investment fund, a calvert foundation borrower for the last five years, provided a $7 million loan to enable st. john’s to expand their facilities and serve a total of 450,000 meals annually.
leonardo letelier, sitawi says: january 17, 2012 at 9:03 pm one other thing philanthropy can do is to help jump-start investment  (including the impact investing movement).
even a casual reader of the commentary  around impact investing and philanthropy will note that much of the discussion  is centered on which is better.
impact investing and philanthropy each have  their own unique roles to play in moving society forward.
impact investing and philanthropy each have their own unique roles to play in moving society forward.
but it is not a coke-or-pepsi decision with one option being clearly superior.
bookmark the permalink.
“with the help of st. john’s bread & life, loving family and friends, and sheer dedication, i was able to go back to school, get a great job, have a steady income and, most significantly, get my first apartment.”
in many situations, these needs and the  programs that support them aren’t exclusively served by one or the other.
they are distinct and  yet collaborative tools that can be accessed and employed to improve  people’s lives.
at calvert foundation, our aim is to transform investment culture so that  every investor becomes an impact investor.
traditional philanthropy and government programs, while critical to  improving the lives of the poor, can never by themselves meet all the needs of  disadvantaged communities.
in fact, in many cases, we see the clear benefit in having both, working in partnership.
← keeping the faith
i look forward to the day when we stop viewing philanthropy and impact investing as a coke-or-pepsi choice and start to see them for what they are: natural allies in the struggle to make the world a better place for all of us to live, work, raise our families, and perhaps have a little fun.
11.28.2011 global impact investing network improving livelihoods, removing barriers: investing for impact in mtanga farms 11.11.2011 pocono record make some of your dollars make a difference 11.8.2011 innovators in action lisa hall: ending poverty through investment 08.2011
as for soda, i put my money on plain water or fruit juices rather than carbonated water …reply your email address will not be published.
at st.  john’s, naishaune receives nutritional counseling, health and hygiene  products, and social services such as workforce development, literacy training,  psychiatric services, and substance-abuse counseling.
this website is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities; the offering is made only by the prospectus, which should be read before investing.
posted on january 17, 2012 by  thea by sally boulter, manager of individual initiatives at calvert  foundation which is better?
at calvert foundation, our aim is to transform investment culture so that every investor becomes an impact investor.
they are distinct and yet collaborative tools that can be accessed and employed to improve people’s lives.
website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              1.12.2012 dow jones adviser wealthy interested in impact investing 1.5.2012 the giving show ceo lisa hall was on "the giving show" with michael chatman on thursday, january 5, at 11:30 am est.
“with the help of st. john’s bread &  life, loving family and friends, and sheer dedication, i was able to go back to  school, get a great job, have a steady income and, most significantly, get my  first apartment.”
by sally boulter, manager of individual initiatives at calvert foundation which is better? coke or pepsi?
nomad editions sustainable money deep impact investing council on foundations 2012 family philanthropy conference (feb 13-15, miami, fl) duke net impact: disrupting the status quo (feb 15, durham, nc) harvard business school social enterprise conference (feb 25-26, cambridge, ma) san francisco basecamp (mar 7, san francisco, ca)
it’s time to expand the circle → one response to which is better?
impact investing offers a new way to bring capital  to improving lives and a new way for people to connect with each other based on  mutual benefit.
using a loan to fund st. john’s space needs meant that more philanthropy was available to provide services to the recipients of the meals, like naishaune spencer (pictured right with his daughter).
as for soda, we all know coke is it.
one other thing philanthropy can do is to help jump-start investment (including the impact investing movement).
“i ran with the wrong crowd and ended up homeless, jobless, and in a whole lot of trouble,” he said.
traditional philanthropy and government programs, while critical to improving the lives of the poor, can never by themselves meet all the needs of disadvantaged communities.
it’s time to expand the circle  → which is better?
on the other hand,  philanthropy is essential to providing funding for the arts, job and literacy  training, pregnancy prevention, eldercare, and similar programs which will  never be supported by the market alone.
as a nonprofit, however, we  recognize and value the vital role that philanthropy plays even within the  impact investing sector, for things like risk capital and technical assistance  for social entrepreneurs.
on the other hand, philanthropy is essential to providing funding for the arts, job and literacy training, pregnancy prevention, eldercare, and similar programs which will never be supported by the market alone.
even a casual reader of the commentary around impact investing and philanthropy will note that much of the discussion is centered on which is better.
in many situations, these needs and the programs that support them aren’t exclusively served by one or the other.
this entry was posted in borrowers, domestic.
calvert social investment foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, offers the community investment note, which is subject to certain risks, is not a mutual fund, is not fdic or sipc insured, and should not be confused with any calvert group-sponsored investment product.
“i ran with the  wrong crowd and ended up homeless, jobless, and in a whole lot of  trouble,” he said.
clearly, we need both.