there's no incentive for  the business owner to switch to a more expensive can vender.
"when you walk into a convenience store and there's this glass  wall full of coke brands andthat glass wall full of pepsi brands. . .
but pei uses a new 12-oz, screw-cap bottle.
it  does a great job."
we had one fella come  in and buy a bottle of pop, and he came back with three junior high buddies a  little later.
there's no incentive for the business owner to switch to a more expensive can vender.
and their parents were saying 'i hate to tell you this.
a few small companies in the u.s. still handle bottled coke.
"we're now up to 20 or 25 per cent that aren't coming back," he  says.
"their production is being done in large plants in places like calgary and winnipeg, who haven't done returnables for 15 years already."
but it can't roll on forever.
the  volumes are small and the machines last a long time.
the contour plastic bottles don't exist in the far more competitive american market, he says.
"it just tastes better in a glass bottle.
"we're small enough that it's still affordable, considering the number  of cases we do and the amount of glass we've got.
he keeps his  hand in the 'refillable-returnable' business because it continues to turn a  small profit in his market, which includes a good chunk of northern and eastern  saskatchewan in addition to the city of prince albert.
in the northeast corner of the office stands an old bottle-vending coke machine.
but he understands the mystique.
"i've always had it."
"their production is being done in large  plants in places like calgary and winnipeg, who haven't done returnables for 15  years already."
" among canadian provinces, only prince edward island retains a  returnable-bottle-only policy, says hauser.
"whether it's coke, the 'p' word, or something else, the pricing is all the same here: it's a buck twenty-five plus deposit for the standard 600 ml bottle.
however, a few prince albert confectioneries do stock bottled coke in their modern, glass-walled refrigerators.
he says parents told him stories of kids who'd never before seen a bottle opener.
nobody's  making them anymore.
he says parents told him stories of kids who'd  never before seen a bottle opener.
by dave yanko when out-of-province folks walk into ben's auto glass in prince albert,  they step into the past.
however, a few prince albert confectioneries do stock bottled coke in their  modern, glass-walled refrigerators.
a 300-ml (10 oz) bottle of coke sells for only 75 cents.
most of hauser's 'bottle' accounts are places like ben darchuk's shop,  small businesses with vending machines intended primarily for use by staff.
a 300-ml (10 oz) bottle of coke  sells for only 75 cents.
"and that's not breakage, that's people not wanting to bring them  back.
and they saw a dramatic increase in demand last year after the local tv station did a piece on hauser's bottling line.
"kids from schools come in here just to buy pop.
great marketing job or not, dave koppelaar of ben's auto glass is one  person who'll miss the real thing when it's gone.
" a few small companies in the u.s. still handle bottled coke.
but hauser  says that even if a bottle 'float' came up for sale south of the border, it  would be expensive to ship it to prince albert and the old bottles would have a  limited life span.
the volumes are small and the machines last a long time.
but pei uses a new 12-oz, screw-cap  bottle.
'he chuckles when staff return from out-of-province holidays with reports  of contour bottles fetching four or five dollars each at flea markets and  garage sales.
"they were like 'what's with that, what's that all about?'
and their  parents were saying 'i hate to tell you this.
but that was 10 to 20 years ago, before provincial and state governments authorized the use of non-refillable cans and plastic 'bottles'.
advertising | archives | maps |  events | search | prints 'n posters | lodging assistance | golf | fishing |  parks | privacy | © copyright (1997-2012)
it does a great job."
great marketing job or not, dave koppelaar of ben's auto glass is one person who'll miss the real thing when it's gone.
the storekeepers around the schools were just inundated.
"it just went absolutely crazy.
but hauser says that even if a bottle 'float' came up for sale south of the border, it would be expensive to ship it to prince albert and the old bottles would have a limited life span.
"and that's not breakage, that's people not wanting to bring them back.
his typical return rate for bottles was 97 per cent before saskatchewan legislation changed to allow cans and plastic pop containers 10 or 11 years ago.
" marc hauser will keep the old bottling line  active as long as demand and glass supply last.
his typical return rate for bottles was 97 per cent before saskatchewan  legislation changed to allow cans and plastic pop containers 10 or 11 years  ago.
virtual saskatchewan
in canada, the plastic contour bottles still provide an edge in marketing, particularly among spontaneous buyers.
by dave yanko when out-of-province folks walk into ben's auto glass in prince albert, they step into the past.
" hauser plans to continue running his glass-bottling line as long as the demand remains level.
it's not really 'the real thing'.
but when i was your age, a little older, it was a necessary evil to have one of those things around'.
the storekeepers around the schools  were just inundated.
they all wanted one to take home."
"we're now up to 20 or 25 per cent that aren't coming back," he says.
and so does coke, which spent  'an inordinate amount of money' in canada creating and accommodating the  production of plastic bottles, in the familiar contour shape.
"people from manitoba are amazed when they come in here because they haven't seen a glass bottle for years," says ben darchuk's assistant manager dave koppelaar.
but that was  10 to 20 years ago, before provincial and state governments authorized the use  of non-refillable cans and plastic 'bottles'.
'he chuckles when staff return from out-of-province holidays with reports of contour bottles fetching four or five dollars each at flea markets and garage sales.
"yes, i believe i'm the only one left," says prince albert  bottlers' marc hauser.
nobody's making them anymore.
plastic is now the vast majority of hauser's business, too.
yet,  nowhere in canada can you buy that classic 10-oz, contour bottle of coke,  except in saskatchewan.
"all the other places that used to do bottles are no longer in existence," says hauser.
"yes, i believe i'm the only one left," says prince albert bottlers' marc hauser.
"people from manitoba are amazed when they come in here because they  haven't seen a glass bottle for years," says ben darchuk's assistant  manager dave koppelaar.
yet, nowhere in canada can you buy that classic 10-oz, contour bottle of coke, except in saskatchewan.
"whether it's coke, the 'p' word, or something else, the pricing is  all the same here: it's a buck twenty-five plus deposit for the standard 600 ml  bottle.
" hauser plans to continue running his glass-bottling line as long as the  demand remains level.
so did a lot of other businesses and stores in north america.
there, the bottles are generic and labelled, and it's  the price point that counts.
it's no antique; it's the real thing.
"we're small enough that it's still affordable, considering the number of cases we do and the amount of glass we've got.
in the northeast corner of the office stands an old bottle-vending coke  machine.
" contact us | contents |
coke still uses the famous 'contour-bottle' image on its advertising and promotional material because it's simply too precious an icon to lose.
they couldn't keep enough product in the stores." not only were the kids fascinated with the bottles, says hauser, they were enthralled by the bottle cap.
"when you walk into a convenience store and there's this glass wall full of coke brands andthat glass wall full of pepsi brands. . .
we had one fella come in and buy a bottle of pop, and he came back with three junior high buddies a little later.
they couldn't keep enough product in the stores." not only were the kids fascinated with the bottles, says hauser, they were  enthralled by the bottle cap.
ben darchuk has always had bottled coke  at the shop.
and so does coke, which spent 'an inordinate amount of money' in canada creating and accommodating the production of plastic bottles, in the familiar contour shape.
the other three percent was breakage.
and they saw a dramatic increase in demand  last year after the local tv station did a piece on hauser's bottling line.
"all the other places that used to do bottles are no longer in  existence," says hauser.
he keeps his hand in the 'refillable-returnable' business because it continues to turn a small profit in his market, which includes a good chunk of northern and eastern saskatchewan in addition to the city of prince albert.
"we have empty shelves here that used to be full of bottles.
the contour plastic bottles don't exist in the far more competitive  american market, he says.
in canada, the plastic contour bottles still  provide an edge in marketing, particularly among spontaneous buyers.
most of hauser's 'bottle' accounts are places like ben darchuk's shop, small businesses with vending machines intended primarily for use by staff.
" among canadian provinces, only prince edward island retains a returnable-bottle-only policy, says hauser.
coke still uses the famous 'contour-bottle' image on its advertising and  promotional material because it's simply too precious an icon to lose.
but when i was your age, a little  older, it was a necessary evil to have one of those things around'.
there, the bottles are generic and labelled, and it's the price point that counts.
" © copyright (1997-2012)
a vending machine selling bottled coke is no big deal to ben.