if you've got a spare bit of cash and a large group of people, give it a go one day and see what i mean.
tagged with: food & drink, coke, pepsi, diet coke, diet pepsi, coke zero and pepsi max { 0 comments }
the only thing that  differentiates each of the bottles is the label and the lid.
my stomach was becoming very bloated from swigging all that fizzy pop and the sugar was starting to work it's magic on my teeth and sugar levels.
now you're probably thinking, easy peasy.
the point was to prove that given a blind test, most people really can't tell the difference between coke, coke zero, pepsi and pepsi max, and i was one of them.
well, what an afternoon it was - a bunch of techies, some of which are die-hard fizzy pop drinkers, all umming and ahhing, swishing and sniffing like wine connoisseurs.
here are more just like it.
so one of the guys popped out for a bit and came  back with 6 two litre bottles of brown fizzy pop so we could setup our own  test.
i thought this would be quite an easy challenge.
my stomach was becoming very bloated  from swigging all that fizzy pop and the sugar was starting to work it's magic  on my teeth and sugar levels.
it was easy  to identify the diet coke and diet pepsi - they are distinctly different from  the others due to the type of sweeteners used - but correctly identifying the  others proved to be much harder.
conveniently, the bottles themselves are identical.
if you've got a spare bit of cash and a large group of people, give it a go  one day and see what i mean.
there weren't any rules other than you just had to correctly identify all 6 bottles.
we were discussing this and the various merits of coke vs pepsi at work yesterday, and one of the guys came up with the idea of creating our own coke / pepsi test to see if we really could tell the difference between coke, diet coke, coke zero, pepi, diet pepsi and pepsi max when given the opportunity to taste them side-by-side, in any order, without any clues as to which were which.
so one of the guys popped out for a bit and came back with 6 two litre bottles of brown fizzy pop so we could setup our own test.
privacy policyhtml5 | css3
i didn't hang about for the final results, but that wasn't really the  point.
in the end i just guessed the last 4.
previous post: now running wordpress 2.5 rc2 next post: summer 2008 starts today subscribe to my feed copyright © 2003 - 2012 colin seymour all rights reserved.
i didn't hang about for the final results, but that wasn't really the point.
you could sample them in any order and as many times as  you liked.
well, you'd be right if you were only trying to distinguish between coke and pepsi, or diet and full fat, but our challenge was to correctly identify all 6 bottles, side-by-side.
tagged with: food & drink, coke, pepsi, diet coke, diet pepsi, coke  zero and pepsi max like this post?
the labels were removed and replaced with generic a, b, c, d, e and f labels (the original contents were noted before and correlated to the new labels), the lids mixed up and then the bottles shuffled ready for the challenge.
we were discussing this and the various merits of coke vs pepsi at work  yesterday, and one of the guys came up with the idea of creating our own coke /  pepsi test to see if we really could tell the difference between coke, diet  coke, coke zero, pepi, diet pepsi and pepsi max when given the opportunity to  taste them side-by-side, in any order, without any clues as to which were which.
you could tell there was a difference, but it was really hard identifying if the difference was a manufacturer difference (coke/pepsi) or a variety difference (coke/coke zero).
well, you'd be right if you were  only trying to distinguish between coke and pepsi, or diet and full fat, but  our challenge was to correctly identify all 6 bottles, side-by-side.
you could sample them in any order and as many times as you liked.
well, what an afternoon it was - a bunch of techies, some of which are  die-hard fizzy pop drinkers, all umming and ahhing, swishing and sniffing like  wine connoisseurs.
it was a site to be seen, and great fun too.
there weren't any rules other than you just had to correctly  identify all 6 bottles.
the point was to prove that given a blind test, most people really can't  tell the difference between coke, coke zero, pepsi and pepsi max, and i was one  of them.
coke/pepsi: can you really taste the difference? · 29 march 2008 · we've all heard about the coke/pepsi/sprite test where tasters couldn't  taste the difference between coke, pepsi and sprite due to the temperature they  drinks were served, but do you think you could tell the difference between coke  and pepsi and their varients if the drinks were served at room temperature?
the only thing that differentiates each of the bottles is the label and the lid.
after a bit of a debate, we decided we'd actually find out for ourselves, rather than just debate it.
it was easy to identify the diet coke and diet pepsi - they are distinctly different from the others due to the type of sweeteners used - but correctly identifying the others proved to be much harder.
if you have any further questions or comments, feel free to send them to me directly.
you could tell there was a difference, but it  was really hard identifying if the difference was a manufacturer difference  (coke/pepsi) or a variety difference (coke/coke zero).
username: password: login ↓login ↓ · 29 march 2008 · we've all heard about the coke/pepsi/sprite test where tasters couldn't taste the difference between coke, pepsi and sprite due to the temperature they drinks were served, but do you think you could tell the difference between coke and pepsi and their varients if the drinks were served at room temperature?
the labels were removed and replaced with generic a, b, c, d, e and f  labels (the original contents were noted before and correlated to the new  labels), the lids mixed up and then the bottles shuffled ready for the  challenge.
after a bit of a debate, we decided we'd actually find out for ourselves,  rather than just debate it.