the pepsi vanilla ad campaign is coming, and dececco said consumers should watch out.
"soft-drinks sales have declined from annual rates of growth of 3 percent in the 1990s to less than 1 percent," said sicher.
news > companies joy of (vanilla) pepsi?
new york-based pepsico (pep: research, estimates), the no. 2 soft-drink maker behind leadercoca-cola (ko: research, estimates), is launching pepsi vanilla and its diet version in stores across the country this weekend.
pepsi vanilla and diet pepsi vanilla debut saturday.
(courtesy: coca-cola)
for the second quarter, coke's u.s. volume grew 3 percent, driven by  strong sales for vanilla coke, diet vanilla coke and sprite, coke said in its  earnings report.
"the ads kick off mid-august, and they will reflect the fact that pepsi vanilla is fun.
you'll just have to wait."
pepsi's north america volume grew 4 percent for the quarter, led by a  better performance from its mountain dew and diet pepsi brands, although its  trademark pepsi brand disappointed.
stocks close  out week with modest declines • campaign 2012: billionaires to the  rescue about cnnmoney
no matter how hot the battle gets between the two arch rivals, coke won't  be sweating it too much.
meanwhile, pepsico saw its market share dip by 0.2  percentage point to 31.4 percent.
in fact, the company increased its market share of the $63 billion u.s.  soft-drinks market by 0.6 percentage point to 44.3 percent in 2002, according to beverage digest.
"we're doing vanilla our way," said dave dececco, spokesman for pepsico north america.
in this instance, industry watchers say pepsi has its work cut out for the  new brand.
"that has  largely to do with the growth of bottled water, which is growing at 26 percent  a year.
said sicher, "at this juncture, innovation is critical, and it needs  to include new beverages, new packaging and new marketing.
"in our market research, consumers told us that they wanted a vanilla  soda that was lighter and smoother that what is currently on the market,"  dececco said.
"the vanilla colas are an important line extension for both companies, and pepsi has the distribution capabilities to support a new brand" said todd stender, analyst with crowell, weedon & co. "there's definitely room for pepsi in the vanilla sub-segment, even if pepsi vanilla may not be as good as vanilla coke," stender added.
"if consumers want pepsi vanilla, they can have it  now, and we want a share of the market."
to some it's just "plain vanilla."
pepsi last year replaced spears with beyonce knowles, lead singer of pop group destiny's child, as its latest celebrity endorser.
"the vanilla colas are an important line extension for both  companies, and pepsi has the distribution capabilities to support a new  brand" said todd stender, analyst with crowell, weedon & co. "there's definitely room for pepsi in the vanilla sub-segment, even  if pepsi vanilla may not be as good as vanilla coke," stender added.
"i can't comment on  that.
but coca-cola and pepsi see it a little differently, more like a  multimillion-dollar flavor battle that's about to get tastier.
decesso isn't saying whether the company will hire a new pop star as  spokesperson for the brand, but it's a possibility.
in fact, coke's flavored soft drink has been purchased by about 29 percent  of u.s. households, the strongest one-year trial rate among recent carbonated  soft drink introductions, according to market research firm ac nielsen.
"we're a little surprised that pepsi decided to enter the vanilla  segment," said mart martin, spokesman for coca-cola.
for the second quarter, coke's u.s. volume grew 3 percent, driven by strong sales for vanilla coke, diet vanilla coke and sprite, coke said in its earnings report.
previous stars who've appeared in pepsi ads include singers michael jackson, stevie wonder and britney spears.
august 8, 2003: 11:17 am edt
" vanilla coke a strong favorite with consumers.
in fact, coke's flavored soft drink has been purchased by about 29 percent of u.s. households, the strongest one-year trial rate among recent carbonated soft drink introductions, according to market research firm ac nielsen.
atlanta-based coca-cola, the world's largest beverage maker, is still  comfortably perched in its slot as the u.s. market leader.
"that has largely to do with the growth of bottled water, which is growing at 26 percent a year."
"if consumers want pepsi vanilla, they can have it now, and we want a share of the market."
that what is currently on the market," dececco said.
" decesso isn't saying whether the company will hire a new pop star as spokesperson for the brand, but it's a possibility.
the pepsi vanilla ad campaign is coming, and dececco said consumers should  watch out.
but coca-cola and pepsi see it a little differently, more like a multimillion-dollar flavor battle that's about to get tastier.
pepsi last year replaced spears with  beyonce knowles, lead singer of pop group destiny's child, as its latest  celebrity endorser.
"we're doing vanilla our way," said dave dececco, spokesman for  pepsico north america.
new york (cnn/money) -
meanwhile, pepsico saw its market share dip by 0.2 percentage point to 31.4 percent.
"i can't comment on that.
by  parija bhatnagar, cnn/money staff writer new york (cnn/money) - to some it's just "plain vanilla."
pepsi's north america volume grew 4 percent for the quarter, led by a better performance from its mountain dew and diet pepsi brands, although its trademark pepsi brand disappointed.
vanilla coke added  incremental volume for coke, and i think it will do the same for pepsi.
"soft-drinks sales have declined from annual rates of growth of 3  percent in the 1990s to less than 1 percent," said sicher.
said sicher, "at this juncture, innovation is critical, and it needs to include new beverages, new packaging and new marketing.
coke holds the bragging rights, but pepsi's upping the ante in the  cola war with new pepsi vanilla.
"we're a little surprised that pepsi decided to enter the vanilla segment," said mart martin, spokesman for coca-cola.
--analysts quoted in this story do not own shares of coca-cola or pepsico., and their firms do not have an investment banking relationship with the companies.
but, whatever." pepsi, coke both losing their fizz
"pepsi, coke both losing their fizz
according to beverage digest editor john sicher, coke and pepsi can keep taking potshots at each other, but that won't detract from the real concern: the soft-drinks market is slowing down.
vanilla coke added incremental volume for coke, and i think it will do the same for pepsi.
pepsi  is a huge brand name, and a new product will generate a lot of interest."
pepsi begs to differ.
according to beverage digest editor john sicher, coke and pepsi can  keep taking potshots at each other, but that won't detract from the real  concern: the soft-drinks market is slowing down.
atlanta-based coca-cola, the world's largest beverage maker, is still comfortably perched in its slot as the u.s. market leader.
industry analysts credit vanilla coke's launch last year as a huge success for coke, similar to pepsi's breakthrough in 2001 with mountain dew code red, a cherry-flavored variation of the drink.
pepsi is a huge brand name, and a new product will generate a lot of interest."
and dececco insists pepsi vanilla's taste will be unique.
the anti-solyndra: ford's  energy department loan • billions at stake as russia backs syria • obama budget: $901 billion deficit in 2013 today's  top stories •
"when we came  out with vanilla coke, pepsi originally said the idea sounded 'a bit vanilla.'
"when we came out with vanilla coke, pepsi originally said the idea sounded 'a bit vanilla.'
previous stars who've appeared in pepsi ads include singers michael  jackson, stevie wonder and britney spears.
coke came out with vanilla coke in may 2002 and it was a resounding success, selling 90 million cases, according to trade publicationbeverage digest.
in this instance, industry watchers say pepsi has its work cut out for the new brand.
new york-based pepsico (pep: research, estimates), the no. 2 soft-drink  maker behind leadercoca-cola (ko: research, estimates), is launching pepsi  vanilla and its diet version in stores across the country this weekend.
industry analysts credit vanilla coke's launch last year as a huge success  for coke, similar to pepsi's breakthrough in 2001 with mountain dew code red, a  cherry-flavored variation of the drink.
"in our market research, consumers told us that they wanted a vanilla soda that was lighter and smoother
--analysts quoted in this story do not own shares of coca-cola or  pepsico., and their firms do not have an investment banking relationship with  the companies.
in fact, the company increased its market share of the $63 billion u.s. soft-drinks market by 0.6 percentage point to 44.3 percent in 2002, according to beverage digest.
coke came out with vanilla coke in may 2002 and it was a resounding  success, selling 90 million cases, according to trade publicationbeverage  digest.
no matter how hot the battle gets between the two arch rivals, coke won't be sweating it too much.
"the ads kick off mid-august, and they will reflect the fact  that pepsi vanilla is fun."