here, in reverse order, is a summary of the cola taste test results, based  upon the inputs of my expert panel: 4.
held in malls and shopping centers across america, it tried -- unsuccessfully -- to settle the "coke vs. pepsi" debate once and for all.
-- giselle smith is a longtime editor and writer based in seattle.
on the positive side, mark liked coke's "fizz factor."
chill price (2 liters): $1.
real-time index quotes and delayed quotes supplied byinteractive data real-time services.
average score (4-point scale): 2.9.
as a kid, my family  drank only pepsi.
pepsi cola price (2 liters): $1.79.
and pepsi's pride took another hit in 2011 when sales of diet coke surpassed those of pepsi, making it the second most popular soft drink in the u.s. is coke really that much better than pepsi?
but when it comes to bragging rights for america's top-selling soft drink, pepsi has played the perennial bridesmaid to coke ever since pepsi made its debut at the turn of the 20th century.
as far as my expert panel was concerned, pepsi is clearly the top pop.
average score (4-point scale): 2.5.
the results may surprise you.
rc cola price (2 liters): $1.29.
the panel members were also free to make comments about each sample.
panel scoring: 27 points.
pepsi, coke, royal crown, and chill, which is a bargain brand marketed by shoppers value.
not a single panelist selected coke as the favorite cola, and six of the 10 human judges rated it dead last.
anyway, with that in mind, i decided to find out which cola my family would ultimately choose in a modified version of my own pepsi challenge.(post continues below video.)
it's interesting to note that my mom and dad both picked chill as their favorite cola and remarked on their evaluation sheets that they thought it was probably pepsi.
to ensure the taste test was a blind comparison, the samples were  marked "a" through "d."
fundamental company data and historical chart data provided by thomson reuters (click for restrictions).
here, in reverse order, is a summary of the cola taste test results, based upon the inputs of my expert panel: 4.
once again the penzo family conducts a blind taste test, comparing top  brands and less expensive products.
the experts were asked to rank each cola solely for taste, from best to  worst, with four points for the top performer and one point for the worst.
human judges who deemed it the best: 3.
ipo data provided by hoover's inc .
as a kid, my family drank only pepsi.
my dad was the only one to rank it last ("too flat"), but he was in the minority.
see delay times for other exchanges.
canadian fund data provided bycannex financial exchanges ltd. smart spending combines the best money-saving tips from msn money and the rest of the web.
today, my preference for coke is so strong that i'll often change my drink  order to root beer or lemonade at establishments that carry pepsi.
quotes are real-time for nasdaq, nyse and amex.
human judges who deemed it the best: 0.
people have been enjoying cola-flavored soft drinks ever since 1886, when the first glasses of coca-cola were served up for 5 cents each (about $1.10 in today's dollars) at an atlanta pharmacy.
chris thought it was the "best tasting by far," and aunt doris gave it her highest mark because it was "simply perfect."
as with my ketchup blind taste test, i recruited a bunch of family members as an expert panel.
index membership data provided bysix telekurs.
and even though my taste test experiment included additional competitors, it still managed to back up pepsi's claims.
today, soft drinks are a key part of a beverage industry worth billions of dollars, so it should be no surprise that when it comes to the highly competitive soft drink wars, the century-long crusade for cola lovers being waged by coke and pepsi shows no sign of abating.
held in malls and shopping centers across america, it  tried -- unsuccessfully -- to settle the "coke vs. pepsi"  debate once and for all.
while coke has always been america's top-selling soft drink, pepsi has steadfastly maintained that, in head-to-head competition, more people prefer the taste of its product in blind taste tests.
in fact, i didn't become a loyal coke drinker until i finally  left the nest.
average score (4-point scale): 1.6.
panel scoring: 31 points.
human judges who deemed it the best: 5.
average score (4-point scale): 2.4.
today, soft drinks are a key part of a beverage industry worth billions of  dollars, so it should be no surprise that when it comes to the highly  competitive soft drink wars, the century-long crusade for cola lovers being  waged by coke and pepsi shows no sign of abating.
kevin wryly noted that the only thing that could have made the pepsi better was a splash of rum.
in fact, i didn't become a loyal coke drinker until i finally left the nest.
for the record, i haven't always been a coke drinker.
human judges who deemed it the best: 2.
pepsi claims the challenge proved that more americans prefer pepsi.
coca-cola inventor dr. john pemberton must be rolling over in his grave.
when comparing products, panelists who could not discern a clear taste advantage between two or more brands were allowed to give identical rankings.
taxes is pepsi really better than coke?
when comparing  products, panelists who could not discern a clear taste advantage between  two or more brands were allowed to give identical rankings.
as far as i'm concerned, coke will always be no. 1 in my book.
the honeybee gave the coke demerits for being "too watery," while dad said it was "lacking in flavor."
fund summary, fund performance and dividend data provided by morningstar inc. analyst recommendations provided by zacks investment research.
in 1975, pepsi introduced a blind taste test known as the "pepsi  challenge."
arguably, the biggest difference between the two soft drinks is that pepsi is sweeter, while coke has a bit more carbonation -- and i have a bias toward that refreshing fizz.
the fittest workplaces in america
today, it is distributed by dr pepper/snapple group.
japanese stock price data provided by nomura research institute ltd.; quotes delayed 20 minutes.
arguably,  the biggest difference between the two soft drinks is that pepsi is sweeter,  while coke has a bit more carbonation -- and i have a bias toward that  refreshing fizz.
as with my ketchup blind taste test, i recruited a bunch of family members  as an expert panel.
although not as popular as coke or pepsi in terms of sales, rc cola received the blue ribbon from two panelists, and three other judges ranked it second best.
our experts on stretching dollars: -- karen datko, lead blogger, is a veteran journalist in small-town montana, where her mortgage is $310 a month.
on the other hand, matthew said royal crown tasted "flat," and both nina and my mom thought rc was "too sweet." 2.
this time there were 10 eager volunteers (plus the dog, of  course).
stockscouter data provided byverus analytics.
he said it was "way too syrupy."
with the panel in place, i prepared individual cola samples in separate  paper cups.
to ensure the taste test was a blind comparison, the samples were marked "a" through "d." the experts were asked to rank each cola solely for taste, from best to worst, with four points for the top performer and one point for the worst.
i know i'm not impressed.
but when it comes to bragging rights for america's top-selling soft drink,  pepsi has played the perennial bridesmaid to coke ever since pepsi made its  debut at the turn of the 20th century.
introducing the cola competitors i ran down to my local albertsons supermarket and bought all four cola brands they were offering for sale:
today, my preference for coke is so strong that i'll often change my drink order to root beer or lemonade at establishments that carry pepsi.
the bargain brand performed well, earning three blue ribbons from the panel.
real-time quotes provided by bats exchange.
introducing the cola competitors i ran down to my local albertsons supermarket and bought all four cola  brands they were offering for sale:
by  msn money partner apr 20, 2012 12:00pm this post comes from len penzo at partner blog len  penzo dot com.
coca-cola price (2 liters): $1.79.
so is pepsi really better than coke?
flavor was the predominant complaint.
in 1975, pepsi introduced a blind taste test known as the "pepsi challenge."
play with the factors that affect the size of your stash.
only one panelist, mark, thought the chill cola was the worst of the bunch.
the  panel members were also free to make comments about each sample.
this post comes from len penzo at partner blog len penzo dot com.
with the panel in place, i prepared individual cola samples in separate paper cups.
a seventh ranked it second from the bottom.
bing: malcolm gladwell and the sip test and pepsi's pride took another hit in 2011 when sales of diet coke  surpassed those of pepsi, making it the second most popular soft drink in  the u.s. is coke really that much better than pepsi?
it received the blue ribbon from five of the judges, and two others thought it was second best.
anyway, with that in mind, i decided to find out which cola my family would  ultimately choose in a modified version of my own pepsi challenge.(post  continues below video.)
how the test was conducted
this time there were 10 eager volunteers (plus the dog, of course).
one provision of the latest effort to shore up the flagging u.s. postal service would allow you to receive alcohol in the mail.
panel scoring: 17 points.
not only did the top-selling u.s. soft drink -- not to mention my personal favorite -- finish in last place, it was thoroughly trounced by the competition.
more from len penzo dot com and msn money: copyright © 2012 microsoft.
pepsi, coke, royal crown, and chill, which  is a bargain brand marketed by shoppers value.
panel scoring: 25 points.
smart spending on the go: get our app for your android or iphone
royal crown cola has been around in its present incarnation since 1934.
people have been enjoying cola-flavored soft drinks ever since 1886, when  the first glasses of coca-cola were served up for 5 cents each (about  $1.10 in today's dollars) at an atlanta pharmacy.