shares of coke and pepsi were both up less than 1 percent in afternoon trade, roughly in line with the standard & poor's 500 index.
as this is the u.s., not the uk -- don't you mean you'll be "encouraging good judgment"?
the change is meant to reduce the amount of a chemical called 4-methylimidazole, or 4-mi, which in january was added to the list of chemicals covered by california's safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986, also known as proposition 65.
then we moved to new jersey...and the creme soda was brown!
at the same time everyone wants to be able to express themselves freely.
- the rsn team +13 # warkovision 2012-03-10 09:23 is it me or does it matter that colas are artificially colored?
now that i am a grown up, i drink coke zero (i hope) 0 # catfather 2012-03-10 13:29 btw to rns team...
the california statute says that "no person in the course of doing  business shall knowingly and intentionally expose any individual to a chemical  known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without first  giving a clear and reasonable warning ..." coca-cola spokesman ben sheidler said the modification to the manufacturing  process will have no effect on the formula, color or taste of coca-cola.
"consumers will notice no difference in our products and have no  reason at all for any health concerns," said pepsico spokeswoman gina  anderson in a statement.
coke and pepsi said on friday that they had asked their suppliers of the caramel coloring in their colas to alter their manufacturing process to meet the requirements of a california ballot initiative aiming to limit people's exposure to toxic chemicals.
but if we drove less than 100 miles west, to indianapolis, "red pop" wasn't red -- it was crystal clear, like 7-up.
if that doesn't work we'll have to ramp up the moderation.
+6 # gf4a 2012-03-10 14:02 while they're at it, coke and pepsi had better take a hard look at the artificial sweetener, aspartame.
in my view this is an indictment of the western capitalist's whole paradigm.
" a customer grabs a bottle of coca-cola at jj&f market in palo alto, california.
gore decision by ian millhiser, thinkprogress 12 march 2012
the gop's dismal week by frank rich, new york magazine 11 march 2012 the self-destruction of limbaugh, murdoch and beck by eric boehlert, media matters for america 11 march 2012 scalia rewrites history of bush v.
we kids called it "red pop" -- a bright, ruby-red and very sweet drink.
the new streamlined rsn login process:
why mitt romney can't shut up about his money by liz goodwin, the ticket/y!news 10 march 2012
shares of coke and pepsi were both up less than 1 percent in afternoon  trade, roughly in line with the standard & poor's 500 index.
they cannot compete with generations of advertising showing a dark brown liquid.
i believe there actually have been several attempts to market clear colas, which bombed.
there is a fine line between moderation and censorship.
an fda spokesman said a person would have to drink "well over a thousand cans of soda a day to reach the doses administered in the studies that have shown links to cancer in rodents".
tweet share intro: "coca-cola co and pepsico inc are making changes to the  production of an ingredient in their namesake colas to avoid the need to label  the packages with a cancer warning.
part of that paradigm that maintains that profit motive produces the best product and there is always a drive to reduce cost the results only measured on the bottom line.
the "new" red pop took on a red-orange color.
i don't drink pepsi or coke never did like it.
that is easy i think as long as it is bottled in glass.
earlier this week, the center for science in the public interest (cspi), a  u.s. watchdog group, said it found unsafe levels of the chemical in cans of  coca-cola, pepsi-cola, dr pepper and whole foods markets inc's (wfm.o) 365 cola.
to this juvenile consumer.
how much more evidence do we need?
probably less harmful than 4-mi and certainly more fun.
" a customer grabs a bottle of coca-cola at jj&f market in palo  alto, california.
the u.s. food and drug administration said at the time it was reviewing the  group's petition but stressed that the drinks were still safe.
(reporting by martinne geller in new york; editing by tim dobbyn and  gerald e. mccormick)
if it tastes the same what's the difference??
but today i cannot stand the taste because they removed the sugar and use hf corn syrup and it taste different.
all you need is a username and a password of your choosing and you are free to comment whenever you like!
simple solution --- stop drinking chemicals overloaded with real or fake sugar.
nine missing romney endorsement quotes by ryan lizza, the new yorker 11 march 2012 focus: dangerous, ignorant warmongers by leslie h. gelb, the daily beast 09 march 2012 it's a war on women and it isn't stopping by charles p. pierce, esquire magazine 10 march 2012 © 2012
coke, pepsi alter recipe to avoid cancer labels by martinne geller, reuters 10 march 12 this announcement comes on the heels of published findings by the center  for science in the public interest that generated a great deal of public  attention.
the change is meant to reduce the amount of a chemical called  4-methylimidazole, or 4-mi, which in january was added to the list of chemicals  covered by california's safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986,  also known as proposition 65.
close name: * username: * e-mail: * password: * confirm password: * fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required.
http://foodtruthfreedom.wordpress.com/2012/02/06/aspartame-equal-nutrasweet-poison/ +1 # rockieball@yahoo.com
+5 # davem 2012-03-10 10:45
remember that making the world better begins with responsible action.
i'm not in sales or anything but would people be less likely to purchase a "clear" uncolored cola if they knew that it didn't contain
the u.s. food and drug administration said at the time it was reviewing the group's petition but stressed that the drinks were still safe.
dr pepper snapple group inc (dps.n) said all the caramel color being  produced for it meets the new california standard.
coke, pepsi alter recipe to avoid cancer labels by martinne geller, reuters 10 march 12 this announcement comes on the heels of published findings by the center for science in the public interest that generated a great deal of public attention.
the same rule should apply to your sugar source, beet or cane or maple or honey.
(photo: paul sakuma/ap)
we used to buy a half gallon jug of the syrup at the local a&w and mix our own at home.
tweet share intro: "coca-cola co and pepsico inc are making changes to the production of an ingredient in their namesake colas to avoid the need to label the packages with a cancer warning.
comments we are concerned about a recent drift towards vitriol in the rsn reader comments section.
welcome to the reader supported news community.
+1 # catfather 2012-03-10 13:25 to: warkvosion, texas aggie and davem: some 60 years ago, my favorite soft drink here in cincinnati was called "creme soda."
(reporting by martinne geller in new york; editing by tim dobbyn and gerald e. mccormick)
sorry for advocating "illegal activity", o webmaster!
dr pepper  snapple shares were up 1.1 percent at $38.12.
that was the only change -- they said -- but it aure tasted different.
as for diet soda you can have that it's worse than regular for your health.
(in fact, it was a different recipe, and in fact was really vanilla soda.)
no one likes a harsh or confrontational forum atmosphere.
reader supported news - privacy policy - terms of use - contact us - who is this?
the maple trees should be free of pesticides and the honey should come from domestic bees because we have no idea what toxic pollen the wild bees pick up because they are dying by the millions.
"consumers will notice no difference in our products and have no reason at all for any health concerns," said pepsico spokeswoman gina anderson in a statement.
i suspect that people have so internalized the idea that colas should be dark that any new light colored product would have to be marketed under another name.
+4 # photonracer 2012-03-10 18:39 quoting i was addicted to pepsi for several years.
potentially dangerous coloring?
high levels of that chemical have been linked to cancer in animals.
+10 # texas aggie 2012-03-10 10:34
people's buying habits are not exactly noted for their practicality and rationality.
in your recent statement about vitriolic drift, you say "we'll start by encouraging good judgement."
is anyone nauseated yet?
register close live occupy wall street tweets natural disaster jp sottile military contractors religion iran middle east human rights us military politics media civil rights labor health care economy environment congress white house afghanistan iraq peace war marc ash scott galindez juan cole robert reich paul krugman john cory cate woodruff occupy wall street occupy movement focus: papers refuse to run 'doonesbury' abortion law strip by bill draper, associated press 10 march 2012
see the full story of cspi's findingshere. - jps/rsn he change will not be noticeable to consumers, according to statements from both companies.
both companies said they started in california, and would expand the use of the reduced 4-mi caramel coloring over time.
it was made by the same company, my father told me, and the only difference was the color -- he told me.
see the full story of cspi's findingshere. - jps/rsn he change will not be noticeable to consumers, according to statements from  both companies.
coke and pepsi said on friday that they had asked their suppliers of the  caramel coloring in their colas to alter their manufacturing process to meet  the requirements of a california ballot initiative aiming to limit people's  exposure to toxic chemicals.
your fruit juice will probably be from a gm plant so i would suggest determining first if your juice is free of pesticides and herbicides.
now, i just drink water or fruit juice.
refresh comments list rss feed for comments to this post.
dr pepper snapple group inc (dps.n) said all the caramel color being produced for it meets the new california standard.
absolutely pablo..however i do caution you to make sure your water is not toxic with butane, arsenic, toluene.
the california statute says that "no person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without first giving a clear and reasonable warning ..." coca-cola spokesman ben sheidler said the modification to the manufacturing process will have no effect on the formula, color or taste of coca-cola.
i used to like and drinks a&w root beers as well as dad's old fashion.
an fda spokesman  said a person would have to drink "well over a thousand cans of soda a day  to reach the doses administered in the studies that have shown links to cancer  in rodents".
the incomplete greatness of barack obama by paul glastris, the washington monthly 11 march 2012 focus:
dr pepper snapple shares were up 1.1 percent at $38.12.
both companies said they started in california, and would expand the use of  the reduced 4-mi caramel coloring over time.
i understand from a visual perspective it might be more attractive to some but is it really that important?
+8 # sandyboy 2012-03-10 11:02 put back the cocaine, i say!
+8 # capn canard 2012-03-10 10:08
years later, the maker of cincinnati red pop altered its recipe 'cause the wonderful red dye was labeled carcinogenic.
it did not taste like red pop 'cause it wasn't red.
register once, then login and you are ready to comment.
do people really associate color with the way it will taste?
general guidelines: avoid personal attacks on other forum members; avoid remarks that are ethnically derogatory; do not advocate violence, or any illegal activity.
i don't know, but: was any cola ever actually that color, even with the original (19th century) ingredients?
+5 # pablo diablo 2012-03-10 17:11 i was addicted to pepsi for several years.
and did it ever taste different!
earlier this week, the center for science in the public interest (cspi), a u.s. watchdog group, said it found unsafe levels of the chemical in cans of coca-cola, pepsi-cola, dr pepper and whole foods markets inc's (wfm.o) 365 cola.
we'll start by encouraging good judgement.