so one of the guys popped out for a bit and came  back with 6 two litre bottles of brown fizzy pop so we could setup our own  test.
you could tell there was a difference, but it was really hard identifying if the difference was a manufacturer difference (coke/pepsi) or a variety difference (coke/coke zero).
it was a site to be seen, and great fun too.
privacy policyhtml5 | css3
the only thing that  differentiates each of the bottles is the label and the lid.
well, what an afternoon it was - a bunch of techies, some of which are die-hard fizzy pop drinkers, all umming and ahhing, swishing and sniffing like wine connoisseurs.
here are more just like it.
after a bit of a debate, we decided we'd actually find out for ourselves,  rather than just debate it.
well, you'd be right if you were only trying to distinguish between coke and pepsi, or diet and full fat, but our challenge was to correctly identify all 6 bottles, side-by-side.
username: password: login ↓login ↓ · 29 march 2008 · we've all heard about the coke/pepsi/sprite test where tasters couldn't taste the difference between coke, pepsi and sprite due to the temperature they drinks were served, but do you think you could tell the difference between coke and pepsi and their varients if the drinks were served at room temperature?
i thought this would be quite an easy challenge.
i didn't hang about for the final results, but that wasn't really the point.
coke/pepsi: can you really taste the difference? · 29 march 2008 · we've all heard about the coke/pepsi/sprite test where tasters couldn't  taste the difference between coke, pepsi and sprite due to the temperature they  drinks were served, but do you think you could tell the difference between coke  and pepsi and their varients if the drinks were served at room temperature?
tagged with: food & drink, coke, pepsi, diet coke, diet pepsi, coke  zero and pepsi max like this post?
we were discussing this and the various merits of coke vs pepsi at work yesterday, and one of the guys came up with the idea of creating our own coke / pepsi test to see if we really could tell the difference between coke, diet coke, coke zero, pepi, diet pepsi and pepsi max when given the opportunity to taste them side-by-side, in any order, without any clues as to which were which.
my stomach was becoming very bloated  from swigging all that fizzy pop and the sugar was starting to work it's magic  on my teeth and sugar levels.
the point was to prove that given a blind test, most people really can't  tell the difference between coke, coke zero, pepsi and pepsi max, and i was one  of them.
there weren't any rules other than you just had to correctly  identify all 6 bottles.
there weren't any rules other than you just had to correctly identify all 6 bottles.
it was easy to identify the diet coke and diet pepsi - they are distinctly different from the others due to the type of sweeteners used - but correctly identifying the others proved to be much harder.
the labels were removed and replaced with generic a, b, c, d, e and f  labels (the original contents were noted before and correlated to the new  labels), the lids mixed up and then the bottles shuffled ready for the  challenge.
i didn't hang about for the final results, but that wasn't really the  point.
tagged with: food & drink, coke, pepsi, diet coke, diet pepsi, coke zero and pepsi max { 0 comments }
conveniently, the bottles themselves are identical.
well, what an afternoon it was - a bunch of techies, some of which are  die-hard fizzy pop drinkers, all umming and ahhing, swishing and sniffing like  wine connoisseurs.
well, you'd be right if you were  only trying to distinguish between coke and pepsi, or diet and full fat, but  our challenge was to correctly identify all 6 bottles, side-by-side.
after a bit of a debate, we decided we'd actually find out for ourselves, rather than just debate it.
the only thing that differentiates each of the bottles is the label and the lid.
you could tell there was a difference, but it  was really hard identifying if the difference was a manufacturer difference  (coke/pepsi) or a variety difference (coke/coke zero).
previous post: now running wordpress 2.5 rc2 next post: summer 2008 starts today subscribe to my feed copyright © 2003 - 2012 colin seymour all rights reserved.
you could sample them in any order and as many times as  you liked.
it was easy  to identify the diet coke and diet pepsi - they are distinctly different from  the others due to the type of sweeteners used - but correctly identifying the  others proved to be much harder.
you could sample them in any order and as many times as you liked.
the point was to prove that given a blind test, most people really can't tell the difference between coke, coke zero, pepsi and pepsi max, and i was one of them.
we were discussing this and the various merits of coke vs pepsi at work  yesterday, and one of the guys came up with the idea of creating our own coke /  pepsi test to see if we really could tell the difference between coke, diet  coke, coke zero, pepi, diet pepsi and pepsi max when given the opportunity to  taste them side-by-side, in any order, without any clues as to which were which.
my stomach was becoming very bloated from swigging all that fizzy pop and the sugar was starting to work it's magic on my teeth and sugar levels.
if you have any further questions or comments, feel free to send them to me directly.
now you're probably thinking, easy peasy.
in the end i just guessed the last 4.
the labels were removed and replaced with generic a, b, c, d, e and f labels (the original contents were noted before and correlated to the new labels), the lids mixed up and then the bottles shuffled ready for the challenge.
if you've got a spare bit of cash and a large group of people, give it a go one day and see what i mean.
if you've got a spare bit of cash and a large group of people, give it a go  one day and see what i mean.
so one of the guys popped out for a bit and came back with 6 two litre bottles of brown fizzy pop so we could setup our own test.