view ourprivacy and legal info.
2009-02-03 bill gerba writes:
so when consumed in very small amounts (a few sips), it comes across as more flavorful.
so when consumed in very small amounts (a few sips), it comes across as more  flavorful.
for example, we all know by now that a brandonly has a few seconds to win its first moment of truth with a consumer.
tweet five seconds of fame: digital signage as a sippable medium author: bill gerba on 2007-09-30 11:51:19 over the past few weeks, a lot more people have been asking us how to make compelling digital signage content.
comments (2) subscribe to comments for this article | trackback 2009-01-26 steven skinner writes: bill, i find your insights (even this dated one) to always be insightful.
we can then as an industry begin to capture consistent data and have a consistent view of the whole shopper insight medium.
hi steven, thanks very much for the kind words.
digital signage is a lot like pepsi to a static pop  display's coke: best consumed in small quantities.
repeat yourself too often, and  your message becomes annoying.
the alerts reported to  be most effective are those for price-off events and new or seasonal items.
let's define this thing from a pure shopper insight perspective as opposed to muddling the water with all other media elements...start small and then build it.
in his article at  mediapost, nigel hollis talks about thechanges made to the tesco network over  in the uk.
on the other hand, we continue to gain insight into how our product is best perceived and used, just like pepsi did.
what do i mean by that?
repeat yourself too often, and your message becomes annoying.
with that information, we can continue to get better at developing successful content strategies, optimizing network execution plans, and enjoying the sweet -- but not too sweet -- taste of success.
as hollis notes, "the power of these 'alerts' rests not  in their creativity but in their proximity to purchase.
as if to emphasize the increasing awareness of digital  signage content, i came across another article that reinforces just how little  time we have -- and consequently, just how compelling our content needs to be  -- when trying to woo shoppers at retail.
website: comment: (max 2000 characters) are you a human?
they were able to legitimately say two out of three (or whatever  the proper ratio is) preferred pepsi, conveniently leaving off the little  asterisk explaining that this is only true when consumed a mere ounce or two at  a time.
unfortunately,  mismanagement and a misunderstanding of how in-store digital media workscaused  the network to languish, and some people questioned whether the whole thing  would be scrapped.
the tester was given a small cup of cola from box a, another small cup from box b, and then asked which they preferred.
and that's both the strength and weakness of in-store video.
digital signage is a lot like pepsi to a static pop display's coke: best consumed in small quantities.
but this blog is a labor of love.
if you'd like to suggest a topic for a future article, feel free to leave a comment orcontact us.
for example, we all know by now that a  brandonly has a few seconds to win its first moment of truth with a consumer.
subscribe to our rss feed about this blog wirespring provides hardware, software and services for digital signage and kiosk projects.
everyone from celebrities to children to the elderly  seemed to be involved.
the latter part of the argument notwithstanding (since  strategies forusing digital signage to build brands are entirely different from  those using it to boost sales), we're once again confirming thatdigital signage  content usually works best when delivered in short bursts.
the author of each article is clearly identified at the start of the article.
in fact, a mere five seconds is even better, though admittedly these quick bursts of content are best suited to high traffic shopping aisles, rather than high dwell-time areas.
thankfully, under the skilled management of dunnhumby (which handles tesco's pop arrangements), the network is now thriving, and the group has even shared some of their secrets.
they were interested in prism, but perhaps not enough to foot the whole r&d bill.
the digital signage insider is written by multiple authors.
pepsi understood  the strengths and weaknesses of their product, and engineered a test optimized  in its favor.
designed to be sweeter  and more sippable, the drink was widely rejected and very quickly replaced with  the coke classic that we know and love today.
on the other hand, we continue to gain insight  into how our product is best perceived and used, just like pepsi did.
in his article at mediapost, nigel hollis talks about thechanges made to the tesco network over in the uk.
editorial policy: article topics are selected by our writers and editors, with the goal of providing objective and useful information to the entire digital signage industry.
however, when taken in larger amounts (say a 12 ounce can), many  people find the cola to be cloying and instead prefer coke.
unlike pepsi, though, we don't get to choose how  we're tested and measured, so it's entirely possible that when these  organizations release their findings, the true nature of in-store digital media  won't be accurately portrayed.
whenever we mention a project that wirespring is directly involved in, we'll be sure to provide appropriate disclosure in the text.
all content besides the actual article text, e.g. surrounding branding and informational content, is copyright © 2000-2012 wirespring technologies, inc.
all articles are copyright © 2004-2012 by their respective author.
this means covering a lot of projects that have nothing to do with wirespring's products, and we're fine with that.
and  that's both the strength and weakness of in-store video.
get pricing and trial info copyright © 2000-2012 wirespring technologies, inc.
as hollis notes, "the power of these 'alerts' rests not in their creativity but in their proximity to purchase.
except as provided in ourrepublishing and syndication policy, no content on this website may be reproduced, in whole or in part, without our express written consent.
at that time, pepsi (who was rapidly gaining market share as the beverage choice of the next generation) went around the country conducting televised, blind taste tests between themselves and coke.
with this  in mind, i would like to officially dub digital signage the "sippable  medium".
whereas a pop display or an endcap is designed to be shopped, walked past, seen from a distance, examined up close, and constantly navigated around, a piece of content on a digital sign often must be impactful, but fleeting.
because pepsi is much sweeter than coke.
start a live chat • call us at (800) 989-9269 or +1 (954) 548-3300 •
in  fact, a mere five seconds is even better, though admittedly these quick bursts  of content are best suited to high traffic shopping aisles, rather than high  dwell-time areas.
our posts cover everything from case studies to creative briefs, and we post new articles about once a week.
well, to explain it we'll have to go back to the cola wars of the late 1970s and early 80s.
back in digital signage land, we face a challenge, especially in light of ongoing in-store media measurement studies by popai and nielsen/prism (one of which justannounced some preliminary findings).
the alerts reported to be most effective are those for price-off events and new or seasonal items.
tweet leave a comment name: email address: (required but won't be shown)
invariably, the tester chose the pepsi.
unlike pepsi, though, we don't get to choose how we're tested and measured, so it's entirely possible that when these organizations release their findings, the true nature of in-store digital media won't be accurately portrayed.
in order to get their jobs done.
what we're seeing from the measurement newcomers is exactly the kind of approach that you're talking about, and in the end, it may well prove to be the right one.
while you might just chalk it up to scripted tests and tv magic, pepsi also performed better in more scientific tests, and even coke admitted it.
their efforts should make these networks more effective at engaging viewers and delivering the right messages at exactly the right place and time.
the opinions expressed in each article are solely those of the author, and do not reflect the official opinions of wirespring technologies, inc.
though useful for encouraging switching, in-store video is not as good at building long-term brand loyalty."
because its influence  is concentrated at the point of purchase, it will be most successful for  categories that are already impulse- or activation-oriented.
coke was so scared by this that they introduced one of the biggest debacles in marketing history: the short-lived new coke.
designed to be sweeter and more sippable, the drink was widely rejected and very quickly replaced with the coke classic that we know and love today.
if so, uncheck this box: show more articles on this topic previous article: digital signage tips from an unlikely source: reality tv next article: digital signage project management, installation and systems integration tips front page of digital signage insider blog legal stuff:
with that  information, we can continue to get better at developing successful content  strategies, optimizing network execution plans, and enjoying the sweet -- but  not too sweet -- taste of success.
the tester was given a small cup of cola from box a,  another small cup from box b, and then asked which they preferred.
while you might just chalk it up to  scripted tests and tv magic, pepsi also performed better in more scientific  tests, and even coke admitted it.
back in digital signage  land, we face a challenge, especially in light of ongoing in-store media  measurement studies by popai and nielsen/prism (one of which justannounced some  preliminary findings).
at that time, pepsi (who was  rapidly gaining market share as the beverage choice of the next generation)  went around the country conducting televised, blind taste tests between  themselves and coke.
however, when taken in larger amounts (say a 12 ounce can), many people find the cola to be cloying and instead prefer coke.
tesco tv was a banner child for the digital signage community when it was first rolled out by their media partner, jcdecaux.
i think there are two competing forces here that partly explain the failure of prism: on one side are old-school agencies and planners that must have an apples-to-apples comparison to tv, print, etc.
whatever the reason, i'm glad that more companies are thinking about specific content creation strategies for their retail, financial and health care networks.
thankfully, under the skilled management of dunnhumby (which  handles tesco's pop arrangements), the network is now thriving, and the group  has even shared some of their secrets.
their efforts should make these networks more  effective at engaging viewers and delivering the right messages at exactly the  right place and time.
hardware, software and expert advice for digital signage and kiosks  skip to main content home products solutions blog  support company news contact customer login latest articles  full article list the digital signage insider industry and news and best practices for  digital signage, m2m and kiosk projects.
we don't take very kindly to pr spam, so please review our past articles before contacting us to verify that what you're planning to send is a good fit for our audience.
take more than a few seconds to make  your point, and lose the shopper's attention.
tesco tv was a banner child for the digital signage community when  it was first rolled out by their media partner, jcdecaux.
i don't know if it's because the technical issues have finally been solved and they're ready to move on to the next step, or if there are simply more project managers who understand that a network is only as good as the content that runs on it.
well, to explain it we'll have to go back  to the cola wars of the late 1970s and early 80s.
while p&g may have discovered this phenomenon, dunnhumby's research confirms it, as they note that content shouldn't be longer than 15 seconds.
with this in mind, i would like to officially dub digital signage the "sippable medium".
pepsi understood the strengths and weaknesses of their product, and engineered a test optimized in its favor.
because its influence is concentrated at the point of purchase, it will be most successful for categories that are already impulse- or activation-oriented.
whatever the reason, i'm glad that more companies are  thinking about specific content creation strategies for their retail, financial  and health care networks.
on the other side are shopper marketing experts (like miller zell), as well as the retailers and brands themselves, who would much prefer the type of data you're talking about, because it will enable them to do more business (as opposed to cpm-style ads, which just enable them to maybe sell some ads).
everyone from celebrities to children to the elderly seemed to be involved.
except as provided in wirespring'srepublishing and syndication policy, no articles may be reproduced, in whole or in part, without wirespring's express written consent.
coke was so scared by this that they introduced one of the biggest  debacles in marketing history: the short-lived new coke.
while p&g may have discovered this phenomenon, dunnhumby's research  confirms it, as they note that content shouldn't be longer than 15 seconds.
hardware, software and expert advice for digital signage and kiosks skip to main content home products solutions blog support company news contact customer login digital signage insider signagewire latest articles full article list the digital signage insider industry and news and best practices for digital signage, m2m and kiosk projects.
whereas a pop display or an  endcap is designed to be shopped, walked past, seen from a distance, examined  up close, and constantly navigated around, a piece of content on a digital sign  often must be impactful, but fleeting.
unfortunately, mismanagement and a misunderstanding of how in-store digital media workscaused the network to languish, and some people questioned whether the whole thing would be scrapped.
it seems to us at miller zell that perhaps the prism initiative suffered from too many appendages.
tweet five seconds of fame: digital signage as a sippable medium author: bill gerba on 2007-09-30 11:51:19 over the past few weeks, a  lot more people have been asking us how to make compelling digital signage  content.
they were able to legitimately say two out of three (or whatever the proper ratio is) preferred pepsi, conveniently leaving off the little asterisk explaining that this is only true when consumed a mere ounce or two at a time.
as if to emphasize the increasing awareness of digital signage content, i came across another article that reinforces just how little time we have -- and consequently, just how compelling our content needs to be -- when trying to woo shoppers at retail.
invariably,  the tester chose the pepsi.
perhaps the better way to go is to build out a smaller more economical data model that all agree to as part of their shopper (or customer) data warehouse models.
though useful for  encouraging switching, in-store video is not as good at building long-term  brand loyalty."
i don't know if it's because the technical issues have finally been  solved and they're ready to move on to the next step, or if there are simply  more project managers who understand that a network is only as good as the  content that runs on it.
the latter part of the argument notwithstanding (since strategies forusing digital signage to build brands are entirely different from those using it to boost sales), we're once again confirming thatdigital signage content usually works best when delivered in short bursts.
take more than a few seconds to make your point, and lose the shopper's attention.