the aluminum can changes the taste.
i could also pick out the one from the plastic bottle (the one that probably causes cancer).
the campaign way back on the "new" coke.. seems to be the original recipe has been lost.
inside: the inner workings of the world's fastest elevator, the ultimate scuba machine, the best nerf gun ever, and more.
vg15.0929p_nt~ ~^ very nice thank you.
furthermore, coca-cola used to taste much, much better with the old, pre-1970s recipe.
maybe it tastes funny cause it's not pepsi.
the  coca-cola company it doesn’t.
previous article: if a mosquito bites me after i’ve had a beer, can it get drunk?
i find even pouring things into a glass makes them taste better.
but it doesn't contradict their own customers' experience.
i think it tastes complete different
coca cola made with cane sugar is bottled in small quantities for the jewish holidays.
but now iam little bit suspicious too.
www.youtube.com/johntheadams
vomits up coca cola www.youtube.com/watch?v=heuwrj7sypk
in other words- the coke in the plastic bottle should be less bubbly.
coke in a glass bottle tastes great.
unfortunately, coke in the bottle ends up costing more but it's worth every penny.
each issue has been completely reimagined for your ipad.
the difference now is that there is this little thing called the blogosphere where even the most trivial issue can be made into a global crisis.
but is it possible that the  subtle variation in taste that some notice among aluminum cans, plastic bottles  and glass bottles is more than just a psychological effect of their  soda-consumption rituals?
given that the formula is always the same, yes, according to sara risch, a  food chemist and member of the institute of food technologists.
but is it possible that the subtle variation in taste that some notice among aluminum cans, plastic bottles and glass bottles is more than just a psychological effect of their soda-consumption rituals?
but, i definitely remember that coke had a much better taste when i was a kid than in later years.
it has started very recently but yet has gained the immense responses from its users, mainly due to its user friendly attitude.
-verblist http://www.verblist.net nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo you want a better tasting coke?
but you have to drink it up pretty quick or the fizz goes away.
free classifieds website started to clinch for the superiority in its market of free classifieds.
subscribe  to popular science today, for less than $1 per issue!
coke in glass bottles is made with high-fructose corn syrup.
pepsi drinkers should compare cans of pepsi made with hfcs to those made with cane sugar.
more than worth the effort to get it, if you are a dp fan.
they're trying to do the same thing now.
executives are stupid.
i do agree there is a very much differents in how coke taste today, i only drink at from a glass bottle with real sugar only now days & not the corn stuff, coke cola lies about the truth, & they only do for money now days like most business in the usa today do, but we all can change that if we all put some thinking & time & action into it!
“the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the  package it comes in,” they insist.
“the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the package it comes in,” they insist.
perhaps someday, scientests will figure out why, or not.
just like beer tastes different from bottle and from can.
from garland, tx08/08/09 at 12:44 pm michael hemsley from garland, tx08/08/09 at 1:04 pm there is a differance besides the surgar.
i distinctly remember the sensation of running my tongue along the edge of the bottle opening between swallows; capturing tiny little bubbles of foam which had an intense flavor.
whatever the manufacturers may claim, coke today does not taste anything like what it tasted like 50 years ago - it had a real distinctive flavor then; now its just sweet water with bubbles!!
an update to my note above - glass bottled coke in the us is still made with corn syrup, not sugar.
by doug cantor  posted 07.31.2009 at 10:12 am 30 comments the usual suspects  various  container materials might impart slight changes to coke's flavor.
given that the formula is always the same, yes, according to sara risch, a food chemist and member of the institute of food technologists.
truth is a dimension, it changes with the evolving uniqueness of existence.
but, that's not what irks me.
you may have to do some searching, but it's available many places in the us.
that’s what coca-cola’s spokespeople say, anyway.
if it tastes different, it's for a different reason, not because of the sweetener.
consumers obviously like glass bottled coke (with real sugar) way more than plastic or can bottled coke.
it's cold watery bubbley and flavored!!!
also i still maintain that the old coke, the one that i grew up on is no longer in the can, bottle glass or plastic.
other factors, such as the plastic used to make the 20 oz bottles, and aluminum cans do seem to make a difference in flavor, at least to me.
also see ourpopsci diy feed
previous article: if a  mosquito bites me after i’ve had a beer, can it get drunk?
sure, most people would agree that the cola is indeed delicious and refreshing, and pouring it into a glass or serving it over ice could influence the sensation of its flavor.
so yeah, the packaging might mess with coke’s flavor, but  we’ll still take it any day over new coke.
in the united states, coke is made with corn syrup then put in aluminum or plastic.
i still prefer having my coke in a glass bottle, when i have one.
conversely, acetaldehyde in plastic bottles might migrate into the soda.
coca-cola, you should be listening.
sometimes coke will be issued in glass bottles during the christmas holiday - these might be hfcs, i haven't checked.
i find no difference in both.
rather, they say, “the particular way that people choose to enjoy their coke can affect their perception of taste.”
we just didn't have a powerful medium like the internet to put those clueless execs in their place.
i found some in two groceries on the upper west side in manhattan last september.
if you like coke you might wanna drink some on october 25: http://internationalcocacoladay.wordpress.com /cokeman i live in mexico, where coca cola is available in cans, plastic bottles, and glass bottles.
definitely tastes better than the usual corn syrup coke.
they claimed that no one noticed.
copyright © 2009 popular science a bonnier corporation company.
so yeah, the packaging might mess with coke’s flavor, but we’ll still take it any day over new coke.
it's their attitude towards people; their customers.
coke is available throughout the world and whenever i am overseas i try to taste it only to find it varies quite a lot.
coke from plastic bottles has a chemical taste, and coke from cans has a metallic taste.
i don't drink us coke any more because it tastes horrible.
see our amazing new vision for magazines that goes far beyond the printed page stay up to date on the latest news of the future of science and technology from youriphone or android phone with full articles, images and offline viewing featuring every article from the magazine and website, plus links from around the web.
quintus: plastic bottles are permeable to gasses and as a result- the carbonation in a plastic bottle deteriorates over time.
the reason they taste differently might be because, coca-cola that is in a glass container, is usually made in mexico, instead of in the united states, and in mexico, they use actual sugar and not high fructose corn syrup.
your best bet for getting coke’s pure, unaltered taste is to drink it from a glass bottle, the most inert material it’s served in.
even that’s not a sure bet, though.
rather, they say, “the  particular way that people choose to enjoy their coke can affect their  perception of taste.”
for example, the polymer that lines aluminum cans might absorb small amounts of soluble flavor from the soda.
nor were journalists inclined to put tough questions to those same execs -- not exactly the most important issue of the day.
coke from glass is typically made with cane sugar.
your best bet for getting coke’s pure, unaltered taste is to drink it  from a glass bottle, the most inert material it’s served in.
and a proper, heavy glass, 'coke shaped' coke bottle makes all the difference!
there is something to the plastic as well as the metal in the cans that changes the taste.
as a side note, pepsi started selling cans made with cane sugar.
that was unique and can not be replicated with plastic, aluminum or corn syrup.
practically every beverage tastes different in plastic/metal/glass/paper.
go to walmart and look in the hispanic foods section - you will find coke in glass bottles - on the ingredients label it will say 'cane sugar'.
plus: swimming in a nuclear power plant, monkey surgery, new gadgets, and lots of other goodies.
only is it made with natural sugar and not processed corn but, the entire experience is altered when drinking from the different variety of containers.
the only coke sold in the us that is made with sugar (to my knowledge, anyway) is bottled in mexico.
http://www.medicaldictionaryweb.com/ glass bottle hands down. .
having said all that- coke in an aluminum can always tastes more acidic to me and i like the difference.
for example, the polymer that lines aluminum cans might  absorb small amounts of soluble flavor from the soda.
i very rarely drink soda anymore after watching the "super size me" documentary a couple years ago.
not only did the long, narrow glass bottles influence the taste, but back then, they were still using cane sugar.
everything tastes better out of glass.
the only one i don't like is coke in a plastic bottle.
this isn't coke related but how did you get the o's to go out into the advertisements?
they need to come to grips with the fact that their customers are not retards.
sure, most people would agree that the cola is  indeed delicious and refreshing, and pouring it into a glass or serving it over  ice could influence the sensation of its flavor.
try to find coke bottled in mexico.
the fda regulates this kind of potential chemical contact, but even minute, allowable amounts could alter flavor.
there yet another conspiracy theory started right here.
the coke that comes in a glass bottle, is often a bit sweeter and maybe a bit less bubbly than the one in a can.
nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
if the contents of each container were to be poured into separate glasses, and i were to taste each one, i could pick out the coca cola that came from the glass bottle in less than a second.
the glass is better, and is definitely different.
maybe it could be an idea for a new release.
even  that’s not a sure bet, though.
“while  packaging and food companies work to prevent any interactions, they can  occur,” she says.
it came in plastic two litre bottles with yellow screw on caps.
old style glass bottle, and made with real cane sugar, not corn syrup.
according to my totally unscientific research, coke from a glass bottle tastes definitely different from coke served from an aluminium can or a plastic bottle.
whilst glass bottled coke does taste best, in the uk it's not readily available and when it is it's sold at a premium.
more common is the choice between can and plastic bottle, and can wins every time.
which is not that often, maybe twice a month.
i'm a dedicated coca cola drinker, and always buy it in glass bottles.
the people at coca cola are full of bs.
coca-cola maintains strict uniformity in processes in all of its worldwide bottling facilities, but it concedes that exposure to light and how long the product sits on store shelves may affect the taste.
but of course it also has a lot to do with temperature and where you buy your drink!
i remember coke execs crowing about their switch from cane sugar to corn syrup.
(wink wink, nudge nudge) who cares!!!
our annual how it works issue is here!
my personal theory is that in a plastic bottle, the coke never reaches quite the same coldness as it does in a can, and therefore never tastes as good.
no matter how you purify it .
coke in a glass bottle tastes different for a very plain and simple reason: bottled coke is usually made in mexico (look at the label, you'll see) and down there they use real cane sugar in the recipe, then bottle it in glass.
why does coke from a glass bottle taste different?
check the ingredients list.
coca-cola executives may inadvertently help launch a wave of negative publicity by making ludicrous statements like: “the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the package it comes in.”
the fda regulates this kind of  potential chemical contact, but even minute, allowable amounts could alter  flavor.
of course coke tastes better drinking from a glass bottle.
bilgisayar kursu http://www.biltekakademi.com 140 years of popular science at your fingertips.
i cant believe this research.
popycock, coke is full of it.
it would have been smarter to say something like: "the great taste of coca-cola can be experienced with sensational, but very subtle, almost imperceptible variations of flavor, depending on the package it comes in."
water tastes differant all over the united states and world
for most of us, it doesn't seem to be a show stopper, but most beverages tend to cost a bit more in glass bottles.
reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
on the other hand, the coke that comes in plastic bottle, seems often to be more bubbly than the one in a can, but tastes otherwise more or less the same.
conversely, acetaldehyde  in plastic bottles might migrate into the soda.
why limit it to coke(tm).
store personnel said it was not available in glass or in smaller containers.
coca-cola maintains strict uniformity in  processes in all of its worldwide bottling facilities, but it concedes that  exposure to light and how long the product sits on store shelves may affect the  taste.
that's another story - the dr. pepper plant in dublin, tx still bottles dp made with pure cane (imperial) sugar (i think it's the only plant in the us that does).
next  article: turning brain waves into beautiful music want to learn more  about breakthroughs in electronics, medicine, nanotech, and more?
“while packaging and food companies work to prevent any interactions, they can occur,” she says.
take the test yourself, all taste differant glass,plastic,can.
while extensively researching why beer in a bottle tastes different from canned beer, i was told that glass can be sterilized, whereas aluminium can't, so canned liquids have more preservatives in them - hence the taste difference.
the two flavors are unmistakably different.
that’s what coca-cola’s spokespeople say,  anyway.