where pepsi got it wrong, coke got it right.
rss feed - google - youdao - xian guo - zhua xia - my yahoo! - newsgator - bloglines - inezha about me bio: mickey lonchar opted for a career in advertising after many assurances it would not require any math or heavy lifting.
- why can’t all advertising be super bowl advertising?
what’s more, when you see someone drinking a  coke from a polar bear can, you immediately identify him as a fellow arctic  preservationist.
promoted by both mass media and social media, this program spells out exactly what the marketer intends to do (donate up to $2 million for arctic habitat preservation over five years) and how the coke community can help support (purchase cans and bottle of coke with the polar bears on it).
there were charges, in fact, of cheating on the part of some charitable entities in order to extort funds from pepsi.
having spent the better part of two decades creating award-winning advertising with agencies up and down the west coast, mickey currently holds the position of creative director with quisenberry marketing & design, a full-service advertising and interactive shop with offices in spokane and seattle, wash. come visit our website read more by mickey - a cure for brand o.c.d. - it’s
as you may recall, pepsi was one of the first big-name marketers to  aggressively go “all-in” in a social media sense, with its much  talked-about “pepsi refresh project.”
an annual donation of just $500,000 for an organization that has annual sales in the billions is less than a drop in the bucket.
name (required) e-mail (will not be published) (required)
promoted by both mass media and social media, this  program spells out exactly what the marketer intends to do (donate up to $2  million for arctic habitat preservation over five years) and how the coke  community can help support (purchase cans and bottle of coke with the polar  bears on it).
while i, for one, don’t think pepsi’s descent in the cola wars was due to the fact that it didn’t run a couple of super bowl spots (more on that inthis post), i do think the marketer dropped the ball when it came to defining and managing the “pepsi refresh” program.
super bowl commercials: the original ‘viral videos’ super bowl upset if you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to my rss feed!
what gathered a lot of media attention for pepsi wasn’t so much the  program itself, but the fact that pepsi was pulling back in its traditional  media spending in order to fund this program.
the 30% rule - truth rules - why are so many brand stories bad ones?
pepsi seemed to be more interested in social media for social media’s sake rather than dedicated to a specific cause and serving as a catalyst for building a community of fans who also supported it.
website subscribe to comments feed five resolutions to make in the new year.
- did pepsi give social media a black eye?
the program didn’t have a clear mission.
in the year following “pepsi refresh,” pepsi’s flagship  product slipped into third place in the soft drink category (behind diet coke).
valid xhtml 1.1 and css 3.
move from mass media to social media.
- admin on the accidental inventor.
pepsi seemed to be more interested in social  media for social media’s sake rather than dedicated to a specific cause  and serving as a catalyst for building a community of fans who also supported  it.
many social media naysayers were quick to blame this slide on pepsi’s move from mass media to social media.
this was a commitment from pepsi to support worthwhile causes recommended and voted on by its customers and fans.
- josh bernoff on fun facts on facebook fans from forrester.
of course, i do have some issues with this campaign as well.
as it turns out, the brand really didn’t need to cut back much, just the couple of spots it traditionally ran in the super bowl.
many were geographically limited, so the pepsi community as a whole would not benefit or see the results.
why can’t all advertising be super bowl advertising?
home about switcher home > media, new media, on clients, ramblings, social media, customer experience, strategy > where pepsi got it  wrong, coke got it right.
- don on bud robbins and the capo d’astro bar meta top wordpress copyright © 2007-2012
as it turns out, the brand really  didn’t need to cut back much, just the couple of spots it traditionally  ran in the super bowl.
in case you haven’t seen it, here is the spot coke is running promoting its save the arctic efforts: 3slztn3vjus similar posts: - pepsi’s “gulf refresh” a little hard to swallow.
- no trackbacks yet.
a  cause that is hard to say “no” to.
ramblings and observations on marketing, advertising  and interactive issues.
instead of focusing on a clear, single goal (for example, fresh drinking water in third-world countries), suggestions from fans were all over the map.
a cause that is hard to say “no” to.
in case you haven’t seen it, here is the spot coke is running  promoting its save the arctic efforts: 3slztn3vjus pepsi’s “gulf refresh” a little hard to swallow.
specifically, i take pepsi to task for three key reasons: - the focus was more on the “crowd sourcing” part of the program than in the good works themselves.
an annual  donation of just $500,000 for an organization that has annual sales in the  billions is less than a drop in the bucket.
increase your contributions ten fold.
the program didn’t treat all community members fairly.
what’s more, when you see someone drinking a coke from a polar bear can, you immediately identify him as a fellow arctic preservationist.
chances are, coke is spending at  least 20 times that amount in paid media promoting this campaign alone.
switcher home > media, new media, on clients, ramblings, social media, customer experience, strategy > where pepsi got it wrong, coke got it right.
by partnering with wwf, coke also aligned itself with a an organization which is beyond reproach, giving the program more legitimacy.
bookmark it hide sites mickey media, new media, on clients, ramblings, social media, customer  experience, strategy amplify strategy, best use of social media, coca cola, coke ,pepsi, pepsi refresh, social media campaigns
if you’re going to start a movement (which is what  social media at its best is capable of doing), you need to have a clear,  succinct, non-compromising vision of what it is you will do and how  specifically your audience can contribute and participate.
- super bowl commercials: the original ‘viral videos’ - super bowl upset
pepsi used social media (primarily facebook) to elicit suggestions,  to “crowd source” the causes (have fans and friends vote on them),  and to report news developments.
pepsi used social media (primarily facebook) to elicit suggestions, to “crowd source” the causes (have fans and friends vote on them), and to report news developments.
many were  geographically limited, so the pepsi community as a whole would not benefit or  see the results.
contrast what pepsi did more than a year ago to what coke is doing  now.
what gathered a lot of media attention for pepsi wasn’t so much the program itself, but the fact that pepsi was pulling back in its traditional media spending in order to fund this program.
in the year following “pepsi refresh,” pepsi’s flagship product slipped into third place in the soft drink category (behind diet coke).
social media is most effective when it is used to amplify a strategy, not become one.
okay to hate this article - screw scale -
- gamaliel on the accidental inventor.
coke has teamed with theworld wildlife fund to help preserve the habitat of the arctic polar bear.
it hide sites mickey media, new media, on clients, ramblings, social media, customer experience, strategy amplify strategy, best use of social media, coca cola, coke ,pepsi, pepsi refresh, social media campaigns comments (0) trackbacks (0) leave a comment trackback - no comments yet.
social media is most effective when it is used to amplify a strategy, not  become one.
there were charges, in fact, of cheating on the part of some charitable  entities in order to extort funds from pepsi.
contrast what pepsi did more than a year ago to what coke is doing now.
the pleasure of anticipation.
the more active you were in social media, the more influence you had over the process.
specifically, i take pepsi to task for  three key reasons: the focus was more on the “crowd sourcing” part of the program  than in the good works themselves.
- you have 1.5 seconds to live archives select month april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 september 2007 quisenblog tag cloud - advertising american express apple audience engagement brand association brand loyalty brand narrative brand vision competition creativity customer satisfaction customer service customer value evian facebook fedex feedback google iphone ipod marketing mismarketing nike old spice online communities online reputation pepsi product package relevant content rollerskating babies social media solutions southwest airlines spokane transparency trust twitter value viral video youtube categories - creative - customer experience - how-to - media - mobile marketing - new media - on clients - on customers - ramblings - research - social media - strategy - uncategorized recent comments - admin on fun facts on facebook fans from forrester.
this is not the kind of pr you want.
this was a commitment from  pepsi to support worthwhile causes recommended and voted on by its customers  and fans.
did pepsi give social media a black eye?
the more  active you were in social media, the more influence you had over the process.
many social media naysayers were quick to blame this slide on pepsi’s
if you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to my rss feed!
december 14th, 2011 goto comments leave a comment i’m talking about the soft drink marketers’ uses of social media here.
december 14th, 2011 goto  comments leave a comment i’m talking about the soft drink marketers’ uses of social  media here.
coke has teamed with theworld wildlife fund to help preserve the habitat  of the arctic polar bear.
chances are, coke is spending at least 20 times that amount in paid media promoting this campaign alone.
the quisenblog theme by mg12.
if you’re going to start a movement (which is what social media at its best is capable of doing), you need to have a clear, succinct, non-compromising vision of what it is you will do and how specifically your audience can contribute and participate.
instead of focusing on a  clear, single goal (for example, fresh drinking water in third-world  countries), suggestions from fans were all over the map.
while i, for one, don’t think  pepsi’s descent in the cola wars was due to the fact that it didn’t  run a couple of super bowl spots (more on that inthis post), i do think the  marketer dropped the ball when it came to defining and managing the  “pepsi refresh” program.
by partnering with wwf, coke  also aligned itself with a an organization which is beyond reproach, giving the  program more legitimacy.
easy to take part in.
the quisenblog ramblings and observations on marketing, advertising and interactive issues.
this is not the kind of pr you  want.
- the program didn’t treat all community members fairly.
as you may recall, pepsi was one of the first big-name marketers to aggressively go “all-in” in a social media sense, with its much talked-about “pepsi refresh project.”
- the program didn’t have a clear mission.