who denied communion to lesbian barbara johnson, withdrawn for 'intimidating behavior' catholic church nit tournament 2012: washington, seton hall, tennessee and arizona are no. 1
what's the difference?
it tastes like when i was younger.
- style news stylelist food news weddings parents green - travel stylelist home
loading comments… this user has chosen to opt out of the badges program g9 254 fans 10 hours ago ( 9:49 pm)
post comment edit cancel you can post to us this information techtips@huffingtonpost.com click here to leave a comment.
loading twitter module... most popular the produce you should never put in your refrigerator like 14 taste test: is there any whole grain pasta that tastes good?
la lakers more big news pages » - front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style
but in the 1980s, high fructose corn syrup (hfcs) replaced cane sugar as the soda's sweetener because hfcs was cheaper than cane sugar (the u.s. government had levied tariffs on imported cane sugar and was now subsidizing the production of corn).
and after many  blunders with the design, throwback now features the original pepsi design used  between 1973 and 1987.
but i like it best with rum..... ...
and after many blunders with the design, throwback now features the original pepsi design used between 1973 and 1987.
and that nasty new coke from the 80s??
" pepsi throwback: "sweeter at the start --  better."
lovetostitch: throwback pepsi definitely beats "regular".
.both were very good ( better w/rum) g9:
and i think that's key to any of these tests: what is your normal drink?
the only hfcs pops we buy are the ones that aren't available with sugar.
sugar vs. high fructose corn syrup first posted: 03/ 8/2012 9:42 am updated: 03/ 8/2012 9:42 am follow video  ,  high fructose corn syrup  ,  pepsi co  ,   pepsi cola ,  cola taste test  ,  pepsi  ,  pepsi taste test  ,  pepsi throwback  , pepsico  ,  sane sugar soda  ,  kitchendaily news share this story sign up submit this story digg reddit stumble a recent taste test between u.s. coke and mexican coke revealed that 80  percent of tasters prefer mexican coke, which is made with sugar (as opposed to  american coke, which is made with high fructose corn syrup).
the verdict twenty editors blind taste-tested the two colas, side by side, and found ... 50 percent of our tasters could tell the difference  between regular pepsi and pepsi throwback.
if i ever find it in glass, i'm buying a case.
don't even get me started!!
this comment has not yet been posted you have exceeded your word limit by words.
7-up and sierra mist are much better with sugar.
just came back from a few months in brasil...
and of course i can taste just about any variation of coke since i know that best.
seeds march madness 'revenge' scoop: daniel's in danger, mason returns and a flashback episode television hugo chavez cancer surgery: venezuela president plans to come home from cuba venezuela newt gingrich, rick santorum battle for deep south conservatives rick santorum kobe bryant's game-winner lifts lakers past celtics in another thriller (video)
this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
our team of editors recently conducted another taste test, this time between pepsi (with hfcs) and pepsi throwback (with  sugar).
(now i sound ancient.
i like the throwback over .".
#ilovethe80s #90s yo pepsi throwback available at #cpc12 just fyi pepsi cola throwback 12-oz cans (18 pack): amazon.com: grocery & gourmet food where can i buy pepsi throwback?
some people thought it was "naughty".
here's what our tasters thought: regular pepsi: "tangy and metallic."
- part of kitchen daily food group huffpost lightbox
(taken with... pepsi throwback!
unfortunately most tasters mistook the sweeter  taste of throwback (made with sugar) as containing hfcs and thought it was  regular pepsi.
we can each taste the difference between hfcs and sugar-based sodas in either drink.
the verdict twenty editors blind taste-tested the two colas, side by side, and found ... - 50 percent of our tasters could tell the difference between regular pepsi and pepsi throwback.
2012 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. | - "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc.
pepsi responded in 2009 by releasing pepsi throwback, a soda that uses its  old formula and includes sugar (cane and beet) instead of hfcs.
voices green latinovoices college crime weird news teen kitchen daily recipes baking breakfast chefs & experts entertaining  healthy eating dinner tonight kitchendaily videos video feed huffpost social reading surprising pepsi taste test results:
cokefan: our house certainly can tell!
though most tasters agreed that pepsi throwback has a sweeter taste and regular pepsi has more of a metallic taste.
so what does it taste like?
i love this pepsi throwback imdb - head (1968) throwback on getglue | unleesh
view all favorites recency | popularity lovetostitch 25 fans 20 minutes ago ( 7:16 am) throwback pepsi definitely beats "regular".
but the best "throwback" is mountain dew!
steve tanner at bevreview.com says throwback has none of the tinny metallic taste of hfcs-based pepsi -- instead it offers a clean and consistent flavor.
"really thick with syrupy  mouthfeel."
share your comment: post to facebook.
http://t.co/yo ariannahuff this week: the incredibly viral kony 2012 video & mitt romney's campaign -- still struggling to go viral w/ gop base.http://t.co/yo retweet huffpost's big news
she can easily distinguish the taste between the three as a daily pepsi drinker.
the coke & pepsi are made with no hfcs...
with more and more americans concerned about the health effects of hfcs,  people have been turning to soft drinks made with old-fashioned cane or beet  sugar, when available.
pepsi responded in 2009 by releasing pepsi throwback, a soda that uses its old formula and includes sugar (cane and beet) instead of hfcs.
this new offering was not based on any health concerns about hfcs, but more about consumer demand.
related on huffpost: follow huffpost kitchendaily on facebook: like 34k twitter: get alerts contribute to this story - send corrections - send us a link - contact us - send a tip - send photos/videos - comment a recent taste test between u.s. coke and mexican coke revealed that 80 percent of tasters prefer mexican coke, which is made with sugar (as opposed to american coke, which is made with high fructose ...
we fully expected pepsi throwback to come out on top, just like mexican coke.
the green fairy with absinthe cocktails like 100 6 simple and seductive soups like 7 most discussed right
surprisingly, we were wrong.
but in the 1980s, high fructose corn syrup (hfcs)  replaced cane sugar as the soda's sweetener because hfcs was cheaper than cane  sugar (the u.s. government had levied tariffs on imported cane sugar and was  now subsidizing the production of corn).
we buy pepsi throwback and some coke when we can find it.
loading... edition: u.s. ca canada québec fr france us united states uk united kingdom - | - mail - | - click here to return to aol.com armchair detective more - taste tests - healthy cooking - 10-minute meals log in | create account march 11, 2012 like 34k connect - front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style
unlike coca-cola, which claims its regular coke (made with hfcs) and mexican coke (made with sugar) taste the same, pepsi makes no such claim.
post comment preview comment to reply to a comment: click "reply" at the bottom of the comment; after being approved your comment will appear directly underneath the comment you replied to.
i'm glad to see sugar back.
kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news teen kitchen daily recipes baking breakfast chefs & experts entertaining healthy eating dinner tonight
many small mom-and-pop soda companies use these sugars,  but not until recently have the large soda companies, such as pepsi, made a  move to revert back to sugar in certain "special-edition" lines of  their drinks.
i buy as much heritage dr. pepper as i can get when it goes on sale.
related on huffpost:
loading comments… qzephyr 12 fans 15 hours ago ( 4:29 pm)
in fact, regular pepsi and pepsi  throwback taste different.
she doesn't mind mexican coke.
a recent taste test between u.s. coke and mexican coke revealed that 80 percent of tasters prefer mexican coke, which is made with sugar (as opposed to american coke, which is made with high fructose ... loading... top links on this topic 1 of 5 pepsi throwback (pack of 24): amazon.com: grocery & gourmet food photo: pepsi throwback.
"really thick with syrupy mouthfeel."
unfortunately most tasters mistook the sweeter taste of throwback (made with sugar) as containing hfcs and thought it was regular pepsi.
loading comments… cokefan 0 fans 19 hours ago (12:47 pm)
gingrich 2012 rev. marcel guarnizo suspended: priest
blind tastes on pepsi wouldn't matter much for me - i don't drink pepsi if i have a choice.
we fully expected pepsi throwback to come out on top, just like mexican  coke.
my partner will relent and occasionally drink coke if pepsi is not available though dislikes the "high acid taste" in hfcs coke.
pages bobbi kristina brown, whitney houston's daughter, in oprah interview: she was 'my everything' video kofi annan syria visit: former u.n. chief ends talks with bashar al-assad syria gingrich-perry pre-convention ticket in the works
it tastes like when i http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/lovetostitch/pepsi-taste-test_n_1327579_140107234.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
a case of soda into a boombox for sxsw filed by joseph erdos | - comments - 4 - pending comments - 0 - view faq previewing your comment.
now switch it up: 10 new cheeses (plus toppings) for grilled cheese sizzle or fizzle?
in fact, regular pepsi and pepsi throwback taste different.
well, now we're not so sure ...
" pepsi throwback: "sweeter at the start -- better."
kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news teen kitchen daily recipes baking breakfast chefs & experts entertaining healthy eating dinner tonight kitchendaily videos video feed - advertise | - make huffpost your home page | - rss | - careers | - faq - user agreement | - privacy | - comment policy | - about us | - about our ads | - contact us - copyright ©
huffpost high school welcomes a lively, thoughtful debate in the comment section.
we have a "mixed marriage" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/cokefan/pepsi-taste-test_n_1327579_139925788.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
we have a "mixed marriage" - one diehard coke fan (me) and one diehard pepsi fan (my partner).
here's a little background to lead up to our  taste test ... pepsi has been creating soft drinks since 1898, and the formula hasn't  changed much since then.
to our complete surprise, she preferred the coke and i didn't mind the pepsi.
initially the soda was released for a limited time only, but when customers found that their new beverage of choice was gone from shelves, pepsi backpedaled and decided in january of 2011 to add throwback to its list of permanent offerings (as long as consumers keep buying it).
mexican coke is preferable, us coke is good and the south african stuff?
but better than diet, zero, or any of that nonsense.
i cannot drink regular pepsi due to the sweetness so i refuse to drink it.
hfcs..pepsi or coke" ...
steve tanner at bevreview.com says throwback has none  of the tinny metallic taste of hfcs-based pepsi -- instead it offers a clean  and consistent flavor.
loading comments… new comment(s) on this entry — click to refresh loading comments… recipe search follow us connect with your friends check out stories you might like, and see what your friends are sharing!
but http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/g9/pepsi-taste-test_n_1327579_140056446.html history | permalink | share it
this would lead one to assume that all sugar-sweetened sodas should taste better than their hfcs counterparts, right?
we were in south africa last year and bought pepsi and coke - talk about different formulations based on what is available to the bottler!
i could discern the difference, but it didn't matter too much to me.
many small mom-and-pop soda companies use these sugars, but not until recently have the large soda companies, such as pepsi, made a move to revert back to sugar in certain "special-edition" lines of their drinks.
on the recent variations, she's recently found mexican pepsi (not throwback, not regular) and prefers that.
there was little to no choice for soda  manufacturers but to switch to hfcs.
initially the soda was released for a limited time only, but  when customers found that their new beverage of choice was gone from shelves,  pepsi backpedaled and decided in january of 2011 to add throwback to its list  of permanent offerings (as long as consumers keep buying it).
55 percent of our tasters preferred regular pepsi to  pepsi throwback.
i don't drink much soda because of the calories, but i'd make an exception for that.
- 55 percent of our tasters preferred regular pepsi to pepsi throwback.
our team of editors recently conducted another taste test, this time between pepsi (with hfcs) and pepsi throwback (with sugar).
hot on twitter 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8f8ym0hhxtuf ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgdrc%2banufz3b 1of 2 rt @glinner al fischer, gay music teacher fired from catholic school, marries partner in new york http://t.co/xihnzfb6 glinner al fischer, gay music teacher fired from catholic school, marries partner in new yorkhttp://t.co/xihnzfb6 retweet rt @ariannahuff this week:
huffpost's quickread...
there was little to no choice for soda manufacturers but to switch to hfcs.
here's what our tasters thought: regular pepsi: "tangy and metallic.
our house certainly can tell!
this would lead  one to assume that all sugar-sweetened sodas should taste better than their  hfcs counterparts, right?
this new  offering was not based on any health concerns about hfcs, but more about  consumer demand.
can you tell the difference between pepsi made with hfcs and sugar?
seriously, cane sugar beats hfcs for taste, hands down.
the only improvement would be to put it in glass--no can or plastic taste taint!
here's a little background to lead up to our taste test ... pepsi has been creating soft drinks since 1898, and the formula hasn't changed much since then.
remember the old mountain dew bottles with "it'll tickle yore innards"?
unlike coca-cola, which  claims its regular coke (made with hfcs) and mexican coke (made with sugar)  taste the same, pepsi makes no such claim.
keep in mind that the articles here are penned by young authors, so please keep criticism respectful, and help us to keep this a safe and supportive place for writers of all ages to contribute.
please click the "edit" button and shorten your comment.
"sweeter on the finish.
it seemed sweeter than us or mexican.
the new pioneer woman cookbook like 6 why you shouldn't be jealous of people with wine cellars like 15 5 ways to cook with guinness like 9 chase
the new pioneer woman cookbook hot on facebook 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8tkpvbq8xpkmgyinrec4w8w%3d ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgptaykcdranfpr%2bnvsqa9qm%3d jpekjkgss0bjplrx0pv4fss35vaam%2fhsd5arroaf1ya%3d k8feyzpy9dymhnqiibc%2big%3d%3d 1 of 3 10 reasons 'hunger games' fans don't have to starve taste test: does mexican coke taste different?
kitchendaily videos video feed huffpost social reading surprising pepsi taste test results: sugar vs. high fructose corn syrup first posted: 03/ 8/2012 9:42 am updated: 03/ 8/2012 9:42 am follow video , high fructose corn syrup , pepsi co , pepsi cola , cola taste test , pepsi , pepsi taste test , pepsi throwback , pepsico , sane sugar soda , kitchendaily news share this story get kitchendaily alerts sign up submit this story digg reddit stumble a recent taste test between u.s. coke and mexican coke revealed that 80 percent of tasters prefer mexican coke, which is made with sugar (as opposed to american coke, which is made with high fructose corn syrup).
though most tasters agreed that pepsi throwback has a sweeter  taste and regular pepsi has more of a metallic taste.
qzephyr: the only hfcs pops we buy are the ones that http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/qzephyr/pepsi-taste-test_n_1327579_139986792.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
the geek pepsi throwback, 12 oz cans (pack of 12 cans): amazon.com: grocery & gourmet food pepsi mcguyvers a case of soda into a boombox for sxsw pepsi macgyvers
loading... huffpost's quickread...
the incredibly viral kony 2012 video & mitt romney's campaign -- still struggling to go viral w/ gop base.
like 65 10 irish supper recipes to celebrate saint patrick's day like 11 sizzle or fizzle?
#lovepepsihatecole pepsi throwback.
with more and more americans concerned about the health effects of hfcs, people have been turning to soft drinks made with old-fashioned cane or beet sugar, when available.
new york san francisco denver miami patch chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages more good news science blackvoices sports world gay
blogger login: blogger password: select blog: refresh list remember me: wordpress host: wordpress login: wordpress password: remember me: typepad host: typepad login: typepad password: select blog: refresh list remember me: tumblr login: tumblr password: remember me: community notice: we've made some changes to our badge program, including the addition of our newest badge: community curator.
view comment you have not right to carry out this operation or error this operation.