if you weren't so lucky, you could always speculate on how much faster your next ddr-equipped athlon system will perform in comparison to the overly-hyped console.
why would you want to do such a thing?
why would you want to do  such a thing?
until then, feel free to discuss whatever is on your mind over at sharkyforums.com.
we've seem a few heated discussions regarding today's high-end video cards, but rarely do we see the value-end vehemently debated.
seriously, we have no clue what the nv20 will look like.
feel free to jump in at any time (it's kind of like jump rope, in a  way) and discuss, as we've added links on each spotlight page so you can easily  add your own comments and contribute to the debate!
stay tuned for more information.
features - pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming -- february 2012 - pc buyer's guide for gaming enthusiasts -- january 2012 -pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming -- january 2012 - build your own gaming pc guide -- nov. 2011 - pc buyer's guide for gaming enthusiasts, august, 2011 buyer's guides - pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming -- january 2012 - build your own gaming pc guide -- nov. 2011 - february high-end gaming pc buyer's guide - november value gaming pc buyer's guide - september extreme gaming pc buyer's guide hardware welcome back to another edition of forum spotlight.
there are some good explanations, as well as a few valuable links that will turn any novie into a well schooled memory whiz-kid.
there  has been surprisingly little reaction in the forums to theplaystation2 launch earlier this week, but then again, if i were one of the lucky ones to  receive one, i'd probably be smack on my rear playing with the thing rather  than posting rambling thoughts on it.
- pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming --  february 2012 - pc buyer's guide for gaming enthusiasts -- january 2012 -pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming -- january 2012 - build your own  gaming pc guide -- nov. 2011 - pc buyer's guide for gaming enthusiasts,  august, 2011 buyer's guides - pc buyer's guide for entry-level gaming  -- january 2012 - build your own gaming pc guide -- nov. 2011 -  february high-end gaming pc buyer's guide - november value gaming pc  buyer's guide - september extreme gaming pc buyer's guide hardware motherboards video cards welcome back to another edition of forum spotlight.
question on the 760
until then, feel free to discuss whatever is on your mind over at  sharkyforums.com.
each week we take several of the most  popular/insightful/controversial threads and present them to you for easy  digestion.
there has been surprisingly little reaction in the forums to theplaystation2 launch earlier this week, but then again, if i were one of the lucky ones to receive one, i'd probably be smack on my rear playing with the thing rather than posting rambling thoughts on it.
although we usually like to drink tommyknockers, we will occasionally have a coke or two.
wait...did he say ddr?
we can't give you any details about the 760 chipset from amd, but let's face it, would we really be promoting this thread if it weren't just around the corner?
this has been one of  the busiest weeks we've ever had here at sharkyextreme - from video cards to  cpu roadmaps to mp3 players, we've pretty much run the gamut this week.
your guess is as good as ours.
well, if your repartee strikes us as useful, humorous, or otherwise entertaining, it stands the distinct possibility of being featured next week.
stay tuned  for more information.
feel free to jump in at any time (it's kind of like jump rope, in a way) and discuss, as we've added links on each spotlight page so you can easily add your own comments and contribute to the debate!
we'd spill the beans right here and now, but then we'd  have to kill you.
radeon ddr or geforce2 mx?
without further ado... registered users: 2,709
will we see six pipelines with three texture units per pipeline?
if not, it's time for some speakers.
this has been one of the busiest weeks we've ever had here at sharkyextreme - from video cards to cpu roadmaps to mp3 players, we've pretty much run the gamut this week.
mp3 software what is your favorite encoding software.
for those of you who aren't particularly clear on how rambus memory works, this thread makes an excellent read.
each week we take several of the most popular/insightful/controversial threads and present them to you for easy digestion.
nv20 like fists at a boxing match, rumors about the nv20 are really flying.
can y ou tell the difference between cd audio and mp3 encoded audio?
if you weren't so lucky, you could always  speculate on how much faster your next ddr-equipped athlon system will perform  in comparison to the overly-hyped console.
there are quite a few good choices out there right now, so which really is better?
well, if your repartee strikes us as useful, humorous, or  otherwise entertaining, it stands the distinct possibility of being featured  next week.
without further ado... registered users: 2,709 topics: 5,996 posts: 34,319 registered users: 3,184 topics: 7,044 posts: 40,420 rambus technology
we'd spill the beans right here and now, but then we'd have to kill you.
yeah yeah, we really believe you only use mp3 to back up your cd's