most department stores are infected you seldom see a department-store advertisement based on anything except a sale.
unless you want to spend the rest of your life doing discount marketing, you should be asking yourself, "what's the cure?
apple used the same strategy with its itunes brand by insisting on a  99-cent price.
here's the opening dialog of a typical progressive commercial featuring flo and a potential customer.
a typical mailing: "start with these incredible sale prices of 20-60% off.
related content the pandora's box of integrated marketing will pr kill advertising?
are you gonna buy online?
but as prophet, a leading marketing  consultancy, reported in its latest state of marketing study: "positioning  has always been about differentiation.
geico and progressive are the biggest spenders in the category.
when you're the leader in a category, you cannot be overtaken by a  competitor who thinks differentiation is going to make a big difference.
(extreme agnostics don't buy anything without a coupon.)
lg pushes content to sell its new phone samsung becomes latest smart tv maker to target ads to the home screen tweet discountitus, the disease that's sweeping the marketing community positioning is the only cure by: al ries bio rss feed published:  july 06, 2011 tweet al ries last month, j.c. penney hired a new chief  executive who used to runapple stores.
request a reprint of this article.
one reason why discountitus is spreading so rapidly is the internet.
rss  feed of comments comments 2012 super bowl coverage instant replay: see all the super bowl spots again and again whether you're one of the few in adland who hadn't seen 75% of the spots before  the game, ran off to the powder room during a commercial break, or just want to  see the spots you loved (or hated) one more time, here's your chance.
(don't feel sorry for apple.
progressive, $506  million.
no wonder southwest airlines is a big winner, and most airline customers can't explain the difference between american, delta and united.
new markdowns 50-70%  off."
the lure of  a "big discount" is enough to seduce a consumer into thinking that  all brands in the category are pretty much alike.
"are you a safe driver?" "yes.
the report  will cover more than 900 agencies.
in industry after industry, the discount is the focus of the advertising.
psychologically, consumers can be divided into two categories: 1) brand believers and 2) brand agnostics.
but as prophet, a leading marketing consultancy, reported in its latest state of marketing study: "positioning has always been about differentiation.
they can be believers in one category (ketchup) and agnostics in another category (airlines).
nor  is positioning essentially about differentiation, either.
the lure of a "big discount" is enough to seduce a consumer into thinking that all brands in the category are pretty much alike.
as discountitus spreads its way through the marketing community, that word more often than not is "leadership.
an also-ran that has been line-extended to death has no hope of ever  becoming the market leader.
(extreme agnostics don't buy anything  without a coupon.)
in a new york times article, here's how  ceo ron johnson described his plans for penney: "take this great american  brand and make it become something unbelievably exciting."
100 leading media companies ad age's 31st annual ranking of the 100  leading media companies from a&e to zynga.
also featured is "jcpca$h," offering consumers "$10 off any purchase totaling $25 & up.
news from our ad age partners adage.com
an also-ran that has been line-extended to death has no hope of ever becoming the market leader.
nor is positioning essentially about differentiation, either.
a silver bullet mobile, local are key factors in facebook's post-ipo revenue growth bourbon boom overseas fuels record spirits sales creativity picks a leap from the edge of space, fueled by red bull red bull's stratos project, which we previously wrote about in 2010, will  finally see austrian athlete felix baumgartner attempt a "leap from the  edge of space" this august.
leadership is what makes heinz,  hertz, haagen-daz, hellmann's, home depot and a host of other brands powerful  in their categories.
clipping coupons is being replaced by typing on keyboards.
when you're the leader in a category, you cannot be overtaken by a competitor who thinks differentiation is going to make a big difference.
currently, the  ipad has some 75% of the tablet market.
launch a new brand in a new category over the past  few decades, it's become clear that the only way to become a leader is to  launch a new brand in a new category.
new markdowns 50-70% off."
the company is making its money on  volume, not on margin.)
from the datacenter mobile marketing and online video includes mobile trends, top video  sites, ad networks and more.
groupon and the other daily-deal websites are only one factor.
most read at walgreens, a mobile check-in acts like a circular kill the  cpm: why it's better to buy time than ad impressions chrysler's olivier  francois dishes on getting clint eastwood in the game pepsi beverage guru  massimo d'amore to retire pepsico announces millions in additional ad spend,  plans to trim agency roster
if you read the papers, you know the regular price of most products or services on the market today is "50% off.
and how does the leader keep from  catching the discountitus disease?
when rumors of apple's imminent launch of a tablet computer circulated on  the internet, the pundits predicted the product would be priced around a  thousand dollars.
" every thursday, our local newspaper, the atlanta journal-constitution, features "this week's best deals."
if you read the papers, you  know the regular price of most products or services on the market today is  "50% off.
here  are five successful case studies from kimberly-clark, con agra, taco bell, st... more what you might have missed want your agency included in ad age's agency report 2012?
by far, the vast majority of daily deals are 50% off  or bogo -- buy one, get one free.
today, airline companies compete on the basis of who can offer the bigger discounts.
really like  'halftime in america,' don't recall 'chrysler' part quite as well most emailed at walgreens, a mobile check-in acts like a circular pepsico  announces millions in additional ad spend, plans to trim agency roster
they only clip coupons  forbrands they already use.
positioning is owning a word in the mind
in categories that have not been seriously contaminated, the cure for discountitus is a dose of positioning.
" leadership is what makes google the most powerful brand in the  "search" category.
the best it can do is to narrow its focus to shore up a position in a segment of the category.
groupon and the  other daily-deal websites are only one factor.
lower the boom on price
yesterday, airline companies competed on the basis of who could build the better brand.
yesterday, airline companies competed on the basis of who  could build the better brand.
" believers vs. agnostics take a closer look at the  consumer a company is trying to reach with its advertising and pr.
longtime car-insurance leaders like state farm ($453 million) and allstate ($368 million) are lagging behind.
penney vs. apple over at j.c. penney, if ron johnson plans to use an apple strategy to turn his company around, it's too late.
over at geico, "15 minutes could save you 15% or more on car insurance."
one was "40% off" and the other six were "50% off."
apple surprised them with a list price of $495.
leadership is what makes heinz, hertz, haagen-daz, hellmann's, home depot and a host of other brands powerful in their categories.
a typical mailing: "start with these  incredible sale prices of 20-60% off.
news from our ad age partners more from ad age: copyright © 1994-2013crain communications | privacy statement | contact us
by far, the vast majority of daily deals are 50% off or bogo -- buy one, get one free.
the latest  j.c. penney ad was a six-page insert promoting a "fourth of july  sale.
last week, there were eight.
they only clip coupons forbrands they already use.
and how does the leader keep from catching the discountitus disease?
anybody who owns a computer  today can get competitive prices on a host of items almost instantly.
today, you find  the table-computer market remarkably free of discountitus.
the company lowered the  boom at a level that competitors had difficulty getting under.
what's next for pepsi-cola?
today, you find the table-computer market remarkably free of discountitus.
currently, the ipad has some 75% of the tablet market.
advanced search fat chance.
penney vs. apple over at j.c. penney, if ron  johnson plans to use an apple strategy to turn his company around, it's too  late.
rating the republican nominees on their slogans why should gm give marketing any respect?
also featured is "jcpca$h," offering consumers "$10  off any purchase totaling $25 & up.
last year geico spent $741 million on advertising.
in first quarter, marketers wary amid temperate ad growth what does bank of america want from its new agency?
chrysler's olivier francois dishes on getting clint eastwood in the game kill  the cpm:
most department stores are infected you seldom see  a department-store advertisement based on anything except a sale.
they ignore brands and  clip coupons forcategories.
in print super bowl ads offer few surprises, but some can komen recover from pr crisis?
the best it can do is to narrow its focus to shore  up a position in a segment of the category.
the company is making its money on volume, not on margin.)
here are five successful case studies from kimberly-clark, con agra, taco bell, st... more marketing news, intelligence & conversation: wherever you go.
but how to you get to be the leader?
unless you want to spend the rest of your life doing discount marketing,  you should be asking yourself, "what's the cure?
ana annual meeting 2011 advice to marketers from facebook's coo and  other insights from this year's conference.
and when you're the leader in the category and you lower the boom on  price, you can inoculate the category from the disease of discountitus.
" every thursday, our local newspaper, the atlanta journal-constitution,  features "this week's best deals."
and they vary by category.
positioning is owning a word in the mind as  discountitus spreads its way through the marketing community, that word more  often than not is "leadership.
has pepsi-cola ever substantially increased its share of the cola market  with pepsi-cola retro, pepsi throwback, pepsi twist, pepsi natural, pepsi raw,  pepsi a.m., pepsi kona, pepsi light, pepsi max, pepsi xl, pepsi blue, pepsi one  or crystal pepsi?
the latest j.c. penney ad was a six-page insert promoting a "fourth of july sale.
available on ios, android, wp7 and blackberry.
watch believers go through the sunday supplements.
in categories that have not been seriously contaminated, the cure for  discountitus is a dose of positioning.
in fact, regular pepsi-cola has fallen behind diet coke to third place in the cola category.
" belk, dillards, kohl's, macy's, sears and most mainstream department  stores are also infected bydiscountitus.
the cure for discountitus is not differentiation.
marketing must take its share of blame for the economic crisis the ad age mobile app marketing news, intelligence & conversation: wherever you go.
geico and progressive are the biggest spenders in the  category.
" believers vs. agnostics take a closer look at the consumer a company is trying to reach with its advertising and pr.
in fact, regular pepsi-cola has fallen behind diet coke to  third place in the cola category.
about the author al ries is chairman of  ries & ries, an atlanta-based marketing strategy firm he runs with his  daughter laura.
watch agnostics go through the sunday supplements.
" belk, dillards, kohl's, macy's, sears and most mainstream department stores are also infected bydiscountitus.
one was "40% off" and the other six were  "50% off."
why it's better to buy time than ad impressions pepsi beverage guru  massimo d'amore to retire
" leadership is what makes google the most powerful brand in the "search" category.
no wonder southwest airlines is a big  winner, and most airline customers can't explain the difference between  american, delta and united.
apple used the same strategy with its itunes brand by insisting on a 99-cent price.
once discountitus has spread through an industry, it's awfully hard to eradicate.
but in this unfolding environment, differentiation is short-lived.
has pepsi-cola ever substantially increased its share of the cola market with pepsi-cola retro, pepsi throwback, pepsi twist, pepsi natural, pepsi raw, pepsi a.m., pepsi kona, pepsi light, pepsi max, pepsi xl, pepsi blue, pepsi one or crystal pepsi?
soon your tv will watch you, too biggest highlights and takeaways from ces women still an afterthought to most tech marketers samsung, hyundai: the next sony, honda?
progressive, $506 million.
but in this unfolding environment,  differentiation is short-lived.
" airlines to pizza to car insurance
take an extra 15% off everything.
" in addition to dozens of "super hot buys," the insert features "red zone clearance, final-markdowns 80% off.
they ignore brands and clip coupons forcategories.
" in addition to dozens of "super hot buys," the insert features  "red zone clearance, final-markdowns 80% off.
longtime car-insurance leaders like state farm ($453 million) and  allstate ($368 million) are lagging behind.
once discountitus has spread through an industry, it's awfully hard to  eradicate.
over at geico, "15 minutes could save you 15% or more on car  insurance."
like apple did with the ipad, the first tablet-computer.
leadership is what makes ipod the most powerful  brand in the "mp3 player" category.
in industry  after industry, the discount is the focus of the advertising.
launch a new brand in a new category over the past few decades, it's become clear that the only way to become a leader is to launch a new brand in a new category.
leadership is what makes ipod the most powerful brand in the "mp3 player" category.
today, airline companies compete on the basis of  who can offer the bigger discounts.
most commented consumers rally around jc penney, ellen in face of anti-gay  group's hate campaign chrysler's olivier francois dishes on getting clint  eastwood in the game at walgreens, a mobile check-in acts like a circular kill  the cpm: why it's better to buy time than ad impressions viewers
how do you craft insightful, effective shopper marketing campaigns?
kohl's, in particular.
and when you're the leader in the category and you lower the boom on price, you can inoculate the category from the disease of discountitus.
discountitus is turning brand believers into brand agnostics.
the company lowered the boom at a level that competitors had difficulty getting under.
here's the opening dialog of a typical progressive commercial featuring  flo and a potential customer.
if your agency didn't receive a  questionnaire, emailagencyreport@adage.com.
psychologically, consumers can be divided into two categories: 1) brand  believers and 2) brand agnostics.
anybody who owns a computer today can get competitive prices on a host of items almost instantly.
they can be  believers in one category (ketchup) and agnostics in another category  (airlines).
available  on ios, android, wp7 and blackberry.
when rumors of apple's imminent launch of a tablet computer circulated on the internet, the pundits predicted the product would be priced around a thousand dollars.
about the authorabout the author red bull's stratos project, which we previously wrote about in 2010, will finally see austrian athlete felix baumgartner attempt a "leap from the edge of space" this august.
plus  add a $5 bonus.