[photo: robyn lee] john: for consistency's sake, we wanted all cans.
i'll admit, i would grab the 12-pack of throwback over the regular pepsi because of my aversion to hfcs.
what seems to me more relevant was that,in an exhaustive food lab, kenji tested "mexican coke" (made with sugar) against normal american coke (corn syrup).
learn more at ourcomment policy page.
carey: with a sample size of one, this isn't intended to "prove" that any one of these sodas is superior to another.
carey: john is loyal to mexican coke, so i wasn't at all surprised he'd seek out sugar-sweetened pepsi.
it leaves a tinny,  metallic aftertaste, and it's a little sharper; and though it's not quite as  sweet-tasting, there's something oddly cloying about the drinks that included  it.
(i didn't actually know if it tasted better, but the marketing had convinced me.
so we made sure a can got back to dry land for the taste test.
what surprised me is that i actually preferred corn syrup pepsi to sugar-sweetened coke.
john m. edwards is serious eats's former fast-food bureau chief  and eats 85% of the food carey orders.
but after this taste test, i'm sticking to  sugar when i can.
i don't care if there are sugar pills or ibuprofen in my advil bottle as long as my headache goes away.
then, there's my fondness for the  old packaging, and for cindy crawford.)
your standard "mexican coke" comes in a bottle.
carey: turns out john was right about his own preferences,  even in a blind taste-test.
carey: so we not only tested pepsi throwback vs regular, and coke vs sugar coke, but every possible permutation—twice.
john: given that i'd rather sip and muse about soda than  be tested on it (and that monday night football was on), i figured we'd taste  all four in unlabeled cups and call it a night.
but does he really prefer the  taste of sugar—or just the idea of it?
being a rather severe stickler for detail, carey insisted on a much longer battery of tests.
your comment has been accepted and will appear in a moment.
we were on a weekend cruise (er, more on that later) leaving from bayonne, but the shiny new boat was built in germany, and they'd fully stocked their larders with german products, naturally enough.
posted by carey jones and john edwards, november 22, 2011 at 10:30 am [photo: carey jones] john: we can leave debates about the nutritional, societal, agricultural, and economical issues surrounding high-fructose corn syrup to another column.
i  got excited about the teeny euro-style yogurt pots and drinking "coke  light."
coca-cola has long offered versions with sugar in other countries, as well as in many kosher food stores.
it did  illustrate once again, though, thatthere are discernible differences between  the colas, and between sugar-sweetened ones and standard american versions.
carey: turns out john was right about his own preferences, even in a blind taste-test.
the sunny getaway 2 comments dry soda: when you want a seltzer-soda middle ground 19 comments why baking soda is added to iced tea?
comments can take up to a minute to appear - please be patient!
we reserve the right to delete off-topic or inflammatory comments.
what seems to me more relevant was that,in an exhaustive food lab, kenji  tested "mexican coke" (made with sugar) against normal american coke  (corn syrup).
american  pepsi, american coke, and pepsi throwback were easy enough.
(she'll roll her eyes and forgive me if i belch during taste tests, but half-assing it is not an option.)
carey: the solution came through a rather unlikely source:  a new celebrity cruise ship.
html hints some html is ok: link, strong, em  comment guidelines post whatever you want, just keep it seriously about eats, seriously.
but sugar-sweetened coke?
but as more and more companies are introducing non-hfcs products, it's no surprise to see soda companies jump on the marketing bandwagon, introducing products likepepsi throwback, sweetened with good ol' sugar.
about the authors: carey jones is the editor of serious  eats new york and co-editor of serious eats: sweets.
john: given that i'd rather sip and muse about soda than be tested on it (and that monday night football was on), i figured we'd taste all four in unlabeled cups and call it a night.
(and that john doesn't need to board another cruise ship for german sugar coke fix; a fifteen-second walk to the bodega for a pepsi will do.)
carey: the solution came through a rather unlikely source: a new celebrity cruise ship.
if you see something not so nice, please, report an inappropriate comment.
a few years ago,adam kuban tasted  very little difference between pepsi throwback and the usual kind (and found a very slight office preference for throwback in a double-blind taste  test).
carey: john is loyal to mexican coke, so i wasn't at all  surprised he'd seek out sugar-sweetened pepsi.
post a comment favorite this!
if he doesn't really prefer it, that's a pretty big waste of  time and money.
i don't care if there are sugar pills or  ibuprofen in my advil bottle as long as my headache goes away.
so we made  sure a can got back to dry land for the taste test.
carey: so we not only tested pepsi throwback vs regular,  and coke vs sugar coke, but every possible permutation—twice.
it's of little matter to me (i preferred american coke in every single  test, and i'm a diet soda drinker, anyway), but john goes out of his way for  pepsi throwback.
coca-cola has long offered versions with sugar in other countries, as well  as in many kosher food stores.
(she'll roll her  eyes and forgive me if i belch during taste tests, but half-assing it is not an  option.)
to quote baudelaire, the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was  convincing the world he doesn't exist.
and do you think you can taste a real difference?
(1) tags: coke, pepsi, pepsi throwdown, soda thanks for commenting!
5 comments this week at serious eats world headquarters 9 comments video: "i'm making cook's illustrated beef stew!
john: one of the most interesting takeaways, for me, was how consistently i noticed something odd about the hfcs.
high fructose corn syrup is trying desperately to shed its current moniker in an ad campaign rebranding itself as just another rendition of sugar.
we were on a weekend cruise (er, more on that  later) leaving from bayonne, but the shiny new boat was built in germany, and  they'd fully stocked their larders with german products, naturally enough.
9 comments wild turkey 80 proof 5 comments anyone ever notice... 22 comments what to do with campari 15 comments virgin cocktails 15 comments recipe for "ginger wine" or "ginger liquor"?
he not only found that most tastersdon't prefer the  sugar version, but thatthinking something was a mexican coke (or the  experience of drinking it out of the bottle) had a huge impact.
it runs pretty deep.)
it did illustrate once again, though, thatthere are discernible differences between the colas, and between sugar-sweetened ones and standard american versions.
it leaves a tinny, metallic aftertaste, and it's a little sharper; and though it's not quite as sweet-tasting, there's something oddly cloying about the drinks that included it.
soda: the pepsi throwback throwdown posted by carey jones and john edwards, november 22, 2011 at 10:30 am [photo: carey jones] john: we can leave debates about the nutritional,  societal, agricultural, and economical issues surrounding high-fructose corn  syrup to another column.
a few years ago,adam kuban tasted very little difference between pepsi throwback and the usual kind (and found a very slight office preference for throwback in a double-blind taste test).
i'll admit, i would grab the 12-pack of throwback over the regular  pepsi because of my aversion to hfcs.
follow her on twitter ( @careyjones).
(prep time: 29 hours)" 15 comments fresh food on tv: weekend edition 0 comments happy birthday, dr. seuss!
[photograph: pepsithrowbackhub.com] john: the results?
it's of little matter to me (i preferred american coke in every single test, and i'm a diet soda drinker, anyway), but john goes out of his way for pepsi throwback.
(and john already has enough habits that waste time and money.)
follow him on twitter (@johnmedwards).
i consistently preferred pepsi to coke (which didn't surprise me), and sugar-sweetened soda to corn-syrup soda.
book giveaway: win a signed copy of 'brewed awakening' 170 comments new beer: stiegl grapefruit radler 7 comments diy vs. buy: cocktail ingredients you should not make yourself 9 comments drinking the bottom shelf: noho hangover defense 21 comments drinking in season:
john: one of the most interesting takeaways, for me, was  how consistently i noticed something odd about the hfcs.
to quote baudelaire, the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he doesn't exist.
10 seussian recipes to celebrate 2 comments video: teaching kids about radishes 0 comments subscribe to our email newsletters so you don't miss anything delicious!weekly newsletter subscribe to our feeds: serious eats, drinks, recipes subscribe by email: all of serious eats
he not only found that most tastersdon't prefer the sugar version, but thatthinking something was a mexican coke (or the experience of drinking it out of the bottle) had a huge impact.
american pepsi, american coke, and pepsi throwback were easy enough.
but does he really prefer the taste of sugar—or just the idea of it?
about the authors: carey jones is the editor of serious eats new york and co-editor of serious eats: sweets.
i consistently preferred pepsi to coke  (which didn't surprise me), and sugar-sweetened soda to corn-syrup soda.
but as more and more companies are introducing  non-hfcs products, it's no surprise to see soda companies jump on the marketing  bandwagon, introducing products likepepsi throwback, sweetened  with good ol' sugar.
but really, what's wrong with that?
high fructose corn syrup is trying  desperately to shed its current moniker in an ad campaign rebranding itself as  just another rendition of sugar.
(and that john doesn't need to board another cruise ship for german sugar coke  fix; a fifteen-second walk to the bodega for a pepsi will do.)
if he doesn't really prefer it, that's a pretty big waste of time and money.
but sugar-sweetened  coke?
i'm sure they're only reinforced by the packaging.
and do you  think you can taste a real difference?
john m. edwards is serious eats's former fast-food bureau chief and eats 85% of the food carey orders.
being a rather severe stickler  for detail, carey insisted on a much longer battery of tests.
(i didn't actually know if it tasted  better, but the marketing had convinced me.
carey: with a sample size of one, this isn't intended to  "prove" that any one of these sodas is superior to another.
but are sugar-based beverages better?
but after this taste test, i'm sticking to sugar when i can.
9 comments lipton tea bags tasting sweet to anyone?
do you seek out pepsi throwback or sugar-sweetened coke?
what  surprised me is that i actually preferred corn syrup pepsi to sugar-sweetened  coke.
i got excited about the teeny euro-style yogurt pots and drinking "coke light."
(i know i'm a pepsi guy.
john was all about the german sugar-sweetened coke.
then, there's my fondness for the old packaging, and for cindy crawford.)