coca-cola has a complex yet easy-to-enjoy flavor that’s well carbonated and not overly sugared, which is rare for a mainstream soda.
royal crown cola, which is a personal favorite here at current config, is an example of this.
additionally, this is about ’coca-cola classic’, not new coke,  diet coke, diet caffeine-free coke, cherry coke, coke with lemon, diet coke  with lime, vanilla coke, or whatever other poorly-conceived-of spin-off  concoction they’re foisting on us this week.
* billions of dollars, we’re sure, have been spent to convey the virtues and defects of one or the other by the companies who manufacture vast oceans of each beverage.
you can follow any responses to this entry  through therss 2.0 feed.
this entry was posted on monday, september 12th, 2005 at 3:27 pm and is filed underessential life lessons.
pepsi cola, on the other hand, is for children and adults who thread their donuts with twinkies when they’re not licking their candy wrappers for the extra sugar.
*also note that this is a comparison of coca-cola vs. pepsi cola, and  excludes all other colas, some of which are better than either.
additionally, this is about ’coca-cola classic’, not new coke, diet coke, diet caffeine-free coke, cherry coke, coke with lemon, diet coke with lime, vanilla coke, or whatever other poorly-conceived-of spin-off concoction they’re foisting on us this week.
one response to “essential life lesson #2: the cola wars are  settled”
*also note that this is a comparison of coca-cola vs. pepsi cola, and excludes all other colas, some of which are better than either.
graphic coming soon probably not ever.
bad behavior has blocked 590 access attempts in the last 7  days.
with over two decades of experience under our belts (and we’ve owned quite a few belts since birth), we set out to definitively answer the question, which is better, coca-cola or pepsi cola?
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
with over two  decades of experience under our belts (and we’ve owned quite a few belts  since birth), we set out to definitively answer the question, which is better,  coca-cola or pepsi cola?
barracuda says: september 16, 2005 at 1:43 pm i’ve always liked coca-cola better than pepsi.
bad behavior has blocked 590 access attempts in the last 7 days.
both comments and pings are currently closed.
the last two weeks, or oh crap,  i’ve fallen off the internet » essential life lesson #2: the cola wars are settled we here at current configuration got together and had a frank and extensive  discussion about coca-cola and pepsi cola.
royal crown  cola, which is a personal favorite here at current config, is an example of  this.
that stuff ain’t right.
this entry was posted on monday, september 12th, 2005 at 3:27 pm and is  filed underessential life lessons.
coca-cola has a complex yet easy-to-enjoy flavor that’s well  carbonated and not overly sugared, which is rare for a mainstream soda.
* billions of dollars, we’re  sure, have been spent to convey the virtues and defects of one or the other by  the companies who manufacture vast oceans of each beverage.
we here at current configuration got together and had a frank and extensive discussion about coca-cola and pepsi cola.
pepsi  cola, on the other hand, is for children and adults who thread their donuts  with twinkies when they’re not licking their candy wrappers for the extra  sugar.
i’ve always liked coca-cola better than pepsi.