in another everything is called coke.
03:33 pm | permalink
she did have an unusually large forehead, but it was not caused by the usual strange hairline that most five-headed people have.
it will be like spending the day with an add kid.
put a little boogie in it!)
okay so i'm warning you in advance that this entry is going  to go awry quickly.
so today, i had fast food - the worst of all fast food  even.
today is "no  soda day 3."
or are all establishments like pro-coke and  pepsi isn't allowed - and omg rc don't even think about it!
how many add kids does it take to change a lightbulb?
why do i care about this?
03:33 pm | permalink comments i think most people these days have add (i do).
so i checked out her forehead to see if it was possible that she had a five-head and that was the problem.
- it should have been a good day
so anyway - i've decided soda
about two trailers down - 3 chicks!
she did have an unusually large  forehead, but it was not caused by the usual strange hairline that most  five-headed people have.
your support archives - may 2007 - april 2007 - march 2007 - february 2007 - january 2007 - december 2006 - november 2006 - october 2006 - september 2006 - august 2006 reading is sexy - pamela ribon: why girls are weird - nicholas sparks:
so, apparently i have a new sense of clarity that allows me to really analyze -  well, everything.
she suffered from poor facial  placement.
her face wasn't ugly - there was just something strange about it.
don't act like you don't know who we be neither!
it will be like spending the day with an add  kid.
in fact, the problem with her face was that although her head was totally normal - her face was kind of small - and it was lower on her head than it should have been.
so today, i had fast food - the worst of all fast food even.
but the servers always say,  "is pepsi okay?"
posted by: freckle face girl | september 10, 2006 at 12:52 pm
which totally reminds me of one of  my favorite jokes (next to - how do you make a kleenex dance?
this is a flickr badge showing public photos from30andflirty.
blog chicks pictures - www.flickr.com
so i checked out her forehead to see if it was possible that she had  a five-head and that was the problem.
today is "no soda day 3."
i need to drink more water because tanning makes you dehydrated (oh pool boy?!)
everything i know about hiking...i learned wearing flip flops adventures of a smartass.
she suffered from poor facial placement.
recent posts - not a new link!
know what goes with grease?
but the servers always say, "is pepsi okay?"
so, apparently i have a new sense of clarity that allows me to really analyze - well, everything.
it is evil and must be the reason i am fat (i'm sure ice cream has  nothing to do with it - so ice cream is safe for now!)
and i'm totally rockin' this no soda thing.
okay - so i know that soda and coke and pop and whatever is called different things in different areas.
i  call everything "cola" coke.
so today, at the bank, i saw a lady with a weird face.
put a  little boogie in it!)
so when you're somewhere that they call everything coke what if it's pepsi?
so anyway - i've decided soda  is satan.
the age of technology | main |  » september 08, 2006 soda pop
okay - so i know that soda and coke and pop and whatever is called  different things in different areas.
which totally reminds me of one of my favorite jokes (next to - how do you make a kleenex dance?
i need to drink  more water because tanning makes you dehydrated (oh pool boy?!)
in fact, the problem with her face was that  although her head was totally normal - her face was kind of small - and it was  lower on her head than it should have been.
or are all establishments like pro-coke and pepsi isn't allowed - and omg rc don't even think about it!
- antm recap - weight watchers update & a meme - mother's day
so today, at the bank, i saw a lady with a weird  face.
this is a flickr badge showing  public photos from30andflirty.
(pepsi is way better...but that's an argument better left for another day)
guess what i had with my chicken mcnuggets?  water!!
it is evil and must be the reason i am fat (i'm sure ice cream has nothing to do with it - so ice cream is safe for now!)
i blame tv & the evil commercials.
daily photos - aly - amalah - b. good - bitchypoo - carrie - cece - cheaper than therapy - chirky - crystal - dooce - emily - freckle face girl - heather - jennsylvania - lala - lara - lilgyrlblue - lindsey - marianne - miss doxie - nicole p. - reformattingmybrain - sarah says... - sass attack - spin the sun - tales from clark street - wtf have i done?!
guess what i had with my chicken mcnuggets?
(pepsi is way better...but that's an argument better  left for another day)  so when you're somewhere that they call everything  coke what if it's pepsi?
seriously, it started because i need to drink more water.
so like in one part of the us it's all soda.
do they still  ask people in those areas if pepsi is okay?
do they still ask people in those areas if pepsi is okay?
make your own badge here.
her face wasn't ugly - there was just something strange about  it.
the comments to this entry are closed.
dear john - chelsea handler: my horizontal life - jeffrey eugenides: the virgin suicides - karyn bosnak: 20 times a lady: a novel - jen lancaster: bitter is the new black
well, here in ca i call everything "cola" coke.
so like in one part of the us it's  all soda.
how many add kids does it take to change a  lightbulb?
photos - cosmetics counter question - mother's day - four!
the age of technology | main | » september 08, 2006 soda pop okay so i'm warning you in advance that this entry is going to go awry quickly.