which  would you choose?
however, although a small cup of a sweeter drink may taste better at the time, that doesn’t necessarily mean that a 12 ounce ‘sweeter’ drink would be preferred.
the switch lasted just 77 days until coca-cola announced it was bringing  back coke ‘classic.’
regards: commodity tips posted @ thursday, october 13, 2011 2:03 am by commodity tips
by 2002, coke ii, as it was eventually called, was discontinued  entirely.
the group that was conducting the 'test' i saw were clearly weighting the results in pepsi's favor, whether they were instructed to or not.
posted @ wednesday, september 28, 2011 4:09 pm byjohn grafton very good post, i was really searching for this topic as i wanted this topic to understand completely and it is also very rare in internet that is why it was very difficult to understand thank you for sharing this.
anti-new coke groups sprang up overnight, most vocal in the south (home of coca-cola), and it soon became apparent that consumers were more upset about the withdrawal of the original formula than pleased with the taste of the new one.
although most tasters liked the sweeter new coke formula, 10 percent - 12  percent of consumers stated that they were angry that coke would consider  changing the original recipe and some went so far as to state that they would  stop drinking coke altogether rather than switch to pepsi.
too much of a  sweet thing might not be what coke drinkers wanted.
coke drinkers were loyal the brand, not just to the taste.
too much of a sweet thing might not be what coke drinkers wanted.
should we give new coke a second chance or relegate it to the long list  of case studies of products that failed?
and coke never challenged pepsi in court.
and the amazing thing to me was that nobody lost their job over it!
do you think the research conducted was faulty – or just not thorough enough?
it should be noted that before new coke was introduced, pepsi was conducting its very successful marketing campaign ‘the pepsi challenge’ that compared coke to pepsi.
the mistake made was treating coke as any other brand and not as a true american icon.
the lip-sticking blog hubspot blog the marketing dialog forwards the conversation between  marketing research and marketing with the purpose of enhancing and  strengthening the industry.
with so many dollars at stake in the soda category, it  isn’t a surprise that research methodologies are occasionally skewed.
they were right since coke had substituted cane sugar in the original formula for high-fructose corn syrup, which gives the drink a different taste (but is less expensive for the company to use in manufacturing the product.)
the taste tests were conducted offering respondents a choice between a small cup of regular coke, a small cup of a sweeter formula of coke and a small cup of pepsi that resulted in the roll-out of new coke.
without going into details, i found the research to be properly conducted including the tricky issue of sample selection.
even then, however, consumers were suspicious  of coke and didn’t think classic tasted like the original recipe.
regard share market posted @ thursday, october 13, 2011 1:22 am byshare market not all the time no one can win the match of stock market trade , humans are bounded with emotions and personal affairs that makes them to take wrong decisions at right time even though they are masters of trade.
i got that ‘deer caught in the headlights’ look that told me she had never heard of new coke, nor probably had anyone in her generation since this all happened in the mid-80’s.
although most tasters liked the sweeter new coke formula, 10 percent - 12 percent of consumers stated that they were angry that coke would consider changing the original recipe and some went so far as to state that they would stop drinking coke altogether rather than switch to pepsi.
pepsi has not recovered.
thanks for your comments pete!
i only examined it after the fact to see if the claim could withstand an expected legal challenge.
i didn't design or conduct the research.
so for you who are old enough to remember, take a trip down memory lane with me as i distill the new coke experience, with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight, for the younger researchers.
respondents weren’t given cold pepsi vs. luke warm flat coke.
by 2002, coke ii, as it was eventually called, was discontinued entirely.
coke market share began declining and the company embarked on extensive  marketing research to determine the correct response.
in the taste-test challenges, pepsi usually won but not for the right reasons.
error sending email email sent successfully email article email to : email from : message : - home - services - methods - communities - about polaris - resources - blogs - contact us © 2012 .
they  were right since coke had substituted cane sugar in the original formula for  high-fructose corn syrup, which gives the drink a different taste (but is less  expensive for the company to use in manufacturing the product.)
i will definately be coming back here more often.
the new coke story posted by john  grafton on tue, sep 20, 2011 @ 08:00 am email article tweet
since it’s been over 25 years since new coke debuted, maybe it’s  time to try it as a brand extension for their existing core products.
tags: marketing research, customer loyalty, customer  satisfaction, new products, new products research, advertising research, brand  image, brand research, marketing
although market research showed that 80 percent of the american public was  aware of the change within days and the company’s stock went up after the  announcement, that wasn’t necessarily a good thing.
do you think the research  conducted was faulty – or just not thorough enough?
choosing the right indicator or analyzing software blended with human aspect gives better results.
the primary difference in the ‘original’ versus the current formulations is that the ‘retro’ versions use sugar, not corn syrup as the sweetener.
coke market share began declining and the company embarked on extensive marketing research to determine the correct response.
nonetheless, coke marketers’ faith in their taste tests was so  strong, since the sweeter mixture beat both pepsi and ‘regular’  coke, new coke was introduced in 1985 to replace the original drink formula.
the coke marketers finally concluded was that it hadvastly underestimated the size of the public who would be alienated by the switch, even when introduced to a new product they perceived was preferred.
in the taste-test challenges,  pepsi usually won but not for the right reasons.
markets dramatically change they their flow and no one exactly produce or expect 100% from their profits .
the  sweeter coke usually was preferred.
respondents were offered a cold, fresh cup of pepsi next to a lukewarm, flat cup of coke.
with so many dollars at stake in the soda category, it isn’t a surprise that research methodologies are occasionally skewed.
don keough said it was a great marketing gambit, but he was not smart enough to actually plan it.
and i totally agree with your last statement - especially in the south, coke was the generic name for any soda when i was growing up, which usually was a coca-cola, and maybe new coke would have succeeded if they had 'prepped' consumers beforehand, but as you point out, they completely ignored the 'heritage' of coke and its deep connection with consumers before surprising them - bad marketing!.
the new coke story posted by john grafton on tue, sep 20, 2011 @ 08:00 am email article tweet
you forgot to comment on the huge egos involved in the decision, including the surge man.
what coke failed to anticipate was the visceral connection consumers felt to the product they grew up with.
pepsi won the challenge because it is (was) slightly sweeter.
to fire someone would be admitting that coke made a mistake - and thed'll never admit to that.
in  response to this, donald keogh, coke’s president at the time stated,  “we’re not that dumb, and we’re not that smart”.
and coke, in its own taste tests found that in brand unidentified taste tests, coke users preferred a sweeter formulation than their “classic” coke – so coke changed the formula and the name.
nonetheless, coke marketers’ faith in their taste tests was so strong, since the sweeter mixture beat both pepsi and ‘regular’ coke, new coke was introduced in 1985 to replace the original drink formula.
thank you trading tips posted @ thursday, october 13, 2011 5:32 am by trading tips post comment name * email * website (optional) comment * allowed tags:  link,  bold,  italics receive email when someone replies.
wish i could add to the conversation and bring a bit more to the table, but am just taking in as much info as i can at the moment.
adding to the confusion, immediately after the switch, ‘conspiracy’ rumors flew that coke had done this as a marketing ploy to increase sales in the original brand when it was reintroduced.
so for you who are old enough to remember, take a trip  down memory lane with me as i distill the new coke experience, with the benefit  of 20/20 hindsight, for the younger researchers.
once a month, the marketing dialog examines a marketing campaign and asks  the question, “brilliant marketing or what?”
adding to the confusion, immediately after the switch,  ‘conspiracy’ rumors flew that coke had done this as a marketing  ploy to increase sales in the original brand when it was reintroduced.
anti-new coke  groups sprang up overnight, most vocal in the south (home of coca-cola), and it  soon became apparent that consumers were more upset about the withdrawal of the  original formula than pleased with the taste of the new one.
1-866-217-7014 - home - services - methods - communities - about polaris - resources - blogs - contact us subscribe via e-mail
current articles | rss feed brilliant marketing or what?
which would you choose?
current articles |  rss feed brilliant marketing or what?
based on many, many focus  groups and taste tests, coke concluded that the answer was solely the taste of  the product.
posted @ wednesday, september 28, 2011 4:07 pm by john grafton
however,  they should definitely not call it new coke!
posted @ tuesday, september 20, 2011 2:00 pm by laila amjad john, thanks for your article on new coke.
the switch lasted just 77 days until coca-cola announced it was bringing back coke ‘classic.’
this month’s subject came from a very hard dose of reality i  encountered last week when i was speaking with a junior member of our staff and  mentioned new coke.
this month’s subject came from a very hard dose of reality i encountered last week when i was speaking with a junior member of our staff and mentioned new coke.
posted @ friday, september 23, 2011 8:36 am by david kay david, you were obviously a little closer to the action than i was - i just know what i observed when the pepsi challenge came to my city and i guess it's like a lot of research facilities - some are good, others, not so.
based on many, many focus groups and taste tests, coke concluded that the answer was solely the taste of the product.
although market research showed that 80 percent of the american public was aware of the change within days and the company’s stock went up after the announcement, that wasn’t necessarily a good thing.
home | services | about us | resource center | contact us | site map customer satisfaction | brand research | employee research | customer retention | new product development polaris has two blog sites you can visit: the marketing dialog presents interviews with marketing leaders on insights and successful experiences they have had using marketing research for key marketing decisions.
what coke failed to anticipate was the visceral connection consumers felt  to the product they grew up with.
respondents were offered  a cold, fresh cup of pepsi next to a lukewarm, flat cup of coke.
the mistake  made was treating coke as any other brand and not as a true american icon.
however, although a small cup of a sweeter  drink may taste better at the time, that doesn’t necessarily mean that a  12 ounce ‘sweeter’ drink would be preferred.
in a strange twist, however, if you look at the soda shelves  these days, you will see ‘retro’ soda formulations, such as the  ‘original’ mountain dew and ‘original’ pepsi being  offered to consumers.
1455 lincoln parkway, suite 320, atlanta, georgia 30346.
polaris marketing research, inc.
and they punished coke for taking away part of their heritage.
in response to this, donald keogh, coke’s president at the time stated, “we’re not that dumb, and we’re not that smart”.
the public’s reaction to new coke – or more accurately to the discontinuation of the original coke formula - was sudden and severe.
thanks for your comments!
the sweeter coke usually was preferred.
should we give new coke a second chance or relegate it to the long list of case studies of products that failed?
great companies make their own luck.
in fact, these consumers told researchers that it felt like they were discussing the death of a family member versus a soft drink.
posted @ thursday, september 22, 2011 10:32 am by pete booth sorry, i have to disagree with the stated coke-pepsi facts.
even then, however, consumers were suspicious of coke and didn’t think classic tasted like the original recipe.
i got that ‘deer caught in the  headlights’ look that told me she had never heard of new coke, nor  probably had anyone in her generation since this all happened in the  mid-80’s.
tags: marketing research, customer loyalty, customer satisfaction, new products, new products research, advertising research, brand image, brand research, marketing comments i think they were little overconfident because of past coke lagacy.. they might have some kind of strong assumptions in their minds that what ever they do with coke it would not decrease their consumer width...
new coke was immediately put into production and the original drink was  completely discontinued.
your email: latest posts - on customer satisfaction and customer experience: part ii - on customer satisfaction and customer experience: part i - the most hated companies in america and customer satisfaction research - 2012 cause marketing trends, summaries, predictions - a look back at marketing ‘fails’ in 2011 - 10 marketing research trends for 2012 - the 7 bs stories of the market research business - happy holidays from polaris marketing research - the holiday marketing challenge - in marketing, timing is everything browse by tag - advertising research (1) - best practices (1) - billboard (1) - brand (2) - brand awareness tracking (1) - brand equity (1) - brand image (3) - brand position (2) - brand positioning (1) - brand research (5) - brand value (1) - branding (4) - business plan (2) - campaign (1) - cause marketing (1) - co-branding (1) - competition (2) - customer expectations (1) - customer experience (1) - customer loyalty (3) - customer satisfaction (6) - customer satisfaction research (1) - customer satisfaction surveys (1) - customer service (4) - data quality (1) - diy marketing research (3) - focus groups (2) - fun (1) - google (1) - information (2) - marketers (7) - marketing (6) - marketing effectiveness (2) - marketing research (24) - marketing research companies (14) - marketing research company (5) - marketing research methodology (1) - marketing research online community (1) - marketing research process (2) - marketing research roi (1) - marketing research trends (1) - marketing researcher (7) - marketing researchers (12) - marketing strategy (1) - new products (1) - new products research (1) - non-profit research (4) - online surveys (1) - predictions (1) - pricing (1) - sampling (3) - service delivery (2) - social media (3) - social media research (2) - surveys (1) - trends (2) favorite blogs - quality service marketing - the marketing savant - diva marketing - the lip-sticking blog - hubspot blog the marketing dialog forwards the conversation between marketing research and marketing with the purpose of enhancing and strengthening the industry.
though people were addicted of coke but what the manufacturers forgot is " its not only the name of coke which drived people mad but they were addicted of its origenal taste" so the research was both faulty and not thorough enough!
once a month, the marketing dialog examines a marketing campaign and asks the question, “brilliant marketing or what?”
we welcome you to join in the discussion with your thoughts or questions.
in a strange twist, however, if you look at the soda shelves these days, you will see ‘retro’ soda formulations, such as the ‘original’ mountain dew and ‘original’ pepsi being offered to consumers.
the rest of john’s assertions are correct as far as i know.
the taste tests were conducted offering respondents a choice  between a small cup of regular coke, a small cup of a sweeter formula of coke  and a small cup of pepsi that resulted in the roll-out of new coke.
new coke was immediately put into production and the original drink was completely discontinued.
polaris pov (point of view) offers free-flowing discusssions on marketing research trends, thoughts on social media, subjective reviews of the latest gadgets or cool iphone apps, business commentary, topical opinions and societal rants - you never know what might be the subject of the latest post on our interresting, fun and sometime controversial blog.
the public’s reaction to new coke – or more accurately to the  discontinuation of the original coke formula - was sudden and severe.
it's a thoughtful article on an always interesting topic.
early in my research career, i was asked to examine the consumer research used to justify the pepsi challenge claim that in a blind taste test, the majority of declared coke drinkers preferred pepsi.
i came across this on google, and i am stoked that i did.
the coke marketers finally concluded  was that it hadvastly underestimated the size of the public who would be  alienated by the switch, even when introduced to a new product they perceived  was preferred.
since it’s been over 25 years since new coke debuted, maybe it’s time to try it as a brand extension for their existing core products.
the primary difference in the  ‘original’ versus the current formulations is that the  ‘retro’ versions use sugar, not corn syrup as the sweetener.
the brilliance was in their recovery, leveraging the brand's short term demise by re-energizing it with new levels of loyalty.
however, they should definitely not call it new coke!
in fact,  these consumers told researchers that it felt like they were discussing the  death of a family member versus a soft drink.
it should be noted that before new coke was introduced, pepsi was  conducting its very successful marketing campaign ‘the pepsi  challenge’ that compared coke to pepsi.
subscribe to this blog by email.