20 campaign signals - are you signaling or is your competition?
in order for strategy to perform this enabling function it needs to be effective, comprehensible and executable.
when a competitor resorts to breaking or bending the rules, and you are unwilling to match their tactics, then you have the makings of an asymmetrical conflict, a battle you will likely lose.
from reasoned  audacity: politics in real life
she's right that pepsi is vulnerable to attack.
boyd's o-o-d-a loop and thoughts on organic command and control should be mastered by all marketers.
the potential success of a campaign use the campaign bot wizard for a quick (couple of minutes), down and dirty assessment of the potential success of your campaign.
but i doubt coke will exploit it.
the campaign strategy wizard describes seven fundamental building blocks of strategy with specific examples.
click here to download the case study.
why marketers should read: because sun tuz is the ultimate marketing strategist.
the campaign cog includes an interactive set of step-by-step instructions.
seven fundamental building blocks of killer competitive strategy
[read more] tracked on 06 june 2005 at 08:46 am
as a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below.
use the campaign screen if the results from the campaign bot are inconclusive.
[read more] tracked on 06 june 2005 at 08:46 am posted by: | this is only a preview.
name is required to post a comment please enter a valid email address invalid url marketing: strategy sun
this wizard is based upon robert cantrells innovativestrategy card deck and describes 54 different strategies and tactics.
this is a case study for a campaign that increased sales from $10 million a month to $50 million a month in 60 days.
campaign symmetries indicate the "fairness" of your campaign.
if someone truly understands how to create menace and uncertainty and mistrust, then how to exploit and magnify the presence of these disconcerting elements, the loop can be vicious, a terribly destructive force, virtually unstoppable in causing panic and confusion and - boyd's phrase is best - "unraveling the competition."
(pg. 46) marketing: tactics machiavelli - the prince mentor book's version with forward by christian gauss.
there never was an occasion when powers were abrogated or challenged, and anyone in this circle could always speak his mind; but the actual war direction soon settled into a very few hands, and what seemed so difficult before became much more simple - apart of course, from hitler.
the campaign bot is a simple rubric that measures your strengths relative to your primary competitor and weighted according to the campaign bot indicates a potential success then proceed with planning your campaign.
churchill's personal experiences leading up to and during wwii provide a practical foundation for dealing with crisis.
54 tactics to select from in building your own plan of campaign.
subscribe armory | book mobilization | engage campaign | register seminar 05 june 2005 | permalink digg this | save to del.icio.us trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c1ad753ef00d83422c87b53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference charmaine yoest says coke should attack pepsi: » camo-ade and cammy coke . .
the ends represent the objective.
why marketers should read: because machiavelli delivers a great primer on dealing with unethical tactics - like blog swarms, short sellers, social activists, corrupt competitors, media relations, etc. money quote:
these seven building blocks are price, quality, service, features, infrastructure, relationships and execution.
use the campaign cog to better understand and exploit your competitive strengths relative to your competitor weaknesses.
» update 8/13/06: nooyi promoted and appointed ceo of pepsi charmain yoest, wickedly smart, and refreshingly american says coke should attack pepsi over the indra nooyi controversy.
therefore use these assessments for comparison, to find out what the conditions are.
how to analyze and exploit competitor vulnerabilities
(pg. 105) marketing: campaigning
an example of a potential campaign signal is a competitor launching an expensive high profile strategic branding campaign which then makes them vulnerable to low profile direct marketing campaigns.
that is to say which political leadership has the way?
crisis the second world war, volume 2: their finest hour winston churchill's wwii chronicles.
an example of strategy would be for the challenger to attack a leaders premium price, with their own premium pricing (not discount pricing!)
« scenes from a recent mobilization | main | copernicus study says 84% of marketing campaigns fail
the campaign signals wizard describes 20 signals a competitor may demonstrate indicating potential vulnerabilities.
whose discipline is effective?
in-depth battle screener identifies potential avenues for a campaign
[read more] tracked on 06 june 2005 at 08:43 am » camo-ade and cammy coke . .
click to download any of the wizards.
which general has the ability?
strategy is the enabler between ends and means.
(urls automatically linked.)
why marketers should read: because boyd articulates the secret to successful campaigning.
the campaign wizards are specialized tools designed to help develop individual campaign elements like strategy and tactics or to quickly assess the potential of your campaign.
it's really quite interesting in that back in 1997 we were urging the client, syquest, to adopt a business model that would later be embraced by steve jobs and apple - the ipod/itunes model.
the fighter pilot who changed the art of war robert coram's biography of john boyd.
this campaign was executed back in 1997-98 but it still serves today as an interesting example of the impact maneuver theory can have on marketing campaigning.
the means includes enterprise resources, competencies, etc.
the campaign screen is a comprehensive version of the battlebot offering more questions and greater sensitivity generating a more accurate indication of the potential for a successful campaign.
subscribe armory | book mobilization | engage campaign | register seminar 05 june 2005 | permalink digg this | save to del.icio.us trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c1ad753ef00d83422c87b53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference charmaine yoest says coke  should attack pepsi: » camo-ade and cammy coke . .
who has the better climate and terrain?
the art of war shambhala/thomas cleary version.
why marketers should read: porter provides a fundamental primer on competition including practical tools and techniques that are even more important today than they were 25 years ago.
a battle between two competitors with essentially comparable offering, infrastructure, relationships and execution, and, committed to playing by an established set of rules, can be considered a symmetrical conflict.
each strategy has a one line description, an explanation of the strategy, the basis for the strategy and a potential tactical application.
rarely do the planets align for this  kind of attack.
whose officers and soldiers are the better trained?
in this weekend's post, i challenged the  executives at coca-cola to come up with a way to get some fluids to major e.,  stationed at camp victory in baghdad.
the letters and numbers you entered did not match the image.
all wizards are excel worksheets or workbooks.
a new prince has never been known to disarm his subjects, on the contrary, when he has found them disarmed he has always armed them, for by arming them, these arms become your own, those that you suspected become faithful, and those that were faithful remain so, and from being merely subjects become your partisans.
learn how to win without fighting.
whose system of rewards and punishments clearer?
the campaign cog wizard generates an in-depth competitive analysis resulting in the identification of your competitors primary vulnerability (center of gravity).
in tandem with superior quality, features or reputation.
and when you do have to fight - how to kick ass and win.
whose troops are stronger?
so while your competitor is waiting for the branding to "work" you're already at work taking market share.
why marketers should read: because everything you read today about crisis management is wrong.
this is how can know who will win.
money quote: for a time, boyd and spinney were reluctant to fully
« scenes from a recent mobilization | main | copernicus study says  84% of marketing campaigns fail » charmaine yoest says coke should attack pepsi update 8/13/06: nooyi promoted and appointed ceo of pepsi charmain yoest, wickedly smart, and refreshingly american says coke should  attack pepsi over the indra nooyi controversy.
in spite of the turbulence of events and the many disasters we had to endure, the machinery worked almost automatically, and one lived in a stream of coherent thought capable of being translated with great rapidity into executive action.
in this weekend's post, i challenged the executives at coca-cola to come up with a way to get some fluids to major e., stationed at camp victory in baghdad.
audacity: politics in real life
traditional branding theory advocates the need for a consistent message broadcast over time.
determining asymmetrical advantages - what happens when the competition cheats.
one broad approach is to use superior resources and capabilities to force an outcome skewed toward the interest of the firm, overcoming and outlasting retaliation - we might call this brute force approach.
this sort of approach is possible only if the firm possesses clear superiorities, and it is stable only as long as the firm maintains these superiorities, and as long as competitors do not misread them and incorrectly attempt to change their positions.
this prevents automated programs from posting comments.
some competitors are willing to go further than others in order to win a battle.
the campaign symmetries wizard provide a gauge by which to measure the symmetry of your battle for market share.
she's right that pepsi is  vulnerable to attack.
your information (name and email address are required.
i'm waiting for a small, upstart all-american soft drink brand to take this on.
this is true whether the loop is applied in combat, in competitive business practices, in sports, or in personal relationships.
explain the o-o-d-a loop; it was far too dangerous.
your comment has not yet been posted.
rarely do the planets align for this kind of attack.
here's "camo-ade" from waco kid at penguin proletariat!
the campaign tactics wizard is designed to provide a catalyst to drive strategy and tactics.
here's "camo-ade" from waco kid  at penguin proletariat!
the positioning opportunities are perfect.
(pg. 17) marketing fundamentals competitive strategy: techniques for analyzing industries and competitors michael porter's classic.
email address will not be displayed with the comment.)
having trouble reading this image?