it is not because it is the leader  in the marketplace or promoted itself as such but because it is *known* as the  leader.
in his new book (which i highly recommend) "the 22 immutable laws of branding," al ries stresses the importance of leadership and how that leadership is communicated.
and if you do make such claims, you will then have your work cut out for you in order to prove them.
in fact, referral traffic generators are key ingredients of online success.
but according to ries, taste tests  conducted by both coke and pepsi reveal that pepsi is the better tasting brand.
but according to ries, taste tests conducted by both coke and pepsi reveal that pepsi is the better tasting brand.
this "word-of-mouth" advertising is crucial in the offline  world.
and, unlike the more traditional traffic generators such as  banners and search engines, these specific tools are much more effective since  they are used by third parties and not by the original advertiser.
in addition, those who get to know you or know about you through third party referrals grant you a higher level of confidence, credibility, and loyalty.
that's the power of  word-of-mouth advertising.
when a person is introduced to cola for the first time, he or she is often told to try coke.
according to ries, people never buy the best -- even if they think or say that they do.
online, they are often called referral  traffic generators.
unlike unsolicited advertisements (such as "spam"), which stops once it reaches its destination (and the reason spammers must keep spamming in order to remain successful), viral marketing continues to spread almost effortlessly since the people who refer you to others know each other.
a great example is a referral service like the one recently launched by my associates at "internet marketing challenge" -- the publishers of the "chronicles" e-zine of which i am the editor.
consequently, if your business or web site is unique, focuses on a niche,  or is the first in some category, the knowledge of your existence will spread  almost naturally.
and that perception is often molded by what they are told and by what others do, not by what is fact or by what is being advertised.
and, unlike the more traditional traffic generators such as banners and search engines, these specific tools are much more effective since they are used by third parties and not by the original advertiser.
they usually buy the leader (or what  they perceive as being the best).
networking systems, for example, include strategic marketing alliances, joint ventures, and affiliate programs.
therefore, word-of-mouth, referrals,  and networking systems are not only important because they create an awareness  of your business (or for creating traffic, in the online world), but also  important to the degree to which third party marketing indirectly communicates  your superiority and the value of the products or services you offer.
however, if someone that you know says to a friend, relative, associate, or acquaintance that you are indeed the best or that you do have the solution to their problems, how much more believable will that person's statement be?
a great example is a referral service like the one recently launched  by my associates at "internet marketing challenge" -- the publishers  of the "chronicles" e-zine of which i am the editor.
however, if someone that you know says to a friend, relative, associate,  or acquaintance that you are indeed the best or that you do have the solution  to their problems, how much more believable will that person's statement be?
that's the power of word-of-mouth advertising.
in other words, your marketing success depends highly on the number of locations you appear -- places on which your site, link, company name, or product name exist.
according to ries, people never buy the best --  even if they think or say that they do.
so, why does coke still beat pepsi in sales?
such tools help to stimulate word-of-mouth advertising, which is more effective than general advertising.
they say that the key to marketing success in the offline world is "location, location, location."
this new service is based on this viral marketing concept (for a sample, please visit success-doctor.com/referral.htm).
for along with communicating your existence to the world, word-of-mouth advertising helps to cast that aura of leadership and superiority.
in essence, it is to be in as many places as possible, talked about by as many people as possible, and seen by as many eyeballs as possible.
in his  new book (which i highly recommend) "the 22 immutable laws of  branding," al ries stresses the importance of leadership and how that  leadership is communicated.
and that perception is often molded by what  they are told and by what others do, not by what is fact or by what is being  advertised.
coke, for example, outsells pepsi.
for along with communicating  your existence to the world, word-of-mouth advertising helps to cast that aura  of leadership and superiority.
such tools help to stimulate word-of-mouth advertising,  which is more effective than general advertising.
nevertheless, if you received a call, letter, or e-mail from someone you know referring you to a particular company, how much more credible will that referral be when compared to a blatant advertisement coming from the company itself?
but creating specific systems and using specific tools that will leverage the spreading of that message helps to multiply your marketing punch exponentially.
they usually buy the leader (or what they perceive as being the best).
online, they are often called referral traffic generators.
coke was the first cola "in the mind" of the marketplace and  thus the one most talked about, even to this day.
coke was the first cola "in the mind" of the marketplace and thus the one most talked about, even to this day.
this new service  is based on this viral marketing concept (for a sample, please visit success-doctor.com/referral.htm).
in addition, those  who get to know you or know about you through third party referrals grant you a  higher level of confidence, credibility, and loyalty.
remember an old dictum a mentor of mine once told me, which is: "implication is more powerful than specification."
in essence, it is to be in as many places as  possible, talked about by as many people as possible, and seen by as many  eyeballs as possible.
in other words, if you tell people you're the best, that you're the leader in your field, or that your product is the best solution to their needs, your self-serving promotional bias can be instantly recognized.
it's because,  while other colas are bombarding them with marketing messages, people have  heard of coke first and most likely from other people.
your statement smacks of being untrue and is  rarely believable at face value.
this "word-of-mouth" advertising is crucial in the offline world.
when a person is introduced  to cola for the first time, he or she is often told to try coke.
it's because, while other colas are bombarding them with marketing messages, people have heard of coke first and most likely from other people.
read ourterms and conditions.
in other words, if  you tell people you're the best, that you're the leader in your field, or that  your product is the best solution to their needs, your self-serving promotional  bias can be instantly recognized.
24/7x365 service - live technical support why word-of-mouth works wonders home >
unlike  unsolicited advertisements (such as "spam"), which stops once it  reaches its destination (and the reason spammers must keep spamming in order to  remain successful), viral marketing continues to spread almost effortlessly  since the people who refer you to others know each other.
nevertheless, if you received a call, letter, or e-mail from someone you  know referring you to a particular company, how much more credible will that  referral be when compared to a blatant advertisement coming from the company  itself?
remember an old dictum a mentor of mine once told me, which is:  "implication is more powerful than specification."
in fact, referral traffic generators are key ingredients of online  success.
consequently, if your business or web site is unique, focuses on a niche, or is the first in some category, the knowledge of your existence will spread almost naturally.
but referral or network marketing, to which it is commonly referred, is  also priceless on the web.
people in restaurants still refer to the word "coke" as the generic name for colas even when the restaurant only serves pepsi.
people in  restaurants still refer to the word "coke" as the generic name for  colas even when the restaurant only serves pepsi.
promote > marketing > viral marketing by michel fortin viral marketing is the process of implementing means through which the  knowledge of your existence self-propagates.
it is not because it is the leader in the marketplace or promoted itself as such but because it is *known* as the leader.
like a virus, your visibility  spreads throughout a network of people who refer you to each other.
like a virus, your visibility spreads throughout a network of people who refer you to each other.
in other words, your marketing success depends highly on the  number of locations you appear -- places on which your site, link, company  name, or product name exist.
but referral or network marketing, to which it is commonly referred, is also priceless on the web.
home | products | about us  |help center | testimonials | press room | contact us affiliates | careers | domain names | web hosting | site map copyright © 1999-2007  ipower, inc.
and if you do make such claims, you will then  have your work cut out for you in order to prove them.
networking systems, for example, include strategic marketing alliances,  joint ventures, and affiliate programs.
they say that the key to marketing success in the  offline world is "location, location, location."
home > promote > marketing > viral marketing by michel fortin viral marketing is the process of implementing means through which the knowledge of your existence self-propagates.
on the internet it's  no different.
statistically, the answer is much more.
but creating specific systems and using specific tools that  will leverage the spreading of that message helps to multiply your marketing  punch exponentially.
therefore, word-of-mouth, referrals, and networking systems are not only important because they create an awareness of your business (or for creating traffic, in the online world), but also important to the degree to which third party marketing indirectly communicates your superiority and the value of the products or services you offer.
on the internet it's no different.
your statement smacks of being untrue and is rarely believable at face value.