second, we also need to constantly look ahead.
calvert social investment foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, offers the community investment note, which is subject to certain risks, is not a mutual fund, is not fdic or sipc insured, and should not be confused with any calvert group-sponsored investment product.
every day at st.  john’s more than 1,000 hungry brooklyn children, families, and  individuals receive nutritious meals.
posted in borrowers, domestic  | 1 comment keeping the faith
you can follow lisa hall on twitter: @lisagreenhall posted in domestic | tagged accion, community, impact, lisa hall | leave a  comment which is better?
in addition to his great  people skills, richard brings a wealth of experience in technology and  strategic solution analysis to calvert foundation.
in less than two years, this cooperation increased our lending activities by more than 50 percent.
first, we have to build out the community of those dedicated to  financial inclusion by expanding the types of partnerships we pursue.
you can follow lisa hall on twitter: @lisagreenhall posted on january 17, 2012 by thea
the purpose of this new blog is to continue the  conversation we started that day – and i am honored to be the first to  post here.
by sally boulter, manager of individual initiatives at calvert foundation which is better?
by patrick davis, calvert foundation senior associate.
not surprisingly, topics in socially responsible investing are particularly prominent, and so i attended on behalf ofcalvert foundation.
i was fortunate enough to spend some time with many great people, but i especially appreciated the chance to reconnect with two nuns that i’ve worked with previously.
posted on january 17, 2012 by thea by sally boulter, manager of individual initiatives at calvert  foundation which is better?
for more background, check out the community investing toolkit for the faith community report from the social investment forum foundation.
using a loan to fund st. john’s space needs meant that more philanthropy was available to provide services to the recipients of the meals, like naishaune spencer (pictured right with his daughter).
as a nonprofit, however, we recognize and value the vital role that philanthropy plays even within the impact investing sector, for things like risk capital and technical assistance for social entrepreneurs.
flying home from rcri, i found myself reflecting on the recent buzz around impact investing.
11.28.2011 global impact investing network improving livelihoods, removing barriers: investing for impact in mtanga farms 11.11.2011 pocono record make some of your dollars make a difference 11.8.2011 innovators in action lisa hall: ending poverty through investment 08.2011
posted on december 22, 2011 by thea
we need to do more – and we can’t do it alone.
at an industry level, therefore, we need to  think about what partnership models will look like in the future, moving  partnerships beyond the typical investor/service provider relationship.
this last point about client protection and social impact is fundamental.
faith  communities have continued to support the industry when it’s been  difficult, unpopular, or in glaring contradiction to the prevailing financial  philosophies of the day.
as an industry, impact  investing cannot realize its vision without understanding its roots.
lisa hall in september, i had the opportunity to participate in a dialogue with more than 45 other participants as part of a roundtable hosted byaccion’s center for financial inclusion.
working hard each day, it’s easy to get caught up in our to-do lists and hectic schedules.
in fact, the faith community provided critical seed funding that jump-started countless community loan funds and microfinance institutions that we know well today.
catherine godschalk prior to joining calvert foundation in july, as the new leader of the domestic lending team, catherine was the washington, d.c., regional office director at self-help ventures fund, where she led the organization’s efforts to provide more than $33 million in financing to support commercial real estate, affordable housing, charter schools, and other community facilities in underserved areas around the washington, d.c., metropolitan area.
as an industry, impact investing cannot realize its vision without understanding its roots.
on the other hand, philanthropy is essential to providing funding for the arts, job and literacy training, pregnancy prevention, eldercare, and similar programs which will never be supported by the market alone.
impact investing offers a new way to bring capital to improving lives and a new way for people to connect with each other based on mutual benefit.
when it comes to impact investing, the faith community has been quite the opposite – jumping in with both feet.
in november, after returning from the resource center for religious  institutes (rcri) conference in st. louis, i was moved to write about my  experience forthe unsectored blog.
we were proud to become  one of the first signatories, and have since worked to incorporate the  principles into our investment process from beginning to end.
and so it is with great pleasure that we extend a warm welcome to these new additions to the calvert foundation team.
perhaps the most fascinating aspect of the impact investing  movement is that serves such a wide spectrum of beliefs and values, and as  such, transcends common political, religious, and social boundaries.
catherine also led self-help’s national foreclosure  recovery initiative, developing loan products and lending capital designed to  support the redevelopment single family and multifamily foreclosed properties.
they are distinct and yet collaborative tools that can be accessed and employed to improve people’s lives.
so how do we make finance more inclusive?
there i was joined by many impact investing (or community investing) organizations including oikocredit, partners for the common good, leviticus fund, hope enterprise corporation, urban partnership bank, and mercy loan fund, among others.
in the melting pot of all those beliefs and values, though, there have been  only a handful of steadfast supporters.
“with the help of st. john’s bread & life, loving family and friends, and sheer dedication, i was able to go back to school, get a great job, have a steady income and, most significantly, get my first apartment.”
i am proud of the collaboration we at calvert foundation (through our subsidiary,community investment partners) established with citibank to get more dollars to communities where jobs and investments are needed most.
sister pam buganski of thesisters of notre dame and sister corinne florek of thereligious communities investment fund are each forces of nature in their own right – inspiring, compassionate, tireless advocates for social justice…and new thinking in finance.
partnerships are critical.
financial inclusion is about bringing everyone into the  system – but also about ensuring that that system is beneficial for those  who participate.
in less than  two years, this cooperation increased our lending activities by more than 50  percent.
at st.  john’s, naishaune receives nutritional counseling, health and hygiene  products, and social services such as workforce development, literacy training,  psychiatric services, and substance-abuse counseling.
not  surprisingly, topics in socially responsible investing are particularly  prominent, and so i attended on behalf ofcalvert foundation.
we have expanded the social impact section of our due diligence reports to include evaluation of the potential mfi borrower’s compliance with the principles.
as vice president, john is responsible for cip’s $120+  million asset management business, in addition to direct client portfolio  management duties.
new technologies bring new opportunities, but are also disruptive.
the microfinance community can continue to provide niche services, or it can explore new products and new business models that will take it out of its comfort zone.
richard tran richard brings more a decade of experience in  telecommunications networking technologies for both non-profit and corporate  sector organizations to his role as manager of information technology.
throughout, there will continue to be a need for patient, flexible, and affordable capital – but this is just one building block, and the delivery mechanisms are changing.
when i was at thetbli conference in london earlier this month, i saw  “occupy” protesters just a block from where the conference was  being held.
personally, i’m deeply grateful to sister pam, sister corrine, and the countless other supporters of our work that i get to see each year at rcri.
richard tran richard brings more a decade of experience in telecommunications networking technologies for both non-profit and corporate sector organizations to his role as manager of information technology.
and so it is with great pleasure that we extend a warm welcome to these new  additions to the calvert foundation team.
the needs  of microfinance institutions and their clients are evolving and changing every  day.
finally, we must work to protect clients and continue to evaluate social impact.
“i ran with the wrong crowd and ended up homeless, jobless, and in a whole lot of trouble,” he said.
in fact, in many cases, we see the clear benefit in having both, working in partnership.
as if having the chance to change the world by providing opportunity to the  underserved weren’t enough, we at calvert foundation also have the great  privilege of working with a team of dedicated and talented professionals.
it’s  about a connected circle of people, with mutual benefit for all the  stakeholders involved, and with clients at the center.
in fact, in many cases, we see the clear benefit in having both, working in  partnership.
more than 30 years ago, faith-based  investors began to point to scripture as a basis for moving real assets into  the community development space.
posted in conferences & events | tagged community, conference, faith,  impact investing, patrick davis, rcri | leave a comment a warm welcome to the newest additions to the calvert foundation team posted on december 22, 2011 by thea
in the melting pot of all those beliefs and values, though, there have been only a handful of steadfast supporters.
strategic partnerships are difficult due to competing interests.
dow jones adviser wealthy interested in impact investing 1.5.2012
sister corinne  has been featured in this blog before, for her work using impact investing  principles to care for retired nuns while supporting people in underserved  communities
rcri is primarily a conference for religious treasurers to learn about  developments in financial management that relate to their ministry.
in 2009 calvert foundation began working with cgap and  accion to provide an investor perspective at the beginning stages of the client  protection principles now called the smart campaign.
but it is not a coke-or-pepsi decision with one option being clearly superior.
in many situations, these needs and the  programs that support them aren’t exclusively served by one or the other.
my conversations with the sisters reminded me of the faith  community’s special and often unrecognized place in the development of  what we now call impact investing.
at st. john’s, naishaune receives nutritional counseling, health and hygiene products, and social services such as workforce development, literacy training, psychiatric services, and substance-abuse counseling.
financial inclusion is about bringing everyone into the system – but also about ensuring that that system is beneficial for those who participate.
for further questions about this series, write tosonja e. kelly,  fellow, center for financial inclusion at accion international.
at an industry level, therefore, we need to think about what partnership models will look like in the future, moving partnerships beyond the typical investor/service provider relationship.
when it comes to impact investing, the faith community has been quite  the opposite – jumping in with both feet.
as it was described to me recently, everyone wants to be the “first second” adopter of a new behavior.
even a casual reader of the commentary around impact investing and philanthropy will note that much of the discussion is centered on which is better.
prior to joining calvert foundation in 2011, richard served as a network and telecommunication administrator at calvert investments, where he managed multiple projects from development to implementation.
it’s time to expand the circle
key information can be proprietary, and goals don’t always align.
posted on january 31, 2012 by thea this post by lisa green hall, president and ceo, was originally published on thecenter for financial inclusion blog, and is part of their expert exchange: building a movement toward financial inclusion by 2020, cultivating conversation around the goal of reaching full financial inclusion by 2020.
faith communities have continued to support the industry when it’s been difficult, unpopular, or in glaring contradiction to the prevailing financial philosophies of the day.
in 2009 calvert foundation began working with cgap and accion to provide an investor perspective at the beginning stages of the client protection principles now called the smart campaign.
posted on january 31, 2012 by thea this post by lisa green hall, president and ceo, was originally  published on thecenter for financial inclusion blog, and is part of their  expert exchange: building a movement toward financial inclusion by 2020,
in general, the financial inclusion industry needs to continue to build that capacity.
to oversimplify, investment capital can help build things like small  businesses, affordable housing, community health clinics, senior centers,  schools, water systems in the developing world, etc.
they were camped out in tents near st. paul’s cathedral, waving signs that expressed frustration about a system they felt had harmed more than helped them.
as vice president, john is responsible for cip’s $120+ million asset management business, in addition to direct client portfolio management duties.
in  years to come, i hope that our supporters in the faith community earn as much  benefit from their investment as we have from their involvement.
but it is not a coke-or-pepsi decision with one  option being clearly superior.
i am proud of the collaboration we at calvert foundation (through our  subsidiary,community investment partners) established with citibank to get more  dollars to communities where jobs and investments are needed most.
the industry has attracted interest from a wide range of  institutions – some are drawn to impact investing because they believe in  the potential for market-beating returns in the long run, others because it  allows for the integration of social or environmental values in investment  portfolios.
we were proud to become one of the first signatories, and have since worked to incorporate the principles into our investment process from beginning to end.
in many situations, these needs and the programs that support them aren’t exclusively served by one or the other.
john ducey john ducey brings 23 years of community development  experience to community investment partners, a subsidiary of the calvert  foundation.
key  information can be proprietary, and goals don’t always align.
in addition to his great people skills, richard brings a wealth of experience in technology and strategic solution analysis to calvert foundation.
we have expanded the social impact  section of our due diligence reports to include evaluation of the potential mfi  borrower’s compliance with the principles.
slide 1 photo courtesy of chf international due to blue sky regulations, the current offering of the community investment note cannot be offered or sold in the states of pennsylvania, south carolina, or washington.
at calvert foundation, our aim is to transform investment culture so that every investor becomes an impact investor.
in november, after returning from the resource center for religious institutes (rcri) conference in st. louis, i was moved to write about my experience forthe unsectored blog.
nomad editions sustainable money deep impact investing council on foundations 2012 family philanthropy conference (feb 13-15, miami, fl) duke net impact: disrupting the status quo (feb 15, durham, nc) harvard business school social enterprise conference (feb 25-26, cambridge, ma) san francisco basecamp (mar 7, san francisco, ca)
at calvert foundation, we often talk about impact investing as a virtuous  circle, one that creates empowerment, opportunity, and engagement by connecting  investors, underprivileged individuals, and communities.
when i was at thetbli conference in london earlier this month, i saw “occupy” protesters just a block from where the conference was being held.
now, a few weeks later, i wanted to share a version of that post with readers of calvert foundation’s blog.
this connection – to me – is the ultimate goal of financial inclusion.
impact investing offers a new way to bring capital  to improving lives and a new way for people to connect with each other based on  mutual benefit.
in general,  the financial inclusion industry needs to continue to build that capacity.
posted on december 28, 2011 by thea
in our culture, we approach hot new things with both enthusiasm and trepidation.
for more background, check out the community investing toolkit for the faith community report from the social  investment forum foundation.
i look forward to the day when we stop viewing philanthropy and impact investing as a coke-or-pepsi choice and start to see them for what they are: natural allies in the struggle to make the world a better place for all of us to live, work, raise our families, and perhaps have a little fun.
to oversimplify, investment capital can help build things like small businesses, affordable housing, community health clinics, senior centers, schools, water systems in the developing world, etc.
the industry has attracted interest from a wide range of institutions – some are drawn to impact investing because they believe in the potential for market-beating returns in the long run, others because it allows for the integration of social or environmental values in investment portfolios.
john ducey john ducey brings 23 years of community development experience to community investment partners, a subsidiary of the calvert foundation.
they are distinct and  yet collaborative tools that can be accessed and employed to improve  people’s lives.
traditional philanthropy and government programs, while critical to improving the lives of the poor, can never by themselves meet all the needs of disadvantaged communities.
using a loan to fund st. john’s space needs meant  that more philanthropy was available to provide services to the recipients of  the meals, like naishaune spencer (pictured right with his daughter).
we hope by the end of 2012 that number will be 100 percent.
as if having the chance to change the world by providing opportunity to the underserved weren’t enough, we at calvert foundation also have the great privilege of working with a team of dedicated and talented professionals.
as for soda, we all know coke is it.
finally, we must work to protect clients and continue to evaluate  social impact.
sister corinne has been featured in this blog before, for her work using impact investing principles to care for retired nuns while supporting people in underserved communities
even a casual reader of the commentary  around impact investing and philanthropy will note that much of the discussion  is centered on which is better.
with values systems firmly  rooted in concepts of equity and social justice, faith-based institutions have  contributed enormously to the development of the impact investing industry.
recently thelow income investment fund, a  calvert foundation borrower for the last five years, provided a $7 million loan  to enable st. john’s to expand their facilities and serve a total of  450,000 meals annually.
we began using social impact covenants in our loan agreements, requiring mfi borrowers to comply with the smart campaign, or have their own code of ethics with equivalent emphasis on client protection.
this website is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy these securities; the offering is made only by the prospectus, which should be read before investing.
catherine godschalk prior to joining calvert foundation in july, as  the new leader of the domestic lending team, catherine was the washington,  d.c., regional office director at self-help ventures fund, where she led the  organization’s efforts to provide more than $33 million in financing to  support commercial real estate, affordable housing, charter schools, and other  community facilities in underserved areas around the washington, d.c.,  metropolitan area.
every day at st. john’s more than 1,000 hungry brooklyn children, families, and individuals receive nutritious meals.
as a vice president there, he was  responsible for the company’s placement of equity for workforce housing  and new markets tax credit (nmtc) investments targeted at mixed-use and  commercial developments.
the giving show ceo lisa hall was on "the giving show" with michael chatman on thursday, january 5, at 11:30 am est.
this connection  – to me – is the ultimate goal of financial inclusion.
catherine also led self-help’s national foreclosure recovery initiative, developing loan products and lending capital designed to support the redevelopment single family and multifamily foreclosed properties.
michael grossman our new manager of international lending, michael was  previously a senior advisor to mckinsey & company’s social sector  office where he worked on economic development assignments with a focus on the  financial sector and inclusive agriculture development.
as a nonprofit, however, we  recognize and value the vital role that philanthropy plays even within the  impact investing sector, for things like risk capital and technical assistance  for social entrepreneurs.
posted in  foundation news | tagged catherine godschalk, john ducey, michael grossman,  richarrd tran, staff, welcome | leave a comment ← older posts
a prime example of the investment-philanthropy partnership can be seen at st. john’s bread & life in brooklyn, ny.
i look forward to the day when we stop viewing philanthropy and impact  investing as a coke-or-pepsi choice and start to see them for what they are:  natural allies in the struggle to make the world a better place for all of us  to live, work, raise our families, and perhaps have a little fun.
a prime example of the investment-philanthropy partnership can be seen at  st. john’s bread & life in brooklyn, ny.
prior to  joining calvert foundation in 2011, richard served as a network and  telecommunication administrator at calvert investments, where he managed  multiple projects from development to implementation.
the purpose of this new blog is to continue the conversation we started that day – and i am honored to be the first to post here.
for the previous five years, john worked at enterprise community investment inc. (enterprise).
in addition, michael led the creation of the african development bank’s $1 billion trade finance initiative and developed small enterprise financing strategies for two african governments.
they were camped out in tents near st. paul’s cathedral,  waving signs that expressed frustration about a system they felt had harmed  more than helped them.
in years to come, i hope that our supporters in the faith community earn as much benefit from their investment as we have from their involvement.
at calvert foundation, we often talk about impact investing as a virtuous circle, one that creates empowerment, opportunity, and engagement by connecting investors, underprivileged individuals, and communities.
my conversations with the sisters reminded me of the faith community’s special and often unrecognized place in the development of what we now call impact investing.
in fact, the faith community provided critical  seed funding that jump-started countless community loan funds and microfinance  institutions that we know well today.
personally, i’m deeply grateful to sister pam, sister corrine, and the  countless other supporters of our work that i get to see each year at rcri.
now, a few weeks later, i wanted to share a  version of that post with readers of calvert foundation’s blog.
but when we have a new hire in our midst, it helps to remind  us why we’re here, the pride we feel in our mission and our work.
we need  to do more – and we can’t do it alone.
“i ran with the  wrong crowd and ended up homeless, jobless, and in a whole lot of  trouble,” he said.
congregations and religious retirement funds continue to be some of the most significant contributors to impact investing institutions, and this commitment to social justice through investment was established decades prior to the current excitement about impact investing.
michael grossman our new manager of international lending, michael was previously a senior advisor to mckinsey & company’s social sector office where he worked on economic development assignments with a focus on the financial sector and inclusive agriculture development.
in our culture, we approach hot new  things with both enthusiasm and trepidation.
“with the help of st. john’s bread &  life, loving family and friends, and sheer dedication, i was able to go back to  school, get a great job, have a steady income and, most significantly, get my  first apartment.”
there i was joined  by many impact investing (or community investing) organizations including oikocredit, partners for the common good, leviticus fund, hope enterprise  corporation, urban partnership bank, and mercy loan fund, among others.
flying home from rcri, i found myself reflecting on the recent buzz around  impact investing.
i was fortunate enough to spend some time with many great people, but i  especially appreciated the chance to reconnect with two nuns that i’ve  worked with previously.
for the previous five years, john worked at enterprise  community investment inc. (enterprise).
first, we have to build out the community of those dedicated to financial inclusion by expanding the types of partnerships we pursue.
recently thelow income investment fund, a calvert foundation borrower for the last five years, provided a $7 million loan to enable st. john’s to expand their facilities and serve a total of 450,000 meals annually.
traditional philanthropy and government programs, while critical to  improving the lives of the poor, can never by themselves meet all the needs of  disadvantaged communities.
the needs of microfinance institutions and their clients are evolving and changing every day.
it’s about a connected circle of people, with mutual benefit for all the stakeholders involved, and with clients at the center.
at calvert foundation, our aim is to transform investment culture so that  every investor becomes an impact investor.
but when we have a new hire in our midst, it helps to remind us why we’re here, the pride we feel in our mission and our work.
we began using  social impact covenants in our loan agreements, requiring mfi borrowers to  comply with the smart campaign, or have their own code of ethics with  equivalent emphasis on client protection.
impact investing and philanthropy each have their own unique roles to play in moving society forward.
more than 30 years ago, faith-based investors began to point to scripture as a basis for moving real assets into the community development space.
perhaps the most fascinating aspect of the impact investing movement is that serves such a wide spectrum of beliefs and values, and as such, transcends common political, religious, and social boundaries.
lisa hall in september, i had the opportunity to participate in a dialogue with more  than 45 other participants as part of a roundtable hosted byaccion’s  center for financial inclusion.
as it was described to me  recently, everyone wants to be the “first second” adopter of a new  behavior.
the  microfinance community can continue to provide niche services, or it can  explore new products and new business models that will take it out of its  comfort zone.
throughout, there will continue to be a need for patient,  flexible, and affordable capital – but this is just one building block,  and the delivery mechanisms are changing.
as a vice president there, he was responsible for the company’s placement of equity for workforce housing and new markets tax credit (nmtc) investments targeted at mixed-use and commercial developments.
for further questions about this series, write tosonja e. kelly, fellow, center for financial inclusion at accion international.
impact investing and philanthropy each have  their own unique roles to play in moving society forward.
congregations and religious retirement funds continue to be some of the  most significant contributors to impact investing institutions, and this  commitment to social justice through investment was established decades prior  to the current excitement about impact investing.
working hard each day, it’s easy to get caught up in our to-do lists and  hectic schedules.
rcri is primarily a conference for religious treasurers to learn about developments in financial management that relate to their ministry.
in addition, michael  led the creation of the african development bank’s $1 billion trade  finance initiative and developed small enterprise financing strategies for two  african governments.
with values systems firmly rooted in concepts of equity and social justice, faith-based institutions have contributed enormously to the development of the impact investing industry.
cultivating conversation around the goal of reaching full financial inclusion  by 2020.
on the other hand,  philanthropy is essential to providing funding for the arts, job and literacy  training, pregnancy prevention, eldercare, and similar programs which will  never be supported by the market alone.
sister pam buganski of thesisters of notre dame and  sister corinne florek of thereligious communities investment fund are each  forces of nature in their own right – inspiring, compassionate, tireless  advocates for social justice…and new thinking in finance.
as of q3 2011, 77 percent of calvert foundation’s mfi borrowers had signed on to the smart campaign.