(and some waldings, who are allergic to  citric acid, can't even drink pepsi; but that's a tale for another time.)
the date on the packaging is called the "optimum taste date".
unfortunately, we never manage to keep bottles of coke around here long enough  to find out!
here is what we wrote:
it's an interesting site that changes every day, and we also found a  place to click and email our question.
does it really mean that the coke expires before that specific time?
if you've ever bought a bottle of coke, you've probably noticed that, beside the best-before date, there is always a time.
a visit to the coke site we visited the official coca-cola site and  explored.
we  decided to write to coke and find out.
we recommend you consume the product by this date to enjoy the best taste.
this page is about  the expiry time on the bottle.
the time stamp that you see actually is the time of the day the product was produced in the production facility.
does this really mean that the bottle of coke is best not only before october 13, but before 12:30 on that day?
does this really mean that the bottle of  coke is best not only before october 13, but before 12:30 on that day?
the coca-cola company industry and consumer affairs "optimum taste date", huh?
does it really mean that the coke expires before that specific  time?
does that mean the coke tastes better  and better and better until that date, and then starts losing its flavour?
the expiry time on the coke bottle everyone loves coca-cola, right?
but  this page is not about the debate between coke and pepsi.
if you have additional questions or comments, please visit our web site  again.
many waldings prefer coke to pepsi.
we appreciate this opportunity to help you to understand  what the coding means on our bottles.
on the nearest bottle, i  see that it is oct 13, 97 at 12:30.
if you ever have product that does not meet your expectation, please call  us, 1-800-438-2653, and one of our representatives will be happy to assist you.
on the nearest bottle, i see that it is oct 13, 97 at 12:30.
i have a question about the expiry date and time on your coca-cola bottles.
however, my question is what does the time on the  bottle mean?
if you've ever bought a bottle of coke, you've probably noticed that,  beside the best-before date, there is always a time.
i have a question about the expiry date and time on your  coca-cola bottles.
our products are safe to consume beyond the date but may have begun to lose their flavor.
however, my question is what does the time on the bottle mean?
i know that the date on the bottle indicates the date at  which the coke expires.
do you have any more questions?
check out: oddities in the movies.
we  recommend you consume the product by this date to enjoy the best taste.
unfortunately, we never manage to keep bottles of coke around here long enough to find out!do you have any more questions?
does that mean the coke tastes better and better and better until that date, and then starts losing its flavour?
i know that the date on the bottle indicates the date at which the coke expires.
we decided to write to coke and find out.
if you ever have product that does not meet your expectation, please call us, 1-800-438-2653, and one of our representatives will be happy to assist you.
if you have additional questions or comments, please visit our web site again.
the  time stamp that you see actually is the time of the day the product was  produced in the production facility.
response from coca-cola thank you for contacting the coca-cola  company via e-mail.
our products are safe to consume beyond  the date but may have begun to lose their flavor.
i am just curious and hope you can answer my question.