just a couple things to consider: in the golden glow of a couple of bourbon mojitos, your student debt is no longer a spiteful monkey on your back, but a fluffy white poodle in your lap.
oh well, at least you didn’t spend it on  lattes.
i had exactly enough cash on me to cover my meal (pre calculated with tip included).
oh [...] [...] personal finance applies the latte factor to the amber fluid…beer.
my coworker who likes to act “generous” and pick up appetizers, etc, ended up spending almost $70.
i only drink maybe twice a month, and by mid-way down the drink i can feel it in my thighs.
you didn’t even talk about the biggest alcohol-related expense for me – buying drinks for girls in the hopes of getting their attention.
if you perfected the art of throwing money down that hole like me, then you also bought their friends drinks just to show what a high roller you were.
unfortunately, my coworkers started ordering rounds of shooters, and even though i declined to drink all but the first one, the ones ordered for me showed up on my bill (only the first couple of rounds, thank goodness.)
i shiver when i think about how much of my summer job money went into the bar scene.
;) yup, still morons.
i actually have more fun without drinking.
i think it’s a rule that if you correct someone else’s reading/grammar in a comment, you yourself will make a typo/grammar error.
i agree with the article for the most part, but not about the costs of coffee over beer.
cnn money | bank transfer day begins msn money | experts confess their money mistakes –
ontario isn’t that far away.
“the coffee you make at home” and the “beer you buy for $4 in a bar” =
and even more rarely do i drink when i go out to eat.
i don’t know if you guys have ever heard about this, but there are certain small costs that, over time, tend to add up.
and i had to go sit in the bar, at the counter at that.
boom, i just figured out why you’re struggling  financially.
we actually have it on our list to do more.
i rarely go out however.
i could go on… alcohol fueled personal interaction isn’t more meaningful.
seriously though, i can’t even imagine how much i’ve saved over the years by not consuming alcohol.
99% of the time, my husband and i don’t order alcohol when we’re out.
cigars + shirley temple = not good.
how can anyone possibly have fun without drinking?
they are very expensive 2.
haha, i love the writing style, too.
i went out to dinner with work folks a couple of weeks ago, and ended up spending $30 for half a turkey burger.
website you can use these html tags notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
soon,  the chicken wings, nachos and jalapeno poppers are at the table,  which simultaneously expand your waistline and shrink your wallet.
i don’t know if you guys have ever heard about this, but there are  certain small costs that, over time, tend to add up.
ah, you forgot about pre-gaming, which drastically reduces the amount spent at the bar.
soon, the chicken wings, nachos and jalapeno poppers are at the table, which simultaneously expand your waistline and shrink your wallet.
either people just don’t care, or  they’ve found other areas to cut out of their budget so they can afford a  nicecoffee sometimes.
if you’re going to cut out the calories – at least drink coke zero instead.
you’re absolutely right about alcoholic beverages at dinner.
plus,  you’ll often get your drink for free, since they’ll just assume  you’re the designated driver.
each of those drinks isn’t cheap either.
considering that the ingredients of the drink cost the place about 50 cents, that’s an awful big premium to pay for a little extra self confidence.
diet pepsi is miles better and i’m a coke guy myself.
we tend to get bogged down with work and the to do’s and don’t have fun like we used to.
i’m hoping this post changes your mind, since you’ll probably annoy me if we ever meet up and you’ve been drinking.
interesting what the kids call drinking before going out these days “pregaming”.
if we’re only getting water, then we are actually losing money!
i actually don’t know because we brew all our coffee and expressos at home.
we save so much money.
besides, some things in life are just worth the price, like good scotch ;)
it’s up to you whether you’ll actually drive around your drunk friends.
i’m not sure what i was thinking there.
i could have used this article twenty years ago.
we never buy a drink @ the bar – if we want a drink we want it with our meal.
if you do insist on drinking, might i recommend a slight improvement on your methods?
however, we get the short end of the stick on vacations.
you don’t forget, you just avoid.
oh well, at least you didn’t spend it on lattes.
getting drunk is definitely overrated too.
generally, you don’t tend to consume more than one expensive coffee a day, yet most of us can attest to sitting down at a bar and not getting back up until half a dozen drinks have been polished off.
purveyors of beer know this fact.
yes guys, i’m talking about that favorite elixir that makes all ladies attractive to us, alcohol.
from a personal finance standpoint, drinking alcohol has the potential to  be far costlier than drinking coffee.
i live in a sleepy small town, so we don’t really have any swanky bars in my neck of the woods.
they are watered down.
by now, most of us have figured out that recurring small expenses have a way of adding up over time.
in case you couldn’t tell, most of that first paragraph was  sarcastic.
i always see people pointing out expenses such as coffee or dining out during lunch, but rarely alcohol.
he also once asked a girl to go out with him.
there are all sorts of reasons why cutting out alcohol is much more  effective than coffee.
but because i have a sip once or twice a year.
exploiting the morons that think they look cooler because they get to pay $$$ to pour their own drinks is genius.
bad good post nelson!
only i would manage an embarrassing typo while making fun of someone’s intelligence.
used in small doses, alcohol can make an awkward guy slightly more charming or can help someone relax after a long day.
not for earning 6-figures of course, but for spending money in such a stupid way.
even the reasonably priced drinks locally will set you back a minimum of $6,  once you tip the pretty girl who poured it for you.
great point about never hearing about the alcohol factor.
essential [...] [...]
as long as you don’t hit on me, we could maybe make this happen.
smith wrote a good guest post on spf about some more costly things than “the latte factor”, like alcohol.
i was alone, so it didn’t matter to me.
by now, most of us have figured out that recurring small expenses  have a way of adding up over time.
i attribute much of my vast wealth to the fact that i don’t drink – lol.
« your finances and a greener life home like the latte factor.
uh, do you know how do read?
yes guys, i’m talking about that  favorite elixir that makes all ladies attractive to us, alcohol.
and i bring my own fair trade organic (yummy!) coffee to work daily in a thermos.
i will ensure i stay drunk until you arrive.
i posted 80 ways to lose money, boozing was quite at the top.
thanks for  visiting! sharebar image via wikipedia
i’m hoping this post changes your mind, since  you’ll probably annoy me if we ever meet up and you’ve been  drinking.
you still get free milk, coffee, tea, water, juice, soda and “mocktails” on those all inclusive trips!
this post was written by nelson smith, who has his very own blog over  at financial uproar.
considering that the  ingredients of the drink cost the place about 50 cents, that’s an awful  big premium to pay for a little extra self confidence.
i know, this is the first i’m hearing about it too.
if you're new here, you may want to subscribe to my rss feed.
nelson has successfully cooked rice on several occasions.
and nelson, next time i need a dd, i will give you a ring.
i think the last time i visited starbucks was years ago.
alcohol-fueled personal interaction is more meaningful and emotive, e.g. “i love you, man!”
there goes another $20 down the drain.
in a lot of ways, peer  pressure becomes even worse when you’re an adult.
pregaming, for those of you who aren’t cool like me, means you start drinking at home, getting a little drunk by the time you make it to the bar.
just once, i want you to go out with your friends and substitute diet coke for your favorite alcoholic beverage.
it’s up to you whether you’ll  actually drive around your drunk friends.
since my wife and i don’t drink, we don’t have to deal with the cost of alcohol…or the hidden costs (bar food).
if you overindulge though, the  awkward guy becomes a blubbering moron and the guy who’s trying to relax  starts to get excited about the most pointless things, meaning they’ve  committed the same faux pas they set out to avoid.
sorry about that, but not really.
i live in a sleepy small  town, so we don’t really have any swanky bars in my neck of the woods.
what goes great with alcohol?
and believe me – those drinks weren’t worth it!
i do enjoy a few pops and a scotch on the weekend.
i always crave pizza when i drink.
the drink added 15% to the bottom line of my bill.
these days i enjoy a glass of wine occasionally and don’t really drink excess…yes, old and boring and three kids have slowed me down.
by sustainable personal finance [...] [...] at sustainable personal finance, asking why everyone talks about giving up lattes, but no one ever talks about giving up booze.
iti s my one indulgence each week.
alcohol was a big money sap in the early 20s, but not anymore.
cut out the lattes, silly.
best writer bio ever!
agree completely that the booze factor is pricey!
i sometimes think restaurants do this on purpose – sit you at the bar to guilt trip you into buying drinks you never intended to purchase.
i just had a salad for lunch and now i’m hungry too.
whenever a place has a great deal for an “all-inclusive” package, it’s only a great price for people who drink.
great post, as always, nelson!
moderation is the key for both fitness/health and the wallet.
also, one might argue drinking to forget your problems isn’t the most effective way to deal with your problems.
but we don’t go to pubs or bars more than once a year, and even then, we usually go shoot pool.
the kids call it pregaming, and while i can’t say i approve  of drinking to excess, this is a way to at least get the cost  down.
used in small doses, alcohol can make an awkward guy slightly more charming  or can help someone relax after a long day.
deep fried bar food, that’s what!
that wasn’t so successful.
as far as liquor goes my hubby
« your finances and a greener life« your finances and a greener life sustainable pf on twitter counter.com
as a teetotaler myself, i can attest to the pressure you’ll get from your friends to join them in their boozing ways.
~2+ hours to lunch on the left coast.
sustainable personal finance | like the latte factor.
what do you mean  you’re not drinking with us?
and yet, i never see any posts telling  people to quit drinking.
and yet, every time i go into starbucks, the place is still relatively busy.
your peers will be amazed and look at you like there’s an extra foot growing out of your forehead.
boom, i just figured out why you’re struggling financially.
the kids call it pregaming, and while i can’t say i approve of drinking to excess, this is a way to at least get the cost down.
i do want us to be friends.
we don’t drink much (only on weekends), so our policy is that when we do drink we get good stuff.
i’d recommend against it, since drunk people are generally kind of annoying when you’re sober.
there are much better things to do with your money.
you know what takes the latte-factor/booze factor to a whole new level: bottle service.
he wrote this in the third person so you’d  think he was important enough for someone to write about him.
you can also subscribe without commenting.
my deink of choice is a blended mocha.
i don’t care if you drink or not, greasy bar food is tasty.
he wrote this in the third person so you’d think he was important enough for someone to write about him.
what do you mean you’re not drinking with us?
hey nelson, i really like your writing style.
that  wasn’t so successful.
i know, this is the first  i’m hearing about it too.
if you overindulge though, the awkward guy becomes a blubbering moron and the guy who’s trying to relax starts to get excited about the most pointless things, meaning they’ve committed the same faux pas they set out to avoid.
if you do that just 3 days a week, that’s close to $10 a week, which is  over $500 per year.
image via wikipedia
nelson has successfully cooked rice on  several occasions.
one thing i do is order a beer followed by a tap water, then a beer….
no booze in it though.
but sometimes, you just want to have a drink
someone earning 6-figures should know better than to pay 5 times (or more) the retail cost of a bottle just to work to pour their own drinks.
that’s some serious coin for sure!
i have a bottle of 22-year-old talisker single malt that is now about 30 years old, not because i’ve been letting it age
i also prefer diet pepsi and coke zero to diet coke.
can you get a coffee for under $1?
so in a nutshell my alcohol strategy is: buy high, consume low.
the same exact bottle of wine (same year, same vineyard) that i can buy at the liquor store for $18 costs $35 at my local restaurant.
the only thing i disapprove about this post is that you actually recommended that someone drink diet coke.
but are they still morons if they have 6-figure salaries?
generally, you don’t tend to consume more than one  expensive coffee a day, yet most of us can attest to sitting down at a bar and  not getting back up until half a dozen drinks have been polished off.
never had any trouble with not drinking.
i’ve  heard variations of those lines more times than i care to count.
why not order a tap water followed by another tap water?
most of the beer in my fridge costs $1 per bottle!
for instance, if you buy a latte at the local  tim horton’s of starbucks, you’re shelling out like 3 bucks a trip.
as much as i’ve read about the latte factor, i’ve read next to  nothing about cutting out another drink that’s overpriced, habit forming  and can affect your behavior as well.
even the reasonably priced drinks locally will set you back a minimum of $6, once you tip the pretty girl who poured it for you.
i don’t really drink much, but when i started trying to spend only $200/month on groceries, i dropped even more!
as much as i’ve read about the latte factor, i’ve read next to nothing about cutting out another drink that’s overpriced, habit forming and can affect your behavior as well.
beer makes you more attractive and vastly improves your dancing (at least in one’s own mind).
last night, i actually, unwillingly, had a drink when i went out to the keg.
there  goes another $20 down the drain.
also not worth it on your wallet either.
i have no tolerance these days anyways, so i save a lot of money.
i join spf in defense of alcohol and all things wonderful.
i think the “beer in your fridge” =
from a personal finance standpoint, drinking alcohol has the potential to be far costlier than drinking coffee.
it does add up and it really doesn’t add that much to your life.
as a teetotaler myself, i can attest to the pressure you’ll get from  your friends to join them in their boozing ways.
i went to yard house for the first time this weekend and loved the hard cider selection there!
you’re right though.
i think about this specific example all the time, but failed to put in the effort to convert it into such great words!
either people just don’t care, or they’ve found other areas to cut out of their budget so they can afford a nicecoffee sometimes.
nice wines ($20 to $40 per bottle; my girlfriend is from france and has very discerning tastes..with few exceptions the wines over $50 aren’t that much better for those under $40), and good beer.
you will absolutely love my company after a 3-4 bender!
pregaming, for those of you who aren’t cool like me, means you  start drinking at home, getting a  little drunk by the time you make it to  the bar.
i never drink when at dinner any longer..
people should cut down purely for health, let alone finances!
what are you, some sort of wuss?
and you say things you wouldn’t sober.
we used to call pregaming “warming up”.
that’s why beer is served in large quantities in venues likely to be infested with dancing fools.
i don’t drink, but it is surely cheaper that way.
as long as there’s a few of you at the table, the wait staff will be happy to keep refilling your soda for free, since they’re getting ample tips from the others at the table.
this post was written by nelson smith, who has his very own blog over at financial uproar.
i agree – alcohol is expensive, especially if you are not going to remember the night anyway.
if you do that just 3 days a week, that’s close to $10 a week, which is over $500 per year.
not that we are striving to become alcoholics but it mainly represents the need for us to loosen up and have more fun.
it just might be the best part of your friday.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
i’m not sure that’s a benefit.
i guarantee the latte folks aren’t making that much off a coffee, yet they always get the bad rap.
as long as there’s a few of you at  the table, the wait staff will be happy to keep refilling your soda for free,  since they’re getting ample tips from the others at the table.
i enjoy the occasional drink when i am out!
i rarely have alcohol when i’m out because the markups are so ridiculous, at least in restaurants.
it’s a way of stretching your drinking dollar.
in case you couldn’t tell, most of that first paragraph was sarcastic.
i was thinking of calling it the booze factor and trademarking that term.
when anyone razed me because i wasn’t being socialable and drinking with them, i would remind them that being socialable was a two-way street and they could also be socialable and not drink with me.
look for me over there every couple of weeks.
but because i was sitting at the bar, i felt obliged to buy a drink, especially since i was eating there.
just once, i want you to go out with your friends and substitute diet coke  for your favorite alcoholic beverage.
i was trying to be frugal, and wasn’t that hungry, so split a meal with one of the girls.
maybe you should write a book.
there are all sorts of reasons why cutting out alcohol is much more effective than coffee.
if you reach all your goals, why not indulge yourself.
this meant i had to use my credit card, spend over my budget, and leave with $30 cash more in my pocket than planned.
enjoy your disgusting drink brad.
it tastes halfway decent!
i love this article!
i went overboard last weekend at a party and regretted the next day and a half!
i am nutty enough to not need alcohol to have a good time.
i guarantee the latte  folks aren’t making that much off a coffee, yet they always get the bad  rap.
like the latte factor.
in a lot of ways, peer pressure becomes even worse when you’re an adult.
i agree with never hearing about the alcohol factor – it was how i spent a significant amount of money in a very short time.
your peers  will be amazed and look at you like there’s an extra foot growing out of  your forehead.
heck we go out to eat 2x more per month by not drinking alcohol good thing i’m such a lightweight!
while i agree with his post for the most part, drinking alcohol does not have to [...]
for instance, if you buy a latte at the local tim horton’s of starbucks, you’re shelling out like 3 bucks a trip.
you forgot to mention beer bellies – all of that alcohol adds up in calories fast!
i must be getting old, (in my 30′s), we used to call it “primers”.
i’ve heard variations of those lines more times than i care to count.
it’s tough to convince myself to buy a 6-pack of cider for $12, when my whole grocery budget for the week is under $50!
plus, you’ll often get your drink for free, since they’ll just assume you’re the designated driver.
“chicken wings, nachos and jalapeno poppers” thanks, now i’m hungry.
and so we (okay, i) do.
i tried single malt once.
i gave up drinking years ago because i do not care for the feeling i get.
and yet, i never see any posts telling people to quit drinking.
so my 3 upper canada lagers and 1 grants scotch put me back $4.50 or so on a friday night, compared to paying around $21 at a bar.
that stuff is just plain nasty!
“the coffee you buy for $3 at starbucks” if you are trying to draw an analogy between the two drinks, that is.
if you do insist on drinking, might i recommend a slight improvement on  your methods?
lide is more than saving or not spending for trivial things like a coffee.
in record numbers: eliminate consumer debt and build wealth
that way i stay relatively sober and still stay around all night.
once in a while with pals
so , are we calling this the beer factor, or just the alcohol factor?
i’d recommend against it, since  drunk people are generally kind of annoying when you’re sober.
i love the writing style.
and yet, every time i go into starbucks, the  place is still relatively busy.