however, for the logo, coca-cola made a smart move by not rebranding and i don’t think pepsi should have rebranded after their 1998 logo.
well, below is a diagram that will answer that question.
published on friday, january 7th, 2011 at 12:08  am which one is the better of the two?
robinson came up with the name and chose the  logo’s distinctive cursive script.
i do believe coke had “tried” to push a rebrand but they quickly caught their mistake before it was too late and reverted back to the original.
in the application’s statement, caleb bradham describes the trademark as an, “arbitrary hyphenated word “pepsi-cola,” and indicated that the mark was in continuous use for his business since august 1, 1901.
if you feel that i may be able to help you in your endeavors, or have a  question, doget in contact with me.
share this chaptershare this chapter archived under: identity by jamie wayne it is fascinating how coke kept their logo the same and pepsi has re-branded theirs many times.
pepsi cola was originally called brad’s drink after its creator, caleb bradham, a pharmacist from north carolina.
as a graphic designer from northwest indiana; my knowledge and skill is specialized in brand identity and web design.
below  is a chart showing what each of these different circle variations may represent  as a customer’s facial expression.
testimonials | hire me | contact | back to top?
jamie wayne guijarro on april 15th, 2011 at 4:52 pm  said: as far as taste goes, i can’t decide which one i like better probably  because i keep switching from coke to pepsi and back.
for centuries, these brands have evolved significantly and has gained an international audience.
is it a strange coincidence, or is this just another sign that answers why coca-cola holds the highest dominance in sales when pepsi is second?
it isn’t a fluke either, it is  really true.
share this chapter xvii: 11 important tips when creating a portfolio xxviii:
if you feel that i may be able to help you in your endeavors, or have a question, doget in contact with me.
his promotional suggestions to pemberton included giving away thousands of free drink coupons and plastering the city of atlanta with publicity banners and streetcar signs.
robinson also played a significant role in early coca-cola advertising.
as a graphic designer from northwest  indiana; my knowledge and skill is specialized in brand identity and web  design.
well, below is a  diagram that will answer that question.
it isn’t a fluke either, it is really true.
with regards to the new pepsi logo, it appears that the blue, white, and red bottle cap we’ve all known and loved has grown a personality.
thanks emily and darrin for your thoughts.
what is it about these two companies that continues to lure people into purchasing their products and what is the secret to their everlasting success?
in the  application’s statement, caleb bradham describes the trademark as an,  “arbitrary hyphenated word “pepsi-cola,” and indicated that  the mark was in continuous use for his business since august 1, 1901.
1890 coca-cola ad 1950 coca-cola ad the evolution of pepsi pepsi is one of the world’s most famous brands much like its rival  coca cola.
with regards to the new pepsi logo, it appears that the blue, white, and  red bottle cap we’ve all known and loved has grown a personality.
leave a comment please remember that your comment will be moderated and may not appear  until the author approves it.
most importantly, which one of these logos can stand the test of time without being changed?
if you're  interested,read my short biography.
the pepsi-cola’s description is a flavoring-syrup for soda water.
darrin |@fakedsearancke on april 8th,  2011 at1:35 pm said: i’ve have never been fond of pepsi.
for the full history of the brand and with other coca-cola advertisements, you can read the story on wikipedia.
please feel free to read my blog below or tour around my site.
the subject of this chapter is to answer the question, “which logo appears to stand the test of time, coke or pepsi?”
pepsi cola was originally called brad’s drink after its  creator, caleb bradham, a pharmacist from north carolina.
comments should be respectful of others.
the evolution of coca-cola the famous coca-cola logo was created by john pemberton’s bookkeeper,  frank mason robinson, in 1885.
i have always considered it a  ‘bad facsimile’ of coke – plus, coca-cola just tastes better!
his  promotional suggestions to pemberton included giving away thousands of free  drink coupons and plastering the city of atlanta with publicity banners and  streetcar signs.
the new starbucks logo video xii: the gap controversy, a logo design backfired or publicity stunt? v: the 5 principles of logo design xli: coca-cola’s figure-ground perception archived under: identity by jamie wayne 3 respectful comments to “xxix: coke or pepsi?”
emily on february 7th, 2011 at 6:09 pm said: it is fascinating how coke kept their logo the same and pepsi has  re-branded theirs many times.
i’ve have never been fond of pepsi.
the trademark expired on april 15, 1994.
the original trademark application for pepsi-cola was filed on september 23, 1902 with registration approved on june 16, 1903.
the famous coca-cola logo was created by john pemberton’s bookkeeper, frank mason robinson, in 1885.
| home | about | portfolio |
i still like pepsi better, though.
the original trademark application for pepsi-cola was filed on september  23, 1902 with registration approved on june 16, 1903.
as far as taste goes, i can’t decide which one i like better probably because i keep switching from coke to pepsi and back.
the “timeless” challenge the subject of this chapter is to answer the question, “which logo  appears to stand the test of time, coke or pepsi?”
if you're interested,read my short biography.
website (optional) twitter id (optional | e.g. @jamieguijarro) welcome to my portfolio and blog.
the  trademark expired on april 15, 1994.
however, for the logo,  coca-cola made a smart move by not rebranding and i don’t think pepsi  should have rebranded after their 1998 logo.
the  pepsi-cola’s description is a flavoring-syrup for soda water.
i have always considered it a ‘bad facsimile’ of coke – plus, coca-cola just tastes better!
for the full history of the brand and with other coca-cola advertisements,  you can read the story on wikipedia.
ending thought is it a strange coincidence, or is this just another sign that answers why  coca-cola holds the highest dominance in sales when pepsi is second?
please remember that your comment will be moderated and may not appear until the author approves it.
below is a chart showing what each of these different circle variations may represent as a customer’s facial expression.
1890 coca-cola ad 1950 coca-cola ad pepsi is one of the world’s most famous brands much like its rival coca cola.
robinson came up with the name and chose the logo’s distinctive cursive script.
for centuries, these brands have evolved significantly and has gained an  international audience.
name (required) e-mail (will not be shared or published) (required)
what is it about these two companies that continues to  lure people into purchasing their products and what is the secret to their  everlasting success?
the typeface used, known asspencerian script, was developed in the mid 19th century and was the dominant form of formal handwriting in the united states during that period.
the typeface used, known asspencerian  script, was developed in the mid 19th century and was the dominant form of  formal handwriting in the united states during that period.
most importantly, which one of these logos can stand the  test of time without being changed?
i do believe coke had “tried” to push a rebrand but they  quickly caught their mistake before it was too late and reverted back to the  original.