if you know nothing at all about the company,  assign it a c. local credit unions automatically receive a b; organic and local  beer breweries get an a minus; and farmers markets, food co-ops and local  bakeries or vineyards all tie with a resounding a plus.
that’s author ellis jones’ advice regarding his latest edition  ofthe better world shopping guide, a handy, pocket-sized reference  book intended to help shoppers make socially and environmentally responsible  purchasing choices.
as for corporate villains, you’ll find the usual array of big box  stores, oil companies, pharmaceutical manufacturers and fast food  restaurants—as well as a few surprise entries that just might change the  way you shop for everything from noodle soup to computer software.
after this initial bit of background, jones proceeds to his list of the 10 best corporations (which include clif bar, ben & jerry’s and aveda) and his list of the 10 worst.
for example, did you know that new belgium has the first ever 100  percent wind-powered brewery, or that kettle foods converts all of its waste  oil into biodiesel?
jones freely admits that his guide is “far from complete,” and  that readers will likely come across companies and brands in their everyday  dealings that receive no mention in the book.
if company y produces clothing or shoes, it automatically falls into the d or f category.
for example, did you know that new belgium has the first ever 100 percent wind-powered brewery, or that kettle foods converts all of its waste oil into biodiesel?
your email: give me control of a nation’s money and i care not who makes it’s laws.
he then concisely spells out what each of the  letter grades used to rank companies means.
and you’ll know too, once you’ve  read the book!
they’re in  the “sugar, spices & sweeteners” section, which also covers  syrup, honey and salt.
— mayer amschel bauer rothschild seattle peak oil awareness is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) and comments (rss).
the first several pages succinctly outline the book’s origins and the methodology used to rank companies.
every  dollar makes a difference by ellis jones 177 pp.
the  better world shopping guide – 2nd edition (book review) the better world shopping guide – 2nd edition:
the rest fall somewhere in-between.
for me, a chief highlight of reading this book is that is resolved, once  and for all, the perennial question—debated endlessly intongue-in-cheek  tv ads from the ‘80s and ‘90s—of whether coke is better than  pepsi.
and that’s a  whole lot better than nailing zero percent of them—which is pretty much  where we’d be without a convenient guide like jones’.
this entry was posted on tuesday, october 28th, 2008 at 12:37 pm and is  filed underbook reviews.
couldn’t find condensed milk?
the book contains plenty of interesting informational tidbits for peak oil  readers.
it  doesn’t cover 100 percent of the companies and products that are out  there, but it does nail quite a large percentage of them.
the book also has a couple of rather puzzling omissions of major companies (where inthe heck is denny’s?).
i can now safely say which is the better beverage from a social and  environmental responsibility standpoint (never mind that both of them rot away  our kidneys in equal measure).
new society publishers – oct. 2008.
by ellis jones 177 pp.
and even if the better world shopping guide is far from complete, it still does a great service to socially responsible shoppers.
the first several pages succinctly outline the book’s origins and the  methodology used to rank companies.
in addition to laying  out these general guidelines, jones welcomes readers’ feedback on the  book’s web site: www.betterworldshopper.org.
another nice feature of the book is the product category index located at the back, which is intended to help readers find items that they may have missed the first time through.
for me, a chief highlight of reading this book is that is resolved, once and for all, the perennial question—debated endlessly intongue-in-cheek tv ads from the ‘80s and ‘90s—of whether coke is better than pepsi.
he felt motivated to write the book out of a realization that every dollar spent is “a vote for the world you want to live in,” but that information needed in order to make informed decisions is much harder to come by than information needed in order to assess, say, the latest presidential candidates.
they’re in the “sugar, spices & sweeteners” section, which also covers syrup, honey and salt.
a few examples of corporate heroes include toyota, which leads its industry in combating climate change; hewlett packard, which has a perfect 100 on the human rights campaign equality index; newman’s own, which donates all of its profits to education and charity; and whole foods, which is powered entirely by renewable energy.
the guide itself runs the gamut from airlines (with british airways taking the lead with an a minus) to wines (with yellow tail, gallo and carlo rossi all tying with a b minus).
responses are currently closed, but you can trackback from your own site.
the book is an invaluable resource for anyone concerned about the  consequences of his or her everyday buying decisions, whether from the  perspectives of peak oil or climate change, animal testing, toxic waste  dumping, child labor or corporate accounting scandals, to name just a few of  the issues.
if product x is certified fair trade or organic, it gets an a or a b plus, respectively.
set against these omissions, however, is a list of helpful, sweeping rules  to follow when evaluating companies or products that do happen to fall through  the cracks.
for each class of companies, a chart on the right ranks them all from a to f, while the page on the left provides some general buying tips and lists examples of corporate heroes and villains for that particular company category.
reviewed by frank kaminski
in addition to laying out these general guidelines, jones welcomes readers’ feedback on the book’s web site: www.betterworldshopper.org.
and you’ll know too, once you’ve read the book!
this entry was posted on tuesday, october 28th, 2008 at 12:37 pm and is filed underbook reviews.
“[this] book has been purposefully made small so that you can keep it  with you in your purse, backpack, briefcase, or pocket…whatever you do,  don’t put it on a shelf!”
vision: small town within a city sail transportation network « monthly meeting: practical responses carbon free produce delivery » is coke better than pepsi?
if company y produces clothing or shoes, it automatically  falls into the d or f category.
you can follow any responses to this entry through the  rss 2.0 feed.
if product x is certified fair trade or organic, it gets an a or a  b plus, respectively.
he felt motivated to write the book out of a realization that every dollar  spent is “a vote for the world you want to live in,” but that  information needed in order to make informed decisions is much harder to come  by than information needed in order to assess, say, the latest presidential  candidates.
the book systematically ranks every type of company from airlines  to banks to cereal manufacturers on an a-to-f scale, and presents the  information in an easy-to-follow, shopping-friendly format.
the book is an invaluable resource for anyone concerned about the consequences of his or her everyday buying decisions, whether from the perspectives of peak oil or climate change, animal testing, toxic waste dumping, child labor or corporate accounting scandals, to name just a few of the issues.
didn’t see bacon bits?
comments are closed.
the book systematically ranks every type of company from airlines to banks to cereal manufacturers on an a-to-f scale, and presents the information in an easy-to-follow, shopping-friendly format.
indeed, the present reviewer can  name several such companies right offhand: top food & drug, first mutual  bank, black bear diner, big boy restaurants, taco time andtaco del mar, to name  just a few.
the better world shopping guide – 2nd edition: every dollar makes a difference
it’s under “baked goods and baking supplies”—as are marshmallows, corn meal and evaporated milk.
after this initial bit of background, jones proceeds to his list of the 10  best corporations (which include clif bar, ben & jerry’s and aveda)  and his list of the 10 worst.
for each class of companies, a chart on the right ranks  them all from a to f, while the page on the left provides some general buying  tips and lists examples of corporate heroes and villains for that particular  company category.
a few examples of corporate heroes include toyota, which leads its industry  in combating climate change; hewlett packard, which has a perfect 100 on the  human rights campaign equality index; newman’s own, which donates all of  its profits to education and charity; and whole foods, which is powered  entirely by renewable energy.
the rest fall somewhere  in-between.
the book also has a couple of rather puzzling omissions of major  companies (where inthe heck is denny’s?).
find out by reading ellis jones’
indeed, the present reviewer can name several such companies right offhand: top food & drug, first mutual bank, black bear diner, big boy restaurants, taco time andtaco del mar, to name just a few.
“a” companies, he writes, often “were created specifically to provide socially and environmentally responsible options for consumers,” while “f” companies “are actively participating in the rapid destruction of the planet and the exploitation of human beings.”
it doesn’t cover 100 percent of the companies and products that are out there, but it does nail quite a large percentage of them.
the guide itself runs the gamut from airlines (with british airways taking  the lead with an a minus) to wines (with yellow tail, gallo and carlo rossi all  tying with a b minus).
the book contains plenty of interesting informational tidbits for peak oil readers.
“a” companies, he  writes, often “were created specifically to provide socially and  environmentally responsible options for consumers,” while “f”  companies “are actively participating in the rapid destruction of the  planet and the exploitation of human beings.”
that’s author ellis jones’ advice regarding his latest edition ofthe better world shopping guide, a handy, pocket-sized reference book intended to help shoppers make socially and environmentally responsible purchasing choices.
and that’s a whole lot better than nailing zero percent of them—which is pretty much where we’d be without a convenient guide like jones’.
another nice feature of the book is the product category index located at  the back, which is intended to help readers find items that they may have  missed the first time through.
if you know nothing at all about the company, assign it a c. local credit unions automatically receive a b; organic and local beer breweries get an a minus; and farmers markets, food co-ops and local bakeries or vineyards all tie with a resounding a plus.
jones, a ph.d. in sociology, wrote the book after doing years of research on corporate behavior—drawing on resources like the better business bureau, the center for public integrity and the environmental protection agency—compiling the data into an extensive database and then distilling these data down into a report card-style grade for each business or product.
as for corporate villains, you’ll find the usual array of big box stores, oil companies, pharmaceutical manufacturers and fast food restaurants—as well as a few surprise entries that just might change the way you shop for everything from noodle soup to computer software.
set against these omissions, however, is a list of helpful, sweeping rules to follow when evaluating companies or products that do happen to fall through the cracks.
jones, a ph.d. in sociology, wrote the book  after doing years of research on corporate behavior—drawing on resources  like the better business bureau, the center for public integrity and the  environmental protection agency—compiling the data into an extensive  database and then distilling these data down into a report card-style grade for  each business or product.
“[this] book has been purposefully made small so that you can keep it with you in your purse, backpack, briefcase, or pocket…whatever you do, don’t put it on a shelf!”
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
and even if the better world shopping guide is far from complete,  it still does a great service to socially responsible shoppers.
he then concisely spells out what each of the letter grades used to rank companies means.
jones freely admits that his guide is “far from complete,” and that readers will likely come across companies and brands in their everyday dealings that receive no mention in the book.
responses are currently closed, but you can trackback from your  own site.
it’s  under “baked goods and baking supplies”—as are marshmallows,  corn meal and evaporated milk.
i can now safely say which is the better beverage from a social and environmental responsibility standpoint (never mind that both of them rot away our kidneys in equal measure).