and unlike the more  tradwebsional traffic generators such as ads and search engines, these specific  tools are much more effective since they are used by third parties and not by  the original advertiser.
in essence, to expand your reach, you need to be in as many places as  possible, talked about by as many people as possible and be in front of as many  eyeballs as possible.
or better yet, you need to be the first.
consequently, if people hear about you from other people, and not some advertisement or pitch, this social proof will create not only a certain buzzworthiness about you but also an almost instant trustworthiness.
in his book “the 22 immutable laws of branding,” al  ries stresses the importance of leadership and how that leadership is  communicated.
and the reason  it is known as the leader is because coke was the first cola “in the  mind” of the marketplace.
however, if someone other than you – whether it’s on a blog, in an email, on a social networking site or in person – says to another that you are indeed the best or that you do have the best solution to their problems, how much more believable will that person’s statement be?
but the question is, is it all really important?
and unlike the more tradwebsional traffic generators such as ads and search engines, these specific tools are much more effective since they are used by third parties and not by the original advertiser.
but according to ries, taste tests reveal that pepsi is the better tasting brand.
however, if someone other than you – whether it’s on a  blog, in an email, on a social networking site or in person – says to  another that you are indeed the best or that you do have the best solution to  their problems, how much more believable will that person’s statement be?
your content may be controversial or  buzzworthy.
while other colas are bombarding them with  marketing messages, people have heard of coke first, and most likely from other  people.
with viral marketing, there are three ways of doing it: create content create applications create systems
but for now, the one on  which i want to focus is the third: creating a system.
and you don’t need to be  controversial, either.
before i give you some examples, let me explain why word-of- mouth works wonders.
according to dr. robert cialdini in his amazíng book, “influence: the psychology of persuasion,” this is social proof in action.
networking systems, for example, include strategic marketing alliances, joint ventures, and affiliate programs.
and you don’t need to be controversial, either.
now, i’m not saying you need to be new.
whether it’s catering an existing product to a new niche, or adding a new twist to an existing product, you become the first.
your success depends highly on the number of locations you appear online – places on which your site, link, company or product name exist.
multiply your marketing like a virus filed under: internet -  websites - seo — admin @ 6:33 am multiply your  marketing like a virus
but according to ries, taste  tests reveal that pepsi is the better tasting brand.
online, some people call it “word-of-mouse.”
the most significant method is to be the first.
and the reason it is known as the leader is because coke was the first cola “in the mind” of the marketplace.
about the author michel fortin is a direct response copywriter, marketing strategy consultant, and instrumental in some of the most lucrative online businesses and wildly successful marketing campaigns to ever hit the web.
notwithstanding the power of backlinking, traffic and seo, viral marketing is key for a number of reasons.
so, why does coke still beat pepsi in sales?
whether  it’s catering an existing product to a new niche, or adding a new twist  to an existing product, you become the first.
but more  important, as ries pointed out, “don’t be the first in the  marketplace, be the first in the mind of the marketplace.”
in other  words, if you tell people you’re the best, that you’re the leader  in your field, or that your product is the best solution to their needs, your  self-serving promotional bias makes it all suspect.
they are talking about products.
your content may be controversial or buzzworthy.
such systems both simulate and stimulate word-of-mouth  advertising.
according to  dr. robert cialdini in his amazíng book, “influence: the  psychology of persuasion,” this is social proof in action.
it may create raging fans – or enraged enemies.
the internet is no different.
if your business or website is unique, focuses on a niche or is the first in some category, the knowledge of your existence will spread quite naturally, almost like wildfire.
but more important, as ries pointed out, “don’t be the first in the marketplace, be the first in the mind of the marketplace.”
about the author michel fortin is a direct response copywriter, marketing strategy consultant,  and instrumental in some of the most lucrative online businesses and wildly  successful marketing campaigns to ever hit the web.
like a virus, your visibility spreads throughout a network of people who refer you to each other.
the first is self-explanatory.
it is the one most talked about, even to this day.
i said it before: don’t be the best, be the first.
in essence, to expand your reach, you need to be in as many places as possible, talked about by as many people as possible and be in front of as many eyeballs as possible.
when you look at how blogs, forums and social networking sites have exploded in the last few years, you can see how powerful word-of-mouth is.
internet, conversations are cropping up all over the place.
that said, there are ways to use systems that will leverage the spreading of that message, on the other hand, which helps to multiply your marketing punch.
i’m talking creating systems to leverage, manage  and profit from the “buzz.”
they usually buy the leader (or what they perceive as being  the best).
like a virus, your visibility  spreads throughout a network of people who refer you to each other.
and that perception is often molded by what they are told and by  what others do, not by what is fact or by what is being advertised.
sorry, the comment form is closed at this time.
for more articles like this  one, please visit his blog atwww.michelfortin.com and subscribe to his rss feed.
before i give you some examples, let me explain why word-of- mouth works  wonders.
it is not because it is the leader in the marketplace or promoted itself as such but because it is known as the leader.
rss feed for comments on this post.
but we know it more as viral marketing.
such systems both simulate and stimulate word-of-mouth advertising.
so, why does coke still  beat pepsi in sales?
i’m talking creating systems to leverage, manage and profit from the “buzz.”
word-of-mouth is one of the most powerful lead and business generation  processes there is.
and that perception is often molded by what they are told and by what others do, not by what is fact or by what is being advertised.
restaurant patrons still ask for “coke,” even when pepsi is the  only cola served.
the second is simple: you create an application — whether it’s  a video, audio, file, software, document, etc – that people can pass  around, and thus proliferates the knowledge of your existence on the web  through other people’s efforts.
according to ries, people don’t buy the best – they  only think they do.
your  success depends highly on the number of locations you appear online –  places on which your site, link, company or product name exist.
in other words, if you tell people you’re the best, that you’re the leader in your field, or that your product is the best solution to their needs, your self-serving promotional bias makes it all suspect.
accordingly, word-of-mouth is not only important because it creates an awareness of your business (let alone traffic), but also it is important to the degree to which third party marketing indirectly communicates greater credibility, superiority and value of the products or services you provide.
can it really help your business?
i’m only saying you need to be unique.
it is not because it is the leader in the marketplace or  promoted itself as such but because it is known as the leader.
restaurant patrons still ask for “coke,” even when pepsi is the only cola served.
for more articles like this one, please visit his blog atwww.michelfortin.com and subscribe to his rss feed.
and i’m not talking about traffic.
the answer is “definitely more.”
when a person is introduced to cola for the first time, they are often told to try coke.
and they  are certainly talking about their experiences.
word-of-mouth is one of the most powerful lead and business generation processes there is.
i might write about these two at a later time.
viral marketing is the process of implementing means or tools through which  the knowledge of your existence self- propagates.
remember a dictum a mentor of mine once told me, which is: “implication is far more powerful than specification.”
that said, there are ways to use systems that will leverage the  spreading of that message, on the other hand, which helps to multiply your  marketing punch.
powered by wordpress recommended websites trade association we suggest rent a server server beach fast seo ranking read the bible online free lyrics search how to write a press release
by michel fortin (c) 2009
those who get to know you or to know about you through a third party grant you a higher level of confidence, credibility and loyalty.
coke, for example, outsells pepsi.
the second is simple: you create an application — whether it’s a video, audio, file, software, document, etc – that people can pass around, and thus proliferates the knowledge of your existence on the web through other people’s efforts.
viral marketing is the process of implementing means or tools through which the knowledge of your existence self- propagates.
success in the offline world is “location, location, location.”
in his book “the 22 immutable laws of branding,” al ries stresses the importance of leadership and how that leadership is communicated.
notwithstanding the power of backlinking, traffic and seo, viral marketing  is key for a number of reasons.
remember a dictum a mentor of mine once told me, which is:  “implication is far more powerful than specification.”
success in the offline world is  “location, location, location.”
when a person is  introduced to cola for the first time, they are often told to try coke.
according to ries, people don’t buy the best – they only think they do.
they usually buy the leader (or what they perceive as being the best).
it becomes viral in and of itself, in other words.
comments offcomments off no comments yet.
networking systems, for example, include strategic marketing  alliances, joint ventures, and affiliate programs.
but  the question is, is it all really important?
consequently, if people hear about you from other people, and not  some advertisement or pitch, this social proof will create not only a certain  buzzworthiness about you but also an almost instant trustworthiness.
i’m only saying  you need to be unique.
while other colas are bombarding them with marketing messages, people have heard of coke first, and most likely from other people.
if your business or website is unique, focuses on a niche or is the first in  some category, the knowledge of your existence will spread quite naturally,  almost like wildfire.
those who get to know you or to know about you through a third party  grant you a higher level of confidence, credibility and loyalty.
they are talking about businesses.
when you look at how blogs, forums and social networking sites have  exploded in the last few years, you can see how powerful word-of-mouth is.
how much more credible and trustworthy?
accordingly, word-of-mouth is not only important because it creates  an awareness of your business (let alone traffic), but also it is important to  the degree to which third party marketing indirectly communicates greater  credibility, superiority and value of the products or services you provide.
but for now, the one on which i want to focus is the third: creating a system.