the results may surprise you.
held in malls and shopping centers across america, it  tried -- unsuccessfully -- to settle the "coke vs. pepsi"  debate once and for all.
the fittest workplaces in america
pepsi, coke, royal crown, and chill, which  is a bargain brand marketed by shoppers value.
real-time quotes provided by bats exchange.
bing: malcolm gladwell and the sip test and pepsi's pride took another hit in 2011 when sales of diet coke  surpassed those of pepsi, making it the second most popular soft drink in  the u.s. is coke really that much better than pepsi?
in fact, i didn't become a loyal coke drinker until i finally  left the nest.
held in malls and shopping centers across america, it tried -- unsuccessfully -- to settle the "coke vs. pepsi" debate once and for all.
to ensure the taste test was a blind comparison, the samples were  marked "a" through "d."
arguably,  the biggest difference between the two soft drinks is that pepsi is sweeter,  while coke has a bit more carbonation -- and i have a bias toward that  refreshing fizz.
today, soft drinks are a key part of a beverage industry worth billions of dollars, so it should be no surprise that when it comes to the highly competitive soft drink wars, the century-long crusade for cola lovers being waged by coke and pepsi shows no sign of abating.
not only did the top-selling u.s. soft drink -- not to mention my personal favorite -- finish in last place, it was thoroughly trounced by the competition.
japanese stock price data provided by nomura research institute ltd.; quotes delayed 20 minutes.
human judges who deemed it the best: 3.
my dad was the only one to rank it last ("too flat"), but he was in the minority.
our experts on stretching dollars: -- karen datko, lead blogger, is a veteran journalist in small-town montana, where her mortgage is $310 a month.
how the test was conducted
panel scoring: 31 points.
pepsi claims the challenge proved that more americans prefer pepsi.
fund summary, fund performance and dividend data provided by morningstar inc. analyst recommendations provided by zacks investment research.
average score (4-point scale): 2.4.
with the panel in place, i prepared individual cola samples in separate  paper cups.
quotes are real-time for nasdaq, nyse and amex.
not a single panelist selected coke as the favorite cola, and six of the 10 human judges rated it dead last.
introducing the cola competitors i ran down to my local albertsons supermarket and bought all four cola  brands they were offering for sale:
arguably, the biggest difference between the two soft drinks is that pepsi is sweeter, while coke has a bit more carbonation -- and i have a bias toward that refreshing fizz.
coca-cola inventor dr. john pemberton must be rolling over in his grave.
although not as popular as coke or pepsi in terms of sales, rc cola received the blue ribbon from two panelists, and three other judges ranked it second best.
ipo data provided by hoover's inc .
this time there were 10 eager volunteers (plus the dog, of  course).
it's interesting to note that my mom and dad both picked chill as their favorite cola and remarked on their evaluation sheets that they thought it was probably pepsi.
the  panel members were also free to make comments about each sample.
as far as my expert panel was concerned, pepsi is clearly the top pop.
human judges who deemed it the best: 5.
human judges who deemed it the best: 2.
and pepsi's pride took another hit in 2011 when sales of diet coke surpassed those of pepsi, making it the second most popular soft drink in the u.s. is coke really that much better than pepsi?
people have been enjoying cola-flavored soft drinks ever since 1886, when the first glasses of coca-cola were served up for 5 cents each (about $1.10 in today's dollars) at an atlanta pharmacy.
the panel members were also free to make comments about each sample.
with the panel in place, i prepared individual cola samples in separate paper cups.
the experts were asked to rank each cola solely for taste, from best to  worst, with four points for the top performer and one point for the worst.
in 1975, pepsi introduced a blind taste test known as the "pepsi challenge."
for the record, i haven't always been a coke drinker.
as a kid, my family  drank only pepsi.
introducing the cola competitors i ran down to my local albertsons supermarket and bought all four cola brands they were offering for sale:
flavor was the predominant complaint.
anyway, with that in mind, i decided to find out which cola my family would ultimately choose in a modified version of my own pepsi challenge.(post continues below video.)
by  msn money partner apr 20, 2012 12:00pm this post comes from len penzo at partner blog len  penzo dot com.
real-time index quotes and delayed quotes supplied byinteractive data real-time services.
chill price (2 liters): $1.
average score (4-point scale): 1.6.
index membership data provided bysix telekurs.
so is pepsi really better than coke?
panel scoring: 17 points.
royal crown cola has been around in its present incarnation since 1934.
pepsi, coke, royal crown, and chill, which is a bargain brand marketed by shoppers value.
but when it comes to bragging rights for america's top-selling soft drink,  pepsi has played the perennial bridesmaid to coke ever since pepsi made its  debut at the turn of the 20th century.
the bargain brand performed well, earning three blue ribbons from the panel.
while coke has always been america's top-selling soft drink, pepsi has steadfastly maintained that, in head-to-head competition, more people prefer the taste of its product in blind taste tests.
taxes is pepsi really better than coke?
this time there were 10 eager volunteers (plus the dog, of course).
as a kid, my family drank only pepsi.
this post comes from len penzo at partner blog len penzo dot com.
a seventh ranked it second from the bottom.
one provision of the latest effort to shore up the flagging u.s. postal service would allow you to receive alcohol in the mail.
kevin wryly noted that the only thing that could have made the pepsi better was a splash of rum.
as with my ketchup blind taste test, i recruited a bunch of family members  as an expert panel.
fundamental company data and historical chart data provided by thomson reuters (click for restrictions).
when comparing  products, panelists who could not discern a clear taste advantage between  two or more brands were allowed to give identical rankings.
play with the factors that affect the size of your stash.
but when it comes to bragging rights for america's top-selling soft drink, pepsi has played the perennial bridesmaid to coke ever since pepsi made its debut at the turn of the 20th century.
the honeybee gave the coke demerits for being "too watery," while dad said it was "lacking in flavor."
stockscouter data provided byverus analytics.
today, my preference for coke is so strong that i'll often change my drink  order to root beer or lemonade at establishments that carry pepsi.
pepsi cola price (2 liters): $1.79.
here, in reverse order, is a summary of the cola taste test results, based  upon the inputs of my expert panel: 4.
average score (4-point scale): 2.5.
on the other hand, matthew said royal crown tasted "flat," and both nina and my mom thought rc was "too sweet." 2.
only one panelist, mark, thought the chill cola was the worst of the bunch.
it received the blue ribbon from five of the judges, and two others thought it was second best.
more from len penzo dot com and msn money: copyright © 2012 microsoft.
average score (4-point scale): 2.9.
people have been enjoying cola-flavored soft drinks ever since 1886, when  the first glasses of coca-cola were served up for 5 cents each (about  $1.10 in today's dollars) at an atlanta pharmacy.
panel scoring: 25 points.
he said it was "way too syrupy."
on the positive side, mark liked coke's "fizz factor."
as far as i'm concerned, coke will always be no. 1 in my book.
canadian fund data provided bycannex financial exchanges ltd. smart spending combines the best money-saving tips from msn money and the rest of the web.
rc cola price (2 liters): $1.29.
in 1975, pepsi introduced a blind taste test known as the "pepsi  challenge."
human judges who deemed it the best: 0.
see delay times for other exchanges.
when comparing products, panelists who could not discern a clear taste advantage between two or more brands were allowed to give identical rankings.
i know i'm not impressed.
coca-cola price (2 liters): $1.79.
anyway, with that in mind, i decided to find out which cola my family would  ultimately choose in a modified version of my own pepsi challenge.(post  continues below video.)
in fact, i didn't become a loyal coke drinker until i finally left the nest.
today, it is distributed by dr pepper/snapple group.
once again the penzo family conducts a blind taste test, comparing top  brands and less expensive products.
today, my preference for coke is so strong that i'll often change my drink order to root beer or lemonade at establishments that carry pepsi.
-- giselle smith is a longtime editor and writer based in seattle.
to ensure the taste test was a blind comparison, the samples were marked "a" through "d." the experts were asked to rank each cola solely for taste, from best to worst, with four points for the top performer and one point for the worst.
smart spending on the go: get our app for your android or iphone
today, soft drinks are a key part of a beverage industry worth billions of  dollars, so it should be no surprise that when it comes to the highly  competitive soft drink wars, the century-long crusade for cola lovers being  waged by coke and pepsi shows no sign of abating.
chris thought it was the "best tasting by far," and aunt doris gave it her highest mark because it was "simply perfect."
panel scoring: 27 points.
as with my ketchup blind taste test, i recruited a bunch of family members as an expert panel.
here, in reverse order, is a summary of the cola taste test results, based upon the inputs of my expert panel: 4.
and even though my taste test experiment included additional competitors, it still managed to back up pepsi's claims.