it’s only a game, right?
the new identity has to be portable, so we can carry it around the country as we chase our faceless jobs from town to town.
where would one brand be without the other to push against, to enforce brand loyalty, to keep the customers in line?
the new immigrants clung to the ethnic enclave or  the religion their parents brought from across the ocean.
what’s the  attraction in those?
as it happened, the philadelphia flyers were playing the tampa bay lightning and tampa bay was getting the better of philadelphia.
it only encourages ad hominem, negative tactics and everyone is so busy defending “our side” from “their side” that accountability on all sides goes by the board.
it was pure  marketing genius and was only undermined by the fact that the product was  undrinkable.
(oddly enough, they’re the same colors associated with pepsi and coke, respectively – or the crips and the bloods.
decades of atrocities committed against “us” justify whatever we chose to do to “them.”
very few of us are of a single ethnicity and those who’ve gone back to the old country know our cousins just think of us as “the americans.”
is it not vacuous and vapid enough to derive your sense of self-worth from your pickup truck that you must now compound the idiocy by proclaiming your disdain for the make of truck you do not drive?
a century ago, we knew ourselves by our  region, state or hometown.
two sides locked in a death struggle that may not only kill all of  them, but is sucking in half the world besides.
tampa bay won the game about the time we touched down and i felt a distinct mood shift from good-natured jocularity to something more tense.
bookmark the permalink.
tampa  bay won the game about the time we touched down and i felt a distinct mood  shift from good-natured jocularity to something more tense.
required fields are marked*name *
« duty now for the future all  relative» 07/22/2004 pepsi needs coke
we’ve lost our regionalism.
is it not vacuous and vapid enough to derive your sense of  self-worth from your pickup truck that you must now compound the idiocy by  proclaiming your disdain for the make of truck you do not drive?
now politics is marketed to us the same way.
the florida-based flight crew periodically announced game  developments, razzing the philadelphians gently, at least at first.
the new identity has to be portable, so we can carry it around the country  as we chase our faceless jobs from town to town.
by engaging in this behavior, we are responding exactly as programmed by our corporate masters.
if you want to see where this can lead us, cast a glance toward israel and  palestine.
if you want to see where this can lead us, cast a glance toward israel and palestine.
where would one brand be without the other to push against, to enforce brand  loyalty, to keep the customers in line?
trades, even 40years ago, were roughly divided on lines of national origin – italian stonemasons, irish painters and plasterers, german tool-and-die makers.
worse is the decal of the little boy relieving himself on the opponent’s corporate logo.
there are democratic  “blue” states and republican “red” states.
« duty now for the future all relative »
the true vermont accent, with its rounded vowels and  “ayap” interjections is increasingly rare, along with a thousand  other shadings of american english.
the true vermont accent, with its rounded vowels and “ayap” interjections is increasingly rare, along with a thousand other shadings of american english.
we’ve lost  our regionalism.
this entry was written by floegel, posted on   at 2:23 pm, filed under commentary.
the passengers more than rose to the bait, responding with boos and catcalls.
i was flying from philadelphia to orlando one evening in may, during the  national hockey league playoffs.
two generations later, we’ve lost our ethnic roots.
it was pure marketing genius and was only undermined by the fact that the product was undrinkable.
decades of atrocities committed  against “us” justify whatever we chose to do to “them.”
i was flying from philadelphia to orlando one evening in may, during the national hockey league playoffs.
the florida-based flight crew periodically announced game developments, razzing the philadelphians gently, at least at first.
pickup trucks wear bumper stickers reading, “i’d rather push a  chevy than drive a ford,” or vice versa.
sports team identification is one thing we can take with us and red sox and yankee fans glare at each other from beneath peaked caps all across the country.
it’s  time to realize the only true measure of an individual or nation must be based  on how we act, not who we are –
worse is the decal of the little  boy relieving himself on the opponent’s corporate logo.
although there are real difference between the parties and candidates this  year, it’s sad to hear civic debate devolve into knee-jerkery.
it only  encourages ad hominem, negative tactics and everyone is so busy defending  “our side” from “their side” that accountability on all  sides goes by the board.
follow any comments  here with therss feed for this post.
(c) mark floegel, 2004
among my acquaintances – you know who are are – are those who will walk out of a restaurant because it serves pepsi rather than coke.
two sides locked in a death struggle that may not only kill all of them, but is sucking in half the world besides.
very few of us are  of a single ethnicity and those who’ve gone back to the old country know  our cousins just think of us as “the americans.”
although there are real difference between the parties and candidates this year, it’s sad to hear civic debate devolve into knee-jerkery.
as it happened, the philadelphia flyers were  playing the tampa bay lightning and tampa bay was getting the better of  philadelphia.
there are democratic “blue” states and republican “red” states.
the  passengers more than rose to the bait, responding with boos and catcalls.
among my acquaintances – you know who are are  – are those who will walk out of a restaurant because it serves pepsi  rather than coke.
your email is never published nor shared.
trackbacks are closed, but you can post a comment.
states neither  “blue” nor “red” are “battlegrounds” and  the crips and bloods, uh, the democrats and republicans will be slugging it out  from now until november.
(oddly  enough, they’re the same colors associated with pepsi and coke,  respectively – or the crips and the bloods.
(c) mark floegel, 2004this entry was written by floegel, posted on at 2:23 pm, filed under commentary.
it’s time to realize the only true measure of an individual or nation must be based on how we act, not who we are – and it’s time to start acting better than we have.
identity in america is changing.
trades, even 40years  ago, were roughly divided on lines of national origin – italian  stonemasons, irish painters and plasterers, german tool-and-die makers.
a century ago, we knew ourselves by our region, state or hometown.
a quarter-century ago, some whiz kid on the payroll at miller brewing got  the brainstorm to pit the drinkers of lite beer against each other, in groups  of “great taste” and “less filling.”
a quarter-century ago, some whiz kid on the payroll at miller brewing got the brainstorm to pit the drinkers of lite beer against each other, in groups of “great taste” and “less filling.”
the new immigrants clung to the ethnic enclave or the religion their parents brought from across the ocean.
sports team identification is  one thing we can take with us and red sox and yankee fans glare at each other  from beneath peaked caps all across the country.
pickup trucks wear bumper stickers reading, “i’d rather push a chevy than drive a ford,” or vice versa.
and it’s time to start acting  better than we have.
four years after george bush promised unity, not division the world is more polarized than perhaps it was at the height of the cold war.
by engaging in this behavior, we are responding exactly as programmed by  our corporate masters.
at this stage of the game, pepsi and coke need each other.
four years after george bush promised unity, not division the world is  more polarized than perhaps it was at the height of the cold war.
what’s the attraction in those?
trackbacks are closed, but you can post a  comment.
states neither “blue” nor “red” are “battlegrounds” and the crips and bloods, uh, the democrats and republicans will be slugging it out from now until november.
follow any comments here with therss feed for this post.