perhaps someday, scientests will figure out why, or not.
the only one i don't like is coke in a plastic bottle.
“while  packaging and food companies work to prevent any interactions, they can  occur,” she says.
it came in plastic two litre bottles with yellow screw on caps.
it would have been smarter to say something like: "the great taste of coca-cola can be experienced with sensational, but very subtle, almost imperceptible variations of flavor, depending on the package it comes in."
the coke that comes in a glass bottle, is often a bit sweeter and maybe a bit less bubbly than the one in a can.
coca-cola maintains strict uniformity in  processes in all of its worldwide bottling facilities, but it concedes that  exposure to light and how long the product sits on store shelves may affect the  taste.
i could also pick out the one from the plastic bottle (the one that probably causes cancer).
the campaign way back on the "new" coke.. seems to be the original recipe has been lost.
vomits up coca cola www.youtube.com/watch?v=heuwrj7sypk
next  article: turning brain waves into beautiful music want to learn more  about breakthroughs in electronics, medicine, nanotech, and more?
no matter how you purify it .
definitely tastes better than the usual corn syrup coke.
of course coke tastes better drinking from a glass bottle.
more common is the choice between can and plastic bottle, and can wins every time.
given that the formula is always the same, yes, according to sara risch, a food chemist and member of the institute of food technologists.
conversely, acetaldehyde  in plastic bottles might migrate into the soda.
i very rarely drink soda anymore after watching the "super size me" documentary a couple years ago.
why does coke from a glass bottle taste different?
it's their attitude towards people; their customers.
the two flavors are unmistakably different.
if it tastes different, it's for a different reason, not because of the sweetener.
we just didn't have a powerful medium like the internet to put those clueless execs in their place.
the glass is better, and is definitely different.
the difference now is that there is this little thing called the blogosphere where even the most trivial issue can be made into a global crisis.
unfortunately, coke in the bottle ends up costing more but it's worth every penny.
i think it tastes complete different
rather, they say, “the  particular way that people choose to enjoy their coke can affect their  perception of taste.”
for most of us, it doesn't seem to be a show stopper, but most beverages tend to cost a bit more in glass bottles.
even that’s not a sure bet, though.
only is it made with natural sugar and not processed corn but, the entire experience is altered when drinking from the different variety of containers.
water tastes differant all over the united states and world
whilst glass bottled coke does taste best, in the uk it's not readily available and when it is it's sold at a premium.
the only coke sold in the us that is made with sugar (to my knowledge, anyway) is bottled in mexico.
the fda regulates this kind of  potential chemical contact, but even minute, allowable amounts could alter  flavor.
coke is available throughout the world and whenever i am overseas i try to taste it only to find it varies quite a lot.
even  that’s not a sure bet, though.
it's cold watery bubbley and flavored!!!
in the united states, coke is made with corn syrup then put in aluminum or plastic.
pepsi drinkers should compare cans of pepsi made with hfcs to those made with cane sugar.
they're trying to do the same thing now.
vg15.0929p_nt~ ~^ very nice thank you.
coke from plastic bottles has a chemical taste, and coke from cans has a metallic taste.
see our amazing new vision for magazines that goes far beyond the printed page stay up to date on the latest news of the future of science and technology from youriphone or android phone with full articles, images and offline viewing featuring every article from the magazine and website, plus links from around the web.
if you like coke you might wanna drink some on october 25: http://internationalcocacoladay.wordpress.com /cokeman i live in mexico, where coca cola is available in cans, plastic bottles, and glass bottles.
for example, the polymer that lines aluminum cans might  absorb small amounts of soluble flavor from the soda.
i'm a dedicated coca cola drinker, and always buy it in glass bottles.
this isn't coke related but how did you get the o's to go out into the advertisements?
plus: swimming in a nuclear power plant, monkey surgery, new gadgets, and lots of other goodies.
but it doesn't contradict their own customers' experience.
reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
inside: the inner workings of the world's fastest elevator, the ultimate scuba machine, the best nerf gun ever, and more.
popycock, coke is full of it.
store personnel said it was not available in glass or in smaller containers.
copyright © 2009 popular science a bonnier corporation company.
having said all that- coke in an aluminum can always tastes more acidic to me and i like the difference.
i still prefer having my coke in a glass bottle, when i have one.
your best bet for getting coke’s pure, unaltered taste is to drink it  from a glass bottle, the most inert material it’s served in.
that's another story - the dr. pepper plant in dublin, tx still bottles dp made with pure cane (imperial) sugar (i think it's the only plant in the us that does).
conversely, acetaldehyde in plastic bottles might migrate into the soda.
coke in glass bottles is made with high-fructose corn syrup.
coca-cola, you should be listening.
coca-cola maintains strict uniformity in processes in all of its worldwide bottling facilities, but it concedes that exposure to light and how long the product sits on store shelves may affect the taste.
also i still maintain that the old coke, the one that i grew up on is no longer in the can, bottle glass or plastic.
“the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the  package it comes in,” they insist.
consumers obviously like glass bottled coke (with real sugar) way more than plastic or can bottled coke.
which is not that often, maybe twice a month.
check the ingredients list.
i do agree there is a very much differents in how coke taste today, i only drink at from a glass bottle with real sugar only now days & not the corn stuff, coke cola lies about the truth, & they only do for money now days like most business in the usa today do, but we all can change that if we all put some thinking & time & action into it!
from garland, tx08/08/09 at 12:44 pm michael hemsley from garland, tx08/08/09 at 1:04 pm there is a differance besides the surgar.
whatever the manufacturers may claim, coke today does not taste anything like what it tasted like 50 years ago - it had a real distinctive flavor then; now its just sweet water with bubbles!!
truth is a dimension, it changes with the evolving uniqueness of existence.
they claimed that no one noticed.
subscribe  to popular science today, for less than $1 per issue!
i don't drink us coke any more because it tastes horrible.
there yet another conspiracy theory started right here.
but is it possible that the subtle variation in taste that some notice among aluminum cans, plastic bottles and glass bottles is more than just a psychological effect of their soda-consumption rituals?
our annual how it works issue is here!
that’s what coca-cola’s spokespeople say,  anyway.
nor were journalists inclined to put tough questions to those same execs -- not exactly the most important issue of the day.
i distinctly remember the sensation of running my tongue along the edge of the bottle opening between swallows; capturing tiny little bubbles of foam which had an intense flavor.
your best bet for getting coke’s pure, unaltered taste is to drink it from a glass bottle, the most inert material it’s served in.
the  coca-cola company it doesn’t.
but now iam little bit suspicious too.
so yeah, the packaging might mess with coke’s flavor, but we’ll still take it any day over new coke.
given that the formula is always the same, yes, according to sara risch, a  food chemist and member of the institute of food technologists.
there is something to the plastic as well as the metal in the cans that changes the taste.
so yeah, the packaging might mess with coke’s flavor, but  we’ll still take it any day over new coke.
quintus: plastic bottles are permeable to gasses and as a result- the carbonation in a plastic bottle deteriorates over time.
bilgisayar kursu http://www.biltekakademi.com 140 years of popular science at your fingertips.
i find no difference in both.
www.youtube.com/johntheadams
http://www.medicaldictionaryweb.com/ glass bottle hands down. .
that’s what coca-cola’s spokespeople say, anyway.
but of course it also has a lot to do with temperature and where you buy your drink!
“the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the package it comes in,” they insist.
other factors, such as the plastic used to make the 20 oz bottles, and aluminum cans do seem to make a difference in flavor, at least to me.
they need to come to grips with the fact that their customers are not retards.
coca-cola executives may inadvertently help launch a wave of negative publicity by making ludicrous statements like: “the great taste of coca-cola is the same regardless of the package it comes in.”
sure, most people would agree that the cola is  indeed delicious and refreshing, and pouring it into a glass or serving it over  ice could influence the sensation of its flavor.
and a proper, heavy glass, 'coke shaped' coke bottle makes all the difference!
according to my totally unscientific research, coke from a glass bottle tastes definitely different from coke served from an aluminium can or a plastic bottle.
coke from glass is typically made with cane sugar.
why limit it to coke(tm).
the people at coca cola are full of bs.
just like beer tastes different from bottle and from can.
sometimes coke will be issued in glass bottles during the christmas holiday - these might be hfcs, i haven't checked.
on the other hand, the coke that comes in plastic bottle, seems often to be more bubbly than the one in a can, but tastes otherwise more or less the same.
coke in a glass bottle tastes different for a very plain and simple reason: bottled coke is usually made in mexico (look at the label, you'll see) and down there they use real cane sugar in the recipe, then bottle it in glass.
free classifieds website started to clinch for the superiority in its market of free classifieds.
i found some in two groceries on the upper west side in manhattan last september.
while extensively researching why beer in a bottle tastes different from canned beer, i was told that glass can be sterilized, whereas aluminium can't, so canned liquids have more preservatives in them - hence the taste difference.
it has started very recently but yet has gained the immense responses from its users, mainly due to its user friendly attitude.
previous article: if a mosquito bites me after i’ve had a beer, can it get drunk?
try to find coke bottled in mexico.
maybe it could be an idea for a new release.
old style glass bottle, and made with real cane sugar, not corn syrup.
an update to my note above - glass bottled coke in the us is still made with corn syrup, not sugar.
practically every beverage tastes different in plastic/metal/glass/paper.
each issue has been completely reimagined for your ipad.
executives are stupid.
i cant believe this research.
by doug cantor  posted 07.31.2009 at 10:12 am 30 comments the usual suspects  various  container materials might impart slight changes to coke's flavor.
you may have to do some searching, but it's available many places in the us.
i remember coke execs crowing about their switch from cane sugar to corn syrup.
but is it possible that the  subtle variation in taste that some notice among aluminum cans, plastic bottles  and glass bottles is more than just a psychological effect of their  soda-consumption rituals?
as a side note, pepsi started selling cans made with cane sugar.
but, that's not what irks me.
for example, the polymer that lines aluminum cans might absorb small amounts of soluble flavor from the soda.
everything tastes better out of glass.
coke in a glass bottle tastes great.
the aluminum can changes the taste.
my personal theory is that in a plastic bottle, the coke never reaches quite the same coldness as it does in a can, and therefore never tastes as good.
more than worth the effort to get it, if you are a dp fan.
coca cola made with cane sugar is bottled in small quantities for the jewish holidays.
the reason they taste differently might be because, coca-cola that is in a glass container, is usually made in mexico, instead of in the united states, and in mexico, they use actual sugar and not high fructose corn syrup.
the fda regulates this kind of potential chemical contact, but even minute, allowable amounts could alter flavor.
take the test yourself, all taste differant glass,plastic,can.
in other words- the coke in the plastic bottle should be less bubbly.
furthermore, coca-cola used to taste much, much better with the old, pre-1970s recipe.
“while packaging and food companies work to prevent any interactions, they can occur,” she says.
not only did the long, narrow glass bottles influence the taste, but back then, they were still using cane sugar.
that was unique and can not be replicated with plastic, aluminum or corn syrup.
previous article: if a  mosquito bites me after i’ve had a beer, can it get drunk?
rather, they say, “the particular way that people choose to enjoy their coke can affect their perception of taste.”
but, i definitely remember that coke had a much better taste when i was a kid than in later years.
(wink wink, nudge nudge) who cares!!!
sure, most people would agree that the cola is indeed delicious and refreshing, and pouring it into a glass or serving it over ice could influence the sensation of its flavor.
-verblist http://www.verblist.net nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo you want a better tasting coke?
but you have to drink it up pretty quick or the fizz goes away.
if the contents of each container were to be poured into separate glasses, and i were to taste each one, i could pick out the coca cola that came from the glass bottle in less than a second.
also see ourpopsci diy feed
nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
i find even pouring things into a glass makes them taste better.
go to walmart and look in the hispanic foods section - you will find coke in glass bottles - on the ingredients label it will say 'cane sugar'.
maybe it tastes funny cause it's not pepsi.