to appeal to consumers who onlysipped the cola in small amounts.
yet new coke ended up being an instant and unmistakable
unlike regular coke, new coke handily beat competitor pepsi in blind taste tests by a wide margin.
what are the chances that despite the horrible process you've  been subjected to, you'll find that your meal was an absolute delight?
to  appeal to consumers who onlysipped the cola in small amounts.
maybe they love the work we show them because they loveus?
subscribe via rss twitter facebook linkedin flickr youtube -
it particularly  speaks to how clients react to our work as well as to us, personally.
by  all scientific reasoning, new coke should have been a hands down success.
conversely, maybe they hate the work because they hate us or the process leading up to the presentation of work.
by now new coke is infamous as one of the biggest branding and marketing failures of the 20th century.
those of us old enough to remember, know that new coke had  it's origins in the rise of pepsi as a solid #2 competitor to perennial soft  drink king, coke.
this set off a panic which led coke to tamper  with it's #1 selling formula and come up with a new one.
now of course, i understand why  it's not possible to create fully navigatable websites at the comp level or  brochure comps that can be printed, held and touched.
clients at a blink at some point during every project, while selling our work to clients or while our clients' clients are interacting with our finished product, blink comes into play.
more specifically, the love the process we have just subjected them to.
you're following this space ( edit)
this set off a panic which led coke to tamper with it's #1 selling formula and come up with a new one.
during the 70s, pepsi started a "pepsi challenge"  during which it depicted in tv commercials featuring blind taste tests in which  consumers would sip both pepsi and coke and declare which one tasted better.
so they must make snap judgements based on artificial criteria and in  atypical settings that can send us into the wrong direction and lead to faulty  solutions.
during the 70s, pepsi started a "pepsi challenge" during which it depicted in tv commercials featuring blind taste tests in which consumers would sip both pepsi and coke and declare which one tasted better.
humans  make snap judgements in the blink of an eye.
what are the chances that despite the horrible process you've been subjected to, you'll find that your meal was an absolute delight?
an award-winning design which we created for one  client, a design the client may haveloved, could be soundly rejected as crap by another client.
yet new coke ended up being an instant and unmistakable failure!
what it does is help us to understand how/why humans make snap judgements in the blink of an eye.
in pepsi's ads (as well as private blind tests conducted by coke) a majority of consumers tested chose pepsi.
in  pepsi's ads (as well as private blind tests conducted by coke) a majority of  consumers tested chose pepsi.
but understanding how snap judgements are made can help us to understand the gulf between designer and design client and perhaps lead us to better ideas in our process that help us to get feedback that is truly helpful in creating better, more effective design solutions.
on the other hand, you could receive a lesser meal served to you by a friendly staff who remember you and greet you warmly every time you come and think it's the best meal you ever had.
by all scientific reasoning, new coke should have been a hands down success.
gladwell explains that new coke was built to win taste tests.
so they must make snap judgements based on artificial criteria and in atypical settings that can send us into the wrong direction and lead to faulty solutions.
clients at a blink at some point during every project, while selling  our work to clients or while our clients' clients are interacting with our  finished product, blink comes into play.
what a fascinating book!
we craft designs and initial comps that are built to push clients into a specific design direction and hopefully pick one design over a variety of others we provide for them.
polar opposite reactions.
for brochure  comps, clients are not allowed to hold it in their hands and feel/smell the  paper.
it's not a design book and contrary to the way the title sounds, it's not a "how-to" book.
those of us old enough to remember, know that new coke had it's origins in the rise of pepsi as a solid #2 competitor to perennial soft drink king, coke.
an award-winning design which we created for one client, a design the client may haveloved, could be soundly rejected as crap by another client.
now of course, i understand why it's not possible to create fully navigatable websites at the comp level or brochure comps that can be printed, held and touched.
with a set of web comps, clients  are not allowed to scroll the page or click on the menu items.
unlike regular coke, new coke handily beat competitor pepsi in blind taste  tests by a wide margin.
of course, consumers don't sip cola out of small cups, they drink it by the glass, can, bottle or cup.
follow @chrisgee the prepared mind podcast understanding clients in a blink 2 feb 2006 tags autopost i've been reading "blink: the power of  thinking without thinking" by malcolm gladwell.
this is your space ( edit) follow by email » get the latest updates in your email box automatically.
but understanding how  snap judgements are made can help us to understand the gulf between designer  and design client and perhaps lead us to better ideas in our process that help  us to get feedback that is truly helpful in creating better, more effective  design solutions.
the prepared mind chris gee's posterous — random thoughts about social media, digital media and the future of creative.
maybe they love the work  we show them because they loveus?
.chris{} - - - archive - 2012 (7) - 2011 (79) - november (4) - october (1) - august (9) - july (5) - june (14) - may (14) - april (8) - march (6) - february (6) - december (12) - 2010 (185) - december (21) - november (10) - october (9) - september (17) - august (16) - july (13) - june (15) - may (19) - april (23) - march (8) - february (9) - january (25) - 2009 (135) - december (21) - november (6) - october (4) - september (18) - august (27) - july (49) - june (3) - april (4) - january (3) - 2008 (9) - december (7) - november (1) - august (1) - 2007 (10) - november (2) - june (1) - may (3) - april (1) - march (1) - february (2) - 2006 (25) - december (1) - november (9) - october (2) - may (1) - march (1) - february (1) - january (10) - 2005 (85) - december (7) - november (3) - october (4) - september (2) - august (14) - july (10) - june (11) - may (12) - april (22) get updates follow this space »
when you think about it, this concept has a lot to do with how we do what we do as designers.
hey, thanks for coming.
would you mind signing in?
but they are not interacting with our design the way they would normally, just as consumers in the "pepsi challenge" were not interacting with coke and pepsi the way they would normally.
this has implications in design because we do the same thing!
when you think about it, this  concept has a lot to do with how we do what we do as designers.
follow @chrisgee - the prepared mind podcast - linkedin profile - understanding clients in a blink - 2 feb 2006 - 0 responses - views - edit - delete - tags - autopost i've been reading "blink: the power of thinking without thinking" by malcolm gladwell.
on the other hand, you could receive a lesser meal served to you by a  friendly staff who remember you and greet you warmly every time you come and  think it's the best meal you ever had.
more specifically, the love the  process we have just subjected them to.
we craft  designs and initial comps that are built to push clients into a specific design  direction and hopefully pick one design over a variety of others we provide for  them.
is it  really the work the client is reacting to?
clients make a snap judgement to the  initial design comps we show them based on their own, subconscious  feelings/emotions/biases.
while new coke did very well against pepsi during taste tests, it failed to make a positive impression in the arena where most consumers interact with their cola and in the amounts that they drink their cola.
while new coke did very well against pepsi during taste  tests, it failed to make a positive impression in the arena where most  consumers interact with their cola and in the amounts that they drink their  cola.
the prepared mind chris gee's posterous — random thoughts about social media, digital  media and the future of creative.
but they are not interacting with our design the way they would normally,  just as consumers in the "pepsi challenge" were not interacting with  coke and pepsi the way they would normally.
what it does is help us to understand how/why
with a set of web comps, clients are not allowed to scroll the page or click on the menu items.
imagine sitting in a five star restaurant where they lost your  reservation, made you wait 30 minutes, the waiter talked down to you and wasn't  very attentive.
it particularly speaks to how clients react to our work as well as to us, personally.
conversely, maybe they hate the work  because they hate us or the process leading up to the presentation of work.
by  now new coke is infamous as one of the biggest branding and marketing failures  of the 20th century.
is it really the work the client is reacting to?
imagine sitting in a five star restaurant where they lost your reservation, made you wait 30 minutes, the waiter talked down to you and wasn't very attentive.
you're a contributor here ( edit)
clients make a snap judgement to the initial design comps we show them based on their own, subconscious feelings/emotions/biases.
of  course, consumers don't sip cola out of small cups, they drink it by the glass,  can, bottle or cup.
it's not a design book and contrary to the way the title sounds, it's not a  "how-to" book.
the "new coke" of design one of the examples gladwell uses in his book is that of new coke.
for brochure comps, clients are not allowed to hold it in their hands and feel/smell the paper.