however, this is a dealbreaker for me and pepsi.
there are a few restaurants near the hck2 offices where i'm asked this  question.
neither are as good as regular dr. pepper,  i know, but i have to watch my girlish figure.
then suddenly, the client is surprised that 70% of its audience is  pissed off or unsatisfied.
as a restaurant owner, you choose pepsi or coke products—in doing so, you get the perks offered by one supplier, spend less on product, take fewer deliveries.
this restriction is not the way to win over the public.
in the web industry, we have clients, web firms, and audiences.
so why do i have a bias against pepsi?
this is why fewer of you hear the question, "is  coke okay?" "well, benji," you might ask, "shouldn't you be  frustrated with coca-cola as well, if they do the same thing?" nope.
then again, look at the  pepsi logo...
i get why this situation exists.
this is because they know from experience only a third of you want pepsi in the first place.
pepsi holds about 30% of the  fountain drink market.
then again, look at the pepsi logo...
03.23 "is pepsi okay?"
the question, when i hear it from the voice  of a server, is always tinged with the expectation of refusal.
on top of that, the price is different is more then half the invoices that are left behind by the driver.
pepsi is more popular around the world but in the us, coke is taking advantage of being number one which is awfully painful for vendors.
"i hate to disappoint you, and i know you will be disappointed, but i  have to ask if pepsi is okay since we don't sell the product you asked  for."
those of you who ask for  diet coke at a restaurant that doesn't sell diet coke are bound to have heard  this timid question upon ordering: "is pepsi okay?"
whether this is abuse of privilege or just a smart tactic to maintain market share is up for debate.
i have two restaurants and everything single day, i think about somehow getting rid of these idiots who can't do simple things like take your order and deliver it.
whether this is abuse of privilege or just a smart  tactic to maintain market share is up for debate.
i repeatedly forget they don't carry coke products, and when i hear the pepsi question, i just wince and say, "no thanks, i'll have iced tea."
in my example above, there are three  parties: the supplier, the restaurant, and the patrons.
this is why fewer of you hear the question, "is coke okay?" "well, benji," you might ask, "shouldn't you be frustrated with coca-cola as well, if they do the same thing?" nope.
it's about what your patrons want to drink.
the success of a project, and of a client, depends first and foremost on  how successfully the audience needs are addressed.
this is because they know from experience only a third of you want  pepsi in the first place.
those of you who ask for diet coke at a restaurant that doesn't sell diet coke are bound to have heard this timid question upon ordering: "is pepsi okay?"
so, let me relate this to the web.
by only choosing to serve pepsi, a restaurant is making itself and the supplier happy, but wholly ignoring the satisfaction of its patrons, the people who keep the restaurant in business to begin with.
if coke holds such a vast majority share of the market, they are in a position of privilege.
it's a question of serving your audience.
i'll relate this to the web later, but first, allow me to rant.
pepsi's new strategy is all viral and social.
a good web firm will remain objective and often flat-out disagree with the assessments of its own clients because it knows web sites exist for the people that visit them, not for the people that commission—or design—them.
more people will naturally order their products at a restaurant and therefore coke has the muscle to approach these places with contracts for exclusivity.
this question isn't a dealbreaker for me and the restaurants—i  frequent those places mainly for the food they serve.
this  restriction is not the way to win over the public.
they don't have a history of implementing ideas that people love.
neither are as good as regular dr. pepper, i know, but i have to watch my girlish figure.
the success of a project, and of a client, depends first and foremost on how successfully the audience needs are addressed.
it isn't about what you want to serve.
i drink diet dr. pepper.
there are a few restaurants near the hck2 offices where i'm asked this question.
even though coke is the official sponsor of the world cup, pepsi has beaten them to the punch.
the company puts themselves in a position of constantly  disappointing the people they consider to be potential customers.
i'll relate  this to the web later, but first, allow me to rant.
everything a client tells its agency should be questioned, not out of disrespect for the client, but out of respect for the audience.
i repeatedly forget they don't carry coke products, and when i  hear the pepsi question, i just wince and say, "no thanks, i'll have iced  tea."
"i hate to disappoint you, and i know you will be disappointed, but i have to ask if pepsi is okay since we don't sell the product you asked for."
a good web firm will remain objective and often  flat-out disagree with the assessments of its own clients because it knows web  sites exist for the people that visit them, not for the people that  commission—or design—them.
if diet dr. pepper isn't available at a  restaurant, i order diet coke.
everything a client tells its  agency should be questioned, not out of disrespect for the client, but out of  respect for the audience.
the question, when i hear it from the voice of a server, is always tinged with the expectation of refusal.
i get why this situation exists.
in my example above, there are three parties: the supplier, the restaurant, and the patrons.
if diet dr. pepper isn't available at a restaurant, i order diet coke.
then suddenly, the client is surprised that 70% of its audience is pissed off or unsatisfied.
but, according to ad age, it won't be cheap - just like all the money they spent on their new branding not too long ago.
this question isn't a dealbreaker for me and the restaurants—i frequent those places mainly for the food they serve.
if coke holds such a vast majority share of the market, they are in a  position of privilege.
the company puts themselves in a position of constantly disappointing the people they consider to be potential customers.
a good web firm works for the audience.
if pepsi wants to increase its market share, contractual exclusivity is not  the way to do it.
as a restaurant  owner, you choose pepsi or coke products—in doing so, you get the perks  offered by one supplier, spend less on product, take fewer deliveries.
speaking of pepsi vs. coke, ad age just wrote about pepsi's new 2.5-minute "oh africa" world cup ad.
by benji.smith published on march 23, 2010 categories: best practices, interactive, web design, web development
if pepsi wants to increase its market share, contractual exclusivity is not the way to do it.
all too  often, a client and web firm will team up to launch a site that only makes the  client and web firm happy, but then completely ignores the needs of the  audience.
coke has the worst customer server and are known for it throughout the restaurant industry.
all too often, a client and web firm will team up to launch a site that only makes the client and web firm happy, but then completely ignores the needs of the audience.
http://adage.com/digital/article?article_id=142722 and check out the new ad: http://cdn.visiblemeasures.com/youtube/chromeful/popup520x400.html?video...
if you call them, and when/if they return your call then eventually you get the new invoice along with a notice of payment.
pepsi holds about 30% of the fountain drink market.
more people will naturally order their products at a  restaurant and therefore coke has the muscle to approach these places with  contracts for exclusivity.
pepsi on the other hand has a much better reputation and mountain due is a big big seller but their diet sodas are crap!
i drink diet dr. pepper.
it isn't about what you want  to serve.
world cup - 78 days and counting!
by only choosing  to serve pepsi, a restaurant is making itself and the supplier happy, but  wholly ignoring the satisfaction of its patrons, the people who keep the  restaurant in business to begin with.