he  said, ‘lady, three hours ago it was grass’!”
we all scream for ice cream!
stirling creamery‘s unsalted butter was voted by saveur magazine as one of the world’s top 30 butters but it is their hastings whey butter, a dense, rich, salty butter made from the whey from cheese, that we find to be “way better”!
with so many choice ways to get your calcium, isn’t it time  to get your milk moo-stache on?
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
click here to cancel reply.
to quote phyllis diller: “i asked the waiter, ‘is this milk fresh?’
but it’s not all about cow milk…for many folks goat milk is the milk of choice!
virtually everything is done on their own farm – they grow their own feed, milk their own cows, and make and bottle the yogurt.
cultured cousins: yogurt & kefir both yogurt and kefir are made by fermenting milk with bacteria, but kefir is fermented with more and different bacteria, in addition to  yeast, making it a bit fizzy (some call itthe champagne of milk products ).
the cows graze on lush pastures in season and exercise outdoors daily in winter.
to quote phyllis  diller: “i asked the waiter, ‘is this milk fresh?’
let culinarium™ show you how to cook through the seasons with ingredients from around the province.
harmony uses minimum temperatures  during pasteurization to preserve the “fresh from the farm” flavour .
we’ve tasted our way around the province in search of the very best locally made artisan foods and presented them in beautiful boxes for your love ones to enjoy.
pinehedge farms yogurt is made with active bacterial cultures and pure organic whole milk – no powdered milk solids, artificial flavouring, sweeteners or pectin here!
it has a different makeup of proteins and fats than cow milk, and slightly lower levels of lactose, believed to make it more easily digestible and less allergenic.
today, commercial products are made by adding special bacteria to low fat milk that gives it a slightly thickened texture and tangy flavour.
but at culinarium what really excites us is taste – and it tastes great!
but it’s not all about cow milk…for  many folks goat milk is the milk of choice!
« meet krista of from these roots, our preserving guru!
it has a different makeup  of proteins and fats than cow milk, and slightly lower levels of lactose,  believed to make it more easily digestible and less allergenic.
okay,  so maybe it isn’t quite so fresh as that, but almost.
from lamb to yams, asparagus to wheatberries, you’ll be amazed at the multitude of menus you’ll have at your fingertips.
by laurie mcphail on august 25, 2010 in organic dairy few foods are linked with so many soothing epithets … mother’s milk, milk of human kindness, land of milk & honey!
the taste of harmony’s milk changes slightly with the cows’ menu, especially when they are first out on grass in the spring.
i’m in big trouble  …”!
website search our blog join our newsletter join our weekly e-newsletter to keep up to date on the latest happening at  the culinarium™ and around ontario!
we have a  limited supply of goat milk on the retail shelf but if you are an avid drinker  we’re happy to order some in for you, just give us a  call to set up your regular order.
and their milk is bottled in charming returnable glass bottles as glass doesn’t alter the true taste of the milk.
and our milk is fresh!!
harmony organic is a group of local farmers dedicated to  organic, sustainable agriculture who treat their cows with love and  respect.
and it brings me to my next point…happy cows make better milk!
and what on earth is buttermilk, you ask?
website join our weekly e-newsletter to keep up to date on the latest happening at the culinarium™ and around ontario!
at culinarium, we offer milk from harmony organic.
okay, so maybe it isn’t quite so fresh as that, but almost.
and of course the ever  famous milk mo0-stache.
whipped for easy spreading, our customer alisa tells us, “this stuff is fantastic…for breakfast this morning i had a bagel and three slices of bread!
harmony uses minimum temperatures during pasteurization to preserve the “fresh from the farm” flavour .
and of course the ever famous milk mo0-stache.
we have a limited supply of goat milk on the retail shelf but if you are an avid drinker we’re happy to order some in for you, just give us a call to set up your regular order.
view our gift baskets © 2010 culinarium™.
they were ontario’s first certified organic yogurt maker and practice biodynamic farming…a self sustaining system which  emphasizes the integration & well-being of crops and livestock.
at culinarium, we  offer milk from harmony organic.
with so many choice ways to get your calcium, isn’t it time to get your milk moo-stache on?
by laurie mcphail on august 25, 2010 in organic dairy few foods are linked with so many soothing epithets … mother’s  milk, milk of human kindness, land of milk & honey!
today, commercial products are made by adding special bacteria to low fat milk  that gives it a slightly thickened texture and tangy flavour.
you can easily make your own buttermilk substitution by adding 1 tbsp of lemon juice or white vinegar to 1 cup milk and letting it stand for 5 minutes.
and we always have yummy yogurt!
the high clover content of the natural  diet enjoyed by organic herds is thought to be why organic milk has higher levels of omega 3.
name:name: we are a unique gourmet food store in mid-town toronto that showcases exceptional ontario products and the passionate people behind them.
he said, ‘lady, three hours ago it was grass’!”
though many think it a commodity, nothing could be further from the truth…the fresher and less processed the milk, the better it tastes.
they were ontario’s first certified organic yogurt maker and practice biodynamic farming…a self sustaining system which emphasizes the integration & well-being of crops and livestock.
stirling creamery‘s unsalted butter was voted by  saveur magazine as one of the world’s top 30 butters but it is their  hastings whey butter, a dense, rich, salty butter made from the whey from  cheese, that we find to be “way better”!
we are happy to bring in kefir for you … just ask!>>>
harmony organic milk tastes fresher, sweeter and creamier than conventional brands and we invite you to come in and taste the difference yourself!
and it brings me to  my next point…happy cows make better milk!
our produce box program » our meat share program » local, gourmet, delicious.
cultured cousins: yogurt & kefir both yogurt and kefir are made by fermenting milk with bacteria, but kefir is fermented with more and different bacteria, in addition to yeast, making it a bit fizzy (some call itthe champagne of milk products ).
pinehedge farms yogurt is made with  active bacterial cultures and pure organic whole milk – no powdered milk  solids, artificial flavouring, sweeteners or pectin here!
morning i had a bagel and three slices of bread!
the taste of harmony’s milk changes  slightly with the cows’ menu, especially when they are first out  on grass in the spring.
culinarium local organic food store in toronto ontario home about culinarium – your local organic food store subscribe to rss get your milk moo-stache on!
harmony organic is a group of local farmers dedicated to organic, sustainable agriculture who treat their cows with love and respect.
in times past,  it was the liquid left over after churning butter from cream.
speaking of butter…we carry several butters for your spreadable, breadable pleasure… local dairy crafts a tangy, cultured butter in small batches with cream from local dairies and cheese makers using a family recipe more than 3 generations old.
you can easily make your own buttermilk substitution by adding 1 tbsp of  lemon juice or white vinegar to 1 cup milk and letting it stand for 5  minutes.
visit us at culinarium.ca.
in times past, it was the liquid left over after churning butter from cream.
virtually everything is done on their own farm – they  grow their own feed, milk their own cows, and make and bottle the yogurt.
the high clover content of the natural diet enjoyed by organic herds is thought to be why organic milk has higher levels of omega 3.
though many think it a commodity, nothing could be further from the  truth…the fresher and less processed the milk, the better it  tastes.
whipped for easy spreading, our customer  alisa tells us, “this stuff is fantastic…for breakfast this
view our class calendar » community shared agriculture (csa) programs or share programs allow you to “share” in the bounty of specific farms in exchange for sharing some of mother nature’s risk.
harmony organic milk tastes fresher, sweeter and creamier than  conventional brands and we invite you to come in and taste the difference  yourself!
at culinarium™ we offer a range of organic, natural, artisanal and / or sustainably produced products.
the cows graze on lush pastures in season and exercise  outdoors daily in winter.
both contain beneficial microorganisms, probiotics and nutrients.
speaking of butter…we carry several butters for your  spreadable, breadable pleasure… local dairy crafts a tangy, cultured butter in small  batches with cream from local dairies and cheese makers using a family recipe  more than 3 generations old.
i’m in big trouble …”!