we love it  and cannot compare it to the store bought kind.
he feels the current organic standards are set way too low, and i agree.
it comes in many different  flavors
(double what we pay at the farm)
just one cup of hemp milk a day provides you with more nutrients and omegas that any other milk product out there!
i wish i could just start a  milk farm for people in our area!!
if nothing else, i guess if they don’t like it, it will cut them back on wanting it.
reply nikki nov 13, 2008 at 1:58 pm # our family has been an “organic family” ever since i found out  that i was pregnant and now that our little guy is 16 months old we are still  living as organically as possible.
is it okay to  freeze it in glass?
i would drink it all the time if i could!reply lindsay, have you actually made the almond milk from your link above?
reply gretchen nov 13, 2008 at 10:48 am # my family also lives some distance from where we get our raw milk.
coconut milk works great for making homemade kefir (for all your soaking needs), in smoothies, baking and the like.
reply lindsay nov 14, 2008 at 10:22 pm # the raw cream naturally rises to the top as it sits in the fridge, but mine  comes in a gallon size glass jar.
lindsay edmonds is first a lover of jesus, wife, mother of three,  homemaker, and writer.
further reading: stephanie at keeper of the home wrote a great post on evaluating the best diary options for your family, comparing organic, raw, rice, nut, coconut and other varieties of milk.
do you buy raw that are actually still viable, and do you know any specific brands which are genuinely raw or falsely raw for that matter, so i can sort out good and bad possibilities.
there are no  laws to prohibit what one does with their own cow and it’s milk (nor  should there ever be!).
we could label it as being for pet consumption, or we could have all our friends who are interested in buying raw milk actually buy the cow.
how do you successfully separate the cream from the milk when it’s in a gallon jug?reply
i am convinced that organic milk can only be slightly better than conventional milk.
any help?reply i would recommend reading this article.
sometimes i use it  to make ice cream, butter and the like.
we could label it as being for  pet consumption, or we could have all our friends who are interested in buying  raw milk actually buy the cow.
weston price addresses the questionhere as follows: q. is it okay to freeze raw milk?
moses was 12 months old when i started him on cow’s milk and he got two  ear infections that first month when he started drinking it.
thank you for your post, i have never given raw milk and thought.
that farmer may have good intentions but you cannot be absolutely sure.
i can’t stand the taste of goat’s milk.
it that  doesn’t work, you may want to use it to make cultured products (as in  kefir, yogurt, etc).
it is wonderful, as i can’t digest pasteurized milk properly.
quite eye opening to the history and production of soy milk and other soy products.
one way to keep organic milk cheaper, though, is to buy it on clearance if  you plan to culture it anyways.
raw milk can save money for many because it has multiple uses – you can make homemade butter, yogurt, kefir, and the like.
i have almonds so i think i  will give that a try too.
i personally recommend raw milk, and if you’re in  ca.
this milk was significantly cheaper than organic milk so it was a good option.
my son drinks organic soy milk with dha in it because i have  always been a research hound
i would like to suggest a more radical alternative to milk.
my family had been looking in to buying a cow for a while now, and the one thing that is really holding us back is that we would apparently have to throw away a lot of milk since we could never consume as much milk in a week as a cow produces in a day and it is illegal to sell it.
our family tends to buy organic/ free-range products mainly because they are better for the environment and the the animal’s have a happier life.
preganant and nursing women especially should avoid this as well as young children.
i’m so thankful for raw milk, and you bring up a very good point about the debate between “organic” milk and “raw” milk.
he is planning on establishing the legal protection of a cow-share program this winter, which i happily anticipate, although not the increase in pricing due to his legal expenses.
i wouldn’t trust buying unpasteurized milk off base, but i have found some shelf milk that they tolerate somewhat well.
cloth diapering: is it worth it?
when it isn’t in the budget i make my own “milk” from rice, oats, or coconut.
if for no other reason  than i don’t want my daughters getting the hormones that they keep  injecting into these cows (as well as other things.)
he was born with mspi.
most people with milk allergies do not have problems with cultured products.
though i can get raw cow’s milk for $5 a gallon, it’s pretty far away- at least 30 miles if not more one way to pick it up.
are the health benefits greater for humans when the milk in unprocessed?
but i’d rather go without in other areas and know that i’m helping farmers who care about being good stewards to our beautiful earth and it’s animals.
we have a group of 6 families that take  turns on the route.
though i can get raw cow’s milk  for $5 a gallon, it’s pretty far away- at least 30 miles if not more one  way to pick it up.
my other concern (although kind of silly) is that i am super picky about the taste of mu milk.
i follow the recipes at spunky coconut and/or  elana’s pantry, both great blogs.
secondly, scripture commands us to obey our civil  authorities, except of course where the laws contradict god’s word.
but i’m really hoping the raw milk will be affordable because i do believe it is much healthier.
i have a few questions about the cows milk though.
i wouldn’t trust buying unpasteurized  milk off base, but i have found some shelf milk that they tolerate somewhat  well.
but i’m  really hoping the raw milk will be affordable because i do believe it is much  healthier.
i was under the impression that the problem  might arise for them if they actually sold the milk to you.
soy milk is highly indigestible.
coconut milk – try kimi’s coconut milk tonic for everyday drinking or in recipes.
i will never go back personally!
as  for organic milk, that’s pretty important to me, if raw milk would be too  expensive, i will continue to at least buy the organic.
i have a few questions about the cows milk  though.
i’m not  a milk drinker at all, my girls and husband like it
here is one quote: high levels of phytic acid in soy reduce assimilation of calcium, magnesium, copper, iron and zinc.
have a great day lindsay!
here is a good list:http://altmedangel.com/milkcomp.htm i drink  it too, and honestly can’t say that i’d ever drink cow’s milk  again.
god bless you!reply i am totally on board with you here.
but it’s soy and dairy free…and really delicious (though pricey)!reply we have been buying raw milk from a certified organic dairy farmer 15miles away.
reply jessica nov 14, 2008 at 3:11 pm # i am totally on board with you here.
it seems that many people are assuming that the word “organic” on milk containers means healthy.
i’ve been wanting to do this for a while, but the distance from a source has prohibited me from looking into it much.
i envy you living in an area where it is legal for farmers to distribute raw milk.
i just read an article  about this in a vegan life magazine and wow is it all disturbing.
i believe this is just a personal decision we each must make and research.
i understand the difficulty of not being able to get raw milk.
i really like making homemade almond milk, but haven’t done it in awhile.
but, now that gas is less, i want to start back on the raw milk.
reply leah may 09, 2009 at 8:31 am # hi lindsay, what do you personally drink – raw cow’s milk or  raw goat’s milk?
as to the taste of raw milk, it is simply delicious!
website notify me of followup comments via e-mail categories
he is a christian man and making his best effort to serve my family along with others.
both conventional and organic milk are pasteurized (most are ultra-pasteurized), and homogenized, and present far more of a serious concern.
we belong to an association where we own part of the cow and in our state, we can drink raw milk from our own cows.
38 responses to “organic milk: is it worth it?”
the group works together to take care of  the needs of the cows and we pay the farmer monthly rent for her pastures.
she loves inspiring women around the world toward simple, natural, and intentional living for the glory of god.
reply lindsay nov 13, 2008 at 11:00 am # that is exactly what we have done.
you can find the living harvest hemp milk at large grocery stores such as fred meyer and most health stores like new seasons and whole foods.
my family had been looking in to buying a cow for a while now, and the one  thing that is really holding us back is that we would apparently have to throw  away a lot of milk since we could never consume as much milk in a week as a cow  produces in a day and it is illegal to sell it.
(milk/soy protein intolerance) and until the switch to raw milk could not  ingest any milk or soy products!
rachel jun 16, 2011 at 10:48 pm # very good post.
coconut milk contains amounts of coconut oil in it, which has wonderful anti-fungal, anti-bacterial, anti-cancer and thyroid and weight loss benefits.
as for organic milk, that’s pretty important to me, if raw milk would be too expensive, i will continue to at least buy the organic.
reply lindsay nov 13, 2008 at 11:03 am # i am so sorry to hear of your difficulties in getting raw milk.
i have not made the almond milk myself, but rather have friends that recommended the recipe to me.
anyways, i immediately switched to goat’s milk and he’s never  had another ear infections.
we belong to an association where we own part of the cow and in our state, we  can drink raw milk from our own cows.
we feel good  about this decision, and that we are well within the boundaries of obeying our  authorities and yet still doing the best we can for our family.
it will last well in your freezer or fridge.
i love the fact  that i know exactly where my milk comes from and that the cows are out on  pasture to their hearts content every day.
i hope this helps p.s.
i can’t stand the taste of  goat’s milk.
we are not in a position to have  our own cow so that is not an option.
unless you choose your brands carefully, many dairy farms are doing the least bit possible to meet these requirements, as the requirements are very vague in the first place (read more about thishere and here).
quite eye opening to the history  and production of soy milk and other soy products.
my bro-in-law worked on a dairy,  and said on any given day, at least 1/4 of the cows received a shot so that  they’d reach quotas.
reply ann nov 19, 2008 at 9:41 pm # my son and daughter (4 and 2) seem to have trouble with milk.
raw milk is the way to go!reply hi, i have been buying organic 2% milk for my husband and i, and occasionally soy milk for myself (he refuses to drink it lol) because we are trying to get pregnant and i read about the benefits of the estrogen in soy milk.
suzy ~ reply rebecca nov 13, 2008 at 4:06 am # while i applaud your efforts to learn more about the food you feed to your  family, i cannot agree with you on the benefits of raw milk.
we have also froze our milk and cream (to save for the winter months when the cows are not producing) and have had no problems with it.
despite what a lot of people may think, hemp milk does not contain thc  which is what it found in hemp’s “cousin” plant, cannibus.
i  haven’t checked out the price, but i’m hoping i can try it out.
yes, i have read about the confusion over “raw” almonds.
reply my family also lives some distance from where we get our raw milk.
so  i don’t by it frequently.
they stress that cows milk is for cows.
it can be more expensive
we have gone raw for almost a year now and it is simply wonderful, though there  was a time of adjustment to the difference in taste.
thanksreply hi sarahmichelle, why dont you offer to buy a share of the cow.
one way to keep organic milk cheaper, though, is to buy it on clearance if you plan to culture it anyways.
unlike almond milk, you don’t need to strain it.
we never drink this milk  straight, but only use it for cultured products, and i still feel good about  spending a little extra on the organic for even small benefits.
sometimes i use it to make ice cream, butter and the like.
just out of curiosity, what on earth does raw milk taste like (compared to processed milke that is)?
i strongly recommend using hemp products on an  everyday basis.
i believe this is just a personal decision we each  must make and research.
we did enjoy the fresh butter though.
just check the labels.
we feel good about this decision, and that we are well within the boundaries of obeying our authorities and yet still doing the best we can for our family.
phytic acid in soy is not neutralized by ordinary preparation methods such as soaking, sprouting and long, slow cooking.
unless you have your own cow and know for yourself about the hygenic methods used to milk it and store it you cannot be certain it will not harm you and your children.
kefir is so  important to us that i hate to mess with it.
i ended up buying milk at the  store too, so it seemed kind of pointless.
one company that has been recommended to me isd & s ranches.
though i don’t feel that organic regulations  are nearly stringent enough (they are so vague, aren’t they?), they are  still better than conventional in most cases.
though i don’t feel that organic regulations are nearly stringent enough (they are so vague, aren’t they?), they are still better than conventional in most cases.
suzy ~ while i applaud your efforts to learn more about the food you feed to your family, i cannot agree with you on the benefits of raw milk.
goat’s milk is supposed to be the best as far as nutrition and better for  you than cow’s milk but the flavor is very different and many do not like  it.
my husband is in the military  and we are now living in okinawa.
if you have a different container from which you can’t skim as i mentioned, i would try transferring it to a gallon jar and then allow it to sit for awhile in the fridge and then skim as described.
yes, it is perfectly save to freeze raw milk.
we have gotten around this by  being a part of a cow share, where we are part owners and are paying the farmer  a maintenance fee to care for and milk the cow on our behalf.
they use to have no problem until they got the flu last year.
it works great if the milk is a bit of a distance.
a great topic that needs to be talked about more!
i really hope to make the switch soon.
he loves it, and he is  able to tolerate it!
we have gone raw for almost a year now and it is simply wonderful, though there was a time of adjustment to the difference in taste.
all retail almonds are now treated, either with heat or more commonly chemicals, but they can still be labeled as raw – craziness!
do you know if freezing would ruin the milk or the nutrients?
soaking methods for the dairy intolerant « homemade  baked beans post author this post was written by lindsay who has written 945 posts on passionate  homemaking.
evidence shows that store-bought milk is actually more harmful than raw.
i also like goat’s milk for it’s other benefits.
finding a local source to purchase raw milk straight from the cow or goat are the best alternatives.
i have almonds so i think i will give that a try too.
so i may be  preaching to the choir, but i would just encourage the consumption of raw  almonds if making your own milk.
if you cannot come by raw milk, choose coconut milk or homemade nut milk.
thank you for this post, i really enjoyed  it!
they are one of my primary snack foods, and my  oldest daughter loves them.
as for organic, i do still feel that if raw milk is unavailable or very unaffordable, it’s a better choice than conventional milk to be used for making yogurt, kefir, etc.
i researched raw milk, and wanted to try it, since he rejected all the substitutes.
i have been fortunate to find a little health food store about two minutes  from my house that carries organic whole milk that is low-heat pasteurized and  is not homogenized, so for now that is what we are buying.
there is a farmer in ontario who sold “shares” in his cow and then distributed the milk to the “owners” but he is currently being prosecuted for his actions, so they are ensuring that there is no way to get around the law.
reply lindsay nov 15, 2008 at 8:30 pm # i have not made the almond milk myself, but rather have friends that  recommended the recipe to me.
currently, nothing is being done to more clearly define and uphold these standards.
reply suzy nov 13, 2008 at 4:51 am # i have just found your blog and have really enjoyed reading your thoughful  posts!
even  better is talking to the owner, realizing that his heart is providing healthy  milk from healthy cows that are grass fed & pastured as much as wisconsin  weather permits.
reply stephanie @ keeper of the home nov 14, 2008 at 8:14 am # thanks for this, lindsay!
reply we went raw almost a year ago and have never looked back!
reply lindsay may 11, 2009 at 1:50 pm # we drink raw cow’s milk.
this milk was  significantly cheaper than organic milk so it was a good option.
sometimes i get a gallon of cows milk from the store (which my husband and i  drink) and i let it go to waste merely because the taste is not good.
evidence shows that store-bought milk is actually more harmful  than raw.
like i mentioned above to nikki, raw milk is simply delicious!
and i found that many people say that cows milk in  general is not very good for humans.
the pasteurized vs. raw milk debate: what you need to know this post was written by lindsay who has written 945 posts on passionate homemaking.
one last thing, we also supplement with rice milk and almond milk, but i recently read something disturbing about almonds in the u.s. they must be pasteurized and are done so by three processes: steam, radiation and chemicals.
usually  his reaction to milk and soy products would be immediate, between 12 and 24  hours.
this really is a great topic to bring up.
thanks kim aug 19, 2009 at 5:48 am # hi sarahmichelle, why dont you offer to buy a share of the cow.
if for no other reason than i don’t want my daughters getting the hormones that they keep injecting into these cows (as well as other things.)
do we want that stuff in  our milk?
there is a farmer in ontario who sold  “shares” in his cow and then distributed the milk to the  “owners” but he is currently being prosecuted for his actions, so  they are ensuring that there is no way to get around the law.
we just choose to use minimal milk until we can get to the farm, and never buy  organic milk at the store.
we have a group of 6 families that take turns on the route.
reply melissa nov 13, 2008 at 11:53 am # lindsay, have you actually made the almond milk from your link above?
creme fraiche didn’t work out either.
in christ, rebecca thanks for your concern.
are the health  benefits greater for humans when the milk in unprocessed?
reply jeny nov 23, 2008 at 8:22 pm # i really loved this post – enough to delurk and leave a comment!
nikki reply lindsay nov 14, 2008 at 12:07 am # a lot of the disadvantages you mentioned of cow’s milk are due to the  pasteurization and homogenization process.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
although i do want to support the organic farming industry, i think there are currently far better options… raw milk!
whole foods is a carrier of two different brands!reply interesting post on milk…it’s amazing how many opinions there are out there on milk.
major confusions between organic and healthy – article by dr. mercola addressing some of the desceptions of the organic industry.
luckily you can get around this by buying direct from growers.
there is a local organic farm that sells raw milk that i have  purchased.
although the talk is often of the concerns about growth hormones added to conventional milk (which i think may illegal in all milk in the us now, according to the food, inc.documentary), i believe the greater concern is the antibiotics given to the cows (they don’t stop milking them if there’s infection, just put them on antibiotics) as well as oxytocin (given to increase supply to reach quotas), bloodmeal/ground up bones to keep their iron high due to excessive milking, etc.
i was wondering if anyone had any opinion on soymilk – good or bad – for us.
we only drive to get our milk (and theirs)one time a month and  have our milk delivered to us the other weeks.
so i don’t by it frequently.
where i live i can only get organic milk if it  is ultra-pasteurized, which is truly not worth the exorbitant price charged.
reply i have just found your blog and have really enjoyed reading your thoughful posts!
it would be more efficient for me to buy raw milk in bulk, since i would have  to travel about 90 miles to purchase raw milk.
my other concern  (although kind of silly) is that i am super picky about the taste of mu milk.
reply lindsay sep 30, 2009 at 2:17 pm # i would recommend reading this article.
reply lindsay nov 14, 2008 at 12:13 am # like i mentioned above to nikki, raw milk is simply delicious!
we love it and cannot compare it to the store bought kind.
it took a month before i got drinkable kefir, after putting them back in storebought milk.
at least with buying locally and knowing my farmers (not only with milk but with our produce), i can be assured of their right practices far better than any store bought and mass produced item.
reply click here to cancel reply.
reply thanks, ladies; this is encouraging.
i was under the impression that the problem might arise for them if they actually sold the milk to you.
lindsay edmonds is first a lover of jesus, wife, mother of three, homemaker, and writer.
to those who are educated about the hemp product you will know that this plant has been used since the beginning of man and to many is truly considered a miracle plant.
that meant i had to cut those things from my diet because he was receiving those allergens thorough my breast milk.
i had no idea cow’s milk was linked to causing ear infections.
what i read was that the proteins can not be absorbed into our system and many of the nutrients are lost making cows milk just another beverage.
i simply use a measuring cup to skim it out.
sometimes i get a gallon of cows milk from the store (which my husband and i drink)
nikki a lot of the disadvantages you mentioned of cow’s milk are due to the pasteurization and homogenization process.
the  manufacturer is not obligated to disclose which method they use.
homogenized milk has been linked to heart disease.
first of all i hesitate to put our friends at risk in that way – there could be significant consequences for them if they get caught.
we are not in a position to have our own cow so that is not an option.
reply lindsey, i just started reading your website today and i love it!
i strongly recommend using hemp products on an everyday basis.
it that doesn’t work, you may want to use it to make cultured products (as in kefir, yogurt, etc).
the raw cream naturally rises to the top as it sits in the fridge, but mine comes in a gallon size glass jar.
is it okay to freeze it in glass?
also, what do you do with the cream you skim off the  top?
they would pay weekly or monthly to be part owner of the cow and, naturally as owner, get some of the milk.
i really loved this post – enough to delurk and leave a comment!
reply shannon nov 13, 2008 at 6:25 am # for those of us who live an hour or more from a raw milk source, can you  freeze this milk?
i was sure there had to be a farm  somewhere, but didn’t know where.
that way you could own say 1% of the cow and since you own part of it, you could enjoy the milk legally.
i have never had any.
to  those who are educated about the hemp product you will know that this plant has  been used since the beginning of man and to many is truly considered a miracle  plant.
you can freeze it in glass if the container is open and not completely full, although plastic is safer from a breakage standpoint.
when life is really hectic, and i can’t make it to the farm during the window of time to buy milk, we do purchase regular milk from the store.
that would  be very difficult and frustrating at the same time.
there is a local organic farm that sells raw milk that i have purchased.
in christ, reply lindsay nov 13, 2008 at 8:27 am # thanks for your concern.
you can find the living harvest hemp milk  at large grocery stores such as fred meyer and most health stores like new  seasons and whole foods.
for a recipe, visithere.
they use to  have no problem until they got the flu last year.
but i’d rather go without in other  areas and know that i’m helping farmers who care about being good  stewards to our beautiful earth and it’s animals.
i’m just wondering if they would  still like it.
it is a  struggle for us because we firmly believe that not only is raw milk better, but  that conventional milk is actually harmful.
i hope this does not come across as anything other than concern.
(double what we pay at the farm) reply alison nov 13, 2008 at 8:53 am # i envy you living in an area where it is legal for farmers to distribute  raw milk.
raw is definitely a different story.
so i may be preaching to the choir, but i would just encourage the consumption of raw almonds if making your own milk.
yes it is fine to freeze milk–even the enzymes are preserved.
he is a  christian man and making his best effort to serve my family along with others.
in the spring when the  pastures are new and the cows have just freshened, it is grassy tasting and  what i describe as hormonal.
i have heard that pasteurized conventional milk can cause milk allergies.
then the other day i passed by our  whole foods and they had a big sign saying they carried raw milk now.
this has only happened 2 or 3 times now.
you  can freeze it in glass if the container is open and not completely full,  although plastic is safer from a breakage standpoint.
i personally know and trust my milk farmer.
website notify me of followup comments via e-mail © 2010 passionatehomemaking.com
i also live  in canada, where it cannot be bought or sold.
high phytate diets have caused growth problems in children.
i will never go back personally!reply our family has been an “organic family” ever since i found out that i was pregnant and now that our little guy is 16 months old we are still living as organically as possible.
it may affect the texture
they are one of my primary snack foods, and my oldest daughter loves them.
i am  on of the milkers and can attest to the great care taken in cleanliness (at  least on our farm) and if the farmer wants to be able to say the milk is  organic, there are strict guidelines that must be followed.
it would be worth a try to put them on unpasteurized milk for awhile.
do you buy raw that are  actually still viable, and do you know any specific brands which are genuinely  raw or falsely raw for that matter, so i can sort out good and bad  possibilities.
reply sarahmichelle nov 13, 2008 at 10:49 am #
you may be interested in reading a few articles published by weston price foundation (authors of the book nourishing traditions) and their discussion on the health concerns of soy.
here in georgia, our benevolent government has taken it upon itself to decided that the freedom of choosing what your family eats and drinks should not be given to the people since we are obviously too stupid to take care of ourselves.
it sounds as if your friend is willing to just give it to you?
i  bought milk from a local dairy that never used growth hormones.
i follow the recipes at spunky coconut and/or elana’s pantry, both great blogs.
i hope this does  not come across as anything other than concern.
we have gotten around this by being a part of a cow share, where we are part owners and are paying the farmer a maintenance fee to care for and milk the cow on our behalf.
i have done plenty of research and found a lot of great information about the benefits of raw milk (as well as the dangers of soy).
the option of low-heat and non-homogenized milk is a great alternative.
how do you successfully  separate the cream from the milk when it’s in a gallon jug?
almond milk - this would be another good option using soaked almonds, although more time consuming.
http://www.milksucks.com/babyear.asp http://www.whfoods.com/genpage.php?tname=foodspice&dbid=131 these are just a few websites if you’re interested.
if nothing else, i guess if they don’t like it, it will  cut them back on wanting it.
she is the editor of passionate homemaking since its  beginning four years ago.
when my son was two weeks old i noticed a lot of digestive problems and through elimination discovered he had a sensitivity to cow’s milk and soy.
reply ivonne nov 14, 2008 at 9:58 am # hi sarahmichelle, i also live in canada and was wondering what brand is  that you get that is low heat pasteurized.
that way you could own say 1%  of the cow and since you own part of it, you could enjoy the milk legally.
prior to my son being born
my son and daughter (4 and 2) seem to have trouble with milk.
in the spring when the pastures are new and the cows have just freshened, it is grassy tasting and what i describe as hormonal.
desserts: nutritiously delicious!
it is a sacrifice of time and finances as the farm is a 50 mile round trip, but i too believe it is worth it for my children.
then the other day i passed by our whole foods and they had a big sign saying they carried raw milk now.
as for organic, i do still feel that if raw milk is unavailable or very  unaffordable, it’s a better choice than conventional milk to be used for  making yogurt, kefir, etc.
by lindsay on nov 13, 2008 in health & nutrition, recipes & kitchen tips “organic” labeled milk is becoming a huge rage!
but  it’s soy and dairy free…and really delicious (though pricey)!
the question  is, just how long is it until the make the above methods illegal, too?
when gas was high, i stopped buying it and bought the best i  could, which is organic pasteurized and homogenized milk.
unfortunately, it is impossible to grow all of own food if i were to only trust  myself as you suggest, sometimes it does take a step of faith, but we have  never had issues with our milk, and i have been drinking it through two  pregnancies.
i don’t always skim the cream off.
the  option of low-heat and non-homogenized milk is a great alternative.
knowing where your food is coming from is far greater security than just picking up a container labeled “organic”.
store bought rice milk & almond milk are both high in phytates and thus not very good options.
better to have little raw milk than substitute with any conventional milk.
it is a totally different experience.
goat’s milk is supposed to be the best as far as nutrition and better for you than cow’s milk but the flavor is very different and many do not like it.
reply deanna nov 13, 2008 at 7:45 pm # i have been thinking about raw milk and wanting to try it out, but i  didn’t know where to get it near us.
for store-bought milk, i also wanted to recommend so delicious’ new  coconut milk, which is coconut milk that is intended to be consumed as a dairy  sub like soy milk (it’s found near the refrigerated soy milk).
i had no idea  cow’s milk was linked to causing ear infections.
they would pay weekly or monthly to be part  owner of the cow and, naturally as owner, get some of the milk.
reply rachael nov 16, 2008 at 8:50 pm # i switched to raw milk for my 18 month old son.
i have been fortunate to find a little health food store about two minutes from my house that carries organic whole milk that is low-heat pasteurized and is not homogenized, so for now that is what we are buying.
usually his reaction to milk and soy products would be immediate, between 12 and 24 hours.
this is just another suggestion.
does my desire to protect my families health give me the right to break the law?
thanks!reply we drink raw cow’s milk.
yes, it may very well be better for the environment, and a means of taking better care of the animals, but are the health claims correct?
organic milk: getting what you paid for?
that farmer  may have good intentions but you cannot be absolutely sure.
i’m not a milk drinker at all, my girls and husband like it
all retail almonds are now treated, either with heat  or more commonly chemicals, but they can still be labeled as raw –  craziness!
i personally recommend raw milk, and if you’re in ca.
they must be pasteurized  and are done so by three processes: steam, radiation and chemicals.
this is  very hard to find around here.
for those of us who live an hour or more from a raw milk source, can you freeze this milk?
it would be more efficient for me to buy raw milk in bulk, since i would have to travel about 90 miles to purchase raw milk.
i’m so thankful for raw milk, and you bring up a  very good point about the debate between “organic” milk and  “raw” milk.
i too would be interested in knowing about the taste.
despite what a lot of people may think, hemp milk does not contain thc which is what it found in hemp’s “cousin” plant, cannibus.
actually, there are ways around this law.
i’ve found alot of articles talking  about required pasteurization and that almonds are being sold as  “raw” but have been flash pasteurized.
kefir is so important to us that i hate to mess with it.
i also do this with clearance raw milk whenever i’m down in washington!reply i have been thinking about raw milk and wanting to try it out, but i didn’t know where to get it near us.
our family tends to buy organic/ free-range products mainly because  they are better for the environment and the the animal’s have a happier  life.
most people with milk allergies do not have problems with  cultured products.
you cannot trust anyone other than yourself (if you have your own cow) to milk that cow and store that mild hygenically every time.
and i use it on oatmeal, but that’s pretty much it for me.
when it isn’t in the budget i make my own  “milk” from rice, oats, or coconut.
preganant and nursing women especially should avoid this as well as young  children.
anyways, i immediately switched to goat’s milk and he’s never had another ear infections.
reply brittney nov 13, 2008 at 3:35 pm # just out of curiosity, what on earth does raw milk taste like (compared to  processed milke that is)?
i’m just wondering if they would still like it.
reply becky nov 13, 2008 at 4:34 pm # this really is a great topic to bring up.
reply donielle @ raising peanuts nov 13, 2008 at 5:37 am # we went raw almost a year ago and have never looked back!
reply thanks for this, lindsay!
he encourages you to stop wasting your money on organic milk and choose raw milk!
does anyone think that unpasteurized milk might be the answer to this problem or once a milk allergy always a milk
i am on of the milkers and can attest to the great care taken in cleanliness (at least on our farm) and if the farmer wants to be able to say the milk is organic, there are strict guidelines that must be followed.
raw milk is the way to go!
i’ve been wanting to do this for a while, but the distance from a  source has prohibited me from looking into it much.
while goats milk is more easily digested by humans, there are still so many great benefits in raw cows milk, as have been very well addressed in others’ comments.
http://www.milksucks.com/babyear.asp http://www.naturalnews.com/000930.html http://www.whfoods.com/genpage.php?tname=foodspice&dbid=131 these are just a few websites if you’re interested.
reply ~m jun 19, 2009 at 7:34 pm # have you ever made cashew milk (requires soaking)?
i also like goat’s milk for it’s other  benefits.
reply gojigirl nov 13, 2008 at 10:38 am # we have been buying raw milk from a certified organic dairy farmer 15miles  away.
and i let it go to waste merely because the taste is not good.
i haven’t checked out the price, but i’m hoping i can try it out.
i’ve tried coconut milk, and i’m working my way around to  almond milk, but hubby is going to be a lot slower than i am to conform.
it results in a very  creamy “milk.”
what i read was that the proteins can not  be absorbed into our system and many of the nutrients are lost making cows milk  just another beverage.
although the talk is often of the concerns about growth  hormones added to conventional milk (which i think may illegal in all milk in  the us now, according to the food, inc.documentary), i believe the greater  concern is the antibiotics given to the cows (they don’t stop milking  them if there’s infection, just put them on antibiotics) as well as  oxytocin (given to increase supply to reach quotas), bloodmeal/ground up bones  to keep their iron high due to excessive milking, etc.
for store-bought milk, i also wanted to recommend so delicious’ new coconut milk, which is coconut milk that is intended to be consumed as a dairy sub like soy milk (it’s found near the refrigerated soy milk).
i am curious about your almonds.
this is very hard to find around here.
i just read an article about this in a vegan life magazine and wow is it all disturbing.
when gas was high, i stopped buying it and bought the best i could, which is organic pasteurized and homogenized milk.
i was  wondering if anyone had any opinion on soymilk – good or bad – for  us.
oxytocin for our boys to grow up on?
we only drive to get our milk (and theirs)one time a month and have our milk delivered to us the other weeks.
unfortunately, it is impossible to grow all of own food if i were to only trust myself as you suggest, sometimes it does take a step of faith, but we have never had issues with our milk, and i have been drinking it through two pregnancies.
i understand that much of the taste comes from the cows diet but does unprocessed milk taste much different than processed?
phytic acid in soy is not neutralized by  ordinary preparation methods such as soaking, sprouting and long, slow cooking.
here in canada it is illegal to sell or distribute raw milk because it is  “dangerous”, though of course cigarettes are apparently safe  because you can buy them.
here is one quote: high levels of phytic acid in soy reduce assimilation of calcium,  magnesium, copper, iron and zinc.
homogenization is a process that breaks down butterfat globules so they do not rise to the top.
unless you have  your own cow and know for yourself about the hygenic methods used to milk it  and store it you cannot be certain it will not harm you and your children.
moses was 12 months old when i started him on cow’s milk and he got two ear infections that first month when he started drinking it.
reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
at least with buying locally and knowing my farmers (not only with  milk but with our produce), i can be assured of their right practices far  better than any store bought and mass produced item.
reply lindsay nov 21, 2008 at 8:22 am # i have heard that pasteurized conventional milk can cause milk allergies.
my husband and i are always trying to find new ways to live more naturally especially when it comes to eating.
i try to buy organic milk for my  daugthers and i’m always looking for better options healthwise.
reply i switched to raw milk for my 18 month old son.
reply anna feb 03, 2009 at 2:25 pm # lindsey, i just started reading your website today and i love it!
reply lindsay nov 13, 2008 at 8:29 am #
weston price addresses the  questionhere as follows: q. is it okay to freeze raw milk?
we just choose to use minimal milk until we can get to the farm, and never buy organic milk at the store.
reply hi lindsay, what do you personally drink – raw cow’s milk or raw goat’s milk?
also, what do you do with the cream you skim off the top?
since being on the  raw milk, i have seen a great improvement in my allergies!
i  understand that much of the taste comes from the cows diet but does unprocessed  milk taste much different than processed?
you may be interested in reading a few articles published by weston price  foundation (authors of the book nourishing traditions) and their discussion on  the health concerns of soy.
according to real milk: pasteurization destroys enzymes, diminishes vitamin content, denatures fragile milk proteins, destroys vitamins c, b12 and b6, kills beneficial bacteria, promotes pathogens and is associated with allergies, increased tooth decay, colic in infants, growth problems in children, osteoporosis, arthritis, heart disease and cancer.
reply shannon nov 13, 2008 at 11:34 am # thanks, ladies; this is encouraging.
anyways, just thought i’d share.
my bro-in-law worked on a dairy, and said on any given day, at least 1/4 of the cows received a shot so that they’d reach quotas.
reply lauren sep 30, 2009 at 7:43 am # hi, i have been buying organic 2% milk for my husband and i, and occasionally  soy milk for myself (he refuses to drink it lol) because we are trying to get  pregnant
you cannot trust anyone other than yourself (if you have your own  cow) to milk that cow and store that mild hygenically every time.
just one cup of hemp milk a day provides you with more nutrients and  omegas that any other milk product out there!
while goats milk is  more easily digested by humans, there are still so many great benefits in raw  cows milk, as have been very well addressed in others’ comments.
it takes so much more  rich, creamy and flavorful than store bought.
the question is, just how long is it until the make the above methods illegal, too?reply here in canada it is illegal to sell or distribute raw milk because it is “dangerous”, though of course cigarettes are apparently safe because you can buy them.
thank you for this post, i really enjoyed it!
my son drinks organic soy milk with dha in it because i have always been a research hound
i’ve tried coconut milk, and i’m working my way around to almond milk, but hubby is going to be a lot slower than i am to conform.
it comes in many different flavors and i love them all.
i’ve found alot of articles talking about required pasteurization and that almonds are being sold as “raw” but have been flash pasteurized.
secondly, scripture commands us to obey our civil authorities, except of course where the laws contradict god’s word.
that would be very difficult and frustrating at the same time.
i really like making homemade almond milk, but haven’t done it in  awhile.
here is a good list:http://altmedangel.com/milkcomp.htm i drink it too, and honestly can’t say that i’d ever drink cow’s milk again.
he loves it, and he is able to tolerate it!
we have friends who have a cow and they are willing to let us have raw milk, however i question whether, as a christian, it would be right to take it.
reply candice nov 15, 2008 at 12:38 am # interesting post on milk…it’s amazing how many opinions there  are out there on milk.
reply that is exactly what we have done.
it may affect the texture somewhat
what’s the better option?
the new york times recently noted that “organic milk” essentially means“it comes from a cow whose milk production was not prompted by an artificial growth hormone, whose feed was not grown with pesticides and which had ‘access to pasture,’ a term so vague it could mean that a cow might spend most of its milk-producing life confined to a feed lot eating grain and not grass.”
i wish i could just start a milk farm for people in our area!!reply
does anyone think that unpasteurized milk might be the answer to this  problem or once a milk allergy always a milk allergy?
first of all i hesitate to put  our friends at risk in that way – there could be significant consequences  for them if they get caught.
i am so sorry to hear of your difficulties in getting raw milk.
it took a month before  i got drinkable kefir, after putting them back in storebought milk.
yes, i have read about the confusion over  “raw” almonds.
unlike almond milk, you don’t  need to strain it.
i personally have become a fan of goat’s milk.
it is a sacrifice of time and finances as the  farm is a 50 mile round trip, but i too believe it is worth it for my children.
i love the fact that i know exactly where my milk comes from and that the cows are out on pasture to their hearts content every day.
(milk/soy protein intolerance) and until the switch to raw milk could not ingest any milk or soy products!
but with raw milk he has had no adverse effects!
but it will not ruin any of the nutrients.
my  husband and i are always trying to find new ways to live more naturally  especially when it comes to eating.
the manufacturer is not obligated to disclose which method they use.
and i use it on oatmeal,  but that’s pretty much it for me.
i greatly appreciated her thorough coverage of the topic.
the word “organic” includes a doubled price tag, so it is worthy to consider.
but, now that gas is  less, i want to start back on the raw milk.
since being on the raw milk, i have seen a great improvement in my allergies!
where i live i can only get organic milk if it is ultra-pasteurized, which is truly not worth the exorbitant price charged.
have you ever made cashew milk (requires soaking)?
the group works together to take care of the needs of the cows and we pay the farmer monthly rent for her pastures.
one  last thing, we also supplement with rice milk and almond milk, but i recently  read something disturbing about almonds in the u.s.
i also live in canada, where it cannot be bought or sold.
and i read about the benefits of the estrogen in soy milk.
this milk is free from any pasteurization or homogenization.
we have friends who have a cow and they  are willing to let us have raw milk, however i question whether, as a  christian, it would be right to take it.
there are no laws to prohibit what one does with their own cow and it’s milk (nor should there ever be!).
she is the editor of passionate homemaking since its beginning four years ago.
it is a totally different  experience.
i have done plenty of research and found a  lot of great information about the benefits of raw milk (as well as the dangers  of soy).
if you cannot afford raw milk (prices vary greatly from state to state), buy in smaller quantities and cut back in other areas.
it results in a very creamy “milk.”
i researched raw milk, and wanted to try it,  since he rejected all the substitutes.
my husband is in the military and we are now living in okinawa.
if you have a different container from which you can’t skim as i  mentioned, i would try transferring it to a gallon jar and then allow it to sit  for awhile in the fridge and then skim as described.
however, my kefir grains did not like the raw milk.
i  also do this with clearance raw milk whenever i’m down in washington!
we did enjoy the fresh butter  though.
it is a struggle for us because we firmly believe that not only is raw milk better, but that conventional milk is actually harmful.
we never drink this milk straight, but only use it for cultured products, and i still feel good about spending a little extra on the organic for even small benefits.
when my  son was two weeks old i noticed a lot of digestive problems and through  elimination discovered he had a sensitivity to cow’s milk and soy.
we have cut expenses by rotating picking up our milk along with other family members and friends.
do we want that stuff in our milk?
i was sure there had to be a farm somewhere, but didn’t know where.
whole foods is a carrier of two different brands!
even better is talking to the owner, realizing that his heart is providing healthy milk from healthy cows that are grass fed & pastured as much as wisconsin weather permits.
she loves inspiring women around the world toward  simple, natural, and intentional living for the glory of god.
he is planning on establishing the legal protection of a cow-share  program this winter, which i happily anticipate, although not the increase in  pricing due to his legal expenses.
does  my desire to protect my families health give me the right to break the law?
sometimes i don’t communicate too well.
that  meant i had to cut those things from my diet because he was receiving those  allergens thorough my breast milk.
he feels the current organic standards are set way too low,
he hasn’t had any issues with raw milk but it is expensive
we have  cut expenses by rotating picking up our milk along with other family members  and friends.
we have also froze our milk and cream (to save for the winter months when  the cows are not producing) and have had no problems with it.
here in georgia, our benevolent government has taken it upon itself  to decided that the freedom of choosing what your family eats and drinks should  not be given to the people since we are obviously too stupid to take care of  ourselves.
it takes so much more rich, creamy and flavorful than store bought.
i would drink it all the time if i could!
i try to buy organic milk for my daugthers and i’m always looking for better options healthwise.
reply hi sarahmichelle, i also live in canada and was wondering what brand is that you get that is low heat pasteurized.
sometimes i don’t  communicate too well.
and i found that many people say that cows milk in general is not very good for humans.
when life is really hectic, and i  can’t make it to the farm during the window of time to buy milk, we do  purchase regular milk from the store.
i ended up buying milk at the store too, so it seemed kind of pointless.
prior to my son being born i bought milk from a local dairy that never used growth hormones.
it sounds as if your friend  is willing to just give it to you?