even if your body doesn't object to cow milk outright, goat milk could still be better for you.
its flavor differs somewhat from cow butter, which will be most apparent in preparations such as cookies.
don't suppose you know of a good source for that?
finding goat dairy products related entries
good, fresh  goat milk is sweet and mild, with no off flavors — not all that different  from cow milk.
i think identifying good goat cheese just takes experimentation and exploration to find the folks who do it right close to you.
i initially believed that pasteurization made the biggest difference,  because the worst milk i've tasted has been pasteurized.
in my area, it dwindles  during the fall and winter while the does are in the last months of pregnancy.
two other factors are often cited to explain strong flavors: keeping bucks (males) with the does, and pasteurizing the milk.
recipe liberally adapted from the accidental scientist's fudge  recipe.
milk: a taste of the barnyard?
you want to get it to the point that it's almost fudge, but  transfer it just before it's there.
i've  included the recipe below.
i think redwood hill is fine, but i stick with the flavored varieties or  stir in a spoon full of honey, since it's a bit too sharp for me.
i've seen other goat butter available for ordering  online, though i haven't tried it.
two flavors in particular stand out: deep chocolate and strawberry darling, which has a swirl of balsamic vinegar.
i'm spoiled by the plain yogurt from port madison farm and when it's  seasonally unavailable i resort toredwood hill farm yogurt from the california  dairy.
both are thin enough to pour over your muesli.
-- when i read elanor'sresolution to go goat in  2008, i felt inspired to offer tips for finding great-tasting goat dairy  products.
ice cream speaking of ice cream, laloo's goat milk ice cream is delicious.
whatever you're making, you can likely substitute goat dairy for cow with no adaptation, unless your recipe calls for cream, in which case substituting butter or milk or a mixture of the two can sometimes work.
goat milk, like cow milk, has both, but in a structure and an amount that makes it easier for our overly sensitive bodies to digest.
in seattle, i've found milk from two sources:rainhaven dairy  andst.
insert a candy thermometer, without touching it to the bottom.
my favorite milk has come  from raw dairies.
i'm considering trying to make butter myself using instructions from mother earth news, which say you don't need a separator.
the separating equipment is costly, prohibitively so  for most small farms.
fudgemaking is a holiday tradition in my family, and though as a result of our allergies i can no longer make it like my dad does and my grandma did with cow cream, peanut butter, and readily-available chocolate (most varieties have soy lecithin), i have adapted a recipe using goat butter, goat milk, chocolate without soy, etc.
(i don't know of any thick goat yogurts, but if thick is your thing, i enthusiastically recommend another non-cow brand:woodstock water buffalo -- soon to be vermont spoondance creamery -- especially the vermont honey flavor.
even if your body doesn't object to cow milk outright, goat milk could  still be better for you.
whatever you're making, you can likely substitute goat dairy for cow with  no adaptation, unless your recipe calls for cream, in which case substituting  butter or milk or a mixture of the two can sometimes work.
both are thin  enough to pour over your muesli.
if you're truly switching to goat dairy and giving up cow, at some point  goat dairy products will seem normal and cow dairy unusual.
(i don't know of any thick goat yogurts, but if thick is your thing, i  enthusiastically recommend another non-cow brand:woodstock water buffalo --  soon to be vermont spoondance creamery --  especially the vermont honey  flavor.
cooking ice cream may be your best goat-dairy  discovery, unless you have some of my fudge.
don't let this get too far along, or you will get grainy fudge, or worse, fudge stuck in your pot.
i've seen other goat butter available for ordering online, though i haven't tried it.
by jenni p. @ 4:00 pm on 8  january 2008.
this is the part of fudgemaking  where experience, rather than instruction, is the best guide.
since bucks tend to be smelly — peeing on your own face will do that — they've been blamed for poor-tasting milk.
-- but she's not allowed to bring goat cheese that she's made, or anything else.
don't let this get too far along, or you will get grainy fudge, or worse, fudge  stuck in your pot.
goat milk has the unfortunate reputation of tasting "goaty," but  if the milk you're drinking has that taste, something is wrong.
goat butter and cream meyenberg's butter, on the other hand, is excellent.
cheese finding goat cheese is my favorite part of exploring goat dairy products.
once it reaches soft ball, remove it gently from the heat and allow it to cool undisturbed until it reaches 110f. i've found this step to take about 2 hours.
i do remember its packaging has a hipper appearance than meyenberg's, with clean design and sans-serif fonts.
i do very well with sheep's milk products, but finding actual sheep's milk is nearly impossible.
by surya on march 10th, 2008 at 6:59 pm hi jenni, your "instructions" link to home-make goat butter did not work!
and i don't seem to tolerate goat's milk stuff very well.
since bucks tend to be  smelly  — peeing on your own face will do that — they've been  blamed for poor-tasting milk.
-- when i read elanor'sresolution to go goat in 2008, i felt inspired to offer tips for finding great-tasting goat dairy products.
partly because i just love cheese, and partly because good local goat cheese is relatively easy to find around seattle, though admittedly i have had some truly disgusting ones.
both taste clean and fresh.
port madison's chevre — fresh, soft goat cheese — is the best i've had, and their spring cheese, cheddar, and brie-like soft aged cheese are all enjoyable.
you do, however, need a dairy goat.
jenni's goat fudge recipe liberally adapted from the accidental scientist's fudge recipe.
the distinctive tart taste of goat yogurt and some goat cheese is what i think "goaty"should mean — this is the good kind of goaty.
since goats have provided almost all of our dairy for the last year or so  -- thank goodness for goats!
i'm spoiled by the plain yogurt from port madison farm and when it's seasonally unavailable i resort toredwood hill farm yogurt from the california dairy.
i probably should have realized this already, but i'm so glad to know what a difference fresh and local make in the taste.
while you're waiting, grease a couple of square 9-inch pans.
peek in our fridge and you'll find goat milk, goat butter, and a variety of  goat cheeses -- my daughter is allergic to casein (one of milk's proteins) and  i'm sensitive to lactose (its sugar).
you want to get it to the point that it's almost fudge, but transfer it just before it's there.
i think identifying good goat cheese just takes experimentation and  exploration to find the folks who do it right close to you.
raw dairies should also be  willing, or even eager, to share their test results.
in many applications, no one will know you've used goat dairy, though depending on what you're making the taste of the butter or cheese might shine through.
i think redwood hill is fine, but i stick with the flavored varieties or stir in a spoon full of honey, since it's a bit too sharp for me.
season be aware that if you're starting to "go  goat" in january, you may find it hard to get some goat milk products,  especially from small dairies.
fudgemaking is a holiday tradition  in my family, and though as a result of our allergies i can no longer make it  like my dad does and my grandma did with cow cream, peanut butter, and  readily-available chocolate (most varieties have soy lecithin), i have adapted  a recipe using goat butter, goat milk, chocolate without soy, etc.
i'm considering trying to make butter myself using instructions from mother  earth news, which say you don't need a separator.
good, fresh goat milk is sweet and mild, with no off flavors — not all that different from cow milk.
and if you're in this corner of the country, check out thepacific northwest cheese project, a blog about regional cheeses of all varieties.
port madison's chevre — fresh,  soft goat cheese — is the best i've had, and their spring cheese,  cheddar, and brie-like soft aged cheese are all enjoyable.
while it cooks, gently wash down the sides of the pan with a pastry brush (one that won't shed) dipped in water.
stop stirring as soon as the syrup starts to boil.
larger dairies elsewhere also see a supply drop, but they are better able to  stagger gestation so not all does are dry at once.
don't be afraid of messing with the ingredients in fudge recipes, they're pretty forgiving.
store it wrapped in waxed paper in a canister at room temperature.
its flavor  differs somewhat from cow butter, which will be most apparent in preparations  such as cookies.
let the syrup continue to cook, undisturbed, until it reaches the soft ball  stage, 235-240f.
the flavor of goat milk is susceptible to problems at any stage  of production or processing, but the most likely cause of a strong flavor is  poor handling: for example, the goats or the equipment weren't properly cleaned  or the milk wasn't cooled immediately.
i've tried only one other brand of goat butter, which has an unpleasant waxy texture, though now i can't find it to tell you which brand to avoid.
by emily h. on january 9th, 2008 at 12:17 pm thank you for this writeup!
as for estrella,  well, the sign on their cheese case says "it's all good," and that's  exactly right.
that's a  good thing, i think.
don't be afraid of messing with the ingredients in fudge recipes,  they're pretty forgiving.
cheese finding goat cheese is my favorite part of  exploring goat dairy products.
(if you know of a small dairy making butter, leave a comment to share your source).
i initially believed that pasteurization made the biggest difference, because the worst milk i've tasted has been pasteurized.
at 110f, add the vanilla and stir with a wooden spoon until it starts to set up, which might take 15 minutes or so.
peek in our fridge and you'll find goat milk, goat butter, and a variety of goat cheeses -- my daughter is allergic to casein (one of milk's proteins) and i'm sensitive to lactose (its sugar).
in many  applications, no one will know you've used goat dairy, though depending on what  you're making the taste of the butter or cheese might shine through.
by jenni p. on may 15th, 2008 at 7:52 pm hi surya, i've repaired the goat butter instructions link.
(the complete patient's david gumpert wrote about the study shortly after its publication.
but i've had excellent milk from herds that  weren't separated, and terrible milk from herds that were, so i don't buy that  explanation.
and if you're in this corner of the country, check out thepacific northwest  cheese project, a blog about regional cheeses of all varieties.
by v on january 8th, 2008 at 11:00 pm i wish there were more options than goat and cow in the usa, as i'm allergic to cow
theoretically available from  pike place market creamery, a grocery focusing on organic dairy products,  rainhaven has been inconsistently available.
finding goat dairy products
theoretically available from pike place market creamery, a grocery focusing on organic dairy products, rainhaven has been inconsistently available.
you'll work it a little more while transferring it to your pan, and it will be grainy and dull looking if you've stirred too much.
probably the most readily available goat milk in the us is from meyenberg, a california dairy with national distribution, but i don't recommend  it.
some food co-ops and other grocery stores carry goat milk, sometimes from  local sources.
though i  prefer raw milk, some of the best i've tasted -- from abackyard dairy and from a local farm  -- has been pasteurized.
while it cooks, gently wash down the sides of the pan with a pastry brush  (one that won't shed) dipped in water.
(you could cool and work it on a marble slab like a pro, which would reduce the cooling time and the likelihood of overworking, but i like the meditation of marathon stirring).
(if  you know of a small dairy making butter, leave a comment to share your source).
if you're looking for goat milk, try finding a dairy you can visit or at least contact to ask about their dairying practices.
goat milk has the unfortunate reputation of tasting "goaty," but if the milk you're drinking has that taste, something is wrong.
(their cow milk cheeses are nearly irresistible, and we occasionally indulge.)
once it reaches soft ball, remove it gently from the heat and allow it to  cool undisturbed until it reaches 110f. i've found this step to take about 2  hours.
at 110f, add the vanilla and stir with a wooden spoon until it starts to  set up, which might take 15 minutes or so.
raw dairies should also be willing, or even eager, to share their test results.
kidding season starts in  december around here, so the supply of fresh products begins in a trickle again  in january, but some does birth later, and some products are aged, so spring is  when you'll really see the full variety.
port madison farm, which makes pasteurized cheeses, andestrella family creamery, which makes raw ones.
after thinking through  all the goat milk i've drunk from numerous sources, i reconsidered.
(you could cool and work it on a marble slab like a pro,  which would reduce the cooling time and the likelihood of overworking, but i  like the meditation of marathon stirring).
port madison farm, which makes pasteurized cheeses, andestrella  family creamery, which makes raw ones.
partly because i just love cheese, and partly  because good local goat cheese is relatively easy to find around seattle,  though admittedly i have had some truly disgusting ones.
i do  remember its packaging has a hipper appearance than meyenberg's, with clean  design and sans-serif fonts.
after thinking through all the goat milk i've drunk from numerous sources, i reconsidered.
a recentharvard medical study suggests that keeping cows pregnant and lactating most of the year results in worrisomely high levels of naturally occurring estrogens in modern cow's milk, whether conventional or organic.
very few dairies make butter, so you are unlikely to find it locally.
check out the comments section for discussion of the  goat milk alternative and questions about the cow milk report.)
my daughter and  i have since learned that we're allergic to other ingredients in laloo's (eggs,  soy lecithin, strawberries), but when we first switched from cow ice cream, i  discovered that i liked laloo's better.
it's fine for baking, but i think its flavor is too strong for drinking  straight or pouring over cereal.
i've included the recipe below.
12 ounces chocolate (i use origin bars from theo chocolate) 6 cups sugar 1 1/2 cups goat butter 1/2 cup goat milk 1 tablespoon corn syrup (this helps prevent grainy fudge) 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vanilla heat everything but the vanilla over medium-low, stirring until the chocolate melts and the mixture starts to boil.
it's thick enough to use it as a spread if you want to, and so  satisfyingly creamy that it's almost an ice cream substitute for this former  ice cream addict.)
this is the part of fudgemaking where experience, rather than instruction, is the best guide.
by janeen on july 4th, 2008 at 11:15 am there was a very good article in the most recent (july 2008) issue of gourmet magazine on halal.
i like the taste, but you may not.
you do, however, need a dairy  goat.
you'll notice  that the mixture changes gradually with stirring.
cream doesn't separate naturally in goat milk as it does in cow milk, in part because the fat globules are of small, uniform size, and in part because it lacks agglutinin, the protein that encourages the cream particles in cow milk to stick together.
small potatoes urban delivery was  bringing st. john's milk to my door, but repeated delivery and customer service  problems with spud convinced me to instead trek tomadison market, where it's  delivered on tuesdays.
it will start to appear less glossy, its consistency less like taffy, and it will resist your spoon more.
it's thick enough to use it as a spread if you want to, and so satisfyingly creamy that it's almost an ice cream substitute for this former ice cream addict.)
as for estrella, well, the sign on their cheese case says "it's all good," and that's exactly right.
you'll notice that the mixture changes gradually with stirring.
it is white  (as many cow butters would be, were it not for added coloring, depending on  feed and season), and it has a distinctive scent when melted.
you can also find dairies on local harvest, which lists  small and sustainable farms, andeat wild, which lists pasture-based farms.
but i've had excellent milk from herds that weren't separated, and terrible milk from herds that were, so i don't buy that explanation.
cream doesn't separate naturally in goat milk as it does in cow milk, in part  because the fat globules are of small, uniform size, and  in part because  it lacks agglutinin, the protein that encourages the cream particles in cow  milk to stick together.
the authors used a story of finding, obtaining, cooking and eating a specific goat - and its meat - "to illustrate a whole way of thinking about the act of killing animals for food, one that causes them to look at cooking in a very different light."
if you can't find a  local cheesemaker, see what's available at your cheese shop or grocery store.
it will start to appear less  glossy, its consistency less like taffy, and it will resist your spoon more.
i'll keep looking around, though...
insert a candy  thermometer, without touching it to the bottom.
it is white (as many cow butters would be, were it not for added coloring, depending on feed and season), and it has a distinctive scent when melted.
goat milk, like cow milk, has both, but  in a structure and an amount that makes it easier for our overly sensitive  bodies to digest.
probably the most readily available goat milk in the us is from meyenberg, a california dairy with national distribution, but i don't recommend it.
some food co-ops and other grocery stores carry goat milk, sometimes from local sources.
the supply is seasonal.
kidding season starts in december around here, so the supply of fresh products begins in a trickle again in january, but some does birth later, and some products are aged, so spring is when you'll really see the full variety.
if you can't find a local cheesemaker, see what's available at your cheese shop or grocery store.
in  appearance and useability it isn't that different from cow butter.
one of the vendors at the local farmers' market occasionally brings goat milk fudge that is just out of this world!
finding goat dairy products no related posts.
home  /dairy, raw milk, recipes, seattle / go goat:
season be aware that if you're starting to "go goat" in january, you may find it hard to get some goat milk products, especially from small dairies.
in seattle, i've found milk from two sources:rainhaven dairy andst.
cooking ice cream may be your best goat-dairy discovery, unless you have some of my fudge.
let the syrup continue to cook, undisturbed, until it reaches the soft ball stage, 235-240f.
ice cream speaking of ice cream, laloo's goat milk  ice cream is delicious.
home /dairy, raw milk, recipes, seattle / go goat:
(the complete patient's david gumpert wrote about the study shortly  after its publication.
you can also find dairies on local harvest, which lists small and sustainable farms, andeat wild, which lists pasture-based farms.
a google search will yield additional results not on any of those sites.
two of the three goat dairies that sell cheese at seattle farmers markets are quite good:
that's a good thing, i think.
i love, love goat's milk cheeses, and there are some yogurts i've had that i really liked, but i had all but written off goat's milk itself because i thought it was too funky.
two of the three goat dairies that sell cheese at seattle farmers markets  are quite good:
the separating equipment is costly, prohibitively so for most small farms.
in my area, it dwindles during the fall and winter while the does are in the last months of pregnancy.
i figure fresh milk from a local raw dairy should work fine.
i've tried only one other brand of goat butter, which has an unpleasant  waxy texture, though now i can't find it to tell you which brand to avoid.
the flavor of goat milk is susceptible to problems at any stage of production or processing, but the most likely cause of a strong flavor is poor handling: for example, the goats or the equipment weren't properly cleaned or the milk wasn't cooled immediately.
though i prefer raw milk, some of the best i've tasted -- from abackyard dairy and from a local farm -- has been pasteurized.
thereal milk site provides the most comprehensive list of raw milk dairies, sorted by statein the us and by countryelsewhere.
jenni's goat fudge
by jennifer (the baklava queen) on january 9th, 2008 at 4:18 am jenni, between you and elanor, i might just be inspired to try and locate some goat milk this year!
in appearance and useability it isn't that different from cow butter.
a recentharvard medical study suggests that keeping  cows pregnant and lactating most of the year results in worrisomely high levels  of naturally occurring estrogens in modern cow's milk, whether conventional or  organic.
the distinctive tart taste of goat yogurt and some goat  cheese is what i think "goaty"should mean — this is  the good kind of goaty.
you'll work it a little more while  transferring it to your pan, and it will be grainy and dull looking if you've  stirred too much.
two flavors in particular stand out: deep chocolate and  strawberry darling, which has a swirl of balsamic vinegar.
if you're looking for goat milk, try finding a dairy you can visit or at  least contact to ask about their dairying practices.
my daughter and i have since learned that we're allergic to other ingredients in laloo's (eggs, soy lecithin, strawberries), but when we first switched from cow ice cream, i discovered that i liked laloo's better.
it's fine for baking, but i think its flavor is too strong for drinking straight or pouring over cereal.
if you're truly switching to goat dairy and giving up cow, at some point goat dairy products will seem normal and cow dairy unusual.
wouldn't you know, i'd only had meyenberg's milk.
thereal milk site provides  the most comprehensive list of raw milk dairies, sorted by statein the us and  by countryelsewhere.
yogurt goat milk yogurt is probably the tangiest of goat dairy products.
small potatoes urban delivery was bringing st. john's milk to my door, but repeated delivery and customer service problems with spud convinced me to instead trek tomadison market, where it's delivered on tuesdays.
two other factors are often cited to explain strong flavors: keeping bucks  (males) with the does, and pasteurizing the milk.
yogurt goat milk yogurt is probably the tangiest of  goat dairy products.
since goats have provided almost all of our dairy for the last year or so -- thank goodness for goats!
larger dairies elsewhere also see a supply drop, but they are better able to stagger gestation so not all does are dry at once.
check out the comments section for discussion of the goat milk alternative and questions about the cow milk report.)
could you please post the instructions to make goat's butter?
a  google search will yield additional results not on any of those sites.
12 ounces chocolate (i use origin bars from theo chocolate) 6 cups sugar 1 1/2 cups goat butter 1/2 cup goat milk 1 tablespoon corn syrup (this helps prevent grainy fudge) 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vanilla heat everything but the vanilla over medium-low, stirring until the  chocolate melts and the mixture starts to boil.
my favorite milk has come from raw dairies.