much documentation exists showing the uniquely beneficial effects of those mct, medium chain fatty acids in various medical problems, disorders and diseases, such as those suffering from malabsorption syndromes chluria, steatorrhe, hyperlipoproteinemia intestinal resection, coronary bypass, premature infant feeding, childhood epilepsy, cystic fibrosis, gallstones, angcontributeto general thriftiness of children.(5) goat milk provides 13% more calcium, 25% more vit b-6, 47% more vit a, 134% more potassium and 350% more niacin than cow milk.
homogenization is a mechanical process that breaks down butterfat globules so they do not rise to the top.
vitamin c loss in pasteurization usually  exceeds 50%; loss of other water-soluble vitamins can run as high as 80%; the  wulzen or anti-stiffness factor is totally destroyed.
why is raw milk better what is homogenization lactose intolerance and goat milk what about  fat content links to info on raw milk and related subjects from the campaign for real  milkweb site , a project of the weston a. price foundation (linked with  permission) raw milk vs pasteurization - from armchair science, london (april 1938)
you need some fat in your diet, but you need to keep in mind that  too much of anything (including a good thing) can be bad for you.
by george f. w. haenlein cooperative extension dairy specialist university of delaware
that is why those who  drink pasteurized milk may suffer, nevertheless, from osteoporosis.
the fat can be more readily digested and absorbed because  lipases attack ester linkages of these fatty acids more readily than those of  longer chains (cow) and unlike cows milk, goat milk does not contain  agglutinin; as a result the fat globules in goat milk do not cluster, again  allowing the ease of digestion and absorption.(6) what about fat content?
pasteurization alters milks mineral components such as calcium, chlorine, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, sodium and sulfur as well as many trace minerals, making them less available.
butterfat is rich in short and medium chain fatty acids which protect against disease and stimulate the immune system.
info on raw milk & pasteurization contents of this page: what is pasteurization why is raw milk better what is homogenization info about goat milk lactose intolerance and goat milk what about fat content links to info on raw milk and related subjects from the campaign for real milkweb site , a project of the weston a. price foundation (linked with permission)
lipase in raw milk helps the body digest and utilize butterfat.(3) butterfat has a cortisone-like factor which is heat sensitive (destroyed by heat) that prevents stiffness in the joints.
if you find this site useful, please donate to help support it.
what is pasteurization?
i figure, why bother going to all the trouble  of raising my own goats for milk and then ruining it by killing off all the  good live things it contains and destroying the nutrients?
so they do not rise to the top.
goat milk is  more completely and easily absorbed than cows milk leaving less residue behind  in the colon where it can literally ferment and cause problems.
in milk, after pasteurization, the harmless lactic  acid bacteria survives, but if the milk is not kept cold, they multiply rapidly  and cause it to turn sour.(1)
it contains glycospingolipids which prevent intestinal distress, and conjugated linoleic acid which has strong anticancer properties.
raw milk contains beneficial  bacteria as well as lactic acids that allow these beneficial bacteria to  implant in the intestines.
goat milk contains more essential fatty acids (linoleic & archidoic acids) and higher proportion of short chain and medium chainfatty acids than cows milk.
there is some evidence that pasteurization alters lactose,  making it more readily absorbable.
if using raw milk, it must be handled correctly, everything must be  sanitary and the animals that the milk comes from should all be healthy and  happy.
if you pasteurize the milk, thus killing the good bacteria, then any bad bacteria that may manage to get into the milk will multiply and grow quickly, because pasteurized milk is the prefect medium for bacteria to grow and there is no longer any good bacteria present to fight the bad bacteria off.
goat milk provides 13% more calcium, 25% more vit b-6, 47% more vit a, 134%  more potassium and 350% more niacin than cow milk.
please visit our fias co farm's sister site: molly's herbals natural health care for animals web site designed and maintained by molly nolte (aka.
another big difference between cow and  goat milk is found that the average goat milk fat globule is about 1 1/2 to two  microns compared to cow at 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 microns another factor in ease of  digestion.
this web site contains over 300 pages of information search this site: please visit our fias co farm's sister site: molly's herbals natural health care for animals make a donation
the columbia encyclopedia, sixth edition. 2001.
vitamin c loss in pasteurization usually exceeds 50%; loss of other water-soluble vitamins can run as high as 80%; the wulzen or anti-stiffness factor is totally destroyed.
(4) raw milk has been used as a therapy in folk medicine.
copyright (c) 1997-2011 molly nolte.
goat milk is higher in chloride, copper and manganese and none of the controversial bovine growth hormone (bgh)(5) also see: goat milk- nutritional breakdown milk: comparing human, cow, goat & infant formula lactose intolerance, allergies and goat milk: goat milk, like cows milk and human milk, contain lactose, but many people (but not all) with lactose intolerance and cow milk allergies can drink goats milk.
it contains glycospingolipids which prevent intestinal  distress, and conjugated linoleic acid which has strong anticancer properties.
without them, protein and calcium are more difficult to utilize and possibly toxic.
the digestibility of goat milk can be attributed to it's casin curd, which is both softer and smaller, thus easy to digest.
it may not otherwise be reprinted or recopied, in whole or in part, in any form or medium, without expressed written permission.
what is homogenization?
i figure, why bother going to all the trouble of raising my own goats for milk and then ruining it by killing off all the good live things it contains and destroying the nutrients?
if your goats are healthy and you follow sanitary procedure, there is nothing better for you than raw milk.
heat alters milks amino acids lysine and tyrosine, making the whole complex of proteins less available; it promotes rancidity of unsaturated fatty acids and destruction of vitamins.
i use nothing but raw milk.
the milk has good bacteria which can fight off any dangerous or bad bacteria present in the milk or that may fall into the milk.
my personal opinion is raw milk produces much better cheese... cheese with body and character.
in milk, after pasteurization, the harmless lactic acid bacteria survives, but if the milk is not kept cold, they multiply rapidly and cause it to turn sour.(1)
pasteurization destroys enzymes, diminishes vitamin content, denatures  fragile milk proteins, alters vitamin b12, and vitamin b6, kills beneficial  bacteria, promotes pathogens and is associated with allergies, increased tooth  decay, colic in infants, growth problems in children, osteoporosis, arthritis,  heart disease and cancer.(2) heat alters milk’s amino acids lysine and tyrosine, making the whole  complex of proteins less available; it promotes rancidity of unsaturated fatty  acids and destruction of vitamins.
abstracts on the effect of pasteurization on the nutritional value of milk is raw milk safe for babies?
if using raw milk, it must be handled correctly, everything must be sanitary and the animals that the milk comes from should all be healthy and happy.
people who are exposed the good and bad all the time in there lives build a resistance, and when exposed to a bad bacteria, their bodies have developed the antibodies to fight it off.
the fat can be more readily digested and absorbed because lipases attack ester linkages of these fatty acids more readily than those of longer chains (cow) and unlike cows milk, goat milk does not contain agglutinin; as a result the fat globules in goat milk do not cluster, again allowing the ease of digestion and absorption.(6) what about fat content?
what is real milk web page 3)
mechanically homogenized milk has been linked to heart disease.(2)
the process is named for the french scientist  louis pasteur, who discovered in the 1860s that undesired fermentation could be  prevented in wine and beer by heating it to 135°f (57°c) for a few  minutes.
2) campaign for real milk web site a project of the weston a. price foundation -
these enzymes help the body  assimilate all bodybuilding factors, including calcium.
once heated, milk becomes rotten, with precipitated minerals that cant be absorbed (hence osteoporosis), with sugars that cant be digested (hence allergies), and with fats that are toxic.
you need some fat in your diet, but you need to keep in mind that too much of anything (including a good thing) can be bad for you.
pasteurization destroys enzymes, diminishes vitamin content, denatures fragile milk proteins, alters vitamin b12, and vitamin b6, kills beneficial bacteria, promotes pathogens and is associated with allergies, increased tooth decay, colic in infants, growth problems in children, osteoporosis, arthritis, heart disease and cancer.(2)
not all fat is bad; there are "good fats" and "bad  fats".
mechanically homogenized milk has been linked  to heart disease.(2)
if you pasteurize the milk,  thus killing the good bacteria, then any bad bacteria that may manage to get  into the milk will multiply and grow quickly, because pasteurized milk is the  prefect medium for bacteria to grow and there is no longer any good bacteria  present to fight the bad bacteria off.
also see: milk: comparing  human, cow, goat & infant formula lactose intolerance, allergies and goat milk: goat milk, like cows milk and human milk, contain lactose, but many people  (but not all) with lactose intolerance and cow milk allergies can drink goats  milk.
butterfat is rich in  short and medium chain fatty acids which protect against disease and stimulate  the immune system.
milk is pasteurized by heating it to about 145°f (63°c) for 30  min or by the "flash method" of heating to 160°f (71°c) for  15 sec, followed by rapid cooling to below 50°f (10°c), at which  temperature it is stored.
all graphics, photos and text on these pages were created by, and are the sole property of, molly nolte.
homogenization is a mechanical process that breaks down butterfat globules
this, and the fact that pasteurized milk puts an unnecessary strain on the pancreas to produce digestive enzymes, may explain why milk consumption in societies that drink pasteurized milk has been linked with diabetes.(3) pasteurization destroys all the enzymes in milk -- in fact, the test for successful pasteurization is absence of enzymes.
by sally fallon why milk pasteurization?
all other use or reproduction of this material, such as in publications oruse on other web sites is strictly prohibited.
info about goat milk: normal goat milk fat has a much higher concentration of so called medium  chain fatty acids (mct), caproic, caprylic, capric, lauric, myristic (33%)  verses cow milk fat (17%), and lower in stearic and oleic (27%) lower than cow  milk fat (45%) .
people are turning themselves into "bubble boys" never being exposed to anything, hence, when they are exposed to a bad bacteria, they get very sick.
pasteurized milk cheese can be flat.
it's gotten to the point of being dangerous because  some bacteria is good and necessary.
i believe the american public these days are way to obsessed with  "antibacterial".
more about raw milk by sally fallon - reprinted from nourishing traditions: the cookbook that challenges politically correct nutrition and the diet dictocrats , available from newtrends publishing (877) 707-1776) 4) raw milk by tom cowan, md, reprinted from the price-pottenger nutrition foundation health journalvol 21, no 2 (619) 574 7763 5) goat management:
i'm not saying raw milk has bad bacteria, actually it's the opposite.
i believe the american public these days are way to obsessed with "antibacterial".
sowing the seeds of fear by jean bullitt  darlington raw milk by dr. tom cowan why you can rely on raw cheeses by arthur cunyngham and john dennis also see: goat milk nutritional breakdown and comparison to human and  cow milk what is pasteurization?
it is because of goat milks superior digestibility.
the process is named for the french scientist louis pasteur, who discovered in the 1860s that undesired fermentation could be prevented in wine and beer by heating it to 135°f (57°c) for a few minutes.
why is raw milk better?
pasteurization alters  milk’s mineral components such as calcium, chlorine, magnesium,  phosphorus, potassium, sodium and sulfur as well as many trace minerals, making  them less available.
pasteurization is the sterilization of liquids such as milk, orange juice,  wine, and beer, as well as cheese, to destroy disease-causing and other  undesirable bacteria/organisms.
this, and the fact that pasteurized milk  puts an unnecessary strain on the pancreas to produce digestive enzymes, may  explain why milk consumption in societies that drink pasteurized milk has been  linked with diabetes.(3) pasteurization destroys all the enzymes in milk -- in fact, the test for  successful pasteurization is absence of enzymes.
lipase in  raw milk helps the body digest and utilize butterfat.(3) butterfat has a cortisone-like factor which is heat sensitive (destroyed by  heat) that prevents stiffness in the joints.
my personal opinion is raw milk produces much better cheese... cheese with  body and character.
individuals are granted the right to download a single copy of this page for archival purposes on electronic media and/or conversion into a single printed copy for personal use.
pasteurization is the sterilization of liquids such as milk, orange juice, wine, and beer, as well as cheese, to destroy disease-causing and other undesirable bacteria/organisms.
there is some evidence that pasteurization alters lactose, making it more readily absorbable.
also see: goat milk nutritional breakdown and comparison to human and cow milk
that is why those who drink pasteurized milk may suffer, nevertheless, from osteoporosis.
much documentation exists showing the uniquely beneficial  effects of those mct, medium chain fatty acids in various medical problems,  disorders and diseases, such as those suffering from malabsorption syndromes  chluria, steatorrhe, hyperlipoproteinemia intestinal resection, coronary  bypass, premature infant feeding, childhood epilepsy, cystic fibrosis,  gallstones, angcontributeto general thriftiness of children.(5)
people are turning themselves into  "bubble boys" never being exposed to anything, hence, when they are  exposed to a bad bacteria, they get very sick.
it has been used in  the pre-insulin days to treat diabetes, as well as eczema, intestinal worms,  allergies, and arthritis, all for reasons which can be understood when we  realize just what is in milk -- such as the cortisone - like factor for  allergies and eczema.(4)
the columbia encyclopedia, sixth  edition. 2001.
raw milk contains beneficial bacteria as well as lactic acids that allow these beneficial bacteria to implant in the intestines.
not all fat is bad; there are "good fats" and "bad fats".
by george f. w. haenlein cooperative  extension dairy specialist university of delaware
this is why milk from the store goes bad, turns lumpy and horrible, where raw milk (if it's around long enough) just naturally turns pleasantly sours and becomes like buttermilk.
another big difference between cow and goat milk is found that the average goat milk fat globule is about 1 1/2 to two microns compared to cow at 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 microns another factor in ease of digestion.
this site may be used as a reference (but not copied and/or plagiarized) if proper credit is provided and a web link is given.
these enzymes help the body assimilate all bodybuilding factors, including calcium.
alternatives in dairy goat product market by george f. w.  haenlein, cooperative extension dairy specialist university of delaware 6) goat management:
the  milk has good bacteria which can fight off any dangerous or bad bacteria  present in the milk or that may fall into the milk.
butterfat contains vitamins a and d needed for the assimilation of calcium  and protein in the water fraction of the milk.
more about  raw milk by sally fallon - reprinted from nourishing traditions: the  cookbook that challenges politically correct nutrition and the diet dictocrats , available from newtrends publishing (877) 707-1776) 4) raw milk by tom cowan, md, reprinted from the price-pottenger nutrition  foundation health journalvol 21, no 2 (619) 574 7763 5)
alternatives in dairy goat product market by george f. w. haenlein, cooperative extension dairy specialist university of delaware 6) goat management: why goat milk?
it's gotten to the point of being dangerous because some bacteria is good and necessary.
once heated, milk becomes rotten, with precipitated  minerals that can’t be absorbed (hence osteoporosis), with sugars that  can’t be digested (hence allergies), and with fats that are toxic.
all text written by molly nolte (aka molly smith) unless otherwise noted.
info about goat milk: normal goat milk fat has a much higher concentration of so called medium chain fatty acids (mct), caproic, caprylic, capric, lauric, myristic (33%) verses cow milk fat (17%), and lower in stearic and oleic (27%) lower than cow milk fat (45%) .
butterfat contains vitamins a and d needed for the assimilation of calcium and protein in the water fraction of the milk.
goat milk contains more essential fatty acids (linoleic &  archidoic acids) and higher proportion of short chain and medium chainfatty  acids than cows milk.
this is why milk from the store goes  bad, turns lumpy and horrible, where raw milk (if it's around long enough) just  naturally turns pleasantly sours and becomes like buttermilk.
the  digestibility of goat milk can be attributed to it's casin curd, which is both  softer and smaller, thus easy to digest.
it has been used in the pre-insulin days to treat diabetes, as well as eczema, intestinal worms, allergies, and arthritis, all for reasons which can be understood when we realize just what is in milk -- such as the cortisone - like factor for allergies and eczema.(4)
goat milk is more completely and easily absorbed than cows milk leaving less residue behind in the colon where it can literally ferment and cause problems.
2) campaign for real milk web site a project of the  weston a. price foundation -
goat milk is higher in  chloride, copper and manganese and none of the controversial bovine growth  hormone (bgh)(5)
people who are exposed the good  and bad all the time in there lives build a resistance, and when exposed to a  bad bacteria, their bodies have developed the antibodies to fight it off.
without them, protein and  calcium are more difficult to utilize and possibly toxic.
if your goats are  healthy and you follow sanitary procedure, there is nothing better for you than  raw milk.
milk is pasteurized by heating it to about 145°f (63°c) for 30 min or by the "flash method" of heating to 160°f (71°c) for 15 sec, followed by rapid cooling to below 50°f (10°c), at which temperature it is stored.