spanish and south african goats are best known for meat producing ability (e.g.the south african boer goat ), whilst indian and nubian derived goat breeds are dual-purpose meat and milk producers.
more on goat breeds for more on different types and breeds of goats see the following  reference material: pinkerton, f. (ed).
goat milk is higher in vitamin a, niacin, choline and inositol than cow milk, but it is lower in vitamin b6, b12, c and carotenoids.
digestive systems and digestion of feeds dietary requirements basic information goat is the common name for any of eight species of cloven-hoofed, horned  mammals closely related to the sheep.
the major contributor of modern goats is the bezoar goat (capra aegagrus) which is distributed from the mountains of asia minor across the middle east to sind.
goat milk casein and goat milk fat are more easily digested than that from  cow milk.
many parts of the animal are economically valuable for a variety of purposes, such as the skins for leather and the pelts for rugs and robes.
the goat's tail is short, bare underneath and usually carried upright.
see the section on tree fodder the resulting over-grazing has destroyed many tree and woodland areas which was then blamed on the goats rather than man.
dairy  goats must kid in order to give milk.
http://www.ansi.okstate.edu/breeds/ fao's dad-is: information  system for the global strategy for the management of farm animal genetic  resources (angr).http://dad.fao.org/ reproduction as with sheep, many breeds of goats are seasonal breeders (see the  discussion of seasonality and influence of photoperiod on breeding insheep).
goat milk is valued for the elderly, sick, babies, children with cow milk allergies, patients with ulcers, and even preferred for raising orphan foals or puppies.
the performance of the upgraded goats is being monitored.
it is used extensively in making  cheeses.
the most valuable angora are covered, except for the face and the legs below the knees, with long, fine, silky hair called mohair.
goat milk is valued for the elderly, sick, babies, children with cow  milk allergies, patients with ulcers, and even preferred for raising orphan  foals or puppies.
surplus goat kids are slaughtered and sold for meat.
also unlike sheep, goats easily revert to feral or wild condition given a chance, and populations of feral goats occur in many parts of the world.
one variety of  domestic goat, particularly important for its commercial value, is theangora .
the male goats have  beards, unlike sheep.
goat milk is also used to feed many other animals.
although the saanen  is potentially a high milk yielder, its adaptability has been a problem.
surplus goat kids are slaughtered  and sold for meat.
the meat goats are mainly reared in the low potential areas.
some goat breeds are dual-purpose (e.g. meat and wool).
the meat  goats are mainly reared in the low potential areas.
the major contributor of  modern goats is the bezoar goat (capra aegagrus) which is distributed  from the mountains of asia minor across the middle east to sind.
the web site maintained by thebreeds of livestock project at oklahoma state university currently provides descriptions of 102 varieties of goats.
dairy breeds all does that have produced kids should give milk, but some breeds give  more than others, and selection processes have resulted in a number of breeds  that are kept largely for milk produciton.
in the uk, feral  goats are now being used as one of a variety of ways to manage vegetation and  maintain habitats by browsing and grazing.
see the section on tree  fodder the resulting over-grazing has destroyed many tree and woodland areas which  was then blamed on the goats rather than man.
the toggenburg is the most popular dairy breed.
together with the ibex they make up the genuscapra.
goats may also be differentiated on morphological characteristics, such as hair or horn type.
for more information see: the digestive  system and digestion of feeds the dietary requirements of  goats as well as the following sections from the meat goat production and  marketing handbook: feeding programs for meat goats managing forages for meat goats the  farmers dairy goat production handbook see below improved  productivity in goats:
(online at:  http://www.clemson.edu/agronomy/goats/handbook/index.html) acharya,  r.m. (1982).sheep and goat breeds of india.
commercial or productive use:commercial or productive use: breeds are different types of livestock which man has produced, either directly by selective breeding for particular characteristics (e.g. for milk, meat, working animals or for general purpose) or indirectly by introducing them to new environments to which they have subsequently adapted.
although the saanen is potentially a high milk yielder, its adaptability has been a problem.
swiss goat breeds are the world's leaders in milk production.
the most valuable angora are covered, except for the face and  the legs below the knees, with long, fine, silky hair called mohair.
the growing demand for dairy goats within and outside kenya has prompted  us to prepare this booklet for farmers who may acquire goats from the farm  africa project in meru and need skills for rearing/keeping the goats.
it  contains smaller fat globules and as a consequence it is easier for some people  to digest and does not require homogenisation.
goat meat is produced from many goat breeds, including milk goats.
ears swiss and other european  breeds have erect ears, while pendulous, drooping, large ears characterize  indian and nubian goats.
the qualities of mohair have made it a valuable product.
the two differ in that the goat's tail is shorter and the hollow horns are long and directed upward, backward, and outward, while those of the sheep are spirally twisted.
nearer to the equator, goats come into oestrus throughout the year.
however, there are some breeds that have been selected  specifically for meat production characteristics.
writers share their project experiences with farmers.
the number of pure-bred dairy goats in kenya is very small.
the goat odour is, however, a detriment to goat keeping and milk consumption if not properly controlled.
the growing demand for dairy goats within and outside kenya has prompted us to prepare this booklet for farmers who may acquire goats from the farm africa project in meru and need skills for rearing/keeping the goats.
because of this ability to survive under harsh conditions, goats have been kept by man in numbers that are greater than some environments can sustain.
goats may also be differentiated on morphological characteristics, such as  hair or horn type.
male goats also have a characteristic strong odour that is produced particularly during the rutting season.
thekashmir goat, a small animal native to the jammu and kashmir region of india and pakistan, is the source of fine wool cashmere.
although there may be considerable overlaps between categories, these include: there are four categories: meat, wool or hair, dairy and multi-purpose.
contents:contents: ground planground plan plan for goat house: 4 does, 1 buck, 6 kids for more on farm-africa and the meru goat project, including links to additional publications © copyright 2006, nr international managers of the livestock production programme (lpp) funded by dfid
the female goat, or doe,  which has smaller horns than the male, is often called a nanny goat.
thekashmir goat,  a small animal native to the jammu and kashmir region of india and pakistan, is  the source of fine wool cashmere.
goats are able to survive on browse in situations where other livestock, cattle in particular and also sheep, cannot.
also unlike  sheep, goats easily revert to feral or wild condition given a chance, and  populations of feral goats occur in many parts of the world.
the goat is used for meat, as a milk producer, and as a beast of burden.
this perception of goats as  having a negative impact on the environment has caused widespread ecological  and political concerns related to erosion and desertification.
the  anglo-nubian has also shown poor adaptability to local conditions.
goats goat is the common name for any of eight species of cloven-hoofed, horned mammals closely related to the sheep.
writers share their project  experiences with farmers.
the breeds of livestock project.
they may also be  dehorned as kids.
goat breeds in use in kenya
dairy goats breeds the dairy goat breeds in the country include: toggenburg; alpine; saanen;  anglo-nubian and crosses and upgrades of these four breeds with local breeds.
it is used extensively in making cheeses.
many parts of the animal are economically valuable for a variety of purposes,  such as the skins for leather and the pelts for rugs and robes.
the  qualities of mohair have made it a valuable product.
in the latter case it is most likely that there has also been some degree of direct selection, even if only for those individuals that appeared to survive better than others, were easier to handle, or that best fitted the herders' or socio-cultural requirements.
this perception of goats as having a negative impact on the environment has caused widespread ecological and political concerns related to erosion and desertification.
the majority  of the dairy goats are crossbreeds and upgrades.
fat globules in goat milk are smaller than in cow milk and remain dispersed longer.
goat breeds in use in kenya meat goats breeds the main meat goat breeds include:  galla; east african; boer and crosses of these three with local goats.
in the uk, feral goats are now being used as one of a variety of ways to manage vegetation and maintain habitats by browsing and grazing.
the majority of the dairy goats are crossbreeds and upgrades.
together with the ibex they make up the  genuscapra.
they may also be dehorned as kids.
male goats also have a characteristic strong odour that  is produced particularly during the rutting season.
hence the efforts to avoid technical language.
goat remains have been found at early archaeological sites in western asia which suggests that the domestication of goats was originally between 6000 and 7000 b.c. unlike sheep, their ancestry is fairly clear.
they function in stimulating oestrus in male and female goats, improving conception.
the domestic goats (capra hircus) evolved from the bezoar goat (capra aegagrus), except for the angora, cashmere and damascus types which evolved from the markhor (capra falconeri).
all does that have produced kids should give milk, but some breeds give more than others, and selection processes have resulted in a number of breeds that are kept largely for milk produciton.
it has performed well in  terms of adaptability and milk yield.
it contains smaller fat globules and as a consequence it is easier for some people to digest and does not require homogenisation.
goats belong to the family bovidae.
the booklet has been prepared using simple language that farmers can understand.
goat milk is higher in vitamin a, niacin, choline and  inositol than cow milk, but it is lower in vitamin b6, b12, c and carotenoids.
meat breeds goat meat is produced from many goat breeds, including milk goats.
more on goat breeds for more on different types and breeds of goats see the following reference material: for more on the reproduction of goats, see the section onfor more on the reproduction of goats, see the section on as with sheep, many breeds of goats are seasonal breeders (see the discussion of seasonality and influence of photoperiod on breeding insheep).
however, there are some breeds that have been selected specifically for meat production characteristics.
department of animal science at oklahoma state university.
they function in  stimulating oestrus in male and female goats, improving conception.
horn types goats may have horns of the scimitar or corkscrew types, or be genetically hornless.
although there  may be considerable overlaps between categories, these include: commercial or productive use: there are four categories: meat, wool or hair, dairy and multi-purpose.
for more information see: as well as the following sections from the meat goat production and marketing handbook: feeding programs for meat goats managing forages for meat goats this farmers booklet on rearing dairy goats was written and prepared by farm africa to aid farmers keep and maximally benefit from dairy goats.
the goat  odour is, however, a detriment to goat keeping and milk consumption if not  properly controlled.
one variety of domestic goat, particularly important for its commercial value, is theangora .
the goat, along with sheep, were among the earliest domesticated animals.
meat goat  production and marketing handbook.
fat globules in goat milk are smaller than in cow milk and  remain dispersed longer.
there are several different ways to categorize sheep breeds.
horn types goats may have horns of the  scimitar or corkscrew types, or be genetically hornless.
however, a majority of  the current commercial breeds have been developed with one primary product in  mind, e.g. dairy.
the  web site maintained by thebreeds of livestock project at oklahoma state  university currently provides descriptions of 102 varieties of goats.
this farmers booklet on rearing dairy goats was written and prepared by  farm africa to aid farmers keep and maximally benefit from dairy goats.
meat goats breeds dairy goats breeds the dairy goat breeds in the country include: toggenburg; alpine; saanen; anglo-nubian and crosses and upgrades of these four breeds with local breeds.
pashmina goats, india, can produce high quality wool there are over 640 known breeds of goat, some of these now either extinct,  or endangered (seetable 1 in the discussion on domestic animal diversity).
because of this ability  to survive under harsh conditions, goats have been kept by man in numbers that  are greater than some environments can sustain.
the young  are called kids.
the domestic goats (capra hircus) evolved from  the bezoar goat (capra aegagrus), except for the angora, cashmere and  damascus types which evolved from the markhor (capra falconeri).
for more on the reproduction of goats, see the section on "reproductive management of the meat goat", in the meat goat  produciton and marketing handbook.
the male goats have beards, unlike sheep.
in  northern temperate zones, goats breed normally from august to february.
major scent glands are located around the horn base.
pashmina goats, india, can produce high quality wool there are over 640 known breeds of goat, some of these now either extinct, or endangered (seetable 1 in the discussion on domestic animal diversity).
however, goats  are also valued for precisely the same reasons - for example, browsing by goats  can help to reduce bush encroachment in grazing areas dominated by cattle and  sheep.
the anglo-nubian has also shown poor adaptability to local conditions.
nearer  to the equator, goats come into oestrus throughout the year.
enhancing the performance of goats through feed  supplementation and deworming by use of locally available products impact and control of disease in tethered goats: reducing the effects  of disease and enhancing the performance of smallholder goats farmers dairy goat production handbook
goat milk casein and goat milk fat are more easily digested than that from cow milk.
the  booklet has been prepared using simple language that farmers can understand.
hair types can be short haired, long haired, have  curled hair, are silky or coarse wooled.
the female goat, or doe, which has smaller horns than the male, is often called a nanny goat.
in northern temperate zones, goats breed normally from august to february.
it has performed well in terms of adaptability and milk yield.
the alpine has recently been introduced in some parts of central kenya, to help upgrade the local goats to dairy goats.
spanish and south african  goats are best known for meat producing ability (e.g.the south african boer goat ), whilst indian and nubian derived goat breeds are dual-purpose meat and milk  producers.
goat remains have been found at early archaeological sites in western asia  which suggests that the domestication of goats was originally between 6000 and  7000 b.c. unlike sheep, their ancestry is fairly clear.
goats  which produce fibre, e.g. angora, are generally not as suitable for meat  production.
feeding and nutrition goats are able to survive on browse in situations where other  livestock, cattle in particular and also sheep, cannot.
however, a majority of the current commercial breeds have been developed with one primary product in mind, e.g. dairy.
the male goat is called buck, or, colloquially, billy goat.
goat's milk compares favourably in nutritive value with cow's milk.
dairy goats must kid in order to give milk.
domesticated goats capra hircus now occur more or  less globally bezoar goat capra aegagrus found in the near  east and asia ibex capra ibex alps, siberia and nubia markhor capra falconeri central asia spanish ibex capra pyrenaica spain dagestan tur capra cylindricornis from the caucasus mountains goat breeds breeds are different types of livestock which man has produced, either  directly by selective breeding for particular characteristics (e.g. for milk,  meat, working animals or for general purpose) or indirectly by introducing them  to new environments to which they have subsequently adapted.
fibre breeds the turkish angora, asian cashmere and  the russian don goats are kept for mohair and cashmere wool production.
the main meat goat breeds include: galla; east african; boer and crosses of these three with local goats.
in the latter case  it is most likely that there has also been some degree of direct selection,  even if only for those individuals that appeared to survive better than others,  were easier to handle, or that best fitted the herders' or socio-cultural  requirements.
scientific classification goats belong to the family bovidae.
the young are called kids.
this is because they are small-framed and produce smaller litters  than other goats.
swiss goat breeds are the world's  leaders in milk production.
the two differ in that the goat's tail is  shorter and the hollow horns are long and directed upward, backward, and  outward, while those of the sheep are spirally twisted.
the alpine has recently been introduced  in some parts of central kenya, to help upgrade the local goats to dairy goats.
fao animal production and  health papers 30.
however, goats are also valued for precisely the same reasons - for example, browsing by goats can help to reduce bush encroachment in grazing areas dominated by cattle and sheep.