pre-incubation count (pic) of specific bacteria should be less than  20,000.
it is in the  farmers' direct financial interest to take advantage of this technology, which  can deliver milk from the mammary gland of goats to the cooling tank and  processing plant without ever coming in contact with barn air, with other  animals or the workers.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1984.
composition and characteristics of goat milk: review 1968 - 1979.
even better yet is the monthly somatic cell count (scc) testing of each goat in the herd under the dhia program, if the somatic cell counting is not by the coulter counter.
bacteria counts as related to sanitary practices.
the  california mastitis test (cmt), obtainable from any feed or supply dealer is an  excellent farm-side monitor, even for goats, and should be used often and  regularly on each goat and each udder half.
a quality bonus payment helps efforts in achieving and maintaining  high-quality milk.
equipment to be washed with very hot water (120 f, or higher, depending on  length of exposure) after an initial lukewarm rinse after each milking a.m. and  p.m., and final sanitizing solution before each milking; sanitizing rinses  between milking of individual animals is of advantage when disease cases occur,
the major protein in cow milk is alpha-s-1-casein, but goat milk may differ genetically by having either none ("null" type) or much ("high" type).
loewenstein, m., speck, s.j., barnhart, h.m. and frank, j.f., 1980.
also, the milk let-down effect in goats  takes only a few seconds compared to one minute in cows.
progress in sight for goat milk.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1988.
goat manure should  always be pellets and drier than cow manure, which is much higher in water  content or normally sloppy and easily soiling the flanks and udders of cows,  while goats stay normally dry and have clean flanks and udders.
no feeding of milking animals prior to milking for at least 2 hours,  especially not of feeds and forages with odors.
to safeguard quality milk production, at least 5 major parameters are routinely monitored by various agencies which have jurisdiction over the production of milk through commercial channels: these five parameters need to be at optimum or it will cost the farmer money, directly or indirectly.
j. dairy sc. 74: 3326 - 3333.
also, prevalent bacteria and pathogens  in goat udders are often of different species than in cow udders.
this in turn indicates and may explain significant differences to cow milk in digestion by infants and patients (mack, 1953), which traditionally have been explained by the "homogenized" nature of goat milk fat.
although goat milk has a higher content of the strong smelling caproic, caprylic and capric acids in its milk fat, with good milking practices they are enclosed within the fat globule membrane.
this can eliminate a whole host of environmental odors,  microbes, contaminations and assure a truly quality milk.
thus, quality production and  handling of milk is a real challenge for the goat farmer as it is for the cow  farmer.
despite a widespread absence of infrastructural organization for goat milk in the usa, more commercial successes with goat milk marketing are becoming known in recent years (loewenstein et al., 1980; kapture, 1982; haenlein, 1985; pinkerton, 1991; hankin, 1992; jackson, 1992).
a gel electrophoretic  study of caprine casein.
it seems apparent that in this area is great potential for identifying a unique importance and role for goat milk, specifically goat milk fat and probably goat milk butter, which has not received much attention at all.
according to j. c. lejaouen et al., 1981; j. r. campbell et al., 1975; s. k. kon et al., 1961.
charles c. thomas publ., springfield, illinois.
and the volumes of new  scientific data presented at four major quintannual international goat  conferences have become widely circulated.
medical research evidence for goat milk powerful justification for goat milk can come from medical needs,  especially for infants afflicted with various ailments, including cow milk  protein sensitivities.
less obvious is the relatively larger inside volume of the teat and gland cysterns.
finally, these  tests used only fore-milking samples, while it is known that the last  strippings are higher in scc.
service of khimaira farm ~ places to go!
medium-chain triglyceride feeding in premature infants: effect on calcium and magnesium absorption.
boulanger, a., grosclaude, f. and mahe, m.f., 1984.
not included in these studies were additional normal scc increases due to  advancing lactation, since only the first 6 months of lactation were tested.
dry, clean wiped udders and teats; forestripped teats.
in contrast, goat milk contains from the apocrine secretion process many non-leucocytic cell particles, that do not have dna or a nucleus as leukocytes do.
composition and characteristics of goat milk: review  1968 - 1979.
immunological relationships between cow's milk and goat's  milk.
inc., mena, arkansas, year book 1952 -  1953, 112 - 132.
this in turn indicates and may explain significant differences to cow  milk in digestion by infants and patients (mack, 1953), which traditionally  have been explained by the "homogenized" nature of goat milk fat.
***information - service of goatconnection.com - khimaira*** top  of page
research on goat milk - not wanted?
direct microscopic somatic cell count (dmscc) should be less than 300,000.
thus it is high time to include in these developments the sanitarians for establishing quality standards, and the medical profession for evidence on the medical and nutritional benefits of goat milk.
inspection and lab reports dairy lab reports provide several milk quality criteria required by local, state and federal health inspectors: 1.
practices which assure safe and wholesome quality of goat milk are based on dairy cow experiences but must be confirmed for applicability to goat husbandry, not only for microbiological safety, but also for acceptability of taste and odor, which so far has been a widespread major deterrent to public acceptance of goat milk, and therefore impedes its use in human nutrition where medical reasons indicate its value.
genetique selection evolution 16: 157 - 175.
j. dairy sc. 63: 1631 - 1648.
in older infants, the incidence of cow milk protein intolerance was approximately 20 percent (nestle, 1987).
research has established that the  scc in cow milk is indicative of, although less than equal, the number of  leukocytes in milk, which of course indicates subclinical or clinical mastitis.
it was determined that visibly normal goat milk had less numbers of pathogenic bacteria than cow milk under similar conditions.
tantibhedhyangkul, p. and hashim, s.a., 1975.
less obvious is the relatively larger  inside volume of the teat and gland cysterns.
many sources can be identified for off-flavors in cow milk and the same applies to goat milk: feeds (molasses, citrus pulp), forages (rape, rapeseed meal), weeds (onions, garlic), environmental odors (oil, gasoline, moldy rags, lime, cement, active bucks); normal physiology (early lactation colostrum, late lactation high salt contents, estrus, mastitis, sickness); improper handmilking procedures; improper equipment and handling (oxidation due to risers in milking pipelines, vacuum slips and searches, sun exposure, filthy clogged strainers and pipeline connections, unclean milking equipment, wash water not hot); slow air cooling instead of water cooling or refrigeration; variable temperature during storage, addition of warm milk to cold storage milk, transport in unrefrigerated containers, etc.
however, absolute scc numbers rose much higher in normal goat milk than expected from cow milk, which suggests that the goat udder responds to pathogens much more actively than cow udders do.
once cool, quality goat milk must be held in the 36 to 42o f range without interruption nor variation to maintain its quality and long shelf-life.
dairy goat j. 65(12): 806.
medium chain length fatty acid esters and their medical and nutritional applications.
this has led to the unfortunate application of cow milk standards by regulatory  sanitary officials to goat milk in commerce, in the absence of established  separate goat milk standards, and to the detriment of goat milk producers.
however, technology requires its own proper care and sanitary management, otherwise it will lead to oxidation, contamination, bacteria invasion, and loss of the quality of milk it was meant to assure.
thus, at various times of the year, dairy goats are all in early, or middle, or late stage of lactation, accentuating normal seasonal milk composition changes, that are related to stages of lactation, to estrus and low amounts of milk.
the public does not want safe, low-level residues in milk, but demands  zero-tolerance, totally residue-free milk.
cow's milk, soya milk and  goat's milk in a mother's diet causing eczema and diarrhoea in her breast fed  infant.
also, significant new research  station efforts in texas, california, oklahoma, georgia, alabama, florida, and  pennsylvania have been advancing new knowledge of goat milk production on the  farm, and of the physiology, biochemistry and veterinary aspects of the animal  in recent years.
revision of the somatic cell count standard for goat milk.
a preliminary nutrition study of the value of goat's milk  in the diet of children.
this is a critical question to be asked and answered by all who are trying help establish a dairy goat business and industry.
schwabe, a.d., bennett, l.r. and bowman, l.p., 1964.
valuable research information on goat milk mastitis and somatic cell counts has been published by caruolo, dulin, hinckley, lerondelle, maisi, nesbakken, park, poutrel; and judy kapture (portage, wi), adga member on the national conference on interstate milk shipments has very actively pursued the problem of somatic cell count legal thresholds.
for example, fat, protein and  somatic cells in milk normally are high in early and late lactation in cows and  in goats, while lactose is usually the opposite.
hinckley, l.s., 1991.
thus, taste quality of goat milk is directly affected by the status of udder health.
administer promptly a full series of recommended treatments to all clinical cases of mastitis.
according to j. c. lejaouen et al., 1981; j. r. campbell et al., 1975; s.  k. kon et al., 1961.
thus, only scc methods which specifically identify dna, give valid counts  of leukocytes in goat milk.
***information - service of goatconnection.com - khimaira*** top of page
goats: are they physiologically different from  other domestic food animals?
it is in the farmers' direct financial interest to take advantage of this technology, which can deliver milk from the mammary gland of goats to the cooling tank and processing plant without ever coming in contact with barn air, with other animals or the workers.
this can eliminate a whole host of environmental odors, microbes, contaminations and assure a truly quality milk.
the national mastitis council has promoted effective mastitis control programs, the so called 5-point program for reduction in somatic cell counts states: 1.
this is not possible by air cooling, only by water cooling, agitated exposure to refrigerated tank walls, and in counter-current heat exchange coolers.
cmt (california mastitis test) checking of udder  halves should be routine and can make a difference in quality control of goat  milk.
inspection and lab reports dairy lab reports provide several milk quality criteria required by local,  state and federal health inspectors: 1.
medium chain length fatty acid esters and their  medical and nutritional applications.
freezing point temperature decrease or cryoscopy (cry) in degrees c below zero must be between -0.530 and -0.550, which indicates absence of water in milk.
what then can the goat milk producer do to assure the best quality and best possible income from the sale of his milk, especially when instead of modern technology the traditional hand-milking is still practiced?
cull animals with chronic infections when they do not respond to  treatments.
their conclusions are that: quality assurance
clinical nutrition and dietetics.
low "true" somatic cell counts (neutrophil leukocytes) in milk.
these tests monitor trouble due to animals, equipment and people.
dimensions of the goat milk industry in the usa.
good procedures exist about how to best achieve acceptable milk flavor and with it production of quality milk: quality testing to monitor the concerns for quality milk production, a number of gauges and tests can be routinely used on dairy goat farms.
capric, caprylic and other mct have been used for treatment of malabsorption syndromes, intestinal disorders, coronary diseases, pre-mature infant nutrition, cystic fibrosis, gallstone problems, because of their unique metabolic abilities of providing energy and at the same time lowering, inhibiting and dissolving cholesterol deposits (schwabe et al., 1964; greenberger and skillman, 1969; kalser, 1971; tantibhedhyangkul and hashim, 1975, 1978).
in contrast, goat milk contains from the apocrine secretion process many  non-leucocytic cell particles, that do not have dna or a nucleus as leukocytes  do.
monitors of quality milk standards
the various components of milk fat, fatty acids,  differ in carbon chain length and saturation, which has nutritional and medical  significance.
and all this adds even more importance to the establishment of acceptable practices and standards for quality goat milk production, which so far has been lagging behind those for dairy cows, but which require separate establishment because of the many unique physiological and metabolic characteristics of goats compared to cows (haenlein, 1980, 1987a, 1991; hinckley, 1990; kalogridou-vassiliadou et al., 1992).
charles c. thomas publ.,  springfield, illinois.
often it is difficult to  overcome seasonal breeding and the then common late stage of lactation in all  goats, which means that at some time of the year most members of a goat herd  are in late lactation with naturally high levels of salt, solids and somatic  cell counts in their milk.
langston univ., e.(kika) de la garza inst.
all these differences might give already doubts about the validity of using  the same standards for evaluating milk of the two species.
in fact, the national u.s. dairy products judging procedures list "goaty" as one of the four odor characteristics of bad versus good milk, cheese, yoghurt, cream and butter.
octanoic acid  absorption and oxidation in humans.
research has established that the scc in cow milk is indicative of, although less than equal, the number of leukocytes in milk, which of course indicates subclinical or clinical mastitis.
inc., mena, arkansas, year book 1952 - 1953, 112 - 132.
somatic  cell counts in relation to infection status of the goat udder.
somatic cell counts as related to mastitis.
slow  air cooling instead of water cooling or refrigeration; variable temperature  during storage, addition of warm milk to cold storage milk, transport in  unrefrigerated containers, etc. good procedures exist about how to best achieve acceptable milk flavor and  with it production of quality milk: clean milking equipment, cans, strainers, pipeline, tank.
in breast-fed infants, colic was  related to the mother's consumption of cow milk (baldo, 1984; cant et al.,  1985; host et al., 1988).
also, significant new research station efforts in texas, california, oklahoma, georgia, alabama, florida, and pennsylvania have been advancing new knowledge of goat milk production on the farm, and of the physiology, biochemistry and veterinary aspects of the animal in recent years.
and i also add: don't let goats rest on concrete floors during the cold season, provide wooden slatted, false floors or warm clean bedding, or natural pasture, to keep udders from getting cold chills and infections.
the major protein in cow milk is alpha-s-1-casein, but goat milk may  differ genetically by having either none ("null" type) or much  ("high" type).
it is not risky to only dry clean goat teats and udders for the  milking of low-bacteria-count goat milk.
standard plate counts (spc) of bacteria should be less than 10,000 per  milliliter.
dip teats after each milking with an effective, approved product.
goat milk must be cooled like it is officially prescribed down to the  holding temperature range of 36 to 42o f within a short time after milking.
null types have shorter rennet coagulation time, less  resistance to heat treatment, curd firmness is weaker, ph is higher, protein  and mineral contents in milk are lower, and cheese yields are less than in high  types.
allergy to cow milk proteins.
goat milk secretion,  on the other hand, has been termed by researchers "apocrine," which  is defined as "the secretion-filled free end of a gland cell is pinched  off, leaving the nucleus and most of the cytoplasm to recover and repeat the  process.
cmt (california mastitis test) checking of udder halves should be routine and can make a difference in quality control of goat milk.
palmitic 28 26 23 63 c16:1-  palmitoleic 3 3 3 33 c18:0- stearic 6 13 7 70 c18:1- oleic 21 32 37 16 c18:2- linoleic 4 3 8 23 c18:3- linolenic and others 1 2 4 7
a double-blind study.
the most obvious difference in anatomy is that there are only two teats on  the goat udder vs. four on cow udders.
these five parameters need to be at optimum or it will cost the farmer  money, directly or indirectly.
this will then be expected to further increase the absolute levels of scc in normal goat milk above those reported in the studies so far.
an overview of problems in marketing dairy goat products in the usa.
j. dairy sc. 71: 24 -  28.
clean air in separate milking room, and clean hands and cloths when  hand-milking.
relationships between scc from cmt and fossomatic were similar for goat or cow milk.
del.,  a.s. & a.b. dairy extension bul. 105, 66 pp.
cows are bred in every month of the year, therefore their milk is always a composite of early, middle and late stage lactation.
milk composition and yield changes with mastitis, even subclinical mastitis, which has visibly normal milk but high somatic cell counts.
cull animals with chronic infections when they do not respond to treatments.
ambrosoli, r., stasio, l. di and mazzocco, p., 1988.
often it is difficult to overcome seasonal breeding and the then common late stage of lactation in all goats, which means that at some time of the year most members of a goat herd are in late lactation with naturally high levels of salt, solids and somatic cell counts in their milk.
that is why good goat udders look much more collapsed and empty after milking than cow udders.
university of delaware abstract mounting evidence indicates several basic differences in goat and cow  physiology, biochemistry, microbiology and in the composition of their milk.
physiologic considerations and clinical implications.
but this is only effective when fresh solutions are applied for each new rinse,  or if "backflushing" is part of the equipment procedure.
however,  absolute scc numbers rose much higher in normal goat milk than expected from  cow milk, which suggests that the goat udder responds to pathogens much more  actively than cow udders do.
a prospective study of cow's  milk allergy in exclusively breast-fed infants.
medium-chain triglyceride  feeding in premature infants: effect on calcium and magnesium absorption.
some components in milk, such as whey proteins, lactose, lipase,  sodium, chloride increase with mastitis, while milk fat, solids, casein,  calcium, phosphorus, potassium and cheese yield decrease.
goaty odor does not need to happen, because well produced and well handled goat milk is indistinguishable in taste and odor from quality cow milk.
it was also concluded that if cmt scores were used for legal thresholds, at  cmt-1, a misclassification of 52percent of normal goat milk would occur.
even better yet is the monthly  somatic cell count (scc) testing of each goat in the herd under the dhia  program, if the somatic cell counting is not by the coulter counter.
temperature resistant bacteria count (thc) should be less than 1,000.
introduction why goat milk?
not surprisingly, the compositional differences are also part of physiological differences in the secretion process of milk from inside the udder from the alveolar cells.
and all this adds even more importance to the establishment of acceptable  practices and standards for quality goat milk production, which so far has been  lagging behind those for dairy cows, but which require separate establishment  because of the many unique physiological and metabolic characteristics of goats  compared to cows (haenlein, 1980, 1987a, 1991; hinckley, 1990;  kalogridou-vassiliadou et al., 1992).
in: extension goat  handbook, g.f.w.haenlein and d.l.ace, ed., usda publ., washington, d.c., e 1-4. haenlein, g.f.w., 1985.
immunological relationships between cow's milk and goat's milk.
however, if we can not and do not identify and promote facts of the role, and superiority in certain instances, of goat milk in human nutrition, we will have a hard time justifying growth of the goat business as an industry next to the dairy cattle business.
rapid water cooling or refrigeration after milking.
goats, unless specially treated, breed only in early fall and are fresh only in early spring, normally.
besides that, a new scientific journal small ruminant research  has become established by the international goat association on a monthly basis  and with broad international support since 1988.
proceedings vth international conference on goats, new delhi, india, march 1 -  8, icar publ., new delhi, 2 (ii): 575 - 580.
it was also concluded that if cmt scores were used for legal thresholds, at cmt-1, a misclassification of 52percent of normal goat milk would occur.
administer promptly a full series of recommended treatments to all  clinical cases of mastitis.
medium-chain triglyceride  feeding in premature infants: effects on fat and nitrogen absorption.
callamore press, d.c.  health & co., lexington, massachusetts.
constant low milk storage temperatures, including during transportation.
freezing point temperature decrease or cryoscopy (cry) in degrees c  below zero must be between -0.530 and -0.550, which indicates absence of water  in milk.
actually, the composition of goat milk fat may be much more important than  the prevalence of large numbers of small fat globules, because it too differs  significantly from the composition of cow milk fat under average feeding  conditions (haenlein, 1992).
this  membrane is, however, more fragile in goat milkfat than in cow milkfat, is  easily broken during improper handling, insufficient cooling and repeated  rewarming, and then enzymes are liberated that can produce odors.
thus, absolute levels of scc in bulk tank goat  milk containing all milk portions, fore, middle and last, would be expected to  be higher yet than in the studies, regardless of season of year or stage of  lactation, influencing the setting of the legal threshold.
direct microscopic somatic cell count (dmscc) should be less than  300,000.
pre-incubation count (pic) of specific bacteria should be less than 20,000.
production and marketing of goat milk products.
goats: are they physiologically different from other domestic food animals?
babayan, v.k., 1981.
milk secretion is different in goats
basics of food allergy.
adulteration and pesticide residue contents.
relative buffering capacity of goat milk, cow milk, soy-based infant formulae, and commercial nonprescription antacid drugs.
polymorphism of caprine  (capra hircus) alpha-s-1 and alpha-s-2-caseins.
the public does not want safe, low-level residues in milk, but demands zero-tolerance, totally residue-free milk.
although goat milk has a higher content of the  strong smelling caproic, caprylic and capric acids in its milk fat, with good  milking practices they are enclosed within the fat globule membrane.
~ thewholegoatcatalog site map goat connection home cometothefarm khimaira farm home khimaira webhosting cometothefarm auction goat faqs online cookbook gift-wish list registry event calendar free goat banners classified ads medical assessment getyourgoats getyourgoatmilk getyourgoatcheese getyourgoatsoap getyourgoatgifts getyourgoatsupplies getyourgoatservices
biochemical differences between goat milk and cow milk goat milk proteins have many significant differences in their amino acid compositions from the milk of other mammalian species, especially in relative proportions of the various milk proteins and in their genetic polymorphisms (jenness, 1980; boulanger et al., 1984; addeo et al., 1988; ambrosoli et al., 1988).
proper feeding, ration balance, meeting nutrient and especially mineral  requirements.
a  legal threshold of 1 million scc/ml would misidentify 25percent
some components in milk, such as whey proteins, lactose, lipase, sodium, chloride increase with mastitis, while milk fat, solids, casein, calcium, phosphorus, potassium and cheese yield decrease.
it seems apparent that in this area is great potential for  identifying a unique importance and role for goat milk, specifically goat milk  fat and probably goat milk butter, which has not received much attention at  all.
a popular therapy among pediatricians is the change to vegetable protein soy-based formula; however, an estimated 20 to 50 percent of all infants with cow milk protein intolerance will also react adversely to soy proteins (lothe et al., 1982).
the important question of whether these three worldwide adopted methods and the legal threshold set by public health officials of 1 million scc/ml milk apply to cow and goat milk equally accurately and validly, despite the many mentioned differences in the physiology and composition of milk of the two species has only recently begun to be studied (haenlein, 1987a, b; hinckley, 1991; kalogridou-vassiliadou et al., 1992).
polymorphism of caprine (capra hircus) alpha-s-1 and alpha-s-2-caseins.
tantibhedhyangkul, p. and hashim, s.a., 1978.
this membrane is, however, more fragile in goat milkfat than in cow milkfat, is easily broken during improper handling, insufficient cooling and repeated rewarming, and then enzymes are liberated that can produce odors.
if milk composition is below minimum market standards, if somatic cell counts and bacteria levels indicate mastitis or unclean and improper handling, if milk is off in appearance, flavor, taste and temperature, if milk contains water or veterinary or sanitary treatment or pesticide residues or traces of toxic molds from feeds, then entire loads of milk shipment or tanks can be unsalable, can be condemned and a big financial loss to the farmer, jeopardizing even future milk sales.
treat udder halves at drying-off of goats with an approved antibiotic preparation for drying-off.
what then can the goat milk producer do to assure the best quality and best  possible income from the sale of his milk, especially when instead of modern  technology the traditional hand-milking is still practiced?
haenlein, g.f.w., 1987a.
genetique selection evolution  16: 157 - 175.
to safeguard quality milk production, at  least 5 major parameters are routinely monitored by various agencies which have  jurisdiction over the production of milk through commercial channels: nutritional constituents in milk.
technology has come to the farmers' aid and enabled great progress in  sanitary milking and milk house facilities in recent years.
quality testing to monitor the concerns for quality milk production, a number of gauges and  tests can be routinely used on dairy goat farms.
a preliminary nutrition study of the value of goat's milk in the diet of children.
null types have shorter rennet coagulation time, less resistance to heat treatment, curd firmness is weaker, ph is higher, protein and mineral contents in milk are lower, and cheese yields are less than in high types.
feed that milk to chickens, pigs or a calf.
and i also add: don't let goats rest on concrete floors during the cold  season, provide wooden slatted, false floors or warm clean bedding, or natural  pasture, to keep udders from getting cold chills and infections.
proceedings iiird international conference on goat production and disease, tucson, arizona, jan. 10 - 15, dgj publ., scottsdale, arizona, p. 63 - 67.
the various components of milk fat, fatty acids, differ in carbon chain length and saturation, which has nutritional and medical significance.
goat milk secretion, on the other hand, has been termed by researchers "apocrine," which is defined as "the secretion-filled free end of a gland cell is pinched off, leaving the nucleus and most of the cytoplasm to recover and repeat the process.
however, if we can  not and do not identify and promote facts of the role, and superiority in  certain instances, of goat milk in human nutrition, we will have a hard time  justifying growth of the goat business as an industry next to the dairy cattle  business.
easily achievable scc levels of 100 to 300,000 scc/ml in cow milk are  unusual in even high-quality managed goat herds.
proceedings international seminar on production and utilization of ewe's and goat's milk, athens, greece, sept. 23 - 25, idf bul.
pediatrics 61: 537 - 545.
comparison of milk fat  compositions in goat, cow and human milk (weight%).
proper, sufficient and steady vacuum during machinemilking.
proceedings vth international conference on goats, new delhi, india, march 1 - 8, icar publ., new delhi, 2 (ii): 575 - 580.
information from  dairy cow production and cow milk research can help in advising goat milk  producers, while research with goat milk production and handling is just  starting in the united states, more found in foreign languages or non-existing.
goat manure should always be pellets and drier than cow manure, which is much higher in water content or normally sloppy and easily soiling the flanks and udders of cows, while goats stay normally dry and have clean flanks and udders.
united caprine news, june, 34 - 35.
information from dairy cow production and cow milk research can help in advising goat milk producers, while research with goat milk production and handling is just starting in the united states, more found in foreign languages or non-existing.
research on goat milk products: a review.
dairy goat j.,  jan.-febr., 24.
flavor, taste, appearance and temperature.
cow and goat milk aren't the same - especially in somatic cell content.
" somatic cell counts equipment for monitoring somatic cell count (scc) levels in cow milk  includes the cmt applied in the barn, and electronic automated machines in  labs, the so-called coulter counter, or the fossomatic, which use different  chemical principals to achieve supposedly the same scc evaluations.
j. dairy res., 55: 413 - 421.
proceedings vth international conference on goats, new delhi, india, march 1 -  8, icar publ., new delhi, 2(ii): 599 - 603.
topics for success with dairy goats.
goat milk fat normally has 35 percent of medium chain fatty acids (c6-c14) compared to cow milk fat 17 percent (table 1), and three are named after goats:
this discussion is limited to the effects the farm producer can and will  have on the quality of milk, which is a most perishable and most fragile  product, easily affected negatively by improper feeding of the animals,  improper handling of them prior and during milking, improper handling of the  milk during and after milking including improper equipment handling, cooling  and transportation (haenlein, 1987b).
recently, the national milk producers federation joined forces with the american veterinary medical association to develop a "quality assurance protocol" plan and campaign, that should ensure freedom from drug residues in milk such as sulfamethazine, other sulfonamides, antibiotics gentamicin, erythromycin, oxytetracycline, other pesticides and even toxic mold residues, etc.
thus it is high time to include in  these developments the sanitarians for establishing quality standards, and the  medical profession for evidence on the medical and nutritional benefits of goat  milk.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1980.
valuable research information on goat milk mastitis and somatic cell counts  has been published by caruolo, dulin, hinckley, lerondelle, maisi, nesbakken,  park, poutrel; and judy kapture (portage, wi), adga member on the national  conference on interstate milk shipments has very actively pursued the problem  of somatic cell count legal thresholds.
dairy goat j.  66 (4): 243.
goat milk flavor acceptable, attractive milk odor and taste is probably the single most important quality standard of goat milk, because of a long history of widespread negative popular perception of goat milk being "goaty."
if milk composition is below minimum market  standards, if somatic cell counts and bacteria levels indicate mastitis or  unclean and improper handling, if milk is off in appearance, flavor, taste and  temperature, if milk contains water or veterinary or sanitary treatment or  pesticide residues or traces of toxic molds from feeds, then entire loads of  milk shipment or tanks can be unsalable, can be condemned and a big financial  loss to the farmer, jeopardizing even future milk sales.
many sources can be identified for off-flavors in cow milk and the same  applies to goat milk: feeds (molasses, citrus pulp), forages (rape, rapeseed  meal), weeds (onions, garlic), environmental odors (oil, gasoline, moldy rags,  lime, cement, active bucks); normal physiology (early lactation colostrum, late  lactation high salt contents, estrus, mastitis, sickness); improper handmilking  procedures; improper equipment and handling (oxidation due to risers in milking  pipelines, vacuum slips and searches, sun exposure, filthy clogged strainers  and pipeline connections, unclean milking equipment, wash water not hot);
it can be done and is being done more and more.
59: 49a - 51a. baldo, b.a., 1984.
medium chain triglycerides.
medium-chain triglyceride feeding in premature infants: effects on fat and nitrogen absorption.
this discussion is limited to the effects the farm producer can and will have on the quality of milk, which is a most perishable and most fragile product, easily affected negatively by improper feeding of the animals, improper handling of them prior and during milking, improper handling of the milk during and after milking including improper equipment handling, cooling and transportation (haenlein, 1987b).
thus, absolute levels of scc in bulk tank goat milk containing all milk portions, fore, middle and last, would be expected to be higher yet than in the studies, regardless of season of year or stage of lactation, influencing the setting of the legal threshold.
goats, unless specially treated, breed only in early fall and are  fresh only in early spring, normally.
once  cool, quality goat milk must be held in the 36 to 42o f range without  interruption nor variation to maintain its quality and long shelf-life.
del., a.s. & a.b. dairy extension bul. 105, 66 pp.
the california mastitis test (cmt), obtainable from any feed or supply dealer is an excellent farm-side monitor, even for goats, and should be used often and regularly on each goat and each udder half.
also, the milk let-down effect in goats takes only a few seconds compared to one minute in cows.
pediatrics 70: 7 - 10.
also, prevalent bacteria and pathogens in goat udders are often of different species than in cow udders.
holding temperature (tem) of the milk should be between 34 and 39  degrees f always.
holding temperature (tem) of the milk should be between 34 and 39 degrees f always.
treat udder halves at drying-off of goats with an approved antibiotic  preparation for drying-off.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1991.
despite a widespread absence of infrastructural organization for goat milk  in the usa, more commercial successes with goat milk marketing are becoming  known in recent years (loewenstein et al., 1980; kapture, 1982; haenlein, 1985;  pinkerton, 1991; hankin, 1992; jackson, 1992).
thus, quality production and handling of milk is a real challenge for the goat farmer as it is for the cow farmer.
host, a., husby, s. and osterballe, o. 1988.
cow and goat milk aren't the same - especially in  somatic cell content.
j.  dairy sc. 74: 3326 - 3333.
relative buffering capacity of goat milk, cow milk,  soy-based infant formulae, and commercial nonprescription antacid drugs.
in breast-fed infants, colic was related to the mother's consumption of cow milk (baldo, 1984; cant et al., 1985; host et al., 1988).
biochemical differences between goat milk and cow milk goat milk proteins have many significant differences in their amino acid  compositions from the milk of other mammalian species, especially in relative  proportions of the various milk proteins and in their genetic polymorphisms  (jenness, 1980; boulanger et al., 1984; addeo et al., 1988; ambrosoli et al.,  1988).
milk composition and yield changes with mastitis, even  subclinical mastitis, which has visibly normal milk but high somatic cell  counts.
the smaller,  tighter diameter of the teat sphincter and meatus of goat udders makes milking  and milking-out somewhat different.
somatic cell counts in relation to infection status of the goat udder.
use only functionally adequate milking machines, or hand-milking in the correct manner.
cow's milk formula as a  cause of infantile colic.
standard plate counts (spc) of bacteria should be less than 10,000 per milliliter.
direct microscopic count (dmc) should be less than 30,000.
technology has come to the farmers' aid and enabled great progress in sanitary milking and milk house facilities in recent years.
i add to this list: don't use milk for sale from udders with very high  somatic cell counts or high cmt.
that is why good goat udders look  much more collapsed and empty after milking than cow udders.
229-230), or another appropriate method determining dna contents.
and 35percent of bacteriologically negative, i.e. normal goat milk by the coulter counter and fossomatic methods, respectively.
j. dairy res. 59: 21 - 28.
capric, caprylic and other mct have been used for treatment of  malabsorption syndromes, intestinal disorders, coronary diseases, pre-mature  infant nutrition, cystic fibrosis, gallstone problems, because of their unique  metabolic abilities of providing energy and at the same time lowering,  inhibiting and dissolving cholesterol deposits (schwabe et al., 1964;  greenberger and skillman, 1969; kalser, 1971; tantibhedhyangkul and hashim,  1975, 1978).
swedish studies have shown that cow milk was a major  cause of colic, sometimes fatal, in 12 to 30 percent formula-fed, less than  3-month-old infants (lothe et al., 1982).
finally, these tests used only fore-milking samples, while it is known that the last strippings are higher in scc.
standards based on research with dairy cows are discriminatory to dairy goats  in many aspects and must be replaced by suitable goat milk standards.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1992.
i add to this list: don't use milk for sale from udders with very high somatic cell counts or high cmt.
comparison of milk fat compositions in goat, cow and human milk (weight%).
not included in these studies were additional normal scc increases due to advancing lactation, since only the first 6 months of lactation were tested.
seasonal reproduction, usual in this country, is another important  difference in milking goats.
the value of  goat milk in human nutrition has so far received very little factual and  academic attention (haenlein, 1984, 1988, 1992; park, 1991).
it is not risky to only dry clean goat teats and udders for the milking of low-bacteria-count goat milk.
use only functionally adequate milking machines, or hand-milking in the  correct manner.
this has led to the unfortunate application of cow milk standards by regulatory sanitary officials to goat milk in commerce, in the absence of established separate goat milk standards, and to the detriment of goat milk producers.
the most obvious difference in anatomy is that there are only two teats on the goat udder vs. four on cow udders.
this difference makes milking preparation procedures for goats potentially much easier to be sanitary.
this is not possible by air cooling, only by water cooling, agitated exposure  to refrigerated tank walls, and in counter-current heat exchange coolers.
goat milk versus cow milk.
a prospective study of cow's milk allergy in exclusively breast-fed infants.
besides their unique  flavor, which has serious consequences in improper handling of goat milk, these  medium chain fatty acids (mct) have become of considerable interest to the  medical profession, because of their unique benefits in many metabolic diseases  of humans (babayan, 1981).
socalled "total somatic cell count" is  not only unreliable, but useless and wrong for inspectors monitoring legal  thresholds of quality of goat milk.
low socalled preincubation and standard plate counts of bacteria in milk;  and low cold-resistant bacteria count in milk.
goat res., langston, ok, fact sheet no. d-01, 12 pp.
j. dairy sc. 71: 24 - 28.
greenberger, n.j. and skillman, t.g., 1969.
proceedings international seminar on production and utilization of ewe's and  goat's milk, athens, greece, sept. 23 - 25, idf bul.
goat res., langston, ok, fact sheet  no.
proceedings iiird international conference on goat production and  disease, tucson, arizona, jan. 10 - 15, dgj publ., scottsdale, arizona, p. 63 -  67.
goat milk must be cooled like it is officially prescribed down to the holding temperature range of 36 to 42o f within a short time after milking.
goaty odor does not need to happen,  because well produced and well handled goat milk is indistinguishable in taste  and odor from quality cow milk.
medical research evidence for goat milk powerful justification for goat milk can come from medical needs, especially for infants afflicted with various ailments, including cow milk protein sensitivities.
content of  alpha-s-1-casein and coagulation properties in goat milk.
a legal threshold of 1 million scc/ml would misidentify 25percent
as the milk supply from cows is more plentiful and cheaper, we have the challenge to demonstrate why there are good reasons to produce goat milk; if not, we are strictly only in the pet business.
a quality bonus payment helps efforts in achieving and maintaining high-quality milk.
socalled "total somatic cell count" is not only unreliable, but useless and wrong for inspectors monitoring legal thresholds of quality of goat milk.
enfance 9: 163 - 166.
octanoic acid absorption and oxidation in humans.
standards based on research with dairy cows are discriminatory to dairy goats in many aspects and must be replaced by suitable goat milk standards.
cow's milk formula as a cause of infantile colic.
haenlein, g.f.w., 1987b.
the national mastitis council has promoted effective mastitis control  programs, the so called 5-point program for reduction in somatic cell counts  states: 1.
actually, the composition of goat milk fat may be much more important than the prevalence of large numbers of small fat globules, because it too differs significantly from the composition of cow milk fat under average feeding conditions (haenlein, 1992).
marketing and processing goat milk and its products.
pinkerton, f., 1991.
j. pediatrics 15: 157 - 162.
this is a critical question to be asked and answered by all  who are trying help establish a dairy goat business and industry.
thus, taste quality  of goat milk is directly affected by the status of udder health.
all these differences might give already doubts about the validity of using the same standards for evaluating milk of the two species.
the only officially acceptable method to confirm high cell counts in goat  milk is the dmscc (direct microscopic somatic cell count) using the special  pyronine y-methyl green stain (standard methods/dairy products 1985, pp.
new products association needs you.
relationships  between scc from cmt and fossomatic were similar for goat or cow milk.
the value of goat milk in human nutrition has so far received very little factual and academic attention (haenlein, 1984, 1988, 1992; park, 1991).
approximately 40 percent of all patients sensitive to cow milk  proteins tolerate goat milk proteins (brenneman, 1978; zeman, 1982), possibly  because lactalbumin is immunospecific between species (hill, 1939).
swedish studies have shown that cow milk was a major cause of colic, sometimes fatal, in 12 to 30 percent formula-fed, less than 3-month-old infants (lothe et al., 1982).
caproic (c6), caprylic (c8), capric (c10), totaling 15 percent in goat milk fat versus only 5percent in cow milk fat.
quality assurance recently, the national milk producers federation joined forces with the  american veterinary medical association to develop a "quality assurance  protocol" plan and campaign, that should ensure freedom from drug residues  in milk such as sulfamethazine, other sulfonamides, antibiotics gentamicin,  erythromycin, oxytetracycline, other pesticides and even toxic mold residues,  etc.
an overview of problems in marketing dairy goat products  in the usa.
lothe, l., lindberg, t. and jacobson, i., 1982.
and 35percent  of bacteriologically negative, i.e. normal goat milk by the coulter counter and  fossomatic methods, respectively.
revision of the somatic cell count standard for goat  milk.
caproic (c6), caprylic (c8), capric (c10), totaling 15 percent in  goat milk fat versus only 5percent in cow milk fat.
dairy goat j. 66 (4): 243.
in older infants, the incidence of cow milk protein  intolerance was approximately 20 percent (nestle, 1987).
their conclusions are that: the coulter counter is not reliable for goat milk.
cow milk secretion has been termed "merocrine," which is defined as "the act of secretion leaves the cell intact."
scc levels of normal goat milk increase from spring to fall well above the  cow threshold of 1 million/ml, starting about 4 months after kidding,  coinciding with start of estrus and late stage of lactation.
thus, only scc methods which specifically identify dna, give valid counts of leukocytes in goat milk.
the fossomatic may be accurate in mid-lactation, but results need to be  confirmed with the pyronine y stain.
by george f. w. haenlein cooperative extension dairy specialist university of delaware abstract mounting evidence indicates several basic differences in goat and cow physiology, biochemistry, microbiology and in the composition of their milk.
a popular therapy among pediatricians is the change to vegetable protein  soy-based formula; however, an estimated 20 to 50 percent of all infants with  cow milk protein intolerance will also react adversely to soy proteins (lothe  et al., 1982).
as the milk supply from cows is more plentiful and cheaper, we have  the challenge to demonstrate why there are good reasons to produce goat milk;  if not, we are strictly only in the pet business.
cant, a.j., bailes, j.a. and marsden, r.a., 1985.
for example, fat, protein and somatic cells in milk normally are high in early and late lactation in cows and in goats, while lactose is usually the opposite.
brenneman, , j.c., 1978.
not surprisingly,  the compositional differences are also part of physiological differences in the  secretion process of milk from inside the udder from the alveolar cells.
besides their unique flavor, which has serious consequences in improper handling of goat milk, these medium chain fatty acids (mct) have become of considerable interest to the medical profession, because of their unique benefits in many metabolic diseases of humans (babayan, 1981).
antibiotics or growth inhibitors (abi) in milk must be negative.
pediatrics 55: 359 - 370.
role of goat meat and milk in human nutrition.
kalogridou-vassiliadou, d., manolkidis, k. and tsigoida, a., 1992.
in: extension goat handbook, g.f.w.haenlein and d.l.ace, ed., usda publ., washington, d.c., e 1-4. haenlein, g.f.w., 1985.
however, technology  requires its own proper care and sanitary management, otherwise it will lead to  oxidation, contamination, bacteria invasion, and loss of the quality of milk it  was meant to assure.
the important question of whether these three worldwide adopted methods and  the legal threshold set by public health officials of 1 million scc/ml milk  apply to cow and goat milk equally accurately and validly, despite the many  mentioned differences in the physiology and composition of milk of the two  species has only recently begun to be studied (haenlein, 1987a, b; hinckley,  1991; kalogridou-vassiliadou et al., 1992).
and the volumes of new scientific data presented at four major quintannual international goat conferences have become widely circulated.
goat milk flavor acceptable, attractive milk odor and taste is probably the single most  important quality standard of goat milk, because of a long history of  widespread negative popular perception of goat milk being "goaty."
cows are bred in every month of the year,  therefore their milk is always a composite of early, middle and late stage  lactation.
healthy and clean animals and udders.
dairy goat j., jan.-febr., 24.
it was determined that visibly normal goat milk had less numbers of  pathogenic bacteria than cow milk under similar conditions.
practices  which assure safe and wholesome quality of goat milk are based on dairy cow  experiences but must be confirmed for applicability to goat husbandry, not only  for microbiological safety, but also for acceptability of taste and odor, which  so far has been a widespread major deterrent to public acceptance of goat milk,  and therefore impedes its use in human nutrition where medical reasons indicate  its value.
united caprine  news, june, 34 - 35.
callamore press, d.c. health & co., lexington, massachusetts.
the cmt can be used as a screening test but high counts must be confirmed  with the pyronine y stain.
content of alpha-s-1-casein and coagulation properties in goat milk.
thus, at various times of the year, dairy  goats are all in early, or middle, or late stage of lactation, accentuating  normal seasonal milk composition changes, that are related to stages of  lactation, to estrus and low amounts of milk.
this will then be expected to further increase the absolute levels of scc in  normal goat milk above those reported in the studies so far.
the smaller, tighter diameter of the teat sphincter and meatus of goat udders makes milking and milking-out somewhat different.
goat milk fat normally has 35 percent of medium chain fatty acids  (c6-c14) compared to cow milk fat 17 percent (table 1), and three are named  after goats:
a gel electrophoretic study of caprine casein.
approximately 40 percent of all patients sensitive to cow milk proteins tolerate goat milk proteins (brenneman, 1978; zeman, 1982), possibly because lactalbumin is immunospecific between species (hill, 1939).
j. dairy sc. 63: 1605 - 1630.
references addeo, f., mauriello, r. and luccia, a. di, 1988.
cow's milk, soya milk and goat's milk in a mother's diet causing eczema and diarrhoea in her breast fed infant.
cow  milk secretion has been termed "merocrine," which is defined as  "the act of secretion leaves the cell intact."
proceedings vth international conference on goats, new delhi, india, march 1 - 8, icar publ., new delhi, 2(ii): 599 - 603.
this difference  makes milking preparation procedures for goats potentially much easier to be  sanitary.
besides that, a new scientific journal small ruminant research has become established by the international goat association on a monthly basis and with broad international support since 1988.
" somatic cell counts equipment for monitoring somatic cell count (scc) levels in cow milk includes the cmt applied in the barn, and electronic automated machines in labs, the so-called coulter counter, or the fossomatic, which use different chemical principals to achieve supposedly the same scc evaluations.
in  fact, the national u.s. dairy products judging procedures list  "goaty" as one of the four odor characteristics of bad versus good  milk, cheese, yoghurt, cream and butter.
seasonal reproduction, usual in this country, is another important difference in milking goats.
principal fatty acids  in milk fat goat milk fat cow milk fat human milk fat melting point of c4:0  - butyric 3 3 trace 18 c6:0 - caproic 2 1 trace 25 c8:0 - caprylic 3  1 trace 16 c10:0 - capric 10 3 2 31 c12:0- lauric 6 2 6 44 c14:0 - myristic 12 10 9 54 total medium chain (mct) acids 33 17 17 c 14:1- myristoleic 1 1 trace -