this supplement is  produced by mt. capra wholefood nutritionals, a unique company that has its own  farm (complete with free-range goats) and a separate fda-approved processing  facility).
urine ph is an indicator of dietary acid-base  load, fruit and vegetables and meat intakes: results from the european  prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition (epic)-norfolk population  study.
this means that those scfa and mcfa have a larger surface-to-volume ratio and are better digested and absorbed than the long-chain fatty acids (lcfa) prevalent in cow milk.11
discover the healing power of goat milk
readers are encouraged to consult their health care provider before beginning any cleanse, diet, detoxification program, or any supplement regimen.
lara-villoslada f, debras e,  nieto a, concha a, gálvez j, lópez-huertas e, boza j, obled c,  xaus j. oligosaccharides isolated from goat milk reduce intestinal inflammation  in a rat model of dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis.
as chiropractors, we must keep ourselves on the cutting edge of nutritional supplementation.
department of  pharmacological sciences, state university of milan, milan, italy.
last, goat milk is an alkaline powerhouse.
the comparison  of pepsin and trypsin action on goat, cow, mare and human caseins.
goat milk has a similarity to human milk that is unmatched in bovine (cow) milk, which may be at the root of goat milks healing properties.
here all books are 10% off order now!
second, goat milk contains a low level of allergy-producing substances.
furthermore, "...milk samples from women and goats were found to contain significantly higher concentrations of selenium than samples from cows.
as chiropractors, we must keep ourselves on the cutting edge of nutritional  supplementation.
rocz akad med bialymst 1995;40(3):486-93.
choose your free gift on web purchases over $200 click
adenosine triphosphate in milk.
these  prebiotics are on the cutting edge of digestive health.
department of immunology and animal sciences, puleva biotech sa, granada, spain.
third, it digests quickly and absorbs completely.
the same study went on to state, "goat milk oligosaccharides could be  included in infant formulas to improve the nutrition of infants."3
furthermore, "...milk  samples from women and goats were found to contain significantly higher  concentrations of selenium than samples from cows.
mt. capra also  supplies goat milk colostrum (capracolostrum) and probiotics (caprobiotics) for  enhanced immune and digestive support, as well as capraflex, which targets bone  and joint health.
so at the very base of the dna structure of goat milk are similarities to the dna structure of human milk.
j nutr. 2006; 136: 672-676.
in addition to the mineral whey, mt. capra offers a whole protein  supplement known as caprotein, which combines natural ratios of goat milk whey  and casein protein to stimulate lean body (muscle) growth.
these prebiotics are on the cutting edge of digestive health.
march 2007;68(1):64-72.
research shows that goat milk  has better digestibility, buffering capacity and alkalinity than cow milk.1,12  several properties testify to the superiority of goat milk.
razafindrakoto o, ravelomanana n, rasolofo a, rakotoarimanana rd, gourgue p,  coquin p, briend a. goat's milk as a substitute for cow's milk in  undernourished children: a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
physico-chemical characteristics of goat and sheep milk.
evidence points, however, to the lower allergic potential of goat milk  when compared with cow milk.4, 6, 9 one study found that nearly 93 percent  of infants suffering from cow milk allergies were able to tolerate and thrive  on goat milk.7 another animal model study concluded that "goat milk, when  used as the first source of protein after a breastfeeding period, is less  allergenic than cow milk."8
"5 low level of allergy-producing substances: perhaps one of goat milk’s most famous attributes, low  allergenicity, is vital to keeping each patient in optimum health.
a  study from the journal of dairy science examined the buffering capacity  of goat milk, cow milk, soy milk and antacid drugs.
however,the study found that goat milk  overwhelmingly exceeded the buffering capabilities of the other three samples  tested.1 another study in the journal of nutrition found that oligosaccharides (prebiotics) from goat milk very likely play a major role in  intestinal protection and repair.17
used with permission by mt. capra & american chiropractic association copyright © american chiropractic association the statements contained on these pages have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration.
now, in theory, the antacid drugs should have proven to have the best buffering capacity since their function is to reduce acid.
the comparison of pepsin and trypsin action on goat, cow, mare and human caseins.
goat milk also contains proteins that digest in a superior manner.
proceeding of the meeting intérêts nutritionnel et  diététique du lait de chèvre.
2006  jun;25(3):477-88.
goat milk is a very fragile and time-sensitive product, so mt. capra has  developed a proprietary system for gently drying the goat milk to preserve its  bioavailability.
this  means that those scfa and mcfa have a larger surface-to-volume ratio and are  better digested and absorbed than the long-chain fatty acids (lcfa) prevalent  in
an accurate way to indicate if a food is acid-forming, is to examine its buffering capacity, or rather its ability to reduce acid load.
aca news extra... health implications:
for more information on mt. capra’s products, click here.
isnt it time you started healing with goat milk?
debski b, picciano mf, milner ja.
cow milk should always be lined up as one of the usual suspects when  investigating food intolerances in patients.
daddaoua a, puerta v, requena p,  martinez-ferez a, guadix e, sanchez de medina f, zarzuelo a, suarez md, boza  jj, martinez-augustin o. goat milk oligosaccharides are anti-inflammatory in  rats with hapten-induced colitis.
prosser cg, mclaren rd, frost  d, agnew m, lowry dj.
in addition to the mineral whey, mt. capra offers a whole protein supplement known as caprotein, which combines natural ratios of goat milk whey and casein protein to stimulate lean body (muscle) growth.
by daniel  madock, dc, american chiropractic association magazine doctors of chiropractic have long been advocates of transforming health  from the inside out.
in fact, a recent study found that “levels of the  metabolically valuable short- and medium-chain fatty acids—caproic,  caprylic, capric and lauric—are significantly higher in...goat (milk) than  in cow milk.
j ped gastroenterol nutrition: october 2004; 39 (4):354-360.
for customers wishing to fax orders: please fax to 858-673-5040 and include a phone number or e-mail, so that we may confirm your order.
the information contained here is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
selenium content  and distribution of human, cow and goat milk.
restani p. goat milk allerginicity.
lara-villoslada f, olivares m, jiménez j, boza  j, xaus j. goat milk is less immunogenic than cow milk in a murine model of  atopy.
2008 mar;59(2):123-33.
the natural history of intolerance to soy and extensively hydrolyzed formula in infants with multiple food protein intolerance (mfpi).
this supplement is produced by mt. capra wholefood nutritionals, a unique company that has its own farm (complete with free-range goats) and a separate fda-approved processing facility).
research shows that goat milk has better digestibility, buffering capacity and alkalinity than cow milk.1,12 several properties testify to the superiority of goat milk.
this is important because acidic diets  often cause damage to the gastrointestinal lining.
j ped  gastroenterol nutrition: october 2004; 39 (4):354-360.
notice: "christine's cleanse corner, inc." will be listed on your credit card statement as the vendor.
now, in theory, the antacid  drugs should have proven to have the best buffering capacity since their  function is to reduce acid.
relative buffering capacity of goat milk, cow milk, soy-based infant formulas, and commercial nonprescription antacid drugs.
alkaline powerhouse: many foods cause the body to become acidic, which can lead to a host of  health issues.16
cow milk allergy isthe no. 1 allergy of children, affecting roughly 500,000 to 1.5 million children every year.6 cow milk contains more than 20 allergen proteins,4 which are not recognized by the immune system and are targeted in ways that cause a variety of symptoms.
a  study investigating the effect of pepsin and trypsin (two protein-digesting  enzymes found in the stomach) revealed that while these enzymes completely  digested over 96 percent of available goat milk protein, less than 73 percent  of available cow milk protein was able to be digested completely.13
suggestions and ideas presented in this document are for information only and should not be interpreted as medical advice, meant for diagnosing illness, or for prescriptive purposes.
urine ph is an indicator of dietary acid-base load, fruit and vegetables and meat intakes: results from the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition (epic)-norfolk population study.
christine dreher, nutritionist, herbalist, and author of "the cleanse cookbook" doctors of chiropractic have long been advocates of transforming health from the inside out.
relative buffering capacity of goat  milk, cow milk, soy-based infant formulas, and commercial nonprescription  antacid drugs.
hill dj, heine rg, cameron djs, francis de, bines je.
call toll free: 1-877-673-0224 special free gift !
second, goat milk contains a low level of  allergy-producing substances.
hives, wheezing, vomiting, abdominal  cramping, diarrhea, skin rash (commonly near and around the mouth), runny nose,  watery eyes, colic in infants and even anaphylactic shock can all be signs and  symptoms of a cow milk allergy.
it is common for  adult allergies to cause latent discomfort, pain, damage and overall lack of  wellness.
goat milk is a very fragile and time-sensitive product, so mt. capra has developed a proprietary system for gently drying the goat milk to preserve its bioavailability.
welch aa, mulligan a, bingham sa, khaw kt.
information: 858-673-0224
proceeding of the meeting intérêts nutritionnel et diététique du lait de chèvre.
while soy milk has been touted as  a safe alternative to cow milk, some studies show that those with a cow milk  allergy have a 47-percent chance of also being allergic to soy milk.10 rapid digestion and complete absorption: digestion is defined as catabolism (break-down) of food into elemental food  particles (fats, proteins, carbohydrates) in the stomach, while absorption is  the uptake of the food particles in the small intestine.
goat milk is much higher in scfa and mcfa than cow milk.
goat milk also resembles human milk in the protein structure.
as we seek to better our patients health, there is one particular healing food that has been revered for centuries: goat milk and goat-milk-derived products.
beta casein, the major casein protein found in both goat and human milk, is different from the casein found in cow milk.4 also, the peptide mappings of these alpha-lacto albumins and beta-lacto globulins in goat and human milk are completely different from those of cow milk.4 another publication found that the micelle structures of the casein between human and goat milk had a prevalence of beta casein unmatched in cow milk.13
in  addition to highly digestible protein, goat milk contains far more  digestion-friendly oligosaccharides (prebiotics).14 goat milk also has an  abundance of the energy substrate adenosine triphosphate(atp) that far exceeds  bovine milk.15 atp is the energy “currency” that our metabolism is  constantly manufacturing, used for every cellular reaction in the body.
freund g. use of  goat milk for infant feeding: experimental work at créteil (france).
int dairy j  2005;16(2):173–81.
in addition to highly digestible protein, goat milk contains far more digestion-friendly oligosaccharides (prebiotics).14 goat milk also has an abundance of the energy substrate adenosine triphosphate(atp) that far exceeds bovine milk.15 atp is the energy currency that our metabolism is constantly manufacturing, used for every cellular reaction in the body.
practitioners would be wise  to use alkalizing goat milk products to help patients with acidic gi tracts.
the same study went on to state, "goat milk oligosaccharides could be included in infant formulas to improve the nutrition of infants."3
prosser cg, mclaren rd, frost d, agnew m, lowry dj.
another study concluded, "the oligosaccharide  (prebiotic) profile of goat milk is most similar to that of human milk."3
small ruminant  research.
goat milk has better digestibility and absorption than cow milk for several reasons.1 when the physicochemical make-up of these two milks are compared, a stark difference in the amount of short-chain fatty acids (scfa) and medium-chain fatty acids (mcfa) arises.
lara-villoslada f, debras e, nieto a, concha a, gálvez j, lópez-huertas e, boza j, obled c, xaus j. oligosaccharides isolated from goat milk reduce intestinal inflammation in a rat model of dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis.
alphas1 casein is one of the main allergens in cow milk.
department of pharmacological sciences, state university of milan, milan, italy.
first, goat milk  biologically resembles human milk.
it has an entire product line devoted to wellness-enhancing products sourced from goat milk.
zulak im, patton s, hammerstedt rh.
goat milk has better  digestibility and absorption than cow milk for several reasons.1 when the  physicochemical make-up of these two milks are compared, a stark difference in  the amount of short-chain fatty acids (scfa) and medium-chain fatty acids  (mcfa) arises.
$6.95 shipping or free shipping* over $75 (*within the continental usa)
goats milk as a natural source of lactose-derived oligosaccharides: isolation by membrane technology.
adenosine  triphosphate in milk.
lara-villoslada f, olivares m, jiménez j, boza j, xaus j. goat milk is less immunogenic than cow milk in a murine model of atopy.
welch aa,  mulligan a, bingham sa, khaw kt.
composition of the non-protein nitrogen fraction of goat  whole milk powder and goat milk-based infant and follow-on formulae.
small ruminant research.
a study by the international journal of food science nutrition found that "goat milk has a very different profile of the non-protein nitrogen fraction to cow milk, with several constituents such as nucleotides (dna structure) having concentrations approaching those in human breast milk".2
daddaoua a, puerta v, requena p, martinez-ferez a, guadix e, sanchez de medina f, zarzuelo a, suarez md, boza jj, martinez-augustin o. goat milk oligosaccharides are anti-inflammatory in rats with hapten-induced colitis.
go to our book store cleanse kit special!
goat milk, like human milk, contains low levels of allergy-causingalphas1 casein and high levels of alphas2 casein, which is non-allergy-causing.
another study concluded, "the oligosaccharide (prebiotic) profile of goat milk is most similar to that of human milk."3
a study from the journal of dairy science examined the buffering capacity of goat milk, cow milk, soy milk and antacid drugs.
first, goat milk biologically resembles human milk.
practitioners would be wise to use alkalizing goat milk products to help patients with acidic gi tracts.
martinez-ferez a, rudolff s, guadix a, et al.
as we seek to better our patients’ health, there is  one particular healing food that has been revered for centuries: goat milk and  goat-milk-derived products.
selenium content and distribution of human, cow and goat milk.
isn’t it time you started healing with goat milk?
often these allergies do not manifest themselves immediately in adults.
department of immunology and animal sciences, puleva biotech sa,  granada, spain.
a study by the international journal of food science nutrition found that  "goat milk has a very different profile of the non-protein nitrogen  fraction to cow milk, with several constituents such as nucleotides (dna  structure) having concentrations approaching those in human breast milk".2
these higher levels of easy-to-digest scfa and mcfa are  broken down quicker and more completely than the lcfa abundant in cow milk.
1994 jul;94(1):65-9.
goat’s milk as a natural source of lactose-derived  oligosaccharides: isolation by membrane technology.
suggestions and ideas presented  in this document are for information only and should not be interpreted as  medical advice, meant for diagnosing illness, or for prescriptive purposes.
lara-villoslada f, olivares m, jiménez j, boza j, xaus j. goat milk  is less immunogenic than cow milk in a murine model of atopy.
j. dairy sci. 1976; 59:1388-1391.
j nutr. 1987; 117: 1091-1097.
razafindrakoto o, ravelomanana n, rasolofo a, rakotoarimanana rd, gourgue p, coquin p, briend a. goat's milk as a substitute for cow's milk in undernourished children: a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
beta  casein, the major casein protein found in both goat and human milk, is  different from the casein found in cow milk.4  also, the peptide mappings  of these alpha-lacto albumins and beta-lacto globulins in goat and human milk  are completely different from those of cow milk.4 another publication found  that the micelle structures of the casein between human and goat milk had a  prevalence of beta casein unmatched in cow milk.13
readers are encouraged to consult their health care provider before beginning  any cleanse, diet, detoxification program, or any supplement regimen.
when you buy a cleanse kit program, you get a free copy of "the cleanse cookbook" order now!
transformyourhealth.com & beyondprobiotics.net we have merged our websites to serve you better -- same great service, products, & prices christine's cleanse corner, inc., christine dreher, nutritionist, herbalist, & author whole-food vitamins & supplements, herbal therapeutics, internal cleansing, natural diet & weight loss, natural hormones & natural skin care, books, & newsletter customer service hours: mon - fri 8:00am - 5:00pm & sat 8:00am - 2:00pm pacific time.
it is common for adult allergies to cause latent discomfort, pain, damage and overall lack of wellness.
for more information on mt. capras products, click here.
the information in this document is not to be used to replace the services or instructions of a physician or qualified health care practitioner.
for the past 30 years, i have been using and recommending a goat-milk-based mineral/electrolyte supplement known ascapra mineral whey.
it has an entire product line devoted to wellness-enhancing  products sourced from goat milk.
freund g. use of goat milk for infant feeding: experimental work at créteil (france).
copyright © 1999 - 2012 christine's cleanse corner, inc. whole food vitamins whole food supplements garden of life new chapter mt.
rocz akad  med bialymst 1995;40(3):486-93.
biological resemblance to human milk: goat milk has a similarity to human milk that is unmatched in bovine  (cow) milk, which may be at the root of goat milk’s healing properties.
the challenge of cow milk protein allergy.
our price guarantee.
composition of the non-protein nitrogen fraction of goat whole milk powder and goat milk-based infant and follow-on formulae.
cow milk should always be lined up as one of the usual suspects when investigating food intolerances in patients.
an accurate way to indicate if a food is acid-forming, is to  examine its buffering capacity, or rather its ability to reduce acid load.
so at the very base of the dna structure of goat milk are similarities to the  dna structure of human milk.
the  information in this document is not to be used to replace the services or  instructions of a physician or qualified health care practitioner.
goat milk has extensive healing properties.
evidence points, however, to the lower allergic potential of goat milk when compared with cow milk.4, 6, 9 one study found that nearly 93 percent of infants suffering from cow milk allergies were able to tolerate and thrive on goat milk.7 another animal model study concluded that "goat milk, when used as the first source of protein after a breastfeeding period, is less allergenic than cow milk."8
alphas1 casein is one of the main allergens in  cow milk.
mt. capra also supplies goat milk colostrum (capracolostrum) and probiotics (caprobiotics) for enhanced immune and digestive support, as well as capraflex, which targets bone and joint health.
niort, france: inra, 1996:11921. 8.
the natural history of  intolerance to soy and extensively hydrolyzed formula in infants with multiple  food protein intolerance (mfpi).
now what? for the past 30 years, i have been using and recommending a goat-milk-based  mineral/electrolyte supplement known ascapra mineral whey.
niort, france: inra,  1996:119–21.
cow milk  allergy isthe no. 1 allergy of children, affecting roughly 500,000 to  1.5 million children every year.6 cow milk contains more than 20 allergen  proteins,4 which are not recognized by the immune system and are targeted in  ways that cause a variety of symptoms.
march  2007;68(1):64-72.
used with permission by mt. capra & american chiropractic association copyright © american chiropractic association the  statements contained on these pages have not been evaluated by the food and  drug administration.
int j food  sci nutr.
allergies to foods such as cow milk also affect adults.
march 2007;68(1):88-113.
perhaps one of goat milks most famous attributes, low allergenicity, is vital to keeping each patient in optimum health.
capra mychelle perfect weight america makers diet vitamin code primal defense water filter oceans 3 lifeshield mushrooms raw vitamins new chapter vitamins vitamin code vitamins raw enzymes immune balance beyond organic minami nutrition live beyond organic
however,the study found that goat milk overwhelmingly exceeded the buffering capabilities of the other three samples tested.1 another study in the journal of nutrition found that oligosaccharides (prebiotics) from goat milk very likely play a major role in intestinal protection and repair.17
in fact, a recent study found that levels of the metabolically valuable short- and medium-chain fatty acidscaproic, caprylic, capric and lauricare significantly higher in...goat (milk) than in cow milk.12 these higher levels of easy-to-digest scfa and mcfa are broken down quicker and more completely than the lcfa abundant in cow milk.
this is important because acidic diets often cause damage to the gastrointestinal lining.
martinez-ferez a, rudolff s, guadix a,  et al.
often these  allergies do not manifest themselves immediately in adults.
the information contained here is not intended to  diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
we will match any advertised web offer.
for more information contact: contact or info request orders toll free: 1-877-673-0224
j dairy sci 74: 3326-3333.
a study investigating the effect of pepsin and trypsin (two protein-digesting enzymes found in the stomach) revealed that while these enzymes completely digested over 96 percent of available goat milk protein, less than 73 percent of available cow milk protein was able to be digested completely.13
int dairy j 2005;16(2):17381.
2006 jun;25(3):477-88.
goat milk, like human milk, contains low levels of  allergy-causingalphas1 casein and high levels of alphas2 casein, which is  non-allergy-causing.
hives, wheezing, vomiting, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, skin rash (commonly near and around the mouth), runny nose, watery eyes, colic in infants and even anaphylactic shock can all be signs and symptoms of a cow milk allergy.
park yw, juárez m, ramos m, haenlein gfw.
while soy milk has been touted as a safe alternative to cow milk, some studies show that those with a cow milk allergy have a 47-percent chance of also being allergic to soy milk.10 digestion is defined as catabolism (break-down) of food into elemental food particles (fats, proteins, carbohydrates) in the stomach, while absorption is the uptake of the food particles in the small intestine.
many foods cause the body to become acidic, which can lead to a host of health issues.16
click here to read our "transform your  health" newsletters