a bibliography on goat milk (freund, 2000), and the proceedings of a  national colloquium on the nutritional and dietetic qualities of goat milk  (freund, 1996) have been published, but similar efforts on sheep milk are still  missing.
not to cheese produced from cow's milk.
quantitative and compositional variations of massese sheep milk by parity and stage of lactation.
caprine resources & documentation center of institut technique des produits laitiers caprins publ., surgeres, france, 78 pp.
characteristics of leccese sheep.
daily recommended patient intakes of 15  g mct (dulloo et al., 1996) could be provided by about 60 g sheep butter, but  sheep butter making may have to be reinvented.
introduction why milk sheep or even goats, when cows give much more milk and require  less maintenance and labour per animal unit?
it has not been determined, however, whether the deterioration of renneting characteristics is due primarily to the normal physiological scc increase at the end of lactation and the concurrent change in milk composition, or to subclinical and clinical mastitic conditions in the udder, which also produce high scc and changed milk composition.4.
the blended 9-months aged manchego-type cheese has become popular at the dairy store of the university of wisconsin in madison.
even normal sheep milk composition may differ between 6 and 9% for fat, 4 and 7% for protein, 17 and 21% for total solids, 4 and 6% for lactose (table 4) (dario et al., 1995; margetin, 1996;
most importantly, daily calcium requirements and those of riboflavin and 5 of  the essential 10 amino acids are completely covered by just drinking 2 cups of  sheep milk without eating anything else.
thus, why milk sheep?
composition and cheese making characteristics of 3 classes of milk from leccese (bufano et al., 1996) and manchega (diaz et al., 1996) ewes grouped by levels of somatic cell counts (scc) in their milk scctable 8.
today's consumer is much more interested in low-fat than whole milk.
aspen publ., gaithersburg, md, 587 pp.
diaz, j.r., muelas, r., segura, c., peris, c., molina, p.1996.
at  least two dozen different dairy sheep breeds are recognized, mainly in the  mediterranean area, with different genetic milk yield merits, but all  distinguished by higher milk fat and protein levels than in goat and cow milk.
30%rup 45%ruptable 6 composition in milk of manchega ewes fed either calcium soaps of palm oil fatty acids (casfa) or rumen undegradable protein (rup) during a complete lactation of 21 weeks compared to controls (casals et al., 1999) 30%rup 45%rup table 7.
nevertheless, with increasing scc it has been reported  that milk ph, whey protein, fat contents, rennet clotting time, and rate of  clot firming time rise, while lactose, casein contents, and clot firmness  decreased (table 8) (diaz et al., 1996).
cheese: a guide to the world of cheese and cheesemaking.
in: proceedings, idf seminar, production and utilization of ewe and goat milk, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, idf publ., brussels, p. 287. pirisi, a., fraghi, a., piredda, g., leone, p., barillet, f., zervas, n.p . 1999a.
many studies on cow and goat milk proteins have shown that genetic selection for polymorphisms can have advantages for cheese processing, but much less is known for sheep milk.
on the other hand, milk is presently a better avenue to make a living in many parts of the sheep world (table 2), since wool has a poor market return, and sheep meat, mutton and lambs is in a tight profit position except for ethnic markets.
the nutritional value of sheep milk by department of animal & food sciences university of delaware, newark, delaware, 19717-1303 usa abstract reasons for sheep dairying in comparison to cow and goat dairying are  presented in an extensive literature review.
many studies on cow and goat milk proteins  have shown that genetic selection for polymorphisms can have advantages for  cheese processing, but much less is known for sheep milk.
j. dairy res. 66: 177-191.
composition of foods, dairy and egg products.
piredda, g., pirisi, a., ladu, a., melis, g., cappuccio, u., chianese, l. 1996.
publ., rio, wi, p. 57-67.
sheep milk has been proposed as a  more natural and better tasting alternative with great nutritional and clinical  potential (hardy, 2000), because of its many valuable constituents, discussed  here, and in a market estimated e.g. in the u.k. as worth $100 million.
milk yield and milk composition of flemish milksheep, suffolk and texel ewes and their crossbreds.
babayan, v.k. 1981 medium chain length fatty acid esters and their medical and nutritional applications.
at least two dozen different dairy sheep breeds are recognized, mainly in the mediterranean area, with different genetic milk yield merits, but all distinguished by higher milk fat and protein levels than in goat and cow milk.
another interesting research programme is pursued at the university  wisconsin (wendorff 1998) in utilising the unique properties of sheep milk,  especially its flavourful fatty acids, to enrich the flavour of low-fat cow  milk cheeses such as muenster or manchego by adding 20% sheep milk.
academic press, new york, ny, 2 vol., 938 pp.
in: proceedings, production and utilization of ewe and goat milk, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, international dairy federation publ., brussels, belgium, p. 21-43.
nevertheless, with increasing scc it has been reported that milk ph, whey protein, fat contents, rennet clotting time, and rate of clot firming time rise, while lactose, casein contents, and clot firmness decreased (table 8) (diaz et al., 1996).
relative composition of essential amino acids in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk = 100% (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cows table 15.
however, research emphasis worldwide has been on  sheep wool and meat production and their characteristics, not on sheep milk.
kon, s.k., cowie, a.t. 1961.
sheep goats cows human table 10.
nutritive evaluation of ammonia treated olive tree leaves for lactating sheep.
instead they go through the portal system directly into the liver, where they are oxidised into quickly available energy for body utilisation.
milk: the mammary gland and its secretion.
shalini international publications, karnal, haryana, india, 268 pp.
low-fat sheep milk apparently has not been tried in marketing, but because of its high protein content and full taste, it should have potential.
some factors affecting daily milk yield and composition in sheep.
milk and milk products in human nutrition.
recognised dairy sheep breeds, which are mostly in the mediterranean region, great genetic variation exists in milk composition, lactation length, lactation yield and seasonality of milk production.
special features of dairy products from ewe and goat milk from the physicochemical and organoleptic point of view.
sheep goats cows humantable 9.
in this effort, much is needed to improve the genetic ability of many dairy sheep populations to have longer lactations and to focus on much better udder morphology.
however, among the about 1,000 research projects on sheep world wide ( table 3), less than 4% deal with topics of sheep milk and sheep dairying.
publ., washington, d.c., home & garden bul.
on the other hand, milk is presently a better  avenue to make a living in many parts of the sheep world (table 2), since  wool has a poor market return, and sheep meat, mutton and lambs is in a tight  profit position except for ethnic markets.
roquefort (sheep) stilton (cow) feta (sheep) mozzarella (cow) ricotta gruyere (cow) table 17.
j. dairy res. 65: 413-422.
quantitative and qualitative variations in milk during lactation.
mct are unique, because they do not follow the general lipid transport pathway through the lymphatic system and into the prostaglandin metabolism (babayan and rosenau, 1991).
in: proceedings, idf seminar, production and utilisation of ewe and goat milk, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, idf publ., brussels, p. 311.
fatty acid > > methionine lysine table 8.
yield, composition and certain physicochemical characteristics of milk of the epirus mountain sheep breed.
recognised dairy sheep breeds, which are mostly in  the mediterranean region, great genetic variation exists in milk composition,  lactation length, lactation yield and seasonality of milk production.
actually, buffalo (16.9%), reindeer (36.7%) and  yak (17.9%) milk have at least the same high solids contents (path, 1995; kon  and cowie, 1961) as sheep milk for superior cheese yield compared to cow milk  (12.6%), and they would have the economics of scale advantage as cows do.
comparative composition of some sheep and cow cheeses (fox et al., 2000)
therefore to market any substantial amounts of whole sheep milk with its very much higher fat content than cow milk may not be very successful.
nutritive value of foods.
new analytical  techniques during the last 5 years have made identifications of sheep milk  protein polymorphisms possible (pirisi et al., 1999b).
production and utilisation of ewe and goat milk.
certainly there are more  publications in earlier years, but those would be based on less sophisticated  analytical methods.
serrano rios, m., sastre, a., perez juez, m.a., estrala, a., sebastian, c. de, eds. 1994.
it has not been determined,  however, whether the deterioration of renneting characteristics is due  primarily to the normal physiological scc increase at the end of lactation and  the concurrent change in milk composition, or to subclinical and clinical  mastitic conditions in the udder, which also produce high scc and changed milk  composition.
actually there are at least 3 papers during the last 10 years indicating allergy also to sheep milk, because of cross reactivity between the milk proteins of bovine, ovine or caprine origin (wuthrich and johansson, 1995; fenyvessy and csanadi, 1999; umpierrez et al., 1999).6.
casoli, c., duranti, e., morbidini, l., panella, f., vizioli, v. 1989.
that is not necessarily a good enough reason for the general negative economics of scale.
income and expenses for a 300 milking sheep us dairy and a same size commercial operation selling slaughter lambs (berger, 1998)
(table 16) attempts to show how sheep cheeses compared to cow cheeses can make a valuable contribution for consumers.
however, research emphasis worldwide has been on sheep wool and meat production and their characteristics, not on sheep milk.
effects of sheep alpha s-1 casein cc, cd and dd genotypes on milk composition and cheesemaking properties.
most textbooks on "milk" deal only with cow milk, and human milk to some extend (kon and cowie, 1961; falconer, 1971; renner, 1982; gravert, 1983).
the only major sources of research information on sheep milk appear to  be the bulletins and proceedings of the international dairy federation seminars  held in greece in 1985 and 1995 (idf, 1983; 1986; 1996).
mct also inhibit or limit cholesterol deposition, dissolve cholesterol gallstones, and contribute to normal growth of infants.
that is not necessarily a good enough reason for the general  negative economics of scale.
the unique richness in short chain and medium chain fatty acids in  sheep milk, sheep cheeses, sheep butter (so far very neglected commercially),  and their special values in human health and as treatment for many disease  conditions is discussed extensively.
the unique content of about 25% mct in total sheep milk fat and its  possible quantitative modification through feeding has not been exploited  commercially nor explored in research.
net income from sheep milk production can be presently at least double per farm than that from wool and meat production.
it is true that a unit of milk is more costly produced  from sheep, also from goats, than from cows.
another interesting research programme is pursued at the university wisconsin (wendorff 1998) in utilising the unique properties of sheep milk, especially its flavourful fatty acids, to enrich the flavour of low-fat cow milk cheeses such as muenster or manchego by adding 20% sheep milk.
differences in lipid composition for milk of 4 species and cheese of 2 species posati and orr, 1976)
proceedings, international symposium on lactation, university of nottingham, 1970, pennsylvania state university press, university park, pa, 467 pp fegeros, k., zervas, g., apsokardos, f., vastardis, j., apostolaki, e . 1995.
mct also inhibit  or limit cholesterol deposition, dissolve cholesterol gallstones, and  contribute to normal growth of infants.
milk intake from 4 alternative sources compared with the recommended human daily dietary allowances (rda) (nrc, 1964; gebhardt and matthews, 1991) 2 cups (490 g) milk intake contain rda table 16.
proceedings, idf seminar, athens, greece, sept. 23-25, 1985, international dairy federation publ., brussels, bul.
certainly there are more publications in earlier years, but those would be based on less sophisticated analytical methods.
the commonwealth  agricultural bureaux (cab) considered the british sheep dairy news worthy for  regular inclusion in their world wide computer scientific journal abstract  service.
that is a serious question often  heard among economists.
income and expenses for a 300 milking sheep us dairy and a  same size commercial operation selling slaughter lambs (berger, 1998) dairy non-dairy milk sale, per ewe, $(1) 200 0 ram sale(2) 10 2 cull ewe sale(3) 11 9 lamb sale (4) 149 233 wool sale (5) 4 2 manure value (6) 6 3 total flock gross income, $ 114,044  74,656 per ewe, $ 380 249
in many developing countries it is also of vital economic importance to assure a fair price for sheep milk products to maintain the farmer's future on the farm, besides providing critical protein, calcium and energy food for subsistence and to fight malnutrition.
not even the 1st world  congress of dairy products in human health and nutrition (serrano rios, 1994)  recognised the existence or contribution of sheep milk products to human  nutrition, nor does the handbook of the us sheep industry development program  (scott, 1986).
this can lead to sheep dairying alongside the cow milk industry as a unique and justified niche industry in many countries with considerable growth potential, that has been estimated in england alone to be worth more than us $100 million.
more significantly this is demonstrated in (table 17) for mct, the medium chain fatty acids c6:0-c14:0, especially on a total solids or dry matter basis.5.
table 1 comparison of costs of producing cheddar cheese from  cow, goat and sheep milk (wendorff, 1995)(1)
j. dairy sci. & technol.
directory of current research on sheep and goats.
average amino acid composition of milk (100 g) of 4 species (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cows human table 12.
in: proceedings, international symposium, development strategy for the sheep and goat dairy sector, nicosia, cyprus, april 13-14, 2000, brit.
publ., washington, d.c., agr.
actually, buffalo (16.9%), reindeer (36.7%) and yak (17.9%) milk have at least the same high solids contents (path, 1995; kon and cowie, 1961) as sheep milk for superior cheese yield compared to cow milk (12.6%), and they would have the economics of scale advantage as cows do.
the cost of producing 1 kg sheep cheese, the main product in sheep dairying, is about $8.- compared to $5.- for goat cheese and $3.- for the same cheese made from cow milk.
allergy to goat and sheep cheese with good tolerance to cow cheese.
their medical and nutritional  values have been the subject of at least 102 publications during the past 10  years demonstrating real benefits in malabsorption syndroms, chyluria,  steatorrhea, hyperlipoproteinemia, and in cases of intestinal resection,  coronary by-pass, premature-infant feeding, childhood epilepsy, cystic fibrosis  and gallstones, because of their unique metabolic ability to provide energy  instead of contributing to adipose tissues as other lipids do.
gebhardt, s.e., matthews, r.h. 1991.
milk composition of najdi, australian (border leicester x merino) ewes and their crossbred.
keywords: sheep milk, nutritional value, milk composition, fatty  acids composition, cheese composition 1.
another potentially important study by  ramet (1996) has demonstrated that the poor cheese making properties of camel  milk can be significantly improved by adding from 10 to 50% sheep milk.
group, wellingborough, northamptonshire, u.k., 320 pp.
nat. dairy committee of greece publ., athens, greece, 96 pp.
the unique content of about 25% mct in total sheep milk fat and its possible quantitative modification through feeding has not been exploited commercially nor explored in research.
average gross composition, minerals and vitamins in milk (100 g) of 4 species (kon and cowie, 1961; posati and orr, 1976; alichanidis and polychroniadou, 1996)
most importantly, daily calcium requirements and those of riboflavin and 5 of the essential 10 amino acids are completely covered by just drinking 2 cups of sheep milk without eating anything else.
anifantakis, em. 1991.
also the resulting cream can be a good market in itself or as sheep butter or for sheep ice cream production, always utilising the name "sheep" as a special label for sales with possibly a higher price.
using artificially controlled photoperiods of daylight can change milk production by 25-38% with concomitant changes in fat and total solids contents (bocquier et al., 1997).
great lakes dairy sheep symposium, d.l. thomas et al., madison, wi, march 30, 1995, wisconsin sheep breeders coop.
however, among the about 1,000 research projects on sheep world wide ( table 3), less than 4% deal with topics of sheep milk and sheep dairying.
in france, the scientific journal le lait devoted an entire  issue to goat milk, including its role as an alternative to cow milk (le lait,  1993).
the hetrogeneity  of alpha s-1 casein polymorphisms in sheep milk consists of either a, b, c, d,  e, or f genes (pirisi et al., 1999b), contributed by each parent.
sheep milk protein  comprises caseins, and the whey proteins beta-lactoglobulin, alpha-lactalbumin,  serum albumin, and immunoglobulin mainly.
updates on sheep milk research.
j. dairy res. 66: 409-419.
sheep goat cow buffalotable 18.
genetic differences in milk protein polymorphisms are of great interest to the cheese maker, because of correlations to curd firmness, coagulation time, casein content and cheese yield.
masui, k., yamada, t. 1996.
new analytical techniques during the last 5 years have made identifications of sheep milk protein polymorphisms possible (pirisi et al., 1999b).
standard nutritional reference tables average nutritional values of sheep milk in comparison to its 3 main competitors, cow, human and goat milk have been published years ago most comprehensively, but have not been updated apparently (tables 9, 10, 11) adapted from (kon and cowie, 1961;
topic number of publications number of research projectstable 3 world wide number of publications listed by commonwealth agricultural bureaux 1990 - 2000 (university of delaware library database) and active sheep research projects(king, 1988)
posati, l.p., orr, m.l. 1976.
nutritional evaluation of components of small ruminants' (ewe's, goat's) milk.
effects of breeds, season, feeds, mastitis among the more than 25
sheep milk: a high quality product the nutritional value of sheep milk by george f. w. haenlein department of animal & food sciences university of delaware, newark, delaware, 19717-1303 usa abstract reasons for sheep dairying in comparison to cow and goat dairying are presented in an extensive literature review.
their medical and nutritional values have been the subject of at least 102 publications during the past 10 years demonstrating real benefits in malabsorption syndroms, chyluria, steatorrhea, hyperlipoproteinemia, and in cases of intestinal resection, coronary by-pass, premature-infant feeding, childhood epilepsy, cystic fibrosis and gallstones, because of their unique metabolic ability to provide energy instead of contributing to adipose tissues as other lipids do.
a novel approach has been proposed by babayan and rosenau (1991) to make cheese, either cheddar or fontinella, enriched with mct oil as a palatable and more attractive option for patients who suffer from various malabsorption syndroms and must consume mct.
proceedings, 5th international conference on goats, new delhi, india, march, 1992, vol.
this can lead to sheep dairying alongside  the cow milk industry as a unique and justified niche industry in many  countries with considerable growth potential, that has been estimated in  england alone to be worth more than us $100 million.
cow           goat sheep farm milk  cost, us $/100 kg 28.05 48.40 143.00 cheese making cost/l00 kg milk       7.70 7.70 7.70 total cost, us $ 33.59 56.10 150.70 cheese yield, kg/10 kg milk 10.34 10.72 18.79 cost/kg  cheese 3.25 5.23 8.02 (1)cheese with 38% moisture, 54.6-55.15% fdb; cow milk with 3.95% fat, 3.33% protein; goat milk 3.9% fat, 3.3% protein; sheep milk 6.9% fat, 5.7% protein table 2.
not even the 1st world congress of dairy products in human health and nutrition (serrano rios, 1994) recognised the existence or contribution of sheep milk products to human nutrition, nor does the handbook of the us sheep industry development program (scott, 1986).
therefore to market any substantial amounts of whole sheep milk with its very  much higher fat content than cow milk may not be very successful.
promotion of sheep milk and its products could be much better organised and a greater market share realised, not just a special niche for connoisseurs, but also for medical needs, if producers, at least in developed countries, would make a regular percentage check-off money of their product sales available for a central agency for advertisements and research.
but how to justify milk sheep economically?
actually there are at  least 3 papers during the last 10 years indicating allergy also to sheep milk,  because of cross reactivity between the milk proteins of bovine, ovine or  caprine origin (wuthrich and johansson, 1995; fenyvessy and csanadi, 1999;  umpierrez et al., 1999).
dario, c., laudadio, v., bufano, g. 1995.
another potentially important study by ramet (1996) has demonstrated that the poor cheese making properties of camel milk can be significantly improved by adding from 10 to 50% sheep milk.
relative composition of essential amino acids in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk = 100% (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cowstable 14.
proceedings, idf seminar, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, international dairy federation publ., brussels, 346 pp.
this is shown also in (table 15) in actual values compared to the recommended daily minimum allowances for human nutrition, when 2 cups (490 g) of milk of one of the 4 species are consumed.
the nutritional value of sheep milk: a natural supplement for clinical nutrition.
is it because it is a better alternative to wool and  meat sheep farming, or is it an alternative to cow dairying, which has had  times of uncontrolled surplus production, quota restrictions, and cow milk  intolerance problems, which the medical research community has not adequately  addressed?
keywords: sheep milk, nutritional value, milk composition, fatty acids composition, cheese compositionkeywords: sheep milk, nutritional value, milk composition, fatty acids composition, cheese composition why milk sheep or even goats, when cows give much more milk and require less maintenance and labour per animal unit?
milk yields can differ more than ten times between breeds and  within breeds, and lactation lengths can vary by 100%, which is a considerable  potential for genetic selection and improvement.
freund, g. (ed.) 2000.
just because sheep milk has a  higher solids content than cow and goat milk, and therefore has a much better  cheese yield?
niche marketing various nutritional preparations are on the market for use by people in need or interested in boosting their energy.
role of goat meat and milk in human nutrition.
the fatty acid composition in sheep milk is easily altered by different feed supplements.
as drinking sheep milk is not  widespread, more likely 2 cups of sheep milk yoghurt will meet those daily  requirements, or the milk equivalent in 93 g of sheep cheese.
medical  research, however, has not adequately pursued the many practical experiences  and anecdotal reports of benefits to patients suffering from cow milk allergy.
the d gene  has a frequency of 1 million/ml) do  occur in normal sheep and goat milk, especially towards the end of lactation  (bufano et al., 1996).
different sheep breeds and composition of some of their milk (%) (mills, 1989 anifantakis, 1991; peeters et al 1992, alichanidis and polychroniadou, 1996)
the unique richness in short chain and medium chain fatty acids in sheep milk, sheep cheeses, sheep butter (so far very neglected commercially), and their special values in human health and as treatment for many disease conditions is discussed extensively.
daily recommended patient intakes of 15 g mct (dulloo et al., 1996) could be provided by about 60 g sheep butter, but sheep butter making may have to be reinvented.
practical sheep dairying.
sheep milk composition can also be influenced by different feeds, grazing systems and by subclinical mastitic conditions.
sevi, a., rotunno, t., caterina, r. di, muscio, a. 1998.
tejgazdasag 59(2): 23-26.
commonwealth agricultural bureaux international publ., wallingford, oxon, u.k., 271 pp.
odorous substances are actually at a higher  level in sheep milk than in goat or cow milk, except for buffalo milk ( table 18) (moio et al., 1993).
searching the cab for the past 10 years, the numbers of publications world wide on sheep milk, sheep cheese and allergies related to sheep milk are minor compared to those on cow milk (table 3).
roquefort (sheep) stilton (cow) feta (sheep) mozzarella (cow) ricotta gruyere (cow)table 16.
sheep milk composition can also  be influenced by different feeds, grazing systems and by subclinical mastitic  conditions.
twenty-four-hour energy expenditure and urinary catecholamines of humans consuming low-to-moderate amounts of medium-chain triglycerides: a dose-response study in a human respiratory chamber.
average amino acid composition of milk (100 g) of 4 species (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cows humantable 11.
martin, p., addeo, f. 1996.
the blended  9-months aged manchego-type cheese has become popular at the dairy store of the  university of wisconsin in madison.
relative gross composition, minerals and vitamins in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk =100% (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cows table 13.
average composition of milk from sheep, goats, cows  and humans is comprehensively documented and compared relatively to the  nutrient supply from human milk and to the recommended human daily dietary  allowances.
haenlein, g.f.w. 1992.
verlag eugen ulmer, stuttgart, 387 pp.
international dairy federation publ., brussels, bul.
bufano, g., dario, c., laudadio, v. 1996.
the hetrogeneity of alpha s-1 casein polymorphisms in sheep milk consists of either a, b, c, d, e, or f genes (pirisi et al., 1999b), contributed by each parent.
usda-ars, consumer & food economics inst.
the d gene has a frequency of 1 million/ml) do occur in normal sheep and goat milk, especially towards the end of lactation (bufano et al., 1996).
in: proceedings, idf seminar, production and utilization of ewe and goat milk, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, idf publ., brussels, p. 327. renner, e. 1982.
rumen-protected methionine or lysine supplementation of comisana ewes' diets: effects on milk fatty acid composition.
of  course, the sheep cheese market is well established and growing, but there is  much room for innovations as the new dairy sheep industry in usa has  demonstrated in artisanal and direct marketing of sheep cheeses and yogurt with  the support of the american cheese society during the last 10 years.
however, the large population size of sheep breeds, their wide adaptability to  climates and forages make sheep much more widely accepted and genetically of  greater potential.
instead they go  through the portal system directly into the liver, where they are oxidised into  quickly available energy for body utilisation.
( table 3) shows that there has been a fair number of publications on cow milk allergy, but few on sheep milk as an alternative.
sheep milk has been proposed as a more natural and better tasting alternative with great nutritional and clinical potential (hardy, 2000), because of its many valuable constituents, discussed here, and in a market estimated e.g. in the u.k. as worth $100 million.
an economic comparison between a dairy sheep and a non-dairy sheep operation.
the cost of producing 1 kg sheep  cheese, the main product in sheep dairying, is about $8.- compared to $5.- for  goat cheese and $3.- for the same cheese made from cow milk.
publ., rio, wi, p. 46-49.
the nutritional values of sheep cheeses have not been published much nor in  detail compared to those of cow cheeses.
low-fat sheep  milk apparently has not been tried in marketing, but because of its high  protein content and full taste, it should have potential.
mct and other uniqueness medium chain length fatty acids or medium chain triglycerides (mct) have been recognised as unique lipids with unique applications (babayan, 1981; babayan and rosenau, 1991; haenlein, 1992).
that is a serious question often heard among economists.
falconer, i.r. 1971.
niche marketing various nutritional preparations are on the market for use by people in  need or interested in boosting their energy.
cow goat sheep table 2.
net income from  sheep milk production can be presently at least double per farm than that from  wool and meat production.
( table 3) shows that there has been a fair number of publications on cow  milk allergy, but few on sheep milk as an alternative.
average lipid composition of milk (100 g) of 4 species kon and cowie, 1961; posati and orr, 1976; renner, 1982)
peeters, r., buys, n., robijns, l., vanmontfort, d., van isterdael,j . 1992.
matching sheep milk products to the  consumer is probably the best reason for milking sheep.
just because sheep milk has a higher solids content than cow and goat milk, and therefore has a much better cheese yield?
in: proceedings, international symposium, somatic cells and milk of small ruminants, r. rubino, ed., bella, italy, sept. 25-27, 1994, wageningen pers, eaap publ.
fundamentals of cheese science.
the fatty acid composition in sheep milk is easily altered by  different feed supplements.
present state in sheep breeding in slovakia with regard to somatic cell counts.
matching sheep milk products to the consumer is probably the best reason for milking sheep.
influence of sheep aa, ab and bb beta-lactoglobulin genotypes on milk composition and cheese yield.
as drinking sheep milk is not widespread, more likely 2 cups of sheep milk yoghurt will meet those daily requirements, or the milk equivalent in 93 g of sheep cheese.
allergy to cheese produced from sheep's and goat's milk but
the characterisation of leccese sheep: variations of chemical composition and lactodynamographic parameters in milk as related to somatic cell counts.
effect of photoperiod on milk yield, milk composition and voluntary feed intake in dairy ewes.
© copyright 2006, nr international managers of the livestock production programme (lpp) funded by dfid
council publ., washington, d.c., publ.
proceedings, 1st world congress, dairy products in human health and nutrition, madrid, june 7-10, 1993, a.a. balkema publ., rotterdam, 447 pp.
therefore, dairy products like cheeses, the main form of sale of sheep milk in most countries, are more expensive for consumers than cow milk products, e.g. cow milk cheese ( table 1), provided the sheep milk producer wants to not go bankrupt and out of business after a few years of hard toil, but actually make a living for his family, and some profit.
sheep goats cows humantable 10.
economic potential for sheep dairy products in the u.s.
bocquier, f., ligios, s., molle, g., casu, s. 1997.
it is true that a unit of milk is more costly produced from sheep, also from goats, than from cows.
saturated total mct, total fatty acids (mct) monounsat total polyunsat totaltable 17.
even a book on buffalo milk is available (deepak sahai, 1996).3.
is it because it is a better alternative to wool and meat sheep farming, or is it an alternative to cow dairying, which has had times of uncontrolled surplus production, quota restrictions, and cow milk intolerance problems, which the medical research community has not adequately addressed?
of course, the sheep cheese market is well established and growing, but there is much room for innovations as the new dairy sheep industry in usa has demonstrated in artisanal and direct marketing of sheep cheeses and yogurt with the support of the american cheese society during the last 10 years.
59: 49a-51a. babayan, v.k., rosenau, j.r. 1991.
most textbooks on "milk" deal only with cow milk, and human milk  to some extend (kon and cowie, 1961; falconer, 1971; renner, 1982; gravert,  1983).
pirisi, a., piredda, g., papoff, c.m., salvo, r. di, pintus, s., garro, g., ferranti, p., chianese, l. 1999b.
publications on the nutritional value of sheep milk often  give only gross composition without detailed identification of more specific  unique components of benefit in human nutrition, although trade magazines  contain many anecdotal reports, that are waiting for scientific evaluation.
composition and cheese making characteristics of 3 classes of milk from leccese (bufano et al., 1996) and manchega (diaz et al., 1996) ewes grouped by levels of somatic cell counts (scc) in their milk scc table 9.
(table 16) attempts to show how  sheep cheeses compared to cow cheeses can make a valuable contribution for  consumers.
casals, r., caja, g., such, x., torre, c., calsamiglia, s. 1999.
therefore, dairy products like  cheeses, the main form of sale of sheep milk in most countries, are more  expensive for consumers than cow milk products, e.g. cow milk cheese ( table 1), provided the sheep milk producer wants to not go bankrupt and  out of business after a few years of hard toil, but actually make a living for  his family, and some profit.
publ., spooner, wi, p. 32-39.
allergy 29: 1064-1068.
sheep goats cows human table 11.
buffalo milk, chemistry and processing technology.
sheep goat cow buffalo references alichanidis, e., polychroniadou, a. 1996.
thus, patients have been  prescribed daily intake of mct supplements for at least 40 years.
mct and other uniqueness medium chain length fatty acids or medium chain triglycerides (mct) have  been recognised as unique lipids with unique applications (babayan, 1981;  babayan and rosenau, 1991; haenlein, 1992).
seasonal changes in the fat composition of lacca sheep's milk used for idiazabal cheese.
interets nutritionnel et dietetique du lait de chevre.
comparative composition of odorous volatile compounds (concentration x 109) in milk of 4 species (moio et al., 1993)
odorous substances are actually at a higher level in sheep milk than in goat or cow milk, except for buffalo milk ( table 18) (moio et al., 1993).
milk intake from 4 alternative sources compared with the recommended human daily dietary allowances (rda) (nrc, 1964; gebhardt and matthews, 1991) 2 cups (490 g) milk intake contain rdatable 15.
also the resulting  cream can be a good market in itself or as sheep butter or for sheep ice cream  production, always utilising the name "sheep" as a special label for  sales with possibly a higher price.
dk publishing inc., new york, ny, 240 pp.
using  artificially controlled photoperiods of daylight can change milk production by  25-38% with concomitant changes in fat and total solids contents (bocquier et  al., 1997).
dulloo, a.g., fathi, m., mensi, n., girardier, l. 1996.
sheep dairy news, 17(1): 23-24.
however, the large population size of sheep breeds, their wide adaptability to climates and forages make sheep much more widely accepted and genetically of greater potential.
posati and orr, 1976; renner,  1982).
volkswirtschaftlicher verlag gmbh publ., munich, germany, 467 pp.
ploumi, k., belibasaki, s., triantaphyllidis, g. 1996.
even normal sheep milk  composition may differ between 6 and 9% for fat, 4 and 7% for protein, 17 and  21% for total solids, 4 and 6% for lactose (table 4) (dario et al., 1995;  margetin, 1996;
effect of mastitis on milk composition in manchega ewes: preliminary results.
the sheepman's production handbook.
perea, s., labastida, e.f. de, najera, a.i., chavarri, f., virto, m., renobales, m. de, baron, l.j.r. 2000.
res. 20: 67-74 umpierrez, a., quirce, s., maranon, f., cuesta, j., garcia-villamuza, y., lahoz, c., sastre, j., villamuza, y.g. 1999.
topic number of publications number of research projects table 4.
thus, patients have been prescribed daily intake of mct supplements for at least 40 years.
use of ewe milk for improvement of processing camel milk into cheese.
the nutritional values of sheep cheeses have not been published much nor in detail compared to those of cow cheeses.
of particular interest to dairy sheep farmers is the possibility of using  sheep milk as an alternative to cow milk in cases of cow milk allergy.
effects of calcium soaps and rumen undegradable protein on the milk production and composition of dairy ewes.
simos, e.n., nikolaou, e.m., zoiopoulos, p.e. 1996.
in france, the scientific journal le lait devoted an entire issue to goat milk, including its role as an alternative to cow milk (le lait, 1993).
relative gross composition, minerals and vitamins in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk =100% (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cowstable 12.
a bibliography on goat milk (freund, 2000), and the proceedings of a national colloquium on the nutritional and dietetic qualities of goat milk (freund, 1996) have been published, but similar efforts on sheep milk are still missing.
the caseins comprise 4 main fractions, alpha s-1, alpha s-2, beta and kappa, and each has a number of genetic polymorphs, which are due to different phosphorylation levels, amino acid substitutions, glycosylation differences, alterations in electrical charge, molecular weight, and hydrophobicity of the proteins.
fatty acid composition (g/kg methyl esters) in milk of comisana ewes fed a supplement with two levels (g/kg supplement) of rumen protected methionine or lysine compared to controls (sevi et al., 1998)
goat milk: composition and nutritional value.
standard nutritional reference tables average nutritional values of sheep milk in comparison to its 3 main  competitors, cow, human and goat milk have been published years ago most  comprehensively, but have not been updated apparently (tables 9, 10,  11) adapted from (kon and cowie, 1961;
simos et al., 1996), making sheep milk the composition leader next to reindeer among the 8 farm species, that produce milk for man (path, 1995; renner, 1982).
of particular interest to dairy sheep farmers is the possibility of using sheep milk as an alternative to cow milk in cases of cow milk allergy.
in: proceedings, 4th great lakes dairy sheep symposium, d.l.thomas and c.rowe, ed., spooner, wi, june 26-27,1998, spooner agr.
recommended dietary allowances.
some sheep milk protein polymorphisms and their relationships to different  cheese making parameters have been identified.
sheep industry development program and american sheep producers council publ., denver, co, 382 pp.
they do show, however, the superiority of sheep milk composition, in relative terms compared to the composition of human, cow and goat milk ( tables 12, 13, 14); and in such critical nutrients as protein, calcium, iron, magnesium, zinc, thiamin, riboflavin, vitamin b6, vitamin b12, vitamin d, medium chain fatty acids, monounsaturated fatty acids, linolenic acid, and all 10 essential amino acids.
sheep milk protein comprises caseins, and the whey proteins beta-lactoglobulin, alpha-lactalbumin, serum albumin, and immunoglobulin mainly.
fatty acid > > methionine lysinetable 7.
fatty acid and amino acid composition changes in ewe milk during lactation and milking.
simos et al., 1996), making sheep milk the composition leader  next to reindeer among the 8 farm species, that produce milk for man (path,  1995; renner, 1982).
saturated total mct, total fatty acids (mct) monounsat total polyunsat total table 18.
production and utilisation of goat's and ewe's milk.
dairy non-dairytable 2.
they do show, however, the superiority of sheep milk composition, in  relative terms compared to the composition of human, cow and goat milk ( tables 12, 13, 14); and in such critical nutrients as protein,  calcium, iron, magnesium, zinc, thiamin, riboflavin, vitamin b6, vitamin b12,  vitamin d, medium chain fatty acids, monounsaturated fatty acids, linolenic  acid, and all 10 essential amino acids.
sheep goats cowstable 13.
milk yields can differ more than ten times between breeds and within breeds, and lactation lengths can vary by 100%, which is a considerable potential for genetic selection and improvement.
fat protein total solids ash lactose table 5 bulk milk (n=10 with 15 individual milks each) differences in composition and cheese making characteristics for 3 phenotypes of alpha s-1 casein in sarda sheep milk (pirisi et al., 1999b)(1) cc cd ddtable 5 bulk milk (n=10 with 15 individual milks each) differences in composition and cheese making characteristics for 3 phenotypes of alpha s-1 casein in sarda sheep milk (pirisi et al., 1999b)(1) cc cd dd table 6 composition in milk of manchega ewes fed either calcium soaps of palm oil fatty acids (casfa) or rumen undegradable protein (rup) during a complete lactation of 21 weeks compared to controls (casals et al., 1999)
cow goat sheeptable 1 comparison of costs of producing cheddar cheese from cow, goat and sheep milk (wendorff, 1995)(1)
income and expenses for a 300 milking sheep us dairy and a same size commercial operation selling slaughter lambs (berger, 1998) dairy non-dairy table 3 world wide number of publications listed by commonwealth agricultural bureaux 1990 - 2000 (university of delaware library database) and active sheep research projects(king, 1988)
fenyvessy, j., csanadi, j. 1999.
a novel approach has been  proposed by babayan and rosenau (1991) to make cheese, either cheddar or  fontinella, enriched with mct oil as a palatable and more attractive option for  patients who suffer from various malabsorption syndroms and must consume mct.
genetic polymorphism of casein in the milk of goats and sheep.
fenyvessy, j., sirokman, k., varro, g., 1991.
publ., spooner, wi, p. 51-58.
average composition of milk from sheep, goats, cows and humans is comprehensively documented and compared relatively to the nutrient supply from human milk and to the recommended human daily dietary allowances.
fox, p.f., guinee, t.p., cogan, t.m., mcsweeney, p.l.h., 2000.
the only major sources of research information on sheep milk appear to be the bulletins and proceedings of the international dairy federation seminars held in greece in 1985 and 1995 (idf, 1983; 1986; 1996).
seasonal changes in the microflora and physicochemical characteristics of fiore sardo cheese.
medium-chain-triglyceride cheese.
the commonwealth agricultural bureaux (cab) considered the british sheep dairy news worthy for regular inclusion in their world wide computer scientific journal abstract service.
even a book on buffalo milk is available (deepak sahai, 1996).
what other reasons for milking sheep can be found, than the addiction of the sheep farmer to nothing but sheep?
facts on file publ., new york, ny, 168 pp.
medical research, however, has not adequately pursued the many practical experiences and anecdotal reports of benefits to patients suffering from cow milk allergy.
table 1 comparison of costs of producing cheddar cheese from cow, goat and sheep milk (wendorff, 1995)(1)
relative lipid composition in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk = 100% (posati and orr, 1976) sheep goats cows table 14.
neutral volatile compounds in the raw milk from different species.
mct are unique, because they do not  follow the general lipid transport pathway through the lymphatic system and  into the prostaglandin metabolism (babayan and rosenau, 1991).
proceedings, colloquium le lait de chevre, niort, nov. 7, 1996, institut national de la recherche agronomique publ., paris, no. 81, 199 pp.
relative lipid composition in sheep, goat and cow milk in relation to the composition of human milk = 100% (posati and orr, 1976)
wuthrich, b., johansson, s.g.o. 1995.
some sheep milk protein polymorphisms and their relationships to different cheese making parameters have been identified.
research publications what other reasons for milking sheep can be found, than the addiction of  the sheep farmer to nothing but sheep?
in many developing countries it is also of vital economic importance  to assure a fair price for sheep milk products to maintain the farmer's future  on the farm, besides providing critical protein, calcium and energy food for  subsistence and to fight malnutrition.
battistotti, b., bottazzi, v., piccinardi, a., volpato, g. 1983.
searching the cab for the past 10 years, the numbers of publications world  wide on sheep milk, sheep cheese and allergies related to sheep milk are minor  compared to those on cow milk (table 3).
posati and orr, 1976; renner, 1982).
great lakes dairy sheep symposium, d.l. thomas et al., ed., madison, wi, march 30, 1995, wisconsin sheep breeders coop.
in: proceedings, 4 th great lakes dairy sheep symposium, d.l.thomas and c. rowe, eds., spooner, wi, june 26-27, 1998, spooner agr.
in: proceedings, 6th international symposium, milking of small ruminants, athens, greece, sept.26 - oct. 1, 1998, wageningen pers, eaap publ.
more significantly this is demonstrated in (table 17) for mct,  the medium chain fatty acids c6:0-c14:0, especially on a total solids or dry  matter basis.
promotion of sheep milk and its products  could be much better organised and a greater market share realised, not just a  special niche for connoisseurs, but also for medical needs, if producers, at  least in developed countries, would make a regular percentage check-off money  of their product sales available for a central agency for advertisements and  research.
ii, part ii, p. 575-580.
in: proceedings, idf seminar, production and utilization of ewe and goat milk, crete, greece, oct. 19-21, 1995, idf publ., brussels, p. 45-58.
genetic differences in milk protein polymorphisms are of great interest to  the cheese maker, because of correlations to curd firmness, coagulation time,  casein content and cheese yield.
this is shown also in (table 15)  in actual values compared to the recommended daily minimum allowances for human  nutrition, when 2 cups (490 g) of milk of one of the 4 species are consumed.
the caseins comprise 4 main  fractions, alpha s-1, alpha s-2, beta and kappa, and each has a number of  genetic polymorphs, which are due to different phosphorylation levels, amino  acid substitutions, glycosylation differences, alterations in electrical  charge, molecular weight, and hydrophobicity of the proteins.
publications on the nutritional value of sheep milk often give only gross composition without detailed identification of more specific unique components of benefit in human nutrition, although trade magazines contain many anecdotal reports, that are waiting for scientific evaluation.
in this effort, much is needed to  improve the genetic ability of many dairy sheep populations to have longer  lactations and to focus on much better udder morphology.
moio, l., dekimpe, j., etievant, p., addeo, f. 1993.
fat protein total solids ash lactosetable 4.