interest in the nutritive value  of goat milk includes all fractions and how they may differ from those in the  milk of other species.
genetic polymorphisms of beta-lactoglobulin, alpha-s-1-, beta- and kappa-casein affect firmness and viscosity of yogurt, rennet coagulation time, curd syneresis, heat stability, contents of casein, total solids, phosphorus and ph. amino acid substitutions have been identified for the dna sequences of caprine, ovine and bovine milk protein genes (martin, 1993;
furthermore, the  stage of lactation, daily variation, season, parity, type of diet,  physiological status, health of the udder and processing procedures change the  contents and levels of major and minor constituents in the milks and its  products.
some goat milk has low casein contents and unsatisfactory rennet  coagulation ability, which affects cheese yield (remeuf & lenoir, 1986;  ambrosoli et al., 1988).
quantitative and compositional variations of massese sheep milk by parity and stage of lactation.
hachelaf, w., boukhrelda, m., benbouabdellah, m., coquin, p., desjeux, j.f., boudraa, g. & touhami, m. 1993.
during  frozen storage, oxidation of ewe milk occurred and free fatty acid contents  increased because milk lipase was not completely inactivated (anifantakis et  al., 1980).
prescription of goat milk in pediatrics -  revolutionary?
starchy supplements like cereal grains or fats and fatty seeds from sunflowers or roasted soybeans increase the energy density of the daily diet, and oil meals increase the protein density.
this gives much support to the contention that improved ewe and goat milk production is one of the best strategies to relieve human starvation, undernutrition and malnutrition and therefore has great market growth potential, incentive and justification, especially in areas where pasture conditions, climate, mountainous terrain and economic conditions favor small ruminants.
host et al., 1988;  razafindrakoto et al., 1993)
there are also clear seasonal differences in milk composition of the major  and minor components (renner, 1982), but they are confounded with climate and  diet effects.
hypo-allergenic and therapeutic significance of goat milk.
this is still largely true today and a 1st world congress of dairy products in human health and nutrition gave ewe and goat milk no recognition and deserved coverage, when it was held in spain in 1993 (serrano rios et al., 1994).
kosikowski, f.v. 1985.
addition of  threonine resulted in increased acetaldehyde production in goat or cow's milk,  but goat milk had less.
the contents of essential fatty acids also differ in ewe and goat milks compared to human milk, which could be of significance to nursing infants (wright & bolton, 1989; jackson & gibson, 1989) (table5, 6, 9).
heating is applied during  pasteurization, uht processing, condensing and powder production, which will  denature milk proteins to varying degrees and affect flavors (o'connor, 1994).
needs and possibilities for future research.
interest in the nutritive value of ewe milk is concerned mostly with the yield and evaluation of its cheeses and yogurt.
freezing is of economic interest because of the seasonal nature of goat and ewe  milk production, and because these milks have greater economic importance than  cow's milk in some countries (kalantzopoulos, 1994) (table1, 2, 4).
the food supply for protein or calcium from all animal sources, including milk and dairy products, also varies greatly between these countries (table 4), and averages in many countries far below the minimum daily requirements of 65 g protein and 800 mg calcium (nrc, 1968).
the higher level of glycine in goat milk  compared to other species milks may reduce acetaldehyde production from  threonine by inhibiting the enzyme threonine aldolase.
compositional differences between goat milk fat and that of cows and buffaloes.
the significance of ewe and goat milk for human nutrition in these countries varies widely (table 4) from less than 5 kg all milk per person per year to more than 450 kg, assuming that the fao statistics, which are very difficult to obtain in some countries, approximate the real conditions.
beyond meeting daily nutrient requirements, it is of special interest that goat and ewe milks have unique properties, which distinguish them from cow's milk and make them a valuable alternative not just for infants but also for adults and especially nursing mothers (baldo, 1984;
gene frequencies of caprine alpha-s-1-casein polymorphism in spanish goat breeds.
this includes genetic  polymorphisms of milk proteins, which have commercial importance in cheese  making, because they influence rennetability, cheese yield and flavor (remeuf  & lenoir, 1986; martin, 1993;
razafindrakoto et al., 1993) (figure 1).
effect of sodium bicarbonate on milk yield and milk composition of goats and on rumen fermentation of kids.
fil-idf bulletin  202:68-72.
sheep's milk also has polymorphisms in its  milk proteins, but this research is just beginning.
comparative digestibility of goat  versus cow's milk fats in children with digestive malnutrition.
effect of freezing and frozen storage on the physico- chemical, organoleptic  and microbiological characteristics of a semi-hard ewe milk cheese.
breast milk fatty acids in mothers of children with atopic eczema.
some goat milk has low casein contents and unsatisfactory rennet coagulation ability, which affects cheese yield (remeuf & lenoir, 1986; ambrosoli et al., 1988).
breast milk fatty acids in mothers of  children with atopic eczema.
the seasonally limited production of ewe and goat milk  has stimulated interest in overcoming this handicap by various means, including  hormonal induction of lactation (alifakiotis et al., 1980).
relationship between the physico-  chemical characteristics of goat milk and its rennetability.
disenhaus, c., jammes, h., hervieu, j., ternois, f. & sauvant, d. 1995.
normal milk contents of fat, lactose, chloride, total solids, acidity and ph have been obtained.
folch et al., 1994) and have been related to the  different behavior of milk proteins in processing.
within species within breed it is the stage of lactation, regardless of species or breed that has the greatest influence on milk composition.
with that understanding, milk from ewes or goats can meet at least as well or better significant portions of the daily nutrient requirements of humans (mack, 1953; desjeux, 1993) (table 9).
less well appreciated is the qualitative and quantitative difference in milk proteins of cow's versus goat milk, especially alpha-s-1-casein in goat milk with its softer curd formation compared to cow's milk (ambrosoli et al., 1988).
voutsinas, l., pappas, c. & katsiari, m. 1990.
delaware, bulletin 110, 117  pp.
evaluation of u.s. sheep breeds for milk  production and milk composition.
relationship between the physico- chemical characteristics of goat milk and its rennetability.
generally, subclinical or clinical mastitic infections cause the milk contents of casein, lactose and cheese yields to decrease, milk serum albumin, immunoglobulins and salt (nacl) contents to increase.
goat milk on the other hand, in some countries, is consumed as fluid milk, even on a commercial basis, besides being processed into dairy products.
milk yield and milk composition of flemish milksheep, suffolk and texel ewes and their crossbreds.
fevrier, c., mourot, j., jaguelin, y., mounier, a. & lebreton, y. 1993.
freezing is of economic interest because of the seasonal nature of goat and ewe milk production, and because these milks have greater economic importance than cow's milk in some countries (kalantzopoulos, 1994) (table1, 2, 4).
type of diet and physiological status
winter feeding is providing usually different  proportions and qualities of grazing, hays, silage and supplements, which  influence milk composition considerably.
milk yield and milk composition of flemish milksheep, suffolk and texel  ewes and their crossbreds.
a widely accepted rapid monitor of udder health is the somatic cell count  in milk.
goat milk as a substitute for cow's milk in undernourished children: a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
this causes  usually higher milk yields, changes in milk fat and protein contents and also  different cheese making properties.
united caprine news (5):34-37.
this has been shown in several studies, where yields were even increased while  restoring milk fat contents to normal levels (hadjipanayiotou, 1988).
in at least 7 countries, including greece, ewe milk or goat milk is more than 20 percent of all milk produced; and in at least 10 countries the combined production of ewe and goat milk is more than 20 percent of all milk in that country (table 3 and 4) (fao, 1994).
merin, u., rosenthal, i. & maltz, e. 1988.
in general terms, 3 percent of  bodyweight is a minimum requirement of daily dry matter intake for most goats,  but high producers will need at least 5 percent.
rystad,g., knutsen, w.j. & abrahamsen, r.k. 1990 effect of threonine and glycine on the acetaldehyde formation in goat milk yogurt.
also the type of protein in the diet and its rumen degradability can affect milk yield, contents of fat, protein, and processing properties (andrighetto & bailoni, 1994).
goat milk fed to undernourished infants or children with digestive malnutrition has been found to be at least equal or even a superior substitute to cow's milk (hachelaf et al., 1993;
razafindrakoto, o., ravelomanana, n., rasolofo, a., rakotoarimanana, r.d., gourgue, p., coquin, p., briend, a. & desjeux,  j.f. 1993.
in order to sell goat and ewe milks and their products for human consumption, their needs and tastes, it is of considerable market advantage to know the factors that cause milk composition to vary and to what extend.
in order to cover nutrient needs of high production, the energy and protein density of the daily feed intake must increase, because of the limitation of the rumen in volume capacity.
roughages like grass, hay or silages are mostly low in energy and protein density because of high fiber and/or water contents.
it can be predicted that the commercial natural foods and food supplements industry is soon focusing its efforts on the role of different fatty acids in human nutrition, and the goat and ewe milk industry may be well advised to join this market opportunity.
of the united nations, statistical series no. 99, vol.
composition and characteristics of goat milk: review 1968  - 1979.
comparative nutritional adequacy when milk is consumed as it becomes available from the animal or if its  composition is changed in production and processing, a principal question in  the pediatric and popular literature is how adequate is that milk for infant or  general human needs (schrander et al., 1993; andersson & draussin, 1993;  o'connor, 1994).
brenneman, j.c. 1978.
fil-idf bulletin 202:42-53.
mineral contents also increased with stage of  lactation,
comparison of physico-chemical properties of ewe and cow's milk.
therefore, the characteristics of all components of goat milk are of  considerable market interest.
on goats, british goat soc.
biochemistry and processing of goat milk and milk products.
comparative digestive utilization of uht goat and cow's milks: nutritional effects of gelation - use of a swine model.
with that understanding, milk from ewes or goats can meet at least as well  or better significant portions of the daily nutrient requirements of humans  (mack, 1953; desjeux, 1993) (table 9).
effect of sodium bicarbonate on milk yield and  milk composition of goats and on rumen fermentation of kids.
differences due to parity, number of lactation or age of animal can be significant in gross milk composition, but this is also confounded with milk yield levels (casoli et al., 1989).
evaluation of u.s. sheep breeds for milk production and milk composition.
of all milk produced by cows, buffaloes, ewes and goats combined, ewe milk makes up 1.5 percent and goat milk 2.0 percent of the world total, but in the mediterranean region it is 11.7 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively.
development of dairy products from goat milk.
mineral contents also increased with stage of lactation,
consumption of milk products by  children 9 to 14 years old in the paris area.
the composition of the milk of ewes and goats and factors affecting it has  been reviewed comprehensively (parkash & jenness, 1968; jenness, 1980;  anifantakis, 1986; juarez & ramos, 1986).
milk c18:0, c18:1, c18:2, c18:3 fatty  acids have been found to increase in summer, while c4 to c16 fatty acids were  reduced significantly.
of the  united nations, statistical series no. 117, vol.
the nature of beta- casein heterogeneity in caprine milk.
haenlein, g.f.w. 1995.
year book, mena, arkansas, 109-132.
therefore, goat or ewe butter, ghee and related products, with their enriched concentration of mct and other fatty acids, have considerable market potential (hachelaf et al., 1993), and their unique roles in nutrition and medicine should be a thankful area for researchers to explore (haenlein, 1992).
high type has higher cheese yield, better curd  firmness, which is associated with lower ph. despite longer coagulation time,  goat milk of the high alpha-s-1 casein type is more suitable for cheese making  because of firmer curd, higher casein content, less intense goat flavor and  smoother cheese texture, yet it may be that low type has the advantage in human  digestion.
the nature of beta- casein  heterogeneity in caprine milk.
the same is true for meeting the needs of essential amino acids,  except for methionine, phenylalanine, magnesium, thiamine and niacin, as far as  requirements are known.
haenlein, g.f.w. 1991.
juarez, m. & ramos, m. 1986.
composition of milk of native greek goats in the region of metsovo.
composition of milk of  native greek goats in the region of metsovo.
the minimum daily requirements of 800 mg calcium, not considering the higher needs of pregnant and lactating women or adolescents, are barely met by 3 cups of cow's milk, while goat milk covers this amply and of ewe milk only 2 cups would be required.
the composition of ewe and goat milk in relation to human needs and in  comparison to cow's milk needs much more research in order to document their  unique values, to justify their existence and the higher cost of producing  these milks compared to cow's milk (kosikowski, 1985; steinkamp, 1995).
haenlein, g.f.w. 1974.
however, this must be balanced in economic terms against lactation milk yield and lactation length of milking ewes, which is much less and shorter than for goats or cows.
low alpha-s-1 casein types of goat milk have shorter coagulation time and weaker resistance to heat treatment than high types.
this has been shown in several studies, where yields were even increased while restoring milk fat contents to normal levels (hadjipanayiotou, 1988).
a prospective study of cow's milk allergy in exclusively breast-fed infants.
ewe milk, depending on region and economic conditions, is mostly processed into cheeses and yogurt.
nutritive value of foods.
ewe and goat milk has considerable economic importance in some countries.
host, a., husby, s. & osterballe, o. 1988.
razafindrakoto, o., ravelomanana, n., rasolofo, a., rakotoarimanana, r.d., gourgue, p., coquin, p., briend, a. & desjeux, j.f. 1993.
remeuf, f. & lenoir, j. 1986.
a widely accepted rapid monitor of udder health is the somatic cell count in milk.
host et al., 1988; razafindrakoto et al., 1993)
average fat contents of ewe milk changed linearly from 1st to 6th parity from 6.8 percent to 7.4 percent and total protein contents from 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent for the massese breed in italy.
application to temperate climatic conditions.
winter climate can affect milk yields and composition, and both  are negatively correlated.
within species within breed one can identify through selective breeding considerable differences in milk composition.
these genetic differences have considerable influences on the cheese-making process and on human digestion of these milks.
longer coagulation time of high type goat milk is due to alpha-s-1-casein delaying curd formation by trapping calcium ions and withdrawing them from the proteolysis of kappa casein.
a preliminary nutrition study of the value of goat milk in the diet of children.
other components follow these ranges.
in freezing of cheeses the ph and proteolysis may change (fontecha et al., 1994).
genetic differences in milk composition within species have a wide range for ewe milk fat from 4.6 percent to 12.6 percent (casoli et al., 1989) and an average of 7.1 percent (anifantakis, 1986); for ewe milk protein from 4.8 to 7.2 percent and an average of 5.7 percent, depending on breed.
references agnihotri, m.k. & prasad, v.s.s. 1993.
the market of ewe and goat milks and their products has essentially three  aspects: home consumption and self-sufficiency, gourmet menus and natural foods preference, medical needs.
peeters, r., buys, n., robijns, l., vanmontfort, d. & van isterdael, j.  1992.
serrano rios, m., sastre, a., perez juez, m.a., estrala, a. & de  sebastian, c. (ed.) 1994.
there are also clear seasonal differences in milk composition of the major and minor components (renner, 1982), but they are confounded with climate and diet effects.
o'connor, d.l. 1994.
morand-fehr, p. 1981.
processing even before cheese precipitation from milk and the effects of fermenting of  cheese, the various methods of processing, heating and freezing can have  profound influences on milk composition.
medium chain length fatty acid esters and their medical  and nutritional application.
interest in the nutritive value of ewe milk is concerned mostly with the  yield and evaluation of its cheeses and yogurt.
of the  united nations, statistical series no. 99, vol. 44, 285 pp.
the  shepherd (6):18-19.
the mediterranean region produces 66 percent of the world's ewe milk (table 1)  and 18 percent of the world's goats milk (table 2) (fao, 1994).
basics of food allergy.
schrander, j.j.p., bogart, j.p.h. van den, forget, p.p., schrander-stumpel,  c.t.r.m., knijten, r.h. & kester, a.d.m. 1993.
the seasonally limited production of ewe and goat milk has stimulated interest in overcoming this handicap by various means, including hormonal induction of lactation (alifakiotis et al., 1980).
physico-chemical characteristics of goat  milk as distinct from those of cow's milk.
also it has been found that commercial milk formulae do not contain sufficient amounts of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids to cover the requirements of nursing infants.
ewe  milk, depending on region and economic conditions, is mostly processed into  cheeses and yogurt.
nutritional physiology and endocrine status of the animal affects milk  yield and composition over short or longer time periods.
average genetic composition differences between species, ewe versus goat versus cow, and compared to human milk are considerable (posati & orr, 1976) in absolute and relative terms (table 5, 6).
parity seems to have little effect on contents of amino acids, fatty acids or minerals (casoli et al., 1989).
milk and dairy products from ewe and goat milk.
contents of total solids, total proteins, casein and phosphorus are higher in high type milk and ph is lower.
schrander, j.j.p., bogart, j.p.h. van den, forget, p.p., schrander-stumpel, c.t.r.m., knijten, r.h. & kester, a.d.m. 1993.
ca from 135 to 150 mg/100 g; p from 99 to 122;
kawas, j.r., lopes, j., danelon, d.l. & lu, c.d. 1991.
comparative digestibility of goat versus cow's milk fats in children with digestive malnutrition.
fat contents of evening goat milk averaged 5.1 percent after 14 hours of milking interval, morning milk 5.3 percent after 10 hours, total protein contents were 3.54 percent versus 3.58 percent, and total solids were 13.94 percent versus 14.30 percent, respectively.
***information - service of goatconnection.com - khimaira*** top of page
fat contents in goat milk changed from 2.7 percent in mid-lactation to 4.6 percent during the last week 42 of lactation, protein contents from 3.0 percent to 4.2 percent (voutsinas et al., 1990).
high type has higher cheese yield, better curd firmness, which is associated with lower ph. despite longer coagulation time, goat milk of the high alpha-s-1 casein type is more suitable for cheese making because of firmer curd, higher casein content, less intense goat flavor and smoother cheese texture, yet it may be that low type has the advantage in human digestion.
jackson, k.a. & gibson, r.a. 1989.
academy sci., publ. 1694.
ambrosoli, r., stasio, l.di & mazzocco, p. 1988.
le concours medical 111:3059-3064.
usda-ars, consumer & food economics inst., agr.
espie, w.e. & mullan, w.m.a. 1990.
comparison of physico-chemical properties of ewe  and cow's milk.
producing quality goat milk.
amino acid substitutions in milk proteins can also be responsible for flavor and its intensity (rystad et al., 1990).
comparison of buffering components in goat and cow milk.
nat. dairy committee of greece, athens, 96 pp.
in order to cover nutrient  needs of high production, the energy and protein density of the daily feed  intake must increase, because of the limitation of the rumen in volume  capacity.
average composition of milk (100 g) of 4 species (posati & orr, 1976) figure 1.
vv-gmbh volkswirtsch.
fontecha, j., pelaez, c., juarez, m. & martin-hernandez, c. 1994.
beta-casein types also affect cheese making properties of goat milk (chianese et al., 1993) and alpha-s-1- and beta-casein loci need to be considered together in selection.
peeters, r., buys, n., robijns, l., vanmontfort, d. & van isterdael, j. 1992.
therapeutic uses of goats milk in modern medicine.
sensory characteristics of goat cheeses  made from milks containing different genetic types of alpha-s-1-casein.
physico-chemical characteristics of goat milk as distinct from those of cow's milk.
the world's leading ewes milk countries (> 100,000 t in 1993) (fao, 1994) country ewes milk 1,000 t ewes milk in % of world ewes milk production  ewes milk in % of milk produced in country (1) france* 1,100 14.2 4.1
effects of single injections of diethylstilbestrol on milk composition and counts of leucocytes in milk of holstein-friesian cattle.
medium chain fatty acids (mct) (c6 to c14), in particular have different human metabolic properties than long chain fatty acids.
the  food supply for protein or calcium from all animal sources, including milk and  dairy products, also varies greatly between these countries (table 4), and  averages in many countries far below the minimum daily requirements of 65 g  protein and 800 mg calcium (nrc, 1968).
also the type of protein in the diet and its rumen degradability can  affect milk yield, contents of fat, protein, and processing properties  (andrighetto & bailoni, 1994).
interest in the original properties of milk, as it comes from the farm, should be high, when it is consumed as fluid whole milk, partly skimmed or as yogurt.
folch et al., 1994) and have been related to the different behavior of milk proteins in processing.
the minimum daily  requirements of 800 mg calcium, not considering the higher needs of pregnant  and lactating women or adolescents, are barely met by 3 cups of cow's milk,  while goat milk covers this amply and of ewe milk only 2 cups would be  required.
less well appreciated is the qualitative and  quantitative difference in milk proteins of cow's versus goat milk, especially  alpha-s-1-casein in goat milk with its softer curd formation compared to cow's  milk (ambrosoli et al., 1988).
the high solids content of ewe milk makes it  generally superior to goat or cow milk for processing into cheese and yogurt,  because of higher yield and firmer processing quality without additives.
parity seems to have little effect on contents of amino acids, fatty  acids or minerals (casoli et al., 1989).
a prospective study of cow's  milk allergy in exclusively breast-fed infants.
the composition of ewe and goat milks varies over a wide range because of  genetic differences between species, between breeds within species and within  breeds.
service of khimaira farm ~ places to go!
composition of foods.
it has been found that mothers of infants with atopic eczema had an abnormal composition in their milk fatty acid profiles, especially concerning linolenic acid (c18:3).
jordana, j., amills, m., diaz, e., angulo, c., serradilla, j. m. & sanchez, a. 1995.
sakul, h. & boylan, w.j. 1992.
weaning foods cannot replace breast milk as source of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids.
some evidence from recent research with ewes and  goats comprises this review.
regardless of genetics, the composition of the daily diet and its amount in relation to production requirements can cause significant changes in milk composition (moran-fehr, 1981; haenlein, 1995).
effects of recombinant bovine somatotropin on goat milk yield, composition and plasma metabolites.
proteins and bacterial counts may remain stable, and taste and flavor scores do not change.
some  goat and sheep breeds differ significantly in the frequencies of the  polymorphic loci of milk protein types (jordana et al., 1995) (table 7), with  considerable processing and nutritional consequences.
serv., washington, d.c., home & garden bulletin 72, 72 pp.
folate in goat milk products with reference to other  vitamins and minerals: a review.
the world's leading countries in milk producing ewes and goats combined populations (>100,000 t milk in 1993) (fao, 1994) (1) includes all milk from cows, buffaloes, ewes and goats.
complete sequence of the  caprine beta-lactoglobulin gene.
therefore, the characteristics of all components of goat milk are of considerable market interest.
what are the possibilities?
to prevent a decreased rumen ph, the  feeding of buffers like sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide is beneficial.
gebhardt, s.e. & matthews, r.h. 1991.
the world's leading ewes milk countries (> 100,000 t in 1993) (fao, 1994) (1) includes all milk from cows, buffaloes, ewes and goats.
unique nutritional values beyond meeting daily nutrient requirements, it is of special interest that  goat and ewe milks have unique properties, which distinguish them from cow's  milk and make them a valuable alternative not just for infants but also for  adults and especially nursing mothers (baldo, 1984;
nat. dairy committee of greece,  athens, 96 pp.
further important contributions have been published by anifantakis et al.
in cow's milk it has been demonstrated that the relative and absolute casein content is related negatively to somatic cell counts (haenlein, 1974).
content of alpha-s-1-casein and coagulation properties in goat milk.
andersson, e. & draussin, c. 1993.
fil-idf bulletin 202:68-72.
in studies with milking intervals of 8 and 16  hours the differences were 0.39 percent fat and 0.05 percent protein,  respectively (merin et al., 1988).
the composition of goat milk  as affected by nutritional parameters.
protein quality of spanish murciano-granadina goat milk during lactation.
besides  the differences in milk proteins, which have commercial importance in cheese  making and medical significance in digestion and allergies, the considerable  differences in milk lipid composition have not been studied much in relation to  human nutrition.
induced lactation in dairy ewes by various brief hormone  treatments.
it must be understood that in general: (1) milk is the main and hard-to-replace source of dietary ca in human nutrition regardless of whether it is from ewes, goats or cows; (2) milk was never meant to be an adequate source of some minerals like fe or vitamins like c, b12, or folate, which are routinely and cheaply supplemented to daily infant diets from other sources anyway.
winter feeding is providing usually different proportions and qualities of grazing, hays, silage and supplements, which influence milk composition considerably.
andrighetto, i. & bailoni, l. 1994.
also it has been found that  commercial milk formulae do not contain sufficient amounts of long-chain  polyunsaturated fatty acids to cover the requirements of nursing infants.
fil-idf bulletin 202:54-67.
addition of threonine resulted in increased acetaldehyde production in goat or cow's milk, but goat milk had less.
regardless of genetics, the composition of the daily diet and its amount in  relation to production requirements can cause significant changes in milk  composition (moran-fehr, 1981; haenlein, 1995).
however, only a few deal with the relation to human nutritional needs, which  has been pointed out by charlet (1981) "...the variation of composition of  milk has not received the attention it deserves, except by a few workers".
park, y.w. & humphrey, r.d. 1986.
application to  temperate climatic conditions.
the aim of this paper is to focus on properties and attributes of the milk and dairy products from ewes and goats as they contribute to human nutrition.
heating is applied during pasteurization, uht processing, condensing and powder production, which will denature milk proteins to varying degrees and affect flavors (o'connor, 1994).
longer  coagulation time of high type goat milk is due to alpha-s-1-casein delaying  curd formation by trapping calcium ions and withdrawing them from the  proteolysis of kappa casein.
curd firmness at 30 minutes of high type milk is greater than that of low type milk.
growing interest in goat milk has produced some publications, which document unique nutritional values of goat milk compared to cow's milk (mack, 1953; kosikowski, 1985; haenlein, 1992).
nutrition and feeding of goats:
increasing energy density by adding fat within narrow limits to the diet, can  increase yield of milk, fat, total protein and casein contents (moran-fehr,  1981).
this will be even more important in the future, when it becomes better known how to change original farm milk composition by manipulating e.g. the feeding of goats and ewes in order to tailor-make milk to the needs of diet conscious and disease afflicted consumers and their children, and to satisfy consumers with higher incomes, who have developed a sophisticated connoisseur taste for goat and ewe milk products.
advances in goat and cow milk research in relation to processing qualities.
merin et al. (1988), casoli  et al. (1989), voutsinas et al. (1990), espie & mullan (1990), simos et.
folate in goat milk products with reference to other vitamins and minerals: a review.
gene frequencies of caprine alpha-s-1-casein polymorphism in  spanish goat breeds.
in general terms, 3 percent of bodyweight is a minimum requirement of daily dry matter intake for most goats, but high producers will need at least 5 percent.
knowledge of the nutritive values of ewe and goat milks, what causes them  to be different or to change, and comparison with cow's and human milks will  help each of these markets.
of course, equivalent amounts of yogurt or cheese can  be substituted for meeting nutrient needs with milk.
role of goat meat and milk in human nutrition.
medium chain fatty acids (mct) (c6 to c14), in particular have  different human metabolic properties than long chain fatty acids.
it has been found that mothers of infants with  atopic eczema had an abnormal composition in their milk fatty acid profiles,  especially concerning linolenic acid (c18:3).
to further establish the uniqueness of ewe and goat milks will go far in  strengthening the small yet ancient dairy sheep and dairy goat industry not  only in the mediterranean countries but around the world.
milk c18:0, c18:1, c18:2, c18:3 fatty acids have been found to increase in summer, while c4 to c16 fatty acids were reduced significantly.
however, this must be balanced in economic terms against lactation milk yield  and lactation length of milking ewes, which is much less and shorter than for  goats or cows.
ultrafiltration removal  of glycine increased acetaldehyde production in goat milk.
dairy products, mainly cheeses (except those made from whey) contain only the casein and fat fractions of milk, but no whey proteins, nor lactose and soluble minerals, so interest may be limited here to the original composition of casein and fat only, and changes during cheese fermentation.
jordana, j., amills, m., diaz, e., angulo, c., serradilla, j. m. &  sanchez, a. 1995.
amino acid substitutions in milk proteins can also be responsible for  flavor and its intensity (rystad et al., 1990).
ch. c. thomas publ.,  springfield, illinois.
the composition and characteristics of  goat milk: a review.
by george f. w. haenlein cooperative extension dairy specialist university of delaware
nutritional value of dairy products of ewe and goat milk by george f. w. haenlein cooperative extension dairy specialist  university of delaware summary
sensory characteristics of goat cheeses made from milks containing different genetic types of alpha-s-1-casein.
normal milk  contents of fat, lactose, chloride, total solids, acidity and ph have been  obtained.
59:49a-51a. baldo, b.a. 1984.
within species within breed it is the stage of lactation, regardless of  species or breed that has the greatest influence on milk composition.
this may be the reason, why the popular literature is full of reports of benefits derived from better digestion of goat milk compared to cow's milk.
united  caprine news (5):34-37.
the high solids content of ewe milk enables production of superior yogurt compared to cow's and most goat milks.
goat and ewe milk exceed cow's milk significantly in most short, medium chain, mono-unsaturated, poly-unsaturated and essential fatty acids (table5 and 6), which are valuable to today's health conscious consumer.
interest in the original properties of milk, as it comes from the farm,  should be high, when it is consumed as fluid whole milk, partly skimmed or as  yogurt.
during frozen storage, oxidation of ewe milk occurred and free fatty acid contents increased because milk lipase was not completely inactivated (anifantakis et al., 1980).
al. (1991), haenlein (1992), peeters, et al. (1992), park (1992; 1994), sakul  & boylan (1992), agnihotri & prasad (1993), bindal & wadhwa (1993),  quiles et al. (1994), o'connor (1994), kalantzopoulos (1994) among others.
mct, especially caprylic (c8:0) and capric (c10:0) have become accepted treatment for patients with malabsorption symptoms, a variety of metabolic disorders, cholesterol problems and infant malnutrition, because of their unique roles of providing energy to the human metabolism instead of lipids to adipose tissues, and because of their ability to limit and dissolve serum cholesterol (kalser, 1971; tantibhedhyangkul & hashim, 1978).
the aim of this paper is to focus on properties and attributes of the milk  and dairy products from ewes and goats as they contribute to human nutrition.
many components in ewe or goat milk as in cow's milk, especially fat and protein, are high in colostrum in early lactation, much lower thereafter until they rise again markedly at the end of lactation, when yields are low (anifantakis & kandarakis, 1980).
it must be emphasized that cow's milks, when ewe or goat milks are compared with them, also have a wide composition range due to breeds, e.g. average holstein milk fat at 3.4 percent versus average jersey milk fat at 5.1 percent, and milk protein from 3.3 percent to 3.9 percent (anifantakis, 1986), besides other breeds.
medium chain length fatty acid esters and their medical and nutritional application.
ch. c. thomas publ., springfield, illinois.
therefore, goat or ewe butter, ghee and related products, with  their enriched concentration of mct and other fatty acids, have considerable  market potential (hachelaf et al., 1993), and their unique roles in nutrition  and medicine should be a thankful area for researchers to explore (haenlein,  1992).
dairy and egg  products.
of all milk  produced by cows, buffaloes, ewes and goats combined, ewe milk makes up 1.5  percent and goat milk 2.0 percent of the world total, but in the mediterranean  region it is 11.7 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively.
within species within breed one can identify through selective breeding  considerable differences in milk composition.
haenlein, g.f.w. 1992.
this provides, therefore, considerable potential to tailor-make ewe  and goat milks according to the needs and preferences of consumers, and to  provide an alternative to cow's milk, where this is economically or medically  advantageous.
in: goat production, c. gall, ed., academic press, london, 595-600.
na from 50 to 56; mg 13 to 15; except k decreased from 170 to 144; and citrate from 145 to 81 mg/100 g. between morning and evening milkings on the same day the gross composition of milk may also change (simos et al., 1991), which again may be confounded with milk yield levels, when the milking interval between evening and morning milking has more or less hours than between morning and evening milking.
goat and ewe milk exceed cow's milk significantly in  most short, medium chain, mono-unsaturated, poly-unsaturated and essential  fatty acids (table5 and 6), which are valuable to today's health conscious  consumer.
average fat contents of ewe milk changed  linearly from 1st to 6th parity from 6.8 percent to 7.4 percent and total  protein contents from 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent for the massese breed in  italy.
genetic differences in milk composition within species have a wide range  for ewe milk fat from 4.6 percent to 12.6 percent (casoli et al., 1989) and an  average of 7.1 percent (anifantakis, 1986); for ewe milk protein from 4.8 to  7.2 percent and an average of 5.7 percent, depending on breed.
the high solids content of ewe milk makes it generally superior to goat or cow milk for processing into cheese and yogurt, because of higher yield and firmer processing quality without additives.
dairy products, mainly cheeses (except those made from whey) contain  only the casein and fat fractions of milk, but no whey proteins, nor lactose  and soluble minerals, so interest may be limited here to the original  composition of casein and fat only, and changes during cheese fermentation.
factors affecting milk composition genetics average genetic composition differences between species, ewe versus goat  versus cow, and compared to human milk are considerable (posati & orr,  1976) in absolute and relative terms (table 5, 6).
goat milk on the other hand, in some countries, is consumed  as fluid milk, even on a commercial basis, besides being processed into dairy  products.
this has been  demonstrated for the effect of estrogens during estrus (haenlein & krauss,  1974).
rystad,g., knutsen, w.j. & abrahamsen, r.k. 1990 effect of threonine  and glycine on the acetaldehyde formation in goat milk yogurt.
somatotropin also will increase milk yield, milk fat content, short-chain and medium-chain fatty acids significantly, while decreasing milk protein percentage, long-chain fatty acids and net energy balance (disenhaus et al., 1995).
agnihotri, m.k. & prasad, v.s.s. 1993.
folch, j.m., coll, a. & sanchez, a. 1994.
biochemistry and processing of  goat milk and milk products.
nutritional physiology and endocrine status of the animal affects milk yield and composition over short or longer time periods.
goat milk composition likewise can have great  differences, depending on breed, e.g. for milk fat from 2.3 percent to 6.9  percent (juarez, 1986) and an average of 3.3 percent; for goat milk protein  from 2.2 percent to 5.1 percent and an average of 3.4 percent.
goat milk fed to  undernourished infants or children with digestive malnutrition has been found  to be at least equal or even a superior substitute to cow's milk (hachelaf et  al., 1993; razafindrakoto et al., 1993)
energy shortage in the diet can change the fatty acid composition of milk  fat towards more medium-chain fatty acids, while daily milk yield may decrease  and fat content increase (moran-fehr, 1981).
starchy  supplements like cereal grains or fats and fatty seeds from sunflowers or  roasted soybeans increase the energy density of the daily diet, and oil meals  increase the protein density.
in freezing of cheeses the ph and proteolysis may  change (fontecha et al., 1994).
this provides, therefore, considerable potential to tailor-make ewe and goat milks according to the needs and preferences of consumers, and to provide an alternative to cow's milk, where this is economically or medically advantageous.
symposium somatic cells and milk of small ruminants, bella, italy, 14 pp.
of course, equivalent amounts of yogurt or cheese can be substituted for meeting nutrient needs with milk.
other components  follow these ranges.
production yearbook 1990.
in cow's milk it has been demonstrated that the relative and absolute  casein content is related negatively to somatic cell counts (haenlein, 1974).
the higher level of glycine in goat milk compared to other species milks may reduce acetaldehyde production from threonine by inhibiting the enzyme threonine aldolase.
a typical serving size of milk is 1 cup  with 245 ml content, which is used as a standard in the usa for comparison of  nutrient intake (gebhardt & matthews, 1991; nrc, 1968).
comparative digestive utilization of uht goat and cow's milks: nutritional  effects of gelation - use of a swine model.
world congress dairy products in human health and nutrition, madrid, june  7-10, 1993, a.a.balkema publ., rotterdam, 448 pp.
a well-known difference for goat milk is the predominantly smaller size fat  globule compared to cow's milk, which has been credited with easier digestion  (fevrier et al., 1993).
milch und milchprodukte in der ernaehrung des menschen.
the incidence of cow's milk allergy has been found to be about 8 percent or even more in 1-year old infants (host et al., 1988), but goat milk can be a successful treatment in most cases of direct or indirect cow milk allergy (walker, 1964; brenneman, 1978; grezesiak, 1989).
however, milk secretion in goats is apocrine, while in cows it is  merocrine, which explains why goat milk may have very high counts of somatic  cells, especially in late lactation milk or in the last strippings of milk,  without any relationship to mastitis (park & humphrey, 1986; haenlein,  1993).
in at least 7  countries, including greece, ewe milk or goat milk is more than 20 percent of  all milk produced; and in at least 10 countries the combined production of ewe  and goat milk is more than 20 percent of all milk in that country (table 3 and  4) (fao, 1994).
the mediterranean region produces 66 percent of the world's ewe milk (table 1) and 18 percent of the world's goats milk (table 2) (fao, 1994).
in: goat production, c. gall, ed., academic  press, london, 193-232. nrc, 1968.
production yearbook 1993.
these genetic differences have considerable influences on the  cheese-making process and on human digestion of these milks.
fat  contents of evening goat milk averaged 5.1 percent after 14 hours of milking  interval, morning milk 5.3 percent after 10 hours, total protein contents were  3.54 percent versus 3.58 percent, and total solids were 13.94 percent versus  14.30 percent, respectively.
goat milk composition likewise can have great differences, depending on breed, e.g. for milk fat from 2.3 percent to 6.9 percent (juarez, 1986) and an average of 3.3 percent; for goat milk protein from 2.2 percent to 5.1 percent and an average of 3.4 percent.
a typical serving size of milk is 1 cup with 245 ml content, which is used as a standard in the usa for comparison of nutrient intake (gebhardt & matthews, 1991; nrc, 1968).
anifantakis, e.m. 1991.
chianese, l., garro, g., nicolai, m.a., mauriello, r., ferranti, p., pizzano, r., cappuccio, u., laezza, p., addeo, f., ramunno, l., rando, a. & rubino, r. 1993.
when grain concentrate  supplementation makes up more than 50 percent of the daily dry matter intake by  goats, decreased chewing, less rumination and a shortage of salivation of rumen  contents occurs (kawas et al., 1991).
pediatrics 61:537-545.
the amino acid threonine is considered the most important precursor of acetaldehyde, which is the main volatile aroma compound in yogurt.
goat milk casein has the same four proteins,  alpha-s-1, alpha-s-2, beta and kappa, as cow's milk casein, but genetic  differences by breeds and individuals in alpha-s-1 casein range quantitatively  from zero or "null type" ( o ) to "low types" ( f, d ) and  "very high types" ( a, b, c ), with intermediate classes ( e ).
influence of  forage-to-concentrate ratios on intake, digestibility, chewing and milk  production of dairy goats.
nevertheless, published average data of milk of different species have to be used with caution, because within each species there are great genetic differences due to breeds and selected families, which can be used to market advantage.
winter climate can affect milk yields and composition, and both are negatively correlated.
goat milk with added threonine had less production of  lactic, more pyruvic, acetic and less orotic acids; and there are other amino  acid differences between goat and cow's milk (rystad et al., 1990).
roughages like grass, hay or silages are mostly low in energy and  protein density because of high fiber and/or water contents.
even before cheese precipitation from milk and the effects of fermenting of cheese, the various methods of processing, heating and freezing can have profound influences on milk composition.
the composition of ewe and goat milk in relation to human needs and in comparison to cow's milk needs much more research in order to document their unique values, to justify their existence and the higher cost of producing these milks compared to cow's milk (kosikowski, 1985; steinkamp, 1995).
the amino acid threonine is  considered the most important precursor of acetaldehyde, which is the main  volatile aroma compound in yogurt.
the shepherd (6):18-19.
world congress dairy products in human health and nutrition, madrid, june 7-10, 1993, a.a.balkema publ., rotterdam, 448 pp.
this is still largely true today and a 1st world congress of dairy products in  human health and nutrition gave ewe and goat milk no recognition and deserved  coverage, when it was held in spain in 1993 (serrano rios et al., 1994).
effect of different animal protein  sources on digestive and metabolic parameters and milk production in dairy  goats.
days in milk during lactation regressed on ewe milk component contents had coefficients up to 0.71 (casoli et al., 1989).
in: goat  production, c. gall, ed., academic press, london, 595-600.
a more intensive feeding system can be appropriately devised with a complete diet of hay, silage and concentrates mixed together loose (tmr, total mixed ration) or in a pelleted or cubed form (cavani et al., 1991).
mimeo, dept. animal sci. & agr.
quiles, a., gonzalo, c., barcina, y., fuentes, f. & hevia, m. 1994.
improving casein yields.
genetic polymorphisms of  beta-lactoglobulin, alpha-s-1-, beta- and kappa-casein affect firmness and  viscosity of yogurt, rennet coagulation time, curd syneresis, heat stability,  contents of casein, total solids, phosphorus and ph. amino acid substitutions  have been identified for the dna sequences of caprine, ovine and bovine milk  protein genes (martin, 1993;
al. (1991), haenlein (1992), peeters, et al. (1992), park (1992; 1994), sakul & boylan (1992), agnihotri & prasad (1993), bindal & wadhwa (1993), quiles et al. (1994), o'connor (1994), kalantzopoulos (1994) among others.
ultrafiltration removal of glycine increased acetaldehyde production in goat milk.
haenlein, g.f.w. & krauss, w. c. 1974.
chianese et al., 1993; heil & dumont,  1993; kalantzopoulos, 1994), and which have potential but yet poorly understood  values in human nutrition (haenlein, 1991).
it  can be predicted that the commercial natural foods and food supplements  industry is soon focusing its efforts on the role of different fatty acids in  human nutrition, and the goat and ewe milk industry may be well advised to join  this market opportunity.
beta-casein types also affect cheese making properties of goat milk  (chianese et al., 1993) and alpha-s-1- and beta-casein loci need to be  considered together in selection.
goats and ewe like other ruminants require a  daily minimum of long fiber in the diet to prevent acidotic rumen conditions,  which lead to fatal parakeratosis and enterotoxemia, or at least to laminitis,  significantly depressed milk fat contents, but also possibly increased milk  protein contents (merin et al., 1988).
this gives much support to the  contention that improved ewe and goat milk production is one of the best  strategies to relieve human starvation, undernutrition and malnutrition and  therefore has great market growth potential, incentive and justification,  especially in areas where pasture conditions, climate, mountainous terrain and  economic conditions favor small ruminants.
a major portion  of this variation includes negative correlations between milk yield and  composition, i.e. low yields have higher contents and vice versa.
increasing energy density by adding fat within narrow limits to the diet, can increase yield of milk, fat, total protein and casein contents (moran-fehr, 1981).
the composition of goat milk as affected by nutritional parameters.
tantibhedhyangkul, p. & hashim, s.a. 1978.
a preliminary nutrition study of the value of goat milk in  the diet of children.
medium-chain triglyceride feeding in premature infants: effect on calcium and magnesium absorption.
~ thewholegoatcatalog site map goat connection home cometothefarm khimaira farm home khimaira webhosting cometothefarm auction goat faqs online cookbook gift-wish list registry event calendar free goat banners classified ads medical assessment getyourgoats getyourgoatmilk getyourgoatcheese getyourgoatsoap getyourgoatgifts getyourgoatsupplies getyourgoatservices
small rumin, res. 15:139-148.
hadjipanayiotou, m. 1988.
frozen stability of sheep's milk under various conditions.
in order to produce acceptable yogurt  viscosity from cow's milk, firming agents or as much as 5 percent skim milk  powder are usually added, which however can increase greatly the lactose  content of yogurt to undesirable levels in view of today's' consumers' concern  with lactose intolerance (kosikowski, 1985).
induced lactation in dairy ewes by various brief hormone treatments.
however, only a few deal with the relation to human nutritional needs, which has been pointed out by charlet (1981) "...the variation of composition of milk has not received the attention it deserves, except by a few workers".
wright, s. & bolton, c. 1989.
goat milk with added threonine had less production of lactic, more pyruvic, acetic and less orotic acids; and there are other amino acid differences between goat and cow's milk (rystad et al., 1990).
an especially interesting difference of ewe and goat milks compared to cow's milk is in their basic milk fat composition (posati & orr, 1976; babayan, 1981) (table 5).
medium-chain triglyceride  feeding in premature infants: effect on calcium and magnesium absorption.
advances in goat and cow milk research in relation  to processing qualities.
some countries, including greece, have more than 1 ewe and goat  combined per person (table 3) and at least half of the countries with leading  ewe and goat populations have more than 1 ewe and goat combined per hectare  permanent pasture land, again greece included.
hachelaf, w., boukhrelda, m., benbouabdellah, m., coquin, p., desjeux,  j.f., boudraa, g. & touhami, m. 1993.
consumption of milk products by children 9 to 14 years old in the paris area.
the composition of  alpine goat milk during lactation in greece.
effects of single injections of  diethylstilbestrol on milk composition and counts of leucocytes in milk of  holstein-friesian cattle.
merin et al. (1988), casoli et al. (1989), voutsinas et al. (1990), espie & mullan (1990), simos et.
some countries, including greece, have more than 1 ewe and goat combined per person (table 3) and at least half of the countries with leading ewe and goat populations have more than 1 ewe and goat combined per hectare permanent pasture land, again greece included.
effect of different animal protein sources on digestive and metabolic parameters and milk production in dairy goats.
bacterial counts in goat milk and their correlations with somatic cell counts, percent fat, and protein.
development of bodyweight of 30 malnourished children (age 1 to 5 years) fed either goat milk (n = 15) or cows milk (n = 15) (razafindrakoto et al., 1993).
a more intensive feeding system can be appropriately devised with a  complete diet of hay, silage and concentrates mixed together loose (tmr, total  mixed ration) or in a pelleted or cubed form (cavani et al., 1991).
simos, e., voutsinas, l.p. & pappas, c.p. 1991.
goat milk as a substitute for cow's milk in undernourished children:  a randomized double-blind clinical trial.
to prevent a decreased rumen ph, the feeding of buffers like sodium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide is beneficial.
fermentation during yogurt processing and  cheese ripening also causes significant changes in the composition of the  products due to proteolysis, lipolysis, glycolysis, development of flavor  compounds and liberation of non-protein n-compounds, free amino acids, free  fatty acids and ammonia as extensively documented by anifantakis (1991) (table 8 ).
quantitative and compositional variations of massese sheep milk by parity and  stage of lactation.
contribution to the study of the composition of goat milk.
composition and characteristics of goat milk: review 1968 - 1979.
alifakiotis, t.a., katanos, i., hatjiminaoglou, i., zervas, n. & zerfiridis, g. 1980.
complete sequence of the caprine beta-lactoglobulin gene.
this will be even more important in the future, when it becomes better  known how to change original farm milk composition by manipulating e.g. the  feeding of goats and ewes in order to tailor-make milk to the needs of diet  conscious and disease afflicted consumers and their children, and to satisfy  consumers with higher incomes, who have developed a sophisticated connoisseur  taste for goat and ewe milk products.
parkash, s. & jenness, r. 1968.
a well-known difference for goat milk is the predominantly smaller size fat globule compared to cow's milk, which has been credited with easier digestion (fevrier et al., 1993).
fermentation during yogurt processing and cheese ripening also causes significant changes in the composition of the products due to proteolysis, lipolysis, glycolysis, development of flavor compounds and liberation of non-protein n-compounds, free amino acids, free fatty acids and ammonia as extensively documented by anifantakis (1991) (table 8 ).
this includes genetic polymorphisms of milk proteins, which have commercial importance in cheese making, because they influence rennetability, cheese yield and flavor (remeuf & lenoir, 1986; martin, 1993;
compositional aspects of goat milk in northern ireland.
handbook, washington d.c., no. 8-1, 077-109.
posati, l.p. & orr, m.l. 1976.
proteins and bacterial counts may remain stable, and taste and  flavor scores do not change.
cow's milk protein intolerance in infants under 1 year of age: a prospective epidemiological study.
et nutrition 29:115-121.
compositional differences between  goat milk fat and that of cows and buffaloes.
weaning foods cannot replace breast  milk as source of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids.
to further establish the uniqueness of ewe and goat milks will go far in strengthening the small yet ancient dairy sheep and dairy goat industry not only in the mediterranean countries but around the world.
the composition of alpine goat milk during lactation in greece.
when milk is consumed as it becomes available from the animal or if its composition is changed in production and processing, a principal question in the pediatric and popular literature is how adequate is that milk for infant or general human needs (schrander et al., 1993; andersson & draussin, 1993; o'connor, 1994).
dairy and egg products.
further important contributions  have been published by anifantakis et al.
the significance of ewe and goat milk for human nutrition in these  countries varies widely (table 4) from less than 5 kg all milk per person per  year to more than 450 kg, assuming that the fao statistics, which are very  difficult to obtain in some countries, approximate the real conditions.
besides the differences in milk proteins, which have commercial importance in cheese making and medical significance in digestion and allergies, the considerable differences in milk lipid composition have not been studied much in relation to human nutrition.
generally, subclinical or clinical mastitic infections cause the milk contents  of casein, lactose and cheese yields to decrease, milk serum albumin,  immunoglobulins and salt (nacl) contents to increase.
energy shortage in the diet can change the fatty acid composition of milk fat towards more medium-chain fatty acids, while daily milk yield may decrease and fat content increase (moran-fehr, 1981).
growing interest in goat milk has  produced some publications, which document unique nutritional values of goat  milk compared to cow's milk (mack, 1953; kosikowski, 1985; haenlein, 1992).
bacterial counts in goat milk and  their correlations with somatic cell counts, percent fat, and protein.
some goat and sheep breeds differ significantly in the frequencies of the polymorphic loci of milk protein types (jordana et al., 1995) (table 7), with considerable processing and nutritional consequences.
anifantakis, e.m. & kandarakis, j.g. 1980.
dairy products in human health and nutrition.
effect of freezing and frozen storage on the physico- chemical, organoleptic and microbiological characteristics of a semi-hard ewe milk cheese.
goat milk casein has the same four proteins, alpha-s-1, alpha-s-2, beta and kappa, as cow's milk casein, but genetic differences by breeds and individuals in alpha-s-1 casein range quantitatively from zero or "null type" ( o ) to "low types" ( f, d ) and "very high types" ( a, b, c ), with intermediate classes ( e ).
low alpha-s-1 casein  types of goat milk have shorter coagulation time and weaker resistance to heat  treatment than high types.
days in  milk during lactation regressed on ewe milk component contents had coefficients  up to 0.71 (casoli et al., 1989).
content of  alpha-s-1-casein and coagulation properties in goat milk.
cow's milk protein  intolerance in infants under 1 year of age: a prospective epidemiological  study.
parity differences due to parity, number of lactation or age of animal can be  significant in gross milk composition, but this is also confounded with milk  yield levels (casoli et al., 1989).
nutritional value of goat milk.
handbook,  washington d.c., no. 8-1, 077-109.
genetic polymorphism of goat milk proteins.
in studies with milking intervals of 8 and 16 hours the differences were 0.39 percent fat and 0.05 percent protein, respectively (merin et al., 1988).
verlag, munich, 467 pp.
an especially interesting difference of ewe and goat milks compared to  cow's milk is in their basic milk fat composition (posati & orr, 1976;  babayan, 1981) (table 5).
the composition and characteristics of goat milk: a review.
serrano rios, m., sastre, a., perez juez, m.a., estrala, a. & de sebastian, c. (ed.) 1994.
curd firmness at 30 minutes of high type milk is  greater than that of low type milk.
anifantakis, e.m. 1986.
some evidence from recent research with ewes and goats comprises this review.
of the united nations, statistical series no. 117, vol.
the incidence of cow's milk allergy has been found to be about 8 percent or  even more in 1-year old infants (host et al., 1988), but goat milk can be a  successful treatment in most cases of direct or indirect cow milk allergy  (walker, 1964; brenneman, 1978; grezesiak, 1989).
haenlein, g.f.w. 1993.
similar research about ewe milk properties is still needed (steinkamp, 1995).
* refers to countries in the mediterranean area (1) includes all milk from cows, buffaloes, ewes and goats.
fat  contents in goat milk changed from 2.7 percent in mid-lactation to 4.6 percent  during the last week 42 of lactation, protein contents from 3.0 percent to 4.2  percent (voutsinas et al., 1990).
the composition of the milk of ewes and goats and factors affecting it has been reviewed comprehensively (parkash & jenness, 1968; jenness, 1980; anifantakis, 1986; juarez & ramos, 1986).
alifakiotis, t.a., katanos, i., hatjiminaoglou, i., zervas, n. &  zerfiridis, g. 1980.
sheep's milk also has polymorphisms in its milk proteins, but this research is just beginning.
compositional aspects of goat milk  in northern ireland.
this causes usually higher milk yields, changes in milk fat and protein contents and also different cheese making properties.
bindal, m.p. & wadhwa, b.k. 1993.
but more research documentation is needed in this area.
heil, f. & dumont, j.p. 1993.
kalantzopoulos, g. 1994.
it must be understood that in general: (1) milk is the main and hard-to-replace source of dietary ca in human  nutrition regardless of whether it is from ewes, goats or cows; (2) milk was never meant to be an adequate source of some minerals like fe  or vitamins like c, b12, or folate, which are routinely and cheaply  supplemented to daily infant diets from other sources anyway.
the market of ewe and goat milks and their products has essentially three aspects: knowledge of the nutritive values of ewe and goat milks, what causes them to be different or to change, and comparison with cow's and human milks will help each of these markets.
nevertheless, published average data of milk of different  species have to be used with caution, because within each species there are  great genetic differences due to breeds and selected families, which can be  used to market advantage.
in order to produce acceptable yogurt viscosity from cow's milk, firming agents or as much as 5 percent skim milk powder are usually added, which however can increase greatly the lactose content of yogurt to undesirable levels in view of today's' consumers' concern with lactose intolerance (kosikowski, 1985).
topics of profitable feeding and milking of dairy  goats.
medium chain triglycerides.
somatotropin also will increase milk yield, milk fat content,  short-chain and medium-chain fatty acids significantly, while decreasing milk  protein percentage, long-chain fatty acids and net energy balance (disenhaus et  al., 1995).
chianese, l., garro, g., nicolai, m.a., mauriello, r., ferranti, p.,  pizzano, r., cappuccio, u., laezza, p., addeo, f., ramunno, l., rando, a. & rubino, r. 1993.
many components in ewe or goat milk as in  cow's milk, especially fat and protein, are high in colostrum in early  lactation, much lower thereafter until they rise again markedly at the end of  lactation, when yields are low (anifantakis & kandarakis, 1980).
goats, icar, new delhi, india, vol.
however, milk secretion in goats is apocrine, while in cows it is merocrine, which explains why goat milk may have very high counts of somatic cells, especially in late lactation milk or in the last strippings of milk, without any relationship to mastitis (park & humphrey, 1986; haenlein, 1993).
this has been demonstrated for the effect of estrogens during estrus (haenlein & krauss, 1974).
dept. animal sci. & agr.
chianese et al., 1993; heil & dumont, 1993; kalantzopoulos, 1994), and which have potential but yet poorly understood values in human nutrition (haenlein, 1991).
prescription of goat milk in pediatrics - revolutionary?
contents of total solids, total proteins,  casein and phosphorus are higher in high type milk and ph is lower.
j. pediatrics 152:640-644.
this may be the reason, why the popular  literature is full of reports of benefits derived from better digestion of goat  milk compared to cow's milk.
anifantakis, e., kehagias, c., kotouza, e. & kalatzopoulos, g. 1980.
goats and ewe like other ruminants require a daily minimum of long fiber in the diet to prevent acidotic rumen conditions, which lead to fatal parakeratosis and enterotoxemia, or at least to laminitis, significantly depressed milk fat contents, but also possibly increased milk protein contents (merin et al., 1988).
influence of forage-to-concentrate ratios on intake, digestibility, chewing and milk production of dairy goats.
in: goat production, c. gall, ed., academic press, london, 193-232. nrc, 1968.
in order to sell goat and ewe milks and their products  for human consumption, their needs and tastes, it is of considerable market  advantage to know the factors that cause milk composition to vary and to what  extend.
ewe milk is generally much higher in solids contents than goat, cow's or human milks, but composition categories and contents of individual minerals, fatty acids and amino acids vary in different directions between the species, and without relation to higher or lower solids contents.
interest in the nutritive value of goat milk includes all fractions and how they may differ from those in the milk of other species.
contribution to the study of  the composition of goat milk.
ewe milk is generally much  higher in solids contents than goat, cow's or human milks, but composition  categories and contents of individual minerals, fatty acids and amino acids  vary in different directions between the species, and without relation to  higher or lower solids contents.
casoli, c., duranti, e., morbidini, l., panella, f. & vizioli, v. 1989.
it must be emphasized that cow's milks, when ewe or goat  milks are compared with them, also have a wide composition range due to breeds,  e.g. average holstein milk fat at 3.4 percent versus average jersey milk fat at  5.1 percent, and milk protein from 3.3 percent to 3.9 percent (anifantakis,  1986), besides other breeds.
topics of profitable feeding and milking of dairy goats.
a major portion of this variation includes negative correlations between milk yield and composition, i.e. low yields have higher contents and vice versa.
the high solids content of ewe milk enables production of superior yogurt  compared to cow's and most goat milks.
the composition of ewe and goat milks varies over a wide range because of genetic differences between species, between breeds within species and within breeds.
delaware, bulletin 110, 117 pp.
na from 50 to 56; mg  13 to 15; except k decreased from 170 to 144; and citrate from 145 to 81 mg/100  g. daily variation between morning and evening milkings on the same day the gross composition  of milk may also change (simos et al., 1991), which again may be confounded  with milk yield levels, when the milking interval between evening and morning  milking has more or less hours than between morning and evening milking.
the contents of essential fatty  acids also differ in ewe and goat milks compared to human milk, which could be  of significance to nursing infants (wright & bolton, 1989; jackson &  gibson, 1989) (table5, 6, 9).
the same is true for meeting the needs of essential amino acids, except for methionine, phenylalanine, magnesium, thiamine and niacin, as far as requirements are known.
furthermore, the stage of lactation, daily variation, season, parity, type of diet, physiological status, health of the udder and processing procedures change the contents and levels of major and minor constituents in the milks and its products.
effects of recombinant bovine somatotropin on goat milk yield, composition and  plasma metabolites.
mct,  especially caprylic (c8:0) and capric (c10:0) have become accepted treatment  for patients with malabsorption symptoms, a variety of metabolic disorders,  cholesterol problems and infant malnutrition, because of their unique roles of  providing energy to the human metabolism instead of lipids to adipose tissues,  and because of their ability to limit and dissolve serum cholesterol (kalser,  1971; tantibhedhyangkul & hashim, 1978).
symposium somatic cells and milk of small ruminants, bella,  italy, 14 pp.
when grain concentrate supplementation makes up more than 50 percent of the daily dry matter intake by goats, decreased chewing, less rumination and a shortage of salivation of rumen contents occurs (kawas et al., 1991).
recommended daily dietary allowances.