contamination can occur either from a sick animal or, more often, from mishandling of the milk (including handling by sick people).
let us not forget this in our quest for ultimate purity of diet.
while milk is unquestionably a superior food product which supplies us with  calcium, protein, potassium, and calories (a critical consideration in some  parts of the world), raw milk is often subject to contamination by e. coli,  salmonella, campylobacteriosis, and listeria.
pasteurization has allowed dairy farmers to distribute their milk to wider  markets.
nor  will raw-food advocates admit that pasteurization can be beneficial.
but to those people who are concerned about the dairy industry's additives such as antibiotics, growth hormones, and even bleach (to whiten the milk), the entire commercial dairy industry begins to seem, well, yucky.
although every email is read, busy schedules generally do not permit a personal response to each one.
this meant milk had to be trekked into the  city from outlying areas and sold in stores.
throughout much of the history of milk production, people have been subject to whatever contaminants have found their way into the milk.
however, data on these  claims vary, and are no doubt affected by the agenda of the researchers.
and the trouble with contaminated milk is it may look, smell, and taste just fine.
in the last hundred years of urban migration, the home or small farm dairy became a lost breed.
understand i'm talking about home milk production, not milk being sold in stores.
raw milk should also be distinguished from organic milk, which is defined as milk from cows raised and fed in prescribed ways (no growth hormones or antibiotics, access to pasture, etc.).
putting aside the extremist claims that pasteurized milk is the cause of everything from cancer to dust bunnies under the bed, there are indeed drawbacks to pasteurization.
additionally, if anyone in your family has a compromised immune system, pasteurization adds an extra level of safety to their diet.
organic milk is  sometimes pasteurized, sometimes not (it will say so on the carton).
it ain't the government's business if someone prefers to drink raw  milk, and it's in a dairyman's best interests to supply raw milk to his  customers that is clean, fresh, and sanitary.
personally i would not buy unpasteurized milk products from a store.
by the time the milk is consumed, it could be rife with problems.
they must, because they are under the eagle eye of both government inspectors (many of whom are biased against raw milk consumption) as well as customers.
organic milk is sometimes pasteurized, sometimes not (it will say so on the carton).
you  don’t need an expensive pasteurizer for home use.
we can always count on the news media to whip  these concerns into frenzy whenever a true case of e. coli or salmonella come  to light (forgetting that these cases are news-worthy because of their rarity).
hundreds of millions of americans eat grocery-store food their entire lives without a problem.
give the customer what he  wants.
there was once a time when livestock could be kept within city limits, and the job of many children was to herd their family cow to the outskirts of the city to graze for the day.
many people are concerned to the point of paranoia about germs and dirt and  invisible creepy-crawlies that might kill you if you eat them.
even those who personally choose to drink raw milk cannot  dispute the benefits pasteurization has offered to the public at large.
john silveira columnists &lt;script  language="javascript"  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?jscript;zone=l"&gt;  &lt;/script&gt; &lt;noscript&gt; &lt;a  href="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?banner=nonssi;page=01;zone=l"  target="_blank"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?page=01;zone=l"  width=120 border=0&gt;&lt;/a&gt; &lt;/noscript&gt; &lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?jscript;zone=t"&gt;  &lt;/script&gt; &lt;noscript&gt; &lt;a  href="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?banner=nonssi;page=01;zone=t"  target="_blank"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?page=01;zone=t"  width=470 height=90 border=0&gt;&lt;/a&gt; &lt;/noscript&gt; pasteurizing milk by patrice lewis in the last hundred years of urban migration, the home or small farm dairy  became a lost breed.
the lewises live on 20 acres in north idaho with their two homeschooled children, assorted livestock, and a shop that overflows into the house with depressing regularity.
while doubtless there have been incidences of this, on the whole commercial dairies are vigorously inspected for sanitation standards.
there are two standard at-home methods, the fast (flash) or slow system.
but i absolutely believe customers should be able to buy raw milk from  farmers.
we have milked cows, horses, goats, yaks, buffalo, camels, and probably a bunch of other mammals (anything in a pinch, right?).
what's the bottom line?
quite simply, it's the rapid heating and subsequent cooling of milk to kill off microorganisms that might be residing in milk.
but the fact of the matter is, we have some of the safest food in the  world.
the reason is because i know what my cow eats, how she's treated, and how i handle her milk.
and even when refrigeration works,  raw milk simply goes bad faster than its pasteurized counterpart.
but to those people  who are concerned about the dairy industry's additives such as antibiotics,  growth hormones, and even bleach (to whiten the milk), the entire commercial  dairy industry begins to seem, well, yucky.
by the way, pasteurization should not be confused with homogenization, which is simply breaking up the fat globules into smaller sizes so they no longer separate in the milk.
in the slow method, milk is heated between 140 and 150° f and held for  30 minutes.
poor  refrigeration and/or handling of raw milk, as well as poor health of an animal,  can cause microorganisms to grow and multiply, with the potential to cause  disease.
what is pasteurization?
who knew there could be such danger in drinking milk?
so what's a home dairyist to do?
i  seldom hear people say store-bought milk tastes better after drinking cold  fresh raw milk.
the process of heating milk in order to kill pathogens will also naturally  kill some of the beneficial bacteria, vitamins, and enzymes found in fresh  milk.
hundreds of millions of americans eat grocery-store food their entire  lives without a problem.
if you've grown up on a diet of pasteurized milk, you'll  notice a taste difference right away when drinking raw milk (and vice versa).
i've also read accusations that pasteurization allows commercial dairies to get a bit sloppy in the cleanliness department because pasteurizing renders dirty milk safe.
but it's not hard to pasteurize your own milk.
history of pasteurization
in the flash method, heat the milk to 161° f and hold that temperature for 15 to 20 seconds, then cool.
there are two standard  at-home methods, the fast (flash) or slow system.
set the pot in ice water  (replacing the ice when necessary) and stir the milk constantly until the  temperature reaches 60° f, then stir occasionally until the temp reaches  50° f. a sterile stainless steel spoon is recommended.
&lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?jscript;zone=b"&gt;  &lt;/script&gt; &lt;noscript&gt; &lt;a  href="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?banner=
in the flash method, heat the milk to 161° f and hold that temperature  for 15 to 20 seconds, then cool.
there is even  evidence that abraham lincoln's mother, nancy, died of "milk  sickness" after drinking contaminated milk from cows that had eaten the  poisonous white snakeroot plant.
by the way, pasteurization should not be confused with homogenization,  which is simply breaking up the fat globules into smaller sizes so they no  longer separate in the milk.
raw milk should also be distinguished from organic  milk, which is defined as milk from cows raised and fed in prescribed ways (no  growth hormones or antibiotics, access to pasture, etc.).
patrice writes about living simply atwww.rural-revolution.com read more by patrice lewis read more self reliance articles comments regarding this article may be addressed to editor@backwoodshome.com .
if you've grown up on a diet of pasteurized milk, you'll notice a taste difference right away when drinking raw milk (and vice versa).
to some extent this is a reflection on the cow's diet.
and i doubt i ever will.
milk contamination can occur sporadically and unevenly,  so testing may miss contaminated milk.
people  will always find data to support their pre-existing opinions.
your  average family cow is fed much differently than your average commercial cow,  with a diet much richer in grass and less full of grain.
it doesn't help  that we can detect ever-smaller quantities of these microscopic terrors with  the aid of modern technology.
contamination can occur either from a sick animal or, more often, from  mishandling of the milk (including handling by sick people).
nothing's perfect, after all, and in the quest for "safe" milk,  many of the benefits of raw milk are sacrificed.
present by backwoods home  magazine
we became more and more disconnected from  the source of all our dairy products...as well as more concerned about the  quality of those products as dairies became enormous, commercialized  enterprises.
and even when refrigeration works, raw milk simply goes bad faster than its pasteurized counterpart.
prices range from  $300 to $500.
nonssi;page=01;zone=b"  target="_blank"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://www.backwoodshome.com/adserv/ads.pl?page=01;zone=b"  width=470
pasteurization and refrigeration together make milk safe for those without access to fresh milk.
government dairy inspectors will seldom admit that raw milk can be healthy.
as you may have gathered, there are arguments to both sides.
i've also read accusations that pasteurization allows commercial dairies to  get a bit sloppy in the cleanliness department because pasteurizing renders  dirty milk safe.
by the time the milk is consumed, it could be rife  with problems.
diseases passed by milk can  include tuberculosis, diphtheria, strep throat, scarlet fever, and typhoid  fever.
who needed to keep a cow when it was so much simpler to  just buy milk from the grocery store?
but  neither will i bother to pasteurize my own milk products (i make yogurt, cream  cheese, mozzarella and cheddar cheeses, and butter).
so with all these benefits, why on earth would someone choose not to pasteurize their milk?
refrigeration could keep milk fresh for up to a week, but until recently refrigeration as a means of keeping products fresh was expensive and unreliable.
the advantage of a commercially-manufactured pasteurizer is  obvious (consistent results).
but you knew that, didn't you?
should you, as a home milker, pasteurize matilda's or bossy's daily output?
in the slow method, milk is heated between 140 and 150° f and held for 30 minutes.
(and i'm not  squeamish.)
milking matilda on a chilly morning the benefits of pasteurization it is impossible to overemphasize the importance pasteurization (and  refrigeration) has had on public health in developed nations in the last  hundred years.
so is the disadvantage (price).
in both methods, rapid cooling is essential.
who needed to keep a cow when it was so much simpler to just buy milk from the grocery store?
on the other hand, i have no doubt that most dairies which supply raw milk to stores have ultra-clean facilities, uber-healthy cows, and extraordinarily sanitary handling procedures.
the process of heating milk in order to kill pathogens will also naturally kill some of the beneficial bacteria, vitamins, and enzymes found in fresh milk.
don't go above 161° f or the milk will  taste cooked.
set the pot in ice water (replacing the ice when necessary) and stir the milk constantly until the temperature reaches 60° f, then stir occasionally until the temp reaches 50° f. a sterile stainless steel spoon is recommended.
comments may appear online in "feedback" or in the "letters" section of backwoods home magazine.
throughout much of the history of  milk production, people have been subject to whatever contaminants have found  their way into the milk.
milk contamination can occur sporadically and unevenly, so testing may miss contaminated milk.
people will always find data to support their pre-existing opinions.
in commercial dairies, the benefits of pasteurization (safety) are seen to outweigh the drawbacks (taste, possible health benefits).
however i don't pasteurize my milk
quite simply, it's the rapid heating and subsequent  cooling of milk to kill off microorganisms that might be residing in milk.
but the fact of the matter is, we have some of the safest food in the world.
while milk is unquestionably a superior food product which supplies us with calcium, protein, potassium, and calories (a critical consideration in some parts of the world), raw milk is often subject to contamination by e. coli, salmonella, campylobacteriosis, and listeria.
i cannot  say the same for store-bought raw milk products.
nor will raw-food advocates admit that pasteurization can be beneficial.
if your milk-handling procedures are not the cleanest or you lack suitable refrigerationor you're simply squeamish at the thought of raw milkyou may wish to pasteurize.
but as cities grew larger and laws regarding  urban livestock (and their "by-products") changed, cows could no  longer be kept by urban families.
the drawbacks of pasteurization putting aside the extremist claims that pasteurized milk is the cause of  everything from cancer to dust bunnies under the bed, there are indeed  drawbacks to pasteurization.
but neither will i bother to pasteurize my own milk products (i make yogurt, cream cheese, mozzarella and cheddar cheeses, and butter).
also, while bacterial contamination may be below the detectable limit at the time of testing, bacteria are well-known for proliferating rapidly.
let us not forget this in our quest for ultimate  purity of diet.
on the other hand, i have no doubt that most dairies which supply raw milk  to stores have ultra-clean facilities, uber-healthy cows, and extraordinarily  sanitary handling procedures.
we became more and more disconnected from the source of all our dairy products...as well as more concerned about the quality of those products as dairies became enormous, commercialized enterprises.
your average family cow is fed much differently than your average commercial cow, with a diet much richer in grass and less full of grain.
his research led to reduced mortality from puerperal  (childbed) fever and he created the first vaccine for rabies.
comments may appear online in "feedback" or in the  "letters" section of backwoods home magazine.
in commercial dairies, the benefits of pasteurization (safety) are seen to  outweigh the drawbacks (taste, possible health benefits).
unless milk smells sour or has turned to sludge, you can't  detect the presence of e. coli or listeria by taste.
unless milk smells sour or has turned to sludge, you can't detect the presence of e. coli or listeria by taste.
also, while bacterial contamination may  be below the detectable limit at the time of testing, bacteria are well-known  for proliferating rapidly.
while some people advocate testing to ensure the safety on raw milk, there are problems with that.
don't go above 161° f or the milk will taste cooked.
as a result, one question which arises is  whether or not it's necessary to pasteurize your home-grown milk.
both require the use of a  double boiler (a two-gallon pot nested inside a three-gallon pot works fine)  with a lid to put over the upper pot.
while doubtless there have been incidences of this, on the  whole commercial dairies are vigorously inspected for sanitation standards.
pasteurization reduces this risk by an incredible amount.
but i absolutely believe customers should be able to buy raw milk from farmers.
patrice lewis is a freelance writer and is co-founder (with her husband) of a home woodcraft business.
give the customer what he wants.
so with all these benefits, why on earth would someone choose not to  pasteurize their milk?
and the trouble with contaminated milk is it may look, smell,  and taste just fine.
pasteur was a french chemist and microbiologist who had a series of remarkable medical breakthroughs in disease causation and prevention in the mid-1800s.
he found that the process we now call pasteurization would kill the viral pathogens and render the milk safe.
if your  milk-handling procedures are not the cleanest or you lack suitable  refrigeration—or you're simply squeamish at the thought of raw  milk—you may wish to pasteurize.
kids love cookies, but they aren't "bred" to live on cookies to the exclusion of healthier foods.
pasteur deduced that microorganisms were responsible for spoiling milk (and other beverages), which in turn led to people becoming sick.
one slip and they're history.
it was louis pasteur who first came up with the brainchild of  pasteurization.
as a result, one question which arises is whether or not it's necessary to pasteurize your home-grown milk.
pasteur deduced  that microorganisms were responsible for spoiling milk (and other beverages),  which in turn led to people becoming sick.
patrice lewis is a freelance writer and is co-founder (with her  husband) of a home woodcraft business.
there is some evidence that lactose intolerance (as well as a host of other  conditions such as asthma, diabetes, allergies, arthritis, heart disease, etc.)
many people are deciding it's important to return to their agrarian roots, and part of that includes milking their own cow (or goat).
many people are concerned to the point of paranoia about germs and dirt and invisible creepy-crawlies that might kill you if you eat them.
we have  milked cows, horses, goats, yaks, buffalo, camels, and probably a bunch of  other mammals (anything in a pinch, right?).
the current economic climate is changing all that.
even those who personally choose to drink raw milk cannot dispute the benefits pasteurization has offered to the public at large.
you can purchase milk pasteurizers for your home dairy.
many people are deciding  it's important to return to their agrarian roots, and part of that includes  milking their own cow (or goat).
the age of agriculture humans have been drinking milk since the dawn of agriculture.
the reason is because i  know what my cow eats, how she's treated, and how i handle her milk.
patrice writes about  living simply atwww.rural-revolution.com read more by patrice lewis read more self reliance articles comments regarding this article may be addressed to editor@backwoodshome.com .
in the end it's up to you.
this meant milk had to be trekked into the city from outlying areas and sold in stores.
it doesn't help that we can detect ever-smaller quantities of these microscopic terrors with the aid of modern technology.
diseases passed by milk can include tuberculosis, diphtheria, strep throat, scarlet fever, and typhoid fever.
understand i'm talking about home milk production, not milk being sold in  stores.
to pasteurize or not to pasteurize should you, as a home milker, pasteurize matilda's or bossy's daily output?
although every email is  read, busy schedules generally do not permit a personal response to each one.
refrigeration could keep milk  fresh for up to a week, but until recently refrigeration as a means of keeping  products fresh was expensive and unreliable.
the advantage of a commercially-manufactured pasteurizer is obvious (consistent results).
kids love cookies, but  they aren't "bred" to live on cookies to the exclusion of healthier  foods.
i seldom hear people say store-bought milk tastes better after drinking cold fresh raw milk.
humans have been drinking milk since the dawn of agriculture.
it ain't the government's business if someone prefers to drink raw milk, and it's in a dairyman's best interests to supply raw milk to his customers that is clean, fresh, and sanitary.
additionally, if anyone in your family  has a compromised immune system, pasteurization adds an extra level of safety  to their diet.
we can always count on the news media to whip these concerns into frenzy whenever a true case of e. coli or salmonella come to light (forgetting that these cases are news-worthy because of their rarity).
i cannot say the same for store-bought raw milk products.
(and i'm not squeamish.)
a double boiler and  thermometer will work just fine.
they must, because they are under the eagle eye  of both government inspectors (many of whom are biased against raw milk  consumption) as well as customers.
pasteurization and refrigeration together make milk safe for those without  access to fresh milk.
his research led to reduced mortality from puerperal (childbed) fever and he created the first vaccine for rabies.
while some people advocate testing to ensure the safety on raw milk, there  are problems with that.
however, data on these claims vary, and are no doubt affected by the agenda of the researchers.
there is some evidence that lactose intolerance (as well as a host of other conditions such as asthma, diabetes, allergies, arthritis, heart disease, etc.) is reduced or eliminated through drinking raw milk.
that's because i'm satisfied with my milk-handling procedures, i have adequate refrigeration, and no one in my family has a compromised immune system.
there is even evidence that abraham lincoln's mother, nancy, died of "milk sickness" after drinking contaminated milk from cows that had eaten the poisonous white snakeroot plant.
that's because  i'm satisfied with my milk-handling procedures, i have adequate refrigeration,  and no one in my family has a compromised immune system.
so what's a home  dairyist to do?
poor refrigeration and/or handling of raw milk, as well as poor health of an animal, can cause microorganisms to grow and multiply, with the potential to cause disease.
pasteur was a french chemist and microbiologist who had a  series of remarkable medical breakthroughs in disease causation and prevention  in the mid-1800s.
there was once a time when livestock could be kept within city limits,  and the job of many children was to herd their family cow to the outskirts of  the city to graze for the day.
it is impossible to overemphasize the importance pasteurization (and refrigeration) has had on public health in developed nations in the last hundred years.
he found that the process we now  call pasteurization would kill the viral pathogens and render the milk safe.
both require the use of a double boiler (a two-gallon pot nested inside a three-gallon pot works fine) with a lid to put over the upper pot.
how to pasteurize you can purchase milk pasteurizers for your home dairy.
is reduced or eliminated through drinking raw milk.
the lewises live on 20 acres in north  idaho with their two homeschooled children, assorted livestock, and a shop that  overflows into the house with depressing regularity.
height=90 border=0&gt;&lt;/a&gt; &lt;/noscript&gt; www.backwoodshome.com designed and maintained by  oliver del signore © copyright 1998 -
pasteurization has allowed dairy farmers to distribute their milk to wider markets.
nothing's perfect, after all, and in the quest for "safe" milk, many of the benefits of raw milk are sacrificed.
prices range from $300 to $500.
similarly, cows love grain but were bred to live on grass.
but as cities grew larger and laws regarding urban livestock (and their "by-products") changed, cows could no longer be kept by urban families.
it was louis pasteur who first came up with the brainchild of pasteurization.