when i  discovered it, i contemplated trying goats milk.
thanks i can handle goat's yoghurt but goat's cheese makes me extremely ill.
this is a great post, alisa is a wonderful advocate for all things dairy free.
there are some  other factors in goat milk that make it easier to digest for some people (see go dairy free: the guide and cookbook for details), but if you  are quite lactose intolerant, chugging back glasses of goat milk probably  wouldn’t be a nice thing to do to your stomach.
there are no hard and fast rules when it  comes to our immune systems.
wonderful guest post from alisa!
this is just the tip of the dairy iceberg, but hopefully helps to answer a  few of your questions and concerns about goat milk.
i refer to your "go dairy free" book quite often, even in my business as a nutritionist.
i''m completely dairy free as i feel it's safer that way.
her words about all mammal milk still  being dairy have stuck in my mind since she spoke to my support group a few  years ago.
i love that you share great recipes – no one misses the dairy!
we really have to have dairy (and other offenders) out of  our diet to see its effects though.
anyone with concerns about dairy should have a copy in  their resource library.
i've recently been testing goat dairy (as in i've had a touch of cultured goat  butter on veggies – i guess that's like dipping my big toe in the water  to see if it's comfortable) and have been okay so far, but it's different for  everyone.
however upon my first google search i decided that if he had that big of a problem with cow dairy, chances are he would with goat
i love your book and your website and refer to it quite a bit for "uncheese" ideas.
like everything else,  it's a journey especially the older you are when you do it.
in fact, if you look up goat  milk and sheep milk online, you will probably come across theamerican  dairy goat association and the wisconsin sheep dairy  cooperative.
moving on…there some other factors to keep in mind regarding goat  milk products… first, unlike casein, which can vary in composition from mammal to mammal,  lactose is typically lactose.
anyone with concerns about dairy should have a copy in their resource library.
i  will have to check alisa out on fb http://tastyeatsathome.com alta great post!
incoming search terms: gluten in cow\s milk (6) a2 milk whole foods (6) casein intolerance (4) is camel milk casein free (3) lactose free evaporated milk substitute (2) camel cluten (2) goat cheese casein free (2) is camel milk good for celiac (1) is goat milk and cheese better for celiacs (1) related posts: q & a with dr. vikki: testing for food  sensitivities beyond gluten (and the modified elimination... gluten free  menu plan - week of december 19
so why can some people tolerate one type of milk, but not another?
do you (or your child) have a dairy allergy or a casein  intolerance?
however, that leaves a whopping 60 to  80% of us who do, so it is best to get an allergy test before trialing a  challenge with goat milk, particularly where severe allergies are a  concern.
i'd love to read  alisa's book – must get it!
adventures of a gluten free mom gluten and allergen friendly recipes that the whole family will love recipes condiments, dressings, marinades, sauces and seasonings dairy-free “cheez” tips for getting your kids to embrace whole foods ask sam kid favorite gluten/allergy free products kid-friendly recipes blood tests for celiac disease celiac disease food allergies and gluten sensitivity gluten free medications healing leaky guts: our trip to healthnow medical center research articles ask heidi: your questions answered gluten free 101 what is gluten free 101?
i will pick it up to  look at a recipe and the next thing you know i'm re-reading it, because it's so  comprehensive and well researched.
then, if and when symptoms subside, i might challenge with goat milk to see if it is tolerated.
i’ve personally never consumed goat milk products or “challenged” with them, since i know i am allergic.
i will pick it up to look at a recipe and the next thing you know i'm re-reading it, because it's so comprehensive and well researched.
shirley @ gfe wonderful guest post from alisa!
in fact, if you look up goat milk and sheep milk online, you will probably come across theamerican dairy goat association and the wisconsin sheep dairy cooperative.
the amount of lactose from milk product to milk product can vary slightly; for example it has been calculated at 4.1% in goat milk and 4.7% in cow milk.
we love her homemade chevre and it affects us less than cow dairy, but we both realize that it still affects us.
xo, heidi i can't handle cow's milk, and for a while tried raw goat's milk thinking it was working for me… but my hayfever and sinus problems never went away until i completely went off all dairy.
heidi here, if you haven’t done so already, click here to download a free copy of smart school time recipes , a 173 page e-cookbook with 125 recipes and over 100 photos from dozens of health bloggers and cookbook authors(note: not all of the recipes are gluten-free but they are easy to adapt).
we really have to have dairy (and other offenders) out of our diet to see its effects though.
celiac awareness month: may 2012 use the coupon code 06-006204 for free shipping on a vitamix!
xoxo return to top of page copyright © 2012 ·
heidi, it was a conversation we had on facebook, just after i had started blogging, that pushed me to pursue further.
another reason for not trying alternate mammal dairy is that he didn't like dairy to begin with.
so we never tried it.
there are some other factors in goat milk that make it easier to digest for some people (see go dairy free: the guide and cookbook for details), but if you are quite lactose intolerant, chugging back glasses of goat milk probably wouldn’t be a nice thing to do to your stomach.
moving on…there some other factors to keep in mind regarding goat milk products… first, unlike casein, which can vary in composition from mammal to mammal, lactose is typically lactose.
like many of my readers, i also pondered if goat’s milk would be a safe alternative for my kiddos.
alisa's book is an outstanding resource for all.
after doing quite a bit of research on  casein (which i will share in an upcoming post), i personally decided to avoid  going that route given our family’s history of celiac disease and  autoimmunity.
now we are completely casein free, not just cow's milk free…and where i once enjoyed cheese on the side, i have discovered that i am sooooo much better off without dairy at all.
seriously, i would be a very wealthy woman if i received a dollar (why stop at a dime as long as i’m dreaming here) every time i received the question “is goat milk considered dairy?” from viewers ofgo dairy free.
like everything else, it's a journey especially the older you are when you do it.
if you are testing dairy-free living via an elimination diet, you may be  doing yourself a huge injustice if you consume goat milk during the cow milk  elimination.
goat milk is  significantly lower in folic acid and vitamin b-12 than cow milk, so make sure  you eating plenty of leafy greens and foods such as meat and chicken, or  supplement if relying on goat milk for nutrition.
right from the get-go let’s clear the air…in general all mammal milks (sheep, goat, camel, etc.) and their related products (cheese, sour cream, etc.) are classified as dairy.
the predominant milk protein (casein) in goat milk is slightly closer in  composition to human milk than cow milk is, and thus may be easier to tolerate  and digest for some individuals.
my little guy can't have any cow dairy~ lactose or casein.
heidi here, if you haven’t done so already, click here to download a free copy of smart school time recipes , a 173 page e-cookbook with 125 recipes and over 100 photos from dozens of  health bloggers and cookbook authors(note: not all of the recipes are  gluten-free but they are easy to adapt).
the predominant milk protein (casein) in goat milk is slightly closer in composition to human milk than cow milk is, and thus may be easier to tolerate and digest for some individuals.
glugle gluten free | gluten-free news you can use –  september 30, 2011 http://andloveittoo.com sunnyb @ andloveitto i had been told for years, by dr's mind you, that dairy only refered to  cow's milk and cow's milk products.
this is just the tip of the dairy iceberg, but hopefully helps to answer a few of your questions and concerns about goat milk.
also, i must disclaim that you shouldn’t undergo any change in diet without the supervision of a physician.
second, as mentioned, mammal milks do have slightly different make-ups, and the differences don’t necessarily end with casein.
xo, heidi http://quirkycooking.blogspot.com/ jo whitton i can't handle cow's milk, and for a while tried raw goat's milk thinking  it was working for me… but my hayfever and sinus problems never went  away until i completely went off all dairy.
like many of my readers, i also pondered if goat’s milk would be a  safe alternative for my kiddos.
this is a great post, alisa is a wonderful advocate for all things dairy  free.
even up to the point where i started my blog, i still believed this to be true.
adventuresgfmom cheese is my biggest hang up on being dairy-free…and yes, i've been  guilty of sneaking some goat cheese every now and then!
there are so many variables when it comes to  what different people can tolerate and you've made it easy to understand,  alisa.
if so, do you consume goat milk (orcamel milk!) products or do you avoid dairy products altogether?
the milks from different mammals have slightly different compositions,  which is why some people may be allergic to cow milk but able to tolerate goat  milk.
there are no hard and fast rules when it comes to our immune systems.
agfm's most popular recipes "tollhouse" chocolate chip cookies: gluten-free, dairy-free and  egg-free basil pesto: dairy-free caesar salad dressing: corn-free, dairy-free, egg-free and soy-free goldfish crackers: gluten free
if so, do you consume goat milk (orcamel milk!) products or  do you avoid dairy products altogether?
sam and luke's  reaction to dairy is blatantly obvious (luke with eczema and diarrhea and sam  with constipation and excessive congestion)…dairy is a lot like gluten  for me, it lurks around silently until all heck breaks loose with serious  problems.
after doing quite a bit of research on casein (which i will share in an upcoming post), i personally decided to avoid going that route given our family’s history of celiac disease and autoimmunity.
a friend and i who try to stay dairy free always commiserate with each other after eating another friend's homemade goat cheese.
alisa, this was straightforward and simple.
adventures of a gluten free mom gluten and allergen friendly recipes that the whole family will love i am very excited to have my dear friend alisa fleming guest post here today.
the milks from different mammals have slightly different compositions, which is why some people may be allergic to cow milk but able to tolerate goat milk.
and, dairy-free or not, the recipes are wonderful!
i’m honored to be guest posting here today, and excited to share a little insight about an often misunderstood food, goat milk.
in addition to running two websites (phew, i need a nap just thinking about that!), alisa is also the author of a fantastic book, go dairy free: the guide and cookbook for milk allergies, lactose intolerance, and casein-free living, which has been my constant companion in the kitchen since both of my children were diagnosed with a casein intolerance just over a year ago.
shirley http://adventuresofaglutenfreemom.com
it is the most comprehensive resource out there on  the differences in milk allergies and intolerances and what people can do to  regain their health.
personally, i would remove all dairy, including goat.
haven't tried goat's milk but don't think i'll risk it either.
even up to the point where i started my  blog, i still believed this to be true.
glugle gluten free | gluten-free news you can use – september 30, 2011 i had been told for years, by dr's mind you, that dairy only refered to cow's milk and cow's milk products.
of course, it's not made any easier when you don't have a "true" dairy allergy (especially if you don't notice any overt symptoms like me).
so i keep away from all dairy now.
i  go into great detail on this topic in my book,go dairy free: the guide  and cookbook for milk allergies, lactose intolerance, and casein-free living , covering the benefits of the different milks and why they might work  for some, but today i’ll stick to heidi’s question, touching on  goat milk.
heidi requested that i address goat milk for her readers since it seems to be a source of confusion among many who have issues with dairy.
in addition to running two websites (phew, i need a  nap just thinking about that!), alisa is also the author of a fantastic book, go dairy free: the guide and cookbook for milk allergies, lactose  intolerance, and casein-free living, which has been my constant  companion in the kitchen since both of my children were diagnosed with a casein  intolerance just over a year ago.
however, that leaves a whopping 60 to 80% of us who do, so it is best to get an allergy test before trialing a challenge with goat milk, particularly where severe allergies are a concern.
when i discovered it, i contemplated trying goats milk.
now that he  is dairy free he actually likes the vegan versions of things better than the  originals~ hmmmm i think his little body knew something better than any test  out there (by the way he tested negative for allergy).
heidi, it was a conversation we had on facebook, just after i had started  blogging, that pushed me to pursue further.
the amount of lactose from  milk product to milk product can vary slightly; for example it has been  calculated at 4.1% in goat milk and 4.7% in cow milk.
someone who is lactose intolerant may even  be intolerant to the lactose in human milk.
and yes, i've been guilty of sneaking some goat cheese every now and then!
everyone is different though, so i asked alisa if she could  help explain the differences and similarities of various mammal milks and why  they may or may not be “safe” for those with dairy  allergies/intolerances.
goat milk is significantly lower in folic acid and vitamin b-12 than cow milk, so make sure you eating plenty of leafy greens and foods such as meat and chicken, or supplement if relying on goat milk for nutrition.
i go into more detail on goat milk, sheep milk, raw milk,a2 milk, camel milk (yes, i said camel milk), the different milk alternatives and more in my book, go dairy free.
second, as mentioned, mammal milks do have slightly different make-ups, and  the differences don’t necessarily end with casein.
then, if and when symptoms subside, i might challenge with goat milk to see if  it is tolerated.
i will have to check alisa out on fb great post!
i refer to your "go dairy free" book quite often, even in my  business as a nutritionist.
someone who is lactose intolerant may even be intolerant to the lactose in human milk.
are we all clear on that?
http://glutenfreeeasily.com
sam and luke's reaction to dairy is blatantly obvious (luke with eczema and diarrhea and sam with constipation and excessive congestion)…dairy is a lot like gluten for me, it lurks around silently until all heck breaks loose with serious problems.
gluten free 101: "breakfast in  minute casserole" (okay, so it's more like an hour...but wh... 9  comments filed in: featured, guest posts tagged: a2 milk, alisa  fleming, alisacooks.com, autism, autoimmune disease, camel's milk, casein  intolerance, casein-free, celiac disease, cow's milk, dairy allergy, dairy-free, go dairy free, goat's milk, godairyfree.com, lactose intolerance, mammal milks,  mare's milk, sheep milk http://www.glutenfreeforgood.com/blog/ glutenfreeforgood great post, heidi and alisa.
now that he is dairy free he actually likes the vegan versions of things better than the originals~ hmmmm i think his little body knew something better than any test out there (by the way he tested negative for allergy).
i'd love to read alisa's book – must get it!
there aren’t any firm numbers, but it’s been estimated that roughly 20 to 40% of milk allergic individuals do not react to goat milk products.
a friend and i who try to stay dairy free always commiserate with  each other after eating another friend's homemade goat cheese.
connect with alisa on twitter and facebook for all the latest and greatest dairy-free info!
and really i love dairy-free eating and recipes.
the point is, you are here now
xoxo and welcome to my blog!
also, i  must disclaim that you shouldn’t undergo any change in diet without the  supervision of a physician.
it is the most comprehensive resource out there on the differences in milk allergies and intolerances and what people can do to regain their health.
there aren’t any firm numbers, but  it’s been estimated that roughly 20 to 40% of milk allergic individuals
i love your book  and your website and refer to it quite a bit for "uncheese" ideas.
more twitter facebook pinterest subscribe via rss  subscribe via email i’ve been nominated for ‘personality of the year” (would  love your vote!)
also, keep in mind that albeit rare, some people are more  allergic to goat milk than cow milk!
we love her  homemade chevre and it affects us less than cow dairy, but we both realize that  it still affects us.
everyone is different though, so i asked alisa if she could help explain the differences and similarities of various mammal milks and why they may or may not be “safe” for those with dairy allergies/intolerances.
do not react to goat milk products.
there are so many variables when it comes to what different people can tolerate and you've made it easy to understand, alisa.
oh, and there are over 200 recipes in there too, for  those of you (like me) who go straight to the food!
i’m honored to be guest posting here today, and  excited to share a little insight about an often misunderstood food, goat  milk.
another reason for not trying  alternate mammal dairy is that he didn't like dairy to begin with.
of course, it's not  made any easier when you don't have a "true" dairy allergy  (especially if you don't notice any overt symptoms like me).
oh, and there are over 200 recipes in there too, for those of you (like me) who go straight to the food!
do you (or your child) have a dairy allergy or a casein intolerance?
i found it interesting that i  reacted worse to the dried (powdered) goat's milk, which i tried making  ice-cream with once.
heidi requested that i address goat milk for her readers since it  seems to be a source of confusion among many who have issues with dairy.
seriously, i would be a very wealthy woman if i received a dollar (why stop at  a dime as long as i’m dreaming here) every time i received the question  “is goat milk considered dairy?” from viewers ofgo dairy  free.
i go into more detail  on goat milk, sheep milk, raw milk,a2 milk, camel milk (yes, i  said camel milk), the different milk alternatives and more in my book, go dairy free.
and really i love dairy-free eating and  recipes.
human milk is obviously the least allergenic milk for humans, as it is “designed” specifically for our bodies.
now we are completely casein free, not just cow's milk free…and  where i once enjoyed cheese on the side, i have discovered that i am sooooo  much better off without dairy at all.
whether you're here looking for advice on how to go gluten free (with delicious  kid-approved recipes of course!), or to read some of the latest medical  research on celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity...or even to read  about one woman's rise from the depths of gluten-free despair to a place of  downright enthusiasm, it makes no matter.
thanks ruthie i can handle goat's yoghurt but goat's cheese makes me extremely ill.
i go into great detail on this topic in my book,go dairy free: the guide and cookbook for milk allergies, lactose intolerance, and casein-free living , covering the benefits of the different milks and why they might work for some, but today i’ll stick to heidi’s question, touching on goat milk.
human milk is obviously the least allergenic milk for humans, as it  is “designed” specifically for our bodies.
the closer a milk  is in composition to human milk, the lower the probability of being allergic.
i found it interesting that i reacted worse to the dried (powdered) goat's milk, which i tried making ice-cream with once.
right from the get-go let’s clear the air…in general all  mammal milks (sheep, goat, camel, etc.) and their related products (cheese,  sour cream, etc.) are classified as dairy.
the closer a milk is in composition to human milk, the lower the probability of being allergic.
alisa's book was so enlightening for me, it launched me into discovering how much casein is gluten's notorious sidekick!
i’ve personally never consumed goat milk products or  “challenged” with them, since i know i am allergic.
her words about all mammal milk still being dairy have stuck in my mind since she spoke to my support group a few years ago.
also, keep in mind that albeit rare, some people are more allergic to goat milk than cow milk!
gluten free 101: recipes, resources and other fun stuff q & a with doctor vikki about did cow’s milk get your goat?
posted on september 27, 2011 by  adventuresgfmom i am very excited to have my dear friend alisa fleming guest post here  today.
i''m completely  dairy free as i feel it's safer that way.
i've recently been testing goat dairy (as in i've had a touch of cultured goat butter on veggies – i guess that's like dipping my big toe in the water to see if it's comfortable) and have been okay so far, but it's different for everyone.
great post, heidi and alisa.
however upon my first google  search i decided that if he had that big of a problem with cow dairy, chances  are he would with goat
alisa's book was so enlightening for me, it launched me into discovering  how much casein is gluten's notorious sidekick!
if you are testing dairy-free living via an elimination diet, you may be doing yourself a huge injustice if you consume goat milk during the cow milk elimination.
alisa is the founder and chief editor of the popular website, go dairy free, she also authors her personal blog, alisa cooks.
so  let's have some fun!read
lifestyle theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in
shirley cheese is my biggest hang up on being dairy-free…