but i cannot help feel that, especially  in this area, we are making our lives unnecessarily complicated and creating  even more unwelcome hazards for those who have a problem with animal milks.
from the editor there has long been a disconnect between terminology used by ‘experts’ and common parlance and for the most part this is a matter for humour rather than concern.
but occasionally the disconnect can lead  to confusion which can not only be dangerous but life threatening – and  such is the case in the allergy world.
clumsy  and inelegant as this may be, it does at least describe what is in the pack.
dairy free find me on subscribe2 to be notified of new blogs enter your email address and  click 'subscribe'.
much less so  is the possibility, highlighted by the fsa, that some manufacturers may make  frozen ice cream-like products from dairy-free ingredients (such as soya) which  would be safe for someone who was allergic/intolerant to animal milks, but  include the minimum required amount of dairy protein (2.5%) to be allowed to  call them ‘ice creams’ – so marketing them as  ‘dairy-free ice creams’.
in the extremely unlikely event that  you were familiar with the arcane intricacies of labeling law, your antenna  would prick up when you saw ‘dairy-free’ and ‘ice  cream’ together in the same title, but a ‘normal’ dairy  allergic/intolerant person should reasonably expect a product that is labelled  ‘dairy free’ to be just that.
to most people, milk is white and  liquid and goes on cereals and in your tea.
so no matter how creamy, decadent and delicious ‘alternative ice creams’ may be, they all have to be called ‘frozen desserts’ or ‘dairy-free frozen desserts’ (both of which could equally well refer to a cheesecake) or opt for some way out and totally unhelpful name such as boojabooja’s ‘stuff in a tub’.
so surely, as with milk, the trick would be to require the manufacturer to specify the origin of the product – cow’s milk ice cream, goat’s milk ice cream, soya ice cream, rice-based ice cream.
‘milk’ made from anything else (a bean, a nut, a hemp seed) has to be referred to as a ‘dairy-free alternative to milk’ or as an almond or soya ‘drink’.
filed under: dairy-free, freefrom food tagged with: allergy/intolerance, almond milk, animal milks, buffalo milk, coconut milk, cow's milk, dairy-free, dairy-free ice cream, definition of dairy-free, digestive conditions, eczema/skin care, food standards agency, food standards agency guidelines, food standards agency newsletter, freefrom food/recipes, freefrom ice cream, goat's milk, sheep's milk, soy milk, what it means to be dairy freefiled under: dairy-free, freefrom food tagged with: allergy/intolerance, almond milk, animal milks, buffalo milk, coconut milk, cow's milk, dairy-free, dairy-free ice cream, definition of dairy-free, digestive conditions, eczema/skin care, food standards agency, food standards agency guidelines, food standards agency newsletter, freefrom food/recipes, freefrom ice cream, goat's milk, sheep's milk, soy milk, what it means to be dairy free
the term  ‘milk’ can only be used in reference to the milk of mammals –  cows, goats, camels, humans etc.
but  no – the term ‘ice cream’ can only, according to the food  labelling regulation 1996, be used for a product which contains a minimum of  2.5% milk protein.
yet, 2.5% milk protein in a food could cause a dramatic, potentially even fatal, reaction in someone who was seriously allergic.
take ‘dairy-free’, highlighted with  reference to ‘ice cream’, on page 7 of  the food standards  agency’s most recentnewsletter.
and then there is ‘milk’.
to unsubscribe enter your email and click 'unsubscribe' your email: archives select month  april 2012  march 2012  february 2012  january  2012  december 2011  november 2011  october 2011  september 2011  august 2011   july 2011  june 2011  may 2011  april 2011  march 2011  february 2011  january  2011  december 2010  november 2010  october 2010  september 2010  august 2010   july 2010 topics
the term ‘allergy’ itself is interpreted very differently by the medical profession and the average man or woman in the street (more of this anon…) but ‘drilling down’ to specific allergies, the situation just become muddier.
so, would not the simplest way to differentiate between  the different ‘milks’ be to require that they specify their origin  e.g. cow’s milk, goat’s milk, soya milk, oat milk etc – which  is how they are referred to in common parlance anyhow.
to the average punter – well certainly to me –  ‘dairy-free’ would suggest free of the milk of all animals.
so surely, as with milk, the trick would be to require the  manufacturer to specify the origin of the product – cow’s milk ice  cream, goat’s milk ice cream, soya ice cream, rice-based ice cream.
your email: return to top of page copyright © 2012 ·
they recognise the concept rather than the ingredients.
clumsy and inelegant as this may be, it does at least describe what is in the pack.
but no – the term ‘ice cream’ can only, according to the food labelling regulation 1996, be used for a product which contains a minimum of 2.5% milk protein.
the term ‘allergy’ itself is interpreted very differently by  the medical profession and the average man or woman in the street (more of this  anon…) but ‘drilling down’ to specific allergies, the  situation just become muddier.
again, this is clunky and irritating but relatively harmless.
take ‘dairy-free’, highlighted with reference to ‘ice cream’, on page 7 of the food standards agency’s most recentnewsletter.
to most people, milk is white and liquid and goes on cereals and in your tea.
milk, soya, coconut or, as is the case with many of the cheaper ice creams,  mainly from vegetable fats.
as with milk, to the average punter an ice cream is a sweet food that is  creamy and frozen, whether it is made from cow’s milk/cream, goat’s
filed under: dairy-free, freefrom food tagged with:  allergy/intolerance, almond milk, animal milks, buffalo milk, coconut milk,  cow's milk, dairy-free, dairy-free ice cream, definition of dairy-free,  digestive conditions, eczema/skin care, food standards agency, food standards  agency guidelines, food standards agency newsletter, freefrom food/recipes,  freefrom ice cream, goat's milk, sheep's milk, soy milk, what it means to be
of course it is easy to carp and i am well aware that drawing up these  kinds of regulation is a nightmare job
no particularly good reason, but it just seems logical.
whether it comes from a cow, a goat, a soya bean, an oat or a coconut, it looks the same and is, largely, used for the same purpose.
but i cannot help feel that, especially in this area, we are making our lives unnecessarily complicated and creating even more unwelcome hazards for those who have a problem with animal milks.
no  particularly good reason, but it just seems logical.
so no matter how creamy, decadent and delicious  ‘alternative ice creams’ may be, they all have to be called  ‘frozen desserts’ or ‘dairy-free frozen desserts’ (both  of which could equally well refer to a cheesecake) or opt for some way out and  totally unhelpful name such as boojabooja’s
→back to foods matter sites the dangers of so-called dairy-free ice cream september 28, 2011 by  michelle 4 comments there has long been a disconnect between terminology used by  ‘experts’ and common parlance and for the most part this is a  matter for humour rather than concern.
‘milk’ made from anything else (a  bean, a nut, a hemp seed) has to be referred to as a ‘dairy-free  alternative to milk’ or as an almond or soya ‘drink’.
but no, ‘dairy  free’ only refers to cow’s milk  – so goat’s milk  or buffalo milk is, technically ‘dairy-free’ even though it may  have been ‘milked’ in a dairy… this could have implications  for someone who was allergic to all animal milks (a not uncommon situation) but  did not realise that a product marked ‘dairy free’ might contain  goat, sheep or buffalo milk to which they could also react.
much less so is the possibility, highlighted by the fsa, that some manufacturers may make frozen ice cream-like products from dairy-free ingredients (such as soya) which would be safe for someone who was allergic/intolerant to animal milks, but include the minimum required amount of dairy protein (2.5%) to be allowed to call them ‘ice creams’ – so marketing them as ‘dairy-free ice creams’.
to the average punter – well certainly to me – ‘dairy-free’ would suggest free of the milk of all animals.
in the extremely unlikely event that you were familiar with the arcane intricacies of labeling law, your antenna would prick up when you saw ‘dairy-free’ and ‘ice cream’ together in the same title, but a ‘normal’ dairy allergic/intolerant person should reasonably expect a product that is labelled ‘dairy free’ to be just that.
yet, 2.5% milk protein in a food  could cause a dramatic, potentially even fatal, reaction in someone who was  seriously allergic.
of course it is easy to carp and i am well aware that drawing up these kinds of regulation is a nightmare job
minimum theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in
the term ‘milk’ can only be used in reference to the milk of mammals – cows, goats, camels, humans etc.
they recognise the concept rather than the  ingredients.
so, would not the simplest way to differentiate between the different ‘milks’ be to require that they specify their origin e.g. cow’s milk, goat’s milk, soya milk, oat milk etc – which is how they are referred to in common parlance anyhow.
but no, ‘dairy free’ only refers to cow’s milk – so goat’s milk or buffalo milk is, technically ‘dairy-free’ even though it may have been ‘milked’ in a dairy… this could have implications for someone who was allergic to all animal milks (a not uncommon situation) but did not realise that a product marked ‘dairy free’ might contain goat, sheep or buffalo milk to which they could also react.
whether it comes from a cow, a  goat, a soya bean, an oat or a coconut, it looks the same and is, largely, used  for the same purpose.
but the situation with ‘ice cream’ is more risky.
but occasionally the disconnect can lead to confusion which can not only be dangerous but life threatening – and such is the case in the allergy world.
as with milk, to the average punter an ice cream is a sweet food that is creamy and frozen, whether it is made from cow’s milk/cream, goat’s milk, soya, coconut or, as is the case with many of the cheaper ice creams, mainly from vegetable fats.