according to this researcher, all these conclusions reveal that regular consumption of goats’ milk – a natural food with highly beneficial nutritional characteristics – “has positive effects on mineral metabolism, recovery from ferropenic anaemia and bone mineralisation in rats.
javier díaz castro points out that the inclusion of goat milk with normal or double calcium content in the diet “favours digestive and metabolic utilisation of iron, calcium and phosphorus and their deposit in target organs – parts of the organism to which these minerals are preferably sent – involved in their homeostatic regulation”.
this entry was written by laloo, posted on august 1, 2007 at 11:57  am, filed under general.
post a comment or leave a trackback: trackback url.
follow any comments here with  therss feed for this post.
to carry out this study, the metabolic balance technique has been used both in rats with experimentally induced nutritional ferropenic anaemia and in a control group of rats.
results obtained in the study reveal that ferropenic anaemia and bone  demineralisation caused by this pathology have a better recovery with goat  milk.
department of physiology  http://www.ugr.es/~fisiougr/, university of granada http://www.ugr.es.
« frozen yogurt happiness thaws our winter the buzzzzz-o-meter» new studies on goat milk show it is more beneficial… new studies on goat milk show it is more beneficial to health than cow milk.
among these properties it helps to prevent ferropenic anaemia (iron deficiency) and bone demineralisation (softening of the bones).
research carried out at the department of physiology of the university of granada (universidad de granada http://www.ugr.es) has revealed that goat milk has more beneficial properties to health than cow milk.
although there is no doubt that these findings may be a base for further in  depth study of the multiple health benefits of goat milk, the ugr  (http://www.ugr.es) researcher warns that “studies in humans are still  required in order to confirm the findings obtained in rats and to promote  goats’ milk consumption both in the general population and in the  population affected by nutritional ferropenic anaemia and pathologies related  to bone demineralisation”.
new studies on goat milk show it is more beneficial to health than cow milk.
due to the higher bioavailability of iron, calcium, phosphorus and magnesium, the restoration of altered haematological parameters and the better levels of parathyroid hormone (pth), a hormone that regulates the calcium balance in the organism was found in the rats that consumed this food.
bookmark the permalink.
in addition, and unlike observations in cow milk, its calcium enrichment does  not interfere in the bioavailability of the minerals studied”.
although there is no doubt that these findings may be a base for further in depth study of the multiple health benefits of goat milk, the ugr (http://www.ugr.es) researcher warns that “studies in humans are still required in order to confirm the findings obtained in rats and to promote goats’ milk consumption both in the general population and in the population affected by nutritional ferropenic anaemia and pathologies related to bone demineralisation”.
this project, conducted by doctor javier díaz castro and directed by  professors margarita sánchez campos, inmaculada lópez aliaga and  josé muñoz alférez, focuses on the comparison between the  nutritional properties of goat milk and cow milk, both with normal calcium  content and calcium enriched, against the bioavailability of iron, calcium,  phosphorus and magnesium.
according to this researcher, all these conclusions reveal that regular  consumption of goats’ milk – a natural food with highly beneficial  nutritional characteristics – “has positive effects on mineral  metabolism, recovery from ferropenic anaemia and bone mineralisation in rats.
required fields are marked *name *
reference: dr javier díaz castro.
part of the results of this research has been published in the prestigious scientific journals international dairy journal and journal dairy science.
among these properties  it helps to prevent ferropenic anaemia (iron deficiency) and bone  demineralisation (softening of the bones).
javier díaz castro points out that the inclusion of goat milk with  normal or double calcium content in the diet “favours digestive and  metabolic utilisation of iron, calcium and phosphorus and their deposit in  target organs – parts of the organism to which these minerals are  preferably sent – involved in their homeostatic regulation”.
this project, conducted by doctor javier díaz castro and directed by professors margarita sánchez campos, inmaculada lópez aliaga and josé muñoz alférez, focuses on the comparison between the nutritional properties of goat milk and cow milk, both with normal calcium content and calcium enriched, against the bioavailability of iron, calcium, phosphorus and magnesium.
your email is never shared.
research carried out at the department of physiology of the university of  granada (universidad de granada http://www.ugr.es) has revealed that goat milk  has more beneficial properties to health than cow milk.
« frozen yogurt happiness thaws our winter the buzzzzz-o-meter  »
part of the results of this research has been  published in the prestigious scientific journals international dairy journal  and journal dairy science.
department of physiology http://www.ugr.es/~fisiougr/, university of granada http://www.ugr.es.
in order to know how the nutritive utilisation of these minerals may affect their metabolic distribution and destination, the ugr researcher has determined the concentration of these minerals in the different organs involved in their homeostatic regulation and different haematological parameters in relation to the metabolism of the minerals.
results obtained in the study reveal that ferropenic anaemia and bone demineralisation caused by this pathology have a better recovery with goat milk.
due to the higher bioavailability of iron, calcium, phosphorus and  magnesium, the restoration of altered haematological parameters and the better  levels of parathyroid hormone (pth), a hormone that regulates the calcium  balance in the organism was found in the rats that consumed this food.
in order to know how the nutritive utilisation of these minerals may affect  their metabolic distribution and destination, the ugr researcher has determined  the concentration of these minerals in the different organs involved in their  homeostatic regulation and different haematological parameters in relation to  the metabolism of the minerals.
to carry out this study, the metabolic balance  technique has been used both in rats with experimentally induced nutritional  ferropenic anaemia and in a control group of rats.
in addition, and unlike observations in cow milk, its calcium enrichment does not interfere in the bioavailability of the minerals studied”.