equipment for hand  milking basic equipment you need to do your own milking hand milking,  procedure of milking and how to sanitize it your equipment.
i have compiled the following list of useful and informative books for  your convenience.
this homemade dip is just as good, if not better than  "store-bought".
goat milk- nutritional breakdown nutritional breakdown of goat milk and it's comparison to cow milk and human  milk, with reference to look up particular infant formulas.
cheese making, milk, dairy home page the information on this site is intended to aid the home cheesemaker in learning simple, inexpensive, methods for making quality cheeses and dairy products for home use.
cheese press how to build  your own cheesepress.
there are no ads on this site: it is support solely through  contributions from people like you.
enter the amount you'd like to donate here: paypal click here: check by mail:
supplier list where to get what you need.
just like with public radio, or shareware software: if you find this site useful, please make a contribution to help support it.
for photo galleries click here.
we therefore make no claims to this effect.
also have included is section on kombucha, and home made vinegar.
this does not constitute medical or professional advice.
please help support this site all the information on this site is provided to you for free.
copyright (c) 1997-2011 molly nolte.
fias co farm cheddar & blue please note: i am a home cheesemaker and produce my own dairy products for personal use only.
we encourage you to break your link from factory farmed dairy  products.
the extra-label use of any medicine in a food producing animal is illegal without a prescription from a veterinarian.
we present the information and products on this site without guarantees, and we disclaim all liability in connection with the use of this information and/or products.
to donate with: credit card : on-line, via fax or by
udder wash this homemade udder wash is  just as good, if not better than "store-bought".
this site describes in  detail, what kefir is, where it originated from and it's microflora.
equipment & supplies for cheesemaking what equipment you need and where do you find it.
this information does not represent the management practices or thinking of other goat breeders and/or the veterinary community.
it is supplied for general reference and educational purposes only.
supplies and equipment for home cheese making what equipment you need and where do you find it.
white wash you can make your own white wash to brighten up your barn.
you can make your own at home with milk from humanely treated  animals, either raised by you, or a small farm which practices humane treatment.
molds make your own  molds for chevre recipes cottage cheese/cheese curds (my own variation)
fias co farm cheddar & blue please note: i am a home cheesemaker and produce my own dairy products  for personal use only.
we do not claim to diagnose or cure any disease.
the information on this web site is provided as an examples of how we do things here at fias co farm.
please visit our fias co farm's sister site: molly's herbals natural health care for animals web site designed and maintained by molly nolte (aka.
the statements presented on this site regarding the use of herbs, herbal supplements and formulas have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration.
to all things cheese.
any person making the decision to act upon this information is responsible for investigating and understanding the effects of their own actions.
cheese makers a list of cheesemakers who  make and sell farmstead/artesian cheeses.
milk  info: comparing milk:  human, cow, goat & infant  nutritional needs a link to joyce lazzaro/saanendoah dairy goats web  page.
this information was compiled and referenced by  stephanie
if you are looking for info on  cheese classes, where to buy cheese, setting up a small dairy, etc., please  visitthe hometown creamery revival web site.
all other use or reproduction of this material, such as in publications oruse on other web sites is strictly prohibited.
the information provided about herbs and the products on this site is not intended to promote any direct or implied health claims.
click here dairy & cheese making info & supplies: last updated: search this site books
but please be aware that this site is created and maintained by a single  individual.
dom's kefir in-site- learn practically everything you could ever  want to know about kefir and making kefir products.
all text written by molly nolte (aka molly smith) unless otherwise noted.
i, personally, use raw goat milk for all my cheeses, but most of my techniques and recipes were originally developed using raw jersey cow milk.
links- suppliers where to get what you need  to make your own cheese.
this site may be used as a reference (but not copied and/or plagiarized) if proper credit is provided and a web link is given.
there are no ads on this site: it is support solely through contributions from people like you.
the very  first thing i always recommend to anyone wanting to learn cheesemaking ... buy  a book! ...
more than one if you can find and afford it, you'll be glad you  did.
how to make your own mother cultures.
also have included is section on kombucha, and home made  vinegar.
this web site contains over 300 pages of information search this site: please visit our fias co farm's sister site: molly's herbals natural health care for animals make a donation
you can make your own at home with milk from humanely treated animals, either raised by you, or a small farm which practices humane treatment.
the information here covers making cheese and other dairy product with  goat and/or cow milk.
if you are looking for info on cheese classes, where to buy cheese, setting up a small dairy, etc., please visitthe hometown creamery revival web site.
it may not otherwise be reprinted or recopied, in whole or in part, in any form or medium, without expressed written permission.
click here dairy & cheese making info & supplies: dom's kefir in-site- learn practically everything you could ever want to know about kefir and making kefir products.
the information provided here is for educational purposes only.
this site describes in detail, what kefir is, where it originated from and it's microflora.
if you find this site useful, please donate to help support it.
i do not run a professional or licensed dairy and i do not sell my cheeses or any other dairy products.
just like with public radio, or shareware software: if you find  this site useful, please make a contribution to help support it.
maintaining temperature maintaining the  temperature of the curds during cheesemaking fias co farm  fromage- aged 4 months milking procedure, sanitation &  equipment hand milking procedure, what basic equipment you need to do your  own milking and how to sanitize it.
we are not veterinarians or doctors, and the information on this site is not intended to replace professional veterinary and/or medical advice.
you should not use this information to diagnose or treat any health problems or illnesses without consulting your vet and/or doctor.
enter the amount you'd  like to donate here: paypal click here: check by mail:
goat milk soap panir/queso blanco - ideal beginner cheese queso fresco ricotta- traditional, using whey only ricotta- whole milk - ideal beginner cheese yogurt chevre/fromage blanc - ideal beginner cheese saint maure sanitation hand milking  procedure, what basic equipment you need to do your own milking and how to  sanitize it.
we encourage you to break your link from factory farmed dairy products.
this page was last  updated: cheese making, milk, dairy home page the information on this site is intended to aid the home cheesemaker in  learning simple, inexpensive, methods for making quality cheeses and dairy  products for home use.
i do not run a professional or licensed dairy and i do  not sell my cheeses or any other dairy products.
live kefir grain database- kefir community site developed  to help you connect and find real live kefir grains.
live kefir grain database- kefir community site developed to help you connect and find real live kefir grains.
the use of herbs for the prevention or cure of disease has not been approved by the fda or usda.
which direct vat  inoculate cultures, lipase powder, yogurt and buttermilk cultures and molds i  use for my cheesemaking.
please help support this siteplease help support this site all the information on this site is provided to you for free.
instruction on making kefir, other kefir probiotic beverages and products such as kefir cheese.
measurements: conversion guides, charts &  calculators convert: area, length, mass, pressure, speed,  temperature, volume... cultures, lipase & molds what are  bacterial cultures, what do they do, why do i need them for cheesemaking and  where do i get them?
but please be aware that this site is created and maintained by a single individual.
to donate with: on-line, via  fax or by
the products referred to and/or offered on this web site are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
reference: usda  national nutrient database for standard reference, release 16 milk info rmation info on pasteurization, raw milk, goat milk vs. cow milk.
individuals are granted the right to download a single copy of this page for archival purposes on electronic media and/or conversion into a single printed copy for personal use.
i, personally, use raw goat milk for all my cheeses, but  most of my techniques and recipes were originally developed using raw jersey  cow milk.
in the milkroom: goat wipes i like to keep these homemade "goat wipes" in the barn for lots of  uses such as cleaning up goatbabies, goat butts and wiping my hands.
what is pasteurization why is raw milk better what is homogenization lactose intolerance and goat milk what about  fat content
instruction on making kefir, other kefir probiotic beverages and products such  as kefir cheese.
the information here covers making cheese and other dairy product with goat and/or cow milk.
clark, ph.d., assistant professor, dept. of food science and human nutrition,  washington state university.
all graphics, photos and text on these pages were created by, and are the sole property of, molly nolte.