he also suggests that supplemental milk of  any kind is not all that necessary if the baby is allowed to nurse frequently  when with mom.
the american academy of pediatrics recommends no cow's milk until after the first birthday.
for  babies and toddlers, try to find the whole milk yogurt (not low or no fat), and  avoid the yogurt with artificial sweeteners lots of sugary fruits.
2000  nov;106(5):1302-3.
by sue gilbert, consulting nutritionist cow's milk for nursing toddlers?
however, babies under a year are more at risk for allergic reactions (see below) so it can be a good idea to wait.
goat's milk is high in sodium (like cow's milk) and is very high in chloride and potassium, which makes the renal solute load too high for babies.
he suggests offering the baby solid foods with some water or  small amounts of juice instead.
the main difference between yogurt and milk  is that the lactose in yogurt has been converted into lactic acid.
if you are concerned about your health, or that of your child,  consult with your health care provider regarding the advisability of any  opinions or recommendations with respect to your individual situation.
others see no problem with starting cow's milk toward the end of the first year unless there is a family history of allergy to it.
from keepkidshealthy.com goat's milk as an infant formula from pediatric nutrition consultation on-line got goat's milk?
by sue gilbert, consulting nutritionist q&a on goat's milk by alan greene, md, faap can i ... use goat's milk?
cow's milk is more specific to a baby cow than a baby human.
"goat milk is touted as  having exceptional nutritional value over cow's milk, but for tiny tummies it  just doesn't measure up."
using this information, goat milk is  much closer in composition to cow milk than human milk.
you might  want to get your baby's doctor's opinion on this.
web  design courtesy ofsummit since 2/19/98
@ also discusses other sources for the nutrients in cow's milk calcium @ lots more info here on cow's milk and substitutes see also the nutrition comparisons below goat's milk using goat's milk before 6 months or regular use between 6 and 12 months is not recommended.
between six and twelve months, supplementing with solids (instead of  formula) or very small amounts of cow, goat, soy or rice milk is less of a  problem, as long as baby is still nursing for themajority of milk intake  and baby is not allergic.
goat milk is also deficient in folic acid, which can lead to megaloblastic anemia.
additional information on cow's milk goat's milk additional information on goat's milk general guidelines in general, only breastmilk or formula should be used if your baby is less  than six months old.
additional information on cow's milkadditional information on cow's milk michaelsen kf.
this can cause  gastrointestinal bleeding and can result in anemia and poor growth (these  problems are usually undetected until months later).
why formula instead of goat's milk?
copyright© 1998 -   kellymom.com and its licensors.
also, infants  who are allergic to cow's milk protein are often allergic to goat's milk too.
by george f. w. haenlein goat milk and its use as a hypo-allergenic infant food by dr. h.p. maree, mbchb goat's milk formula from askdrsears.com (just keep in mind that he is advertising particular brand of goat's milk here)
disclaimer: all material on this website is  provided for educational purposes only, although every effort is made to  provide accurate and up-to-date information.
there are several comparisons of goat vs. cow vs. human milk in the links below.
milk by kelly bonyata, ibclc
by george f. w. haenlein goat milk and its use as a hypo-allergenic infant food by dr. h.p. maree,  mbchb goat milk formula goat's milk formula from askdrsears.com (just keep in mind that he is  advertising particular brand of goat's milk here) dairy goat co-operative (n.z.) ltd new zealand manufacturer of goat milk  formula bambinchen goat milk formula german manufacturer of goat milk formula page last modified: 07/10/2005 written: 02/19/03
however, babies under a year are more at risk for  allergic reactions (see below) so it can be a good idea to wait.
too much cow's milk in a  child's diet can put him at risk for iron-deficiency anemia (because milk can  interfere with the absorption of iron) and decrease the child's desire for  other foods.
goat's milk is no more appropriate to give baby than cow's  milk.
too much cow's milk in a child's diet can put him at risk for iron-deficiency anemia (because milk can interfere with the absorption of iron) and decrease the child's desire for other foods.
you might want to get your baby's doctor's opinion on this.
it is deficient in vitamins c, e, and copper.
home · books & supplies · handouts · forums ·support kellymom · searchsupport kellymom breastfeeding pregnancy/tandem breastfeeding is this safe when breastfeeding?
cow's milk use of cow's milk before a year is controversial among experts.
if you need to supplement and breastmilk is not available, formulas are a more nutritionally complete product.
anumber of studies have also indicated  that early introduction of cow's milk may contribute to the development of  insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
cheese  differs from milk in two ways: the whey proteins are drained off in the  cheese-making process (so only casein proteins remain), and the curdling  enzymes break down the casein proteins into smaller protein molecules.
it  is deficient in vitamins c, e, and copper.
the american academy of pediatrics recommends no cow's milk until after the  first birthday.
notice that he qualifies this advice with the importance of the baby being well-established on a variety of solids and continuing to be breastfed (both of which should help make up for what cow's milk can't offer at this age).
he suggests offering the baby solid foods with some water or small amounts of juice instead.
if you need to supplement and breastmilk is not available, formulas are a  more nutritionally complete product.
babies who are exposed to  cow's milk before their first birthday are more likely to be anemic, have  diarrhea or vomiting, and/or experience an allergic reaction (the proteins in  milk are more numerous than those in other milk products, such as the yogurt).
many infants still have problems with cow's milk formula (allergies, gi problems, etc.).
"giving cow or  goat's milk and solids too soon is unhealthy for tiny tummies.
using this information, goat milk is much closer in composition to cow milk than human milk.
nutritionist q&a on goat's milk by alan greene, md, faap can i ... use goat's milk? from keepkidshealthy.com goat's milk as an infant formula from pediatric nutrition consultation  on-line got goat's milk?
more here oncow's milk after a year.
"giving cow or goat's milk and solids too soon is unhealthy for tiny tummies.
american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition: the use of whole cow's milk in infancy.
goat milk is also  deficient in folic acid, which can lead to megaloblastic anemia.
all rights  reserved.
cheese differs from milk in two ways: the whey proteins are drained off in the cheese-making process (so only casein proteins remain), and the curdling enzymes break down the casein proteins into smaller protein molecules.
cow's milk formula is based on cow's milk but has been engineered to be closer to human milk (still a ways off, but closer).
goat's milk is high in  sodium (like cow's milk) and is very high in chloride and potassium, which  makes the renal solute load too high for babies.
babies who are exposed to cow's milk before their first birthday are more likely to be anemic, have diarrhea or vomiting, and/or experience an allergic reaction (the proteins in milk are more numerous than those in other milk products, such as the yogurt).
others prefer waiting until 9-12 months.
it is harder to digest as well,  often causing intestinal blood loss.
cows' milk in complementary feeding.
it's recommended that you limit the amount of  cow's milk that your child receives (possibly other milks too,except breastmilk) to 2-3 cups (16-24 ounces) per day.
see thebreastmilk, cow's milk, formula, outside work and bottles section of his article "breastfeeding and other foods."
see thebreastmilk,  cow's milk, formula, outside work and bottles section of his article  "breastfeeding and other foods."
from askdrsears.com (just keep in mind that he is advertising particular brand of goat's milk here)
others see no problem with starting cow's milk toward the end of the first  year unless there is a family history of allergy to it.
while it's true that whole goats milk (and whole cow's milk) was commonly used prior to the advent of infant formulas it is also true that the infant mortality and morbidity rate during the times of such substitutions was very high.
dr. jack newman, a  renowned expert in the lactation field, is one of these.
cow's milk  formula is based on cow's milk but has been engineered to be closer to human  milk (still a ways off, but closer).
by sue gilbert, consulting
of course, if baby has a cow's  milk allergy or there is a strong history of allergy to cow's milk in the  family, yogurt, cheese and all other foods made with cow's milk should be  avoided until 12 months or later.
dr. jack newman, a renowned expert in the lactation field, is one of these.
notice that he qualifies this advice  with the importance of the baby being well-established on a variety of solids  and continuing to be breastfed (both of which should help make up for what  cow's milk can't offer at this age).
by sue gilbert, consulting nutritionist goat's milk as supplement to breastmilk?
yogurt and cheese some experts consider yogurt and cheese to be okay for most babies after 6  months.
from askdrsears.com (just keep in mind that he is  advertising particular brand of goat's milk here)
he also suggests that supplemental milk of any kind is not all that necessary if the baby is allowed to nurse frequently when with mom.
"goat milk is touted as having exceptional nutritional value over cow's milk, but for tiny tummies it just doesn't measure up."
this can cause gastrointestinal bleeding and can result in anemia and poor growth (these problems are usually undetected until months later).
american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition: the use of whole  cow's milk in infancy.
there are several comparisons of goat vs.  cow vs. human milk in the links below.
between six and twelve months, supplementing with solids (instead of formula) or very small amounts of cow, goat, soy or rice milk is less of a problem, as long as baby is still nursing for themajority of milk intake and baby is not allergic.
in general, only breastmilk or formula should be used if your baby is less than six months old.
also, infants who are allergic to cow's milk protein are often allergic to goat's milk too.
many infants still have problems with  cow's milk formula (allergies, gi problems, etc.).
unless otherwise noted, the  articles at this website are not written by doctors or other health care  professionals.
2000 nov;106(5):1302-3.
after a year, other milks may be used, but are not needed (other sources provide the same nutrients).
cow's milkcow's milk use of cow's milk before a year is controversial among experts.
anumber of studies have also indicated that early introduction of cow's milk may contribute to the development of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
for babies and toddlers, try to find the whole milk yogurt (not low or no fat), and avoid the yogurt with artificial sweeteners lots of sugary fruits.
of course, if baby has a cow's milk allergy or there is a strong history of allergy to cow's milk in the family, yogurt, cheese and all other foods made with cow's milk should be avoided until 12 months or later.
while it's true that whole goats milk (and whole cow's milk) was commonly  used prior to the advent of infant formulas it is also true that the infant  mortality and morbidity rate during the times of such substitutions was very  high.
additional information on cow's milk michaelsen kf.
goat - cow - human milk from the american dairy goat association comparative average composition of goat milk and cow milk from meyenberg goat milk products comparison of nutritional content of various milks by david b. fankhauser, ph.d. dairy goat milk composition by john c. bruhn, phd, dairy research and information center, university of california, davis comparing milk: human, cow, goat & commercial infant formula compiled and referenced by stephanie clark, phd why goat milk?
the excessive protein load in cow's milk can also overload a baby's kidneys.
yogurt and cheese some experts consider yogurt and cheese to be okay for most babies after 6 months.
after a year, other milks may be used, but are not needed (other sources  provide the same nutrients).
breastfeeding and other foods by jack newman, md, frcpc milk & gruel may be cruel by lynn m. johnson.
dairy goat co-operative (n.z.) ltd new zealand manufacturer of goat milk formula bambinchen goat milk formula german manufacturer of goat milk formula page last modified: 07/10/2005 written: 02/19/03
what about goat's milk?
" yogurt for infants?
the main difference between yogurt and milk is that the lactose in yogurt has been converted into lactic acid.
it's recommended that you limit the amount of cow's milk that your child receives (possibly other milks too,except breastmilk) to 2-3 cups (16-24 ounces) per day.
it is harder to digest as well, often causing intestinal blood loss.
@  also discusses other sources for the  nutrients in cow's milk calcium @  lots more info here on cow's milk and substitutes see also the nutrition comparisons below goat's milk using goat's milk before 6 months or regular use between 6 and 12 months is  not recommended.
herbs and breastfeeding find local breastfeeding help parenting: night & day life with baby infant growth starting solids nutrition for mom & baby postpartum depression fun & interesting handouts books & supplies message boards about this website home > nutrition >
nutrition comparisons goat - cow - human milk from the american dairy goat association comparative average composition of goat milk and cow milk from meyenberg  goat milk products comparison of nutritional content of various milks by david b. fankhauser,  ph.d. dairy goat milk composition by john c. bruhn, phd, dairy research and  information center, university of california, davis comparing milk: human, cow, goat & commercial infant formula compiled  and referenced by stephanie clark, phd why goat milk?
goat's milk is no more appropriate to give baby than cow's milk.
additional information on goat's milk q&as