its possible to ferment all forms  of mammalian milk (mare, goat, sheep, cow, buffalo, camel etc).
there may be a small adjustment period, where you may notice the consistency fluctuating, but usually they switch over just fine with no help needed.
in most cases you will see them happily adapt.
kefir can also  in a pinch be made from re-hydrated dry milk, or uht (ultra-pastuerized)
how far pastuerization and homogenization affect our health is a hot topic of debate and subject of much current research.
you can just as easily add the desired ingredients or flavors after you have strained the grains out, and then let the kefir sit for 12-48 hours before consuming.
it contains many more enzymes and natural healthy bacteria of its own, the proteins have not been cooked, and the fat has not been homogenized.
milk kefir needs real calories to survive, being the lactose sugar  found naturally in milk.
you can gradually taper the grains off of their previous medium and see if they continue to ferment and grow in their new one.
you can also use kefir (from kefir fermented in milk)  instead of grains to ferment other liquids.
this means there would be a minor amount of milk (5%-10%) in your  milk-alternative kefir, but it is another option if that is not an issue.
yes, but experiment carefully as some things may hinder or even harm  the grains (some foods contain natural antibacterial properties, such as  grapefruit).
there are enough bacteria and yeast within kefir itself to  properly ferment.
if it looks like your grains  need a little encouragement, there are a few options.
besides the fact that it will most likely be coming from a cow that is not confined (thus less stress and other issues like growth hormones), raw milk is much healthier and some argue it tastes much better, too.
faq: fermenting other milks questions in this
raw milk is really the optimal way to consume milk if you can find a reliable trusty-worthy local source.
it also supports a more natural, sanitary and less stressful environment for the cow, the farmer and the world at large while  promoting local foods and respect for and connection to the animals and  their farms we consume from.
it's not even necessary because kefir grains act much in the same way as the lactase put into lactaid and other brands of lactose-free milk (and that is why kefir is so well tolerated by lactose intolerant individuals!).
we do not recommend trying this with store-bought kefir,  since it may not contain enough cultures to safely ferment at room  temperature.
if the grains are really struggling, you can try giving half of the milk its used to with half of the newer milk.
what can you do to encourage growth and proper fermenting in milk-alternatives?
this finished kefir, even without the grains, is powerful  enough to properly ferment.
it is also a good idea to sometimes 'refresh' your grains by giving them some good whole fat milk every month or so just to increase the likelihood that they will maintain their strength and health in their other liquid (though this is not always necessary - some people have had great success doing just purely soy etc - just watch your grains and adjust to their needs).
it contains  many more enzymes and natural healthy bacteria of its own, the proteins have not been cooked, and the fat has not been homogenized.
it is best to mix the two mediums for awhile if possible, letting the grains get acquainted with the new liquid, while still having access to some of its familiar liquid (for example, if you usually ferment with cows milk and want to switch to soy, mix in half cows milk, half soy milk for a week or two).
you  can also go with just adding a little bit of milk (10%-50%) if that is not  an issue.
is that the milk grains may be able to survive off this, though it is not suggested.
you can also try to ferment other non-milk mediums such as coconut milk,  coconut water (also called juice), soy milk, rice milk, or almond milk.
can you add other things in with kefir while its fermenting?
this way your grains themselves are never in  contact with your other liquid, and continue to grow and thrive in their milk, while at the same time producing a starter you can use in the other liquid.
some people  with cancer have even experimented fermenting human milk as a medicinal therapy.
how can you convert milk grains to kefir other liquids such as coconut or soy?
we do not recommend trying this with store-bought kefir, since it may not contain enough cultures to safely ferment at room temperature.
kefir grains love and thrive on raw milk, be it cow or  goat.
if it looks like your grains need a little encouragement, there are a few options.
since the milk still contains sugar, just in a different form, our  hypothesis  (since we haven't tested this ourselves yet)
it is also a good idea to sometimes 'refresh' your grains by  giving them some good whole fat milk every month or so just to increase the  likelihood that they will maintain their strength and health in their other  liquid (though this is not always necessary - some people have had great success doing just purely soy etc - just watch your grains and adjust to their  needs).
home about us adoptions cultures & supplies learn copyright © 2010
kefir can also in a pinch be made from re-hydrated dry milk, or uht (ultra-pastuerized) milk, though they are not the best options for continued grain health.
what milks or other liquids can  you ferment with kefir grains?
yemoos nourishing cultures.
these are simpler sugars that are easily digestible.
you can just as easily add the desired ingredients or flavors  after you have strained the grains out, and then let the kefir sit for 12-48 hours before consuming.
there are enough bacteria and yeast within kefir itself to properly ferment.
some grains will just refuse to grow, but will still produce a kefired product.
how far pastuerization  and homogenization affect our health is a hot topic of debate and subject  of much current research.
you can include a couple  more ingredients to help boost its health and growth, such as barley or  rice malt extract (available from brewing stores and sites), or a sweetener  such as raw cane sugar (rapunzel makes a nice one) or some fresh fruit  juice from an acidic fruit (such as grape juice, apple juice, lemon orange or  lime juice, tropical juices such as pineapple, kiwi, mango or papaya).
sometimes milk grains will take to another liquid, and sometimes they won't.
these enzymes and  bacteria are sensitive to heat and unfortunately destroyed during the  pasturization process.
sometimes milk grains will take  to another liquid, and sometimes they won't.
grains usually have very little to no trouble adjusting to another type of milk of the same mammal - in other words, switching from cow whole milk to cow skim milk or simply to another brand is usually quite easy for the grains to do.
if the grains refuse to ferment in your milk-alternative, then it may be best to continue to ferment your grains in their native milk, and then simply take a spoonful or two of the finished kefir and add it to your milk-alternative.
lactose-free milk, such as  lactaid, contains the enzyme lactase to break the lactose sugars down into  glucose and galactose.
as a side note goats milk kefir is known  to be thinner, due to the structure of the milk (the smaller fats and  proteins involved), and not the fault of the grains.
can you use artificial sweetener or lactose-free milk with kefir?
if you need to have the other liquid (rather than milk) and your  grains seem to struggle, you will mostly likely have to keep a 'mother  source' in the milk, creating new healthy grains that you can continuously use  in the new liquid and dispose of.
you can gradually taper the grains off of their previous medium  and see if they continue to ferment and grow in their new one.
this requires more work, but is an option if all else fails.
is it easy to switch to another brand or % of milk?
this requires more work, but is an option  if all else fails.
you  can also convert them to be used in making water kefir with sugar and water  or juice and water.
raw milk is really the optimal way to consume milk if you can find a  reliable trusty-worthy local source.
you will want to be sure that the cow  is healthy and the owner is using sanitary methods to ensure your milk is safe.
yes, kefir liquid contains billions of  microscopic organisms that are effective at making a yogurt-like  consistency out of milk when you stir in a tablespoon or two in a cup or two of  milk and let sit out or in the fridge for 24 hours.
as far as we're concerned it only makes sense that milk in its natural form has more to offer and is sometimes better digested or tolerated.
you can also use kefir (from kefir fermented in milk) instead of grains to ferment other liquids.
you can include a couple more ingredients to help boost its health and growth, such as barley or rice malt extract (available from brewing stores and sites), or a sweetener such as raw cane sugar (rapunzel makes a nice one) or some fresh fruit juice from an acidic fruit (such as grape juice, apple juice, lemon orange or lime juice, tropical juices such as pineapple, kiwi, mango or papaya).
how can you  convert milk grains to kefir other liquids such as coconut or soy?
donations | payments | return policy | shipping | terms and conditions order milk kefir genuine milk kefir grains milk kefir supplies learn about milk kefir overview faq milk kefir intro kefir grains 101 preparation and supplies during the ferment straining and finishing look, aroma, taste, texture upkeep & contamination adjusting quantity and timing fermenting other milks reviving, sharing & storing secondary ferments /flavoring health and consumption history strains genuine vs commercial our grains flavoring and recipes other uses media picture guides videos weekly interactive q&a sessions recommended books & products worldwide culturing community community
lactose-free milk, such as lactaid, contains the enzyme lactase to break the lactose sugars down into glucose and galactose.
since the milk still contains sugar, just in a different form, our hypothesis (since we haven't tested this ourselves yet)
it will dilute and get weaker each time, so its best to start with freshly made kefir (from kefir grains) each time for the freshest and safest ferment.
these enzymes and bacteria are sensitive to heat and unfortunately destroyed during the pasturization process.
if you need to have the other liquid (rather than milk) and your grains seem to struggle, you will mostly likely have to keep a 'mother source' in the milk, creating new healthy grains that you can continuously use in the new liquid and dispose of.
section: can you use artificial sweetener or lactose-free milk with kefir?
can you use  kefir liquid as a starter (instead of the grains)?
in this case you will have to convert the grains gradually and keep some on back-up in case they fail to thrive.
switching mammal to mammal (such as cow to goat) is usually almost just as well  tolerated.
how can you convert milk grains to kefir other liquids such as coconut  or soy?
this process uses  a forceful spinning motion to break the fat globules of milk by propelling  them at high speeds against the sides of the container, bursting the  globules into small pieces (like paint hitting a wall).
this way your grains themselves are never in contact with your other liquid, and continue to grow and thrive in their milk, while at the same time producing a starter you can use in the other liquid.
as a side note goats milk kefir is known to be thinner, due to the structure of the milk (the smaller fats and proteins involved), and not the fault of the grains.
what about raw milk?
can you use kefir liquid as a starter  (instead of the grains)?
can you use artificial sweetener or lactose-free milk with  kefir?
simply put in about 10% kefir  into the soy or other milk-alternative and let sit out for 12-24 hours at room temperature.
it is actually quite common  for kefir grains to be able to produce a kefir, but are not able to grow and reproduce in it.
adding mangos, vanilla beans or raspberries are some of  our favorite secondary ferment flavors!
it is more likely you will see an adjustment period of a couple days - week, but in most cases it is able to still properly ferment it into kefir that you can drink.
homogenization is used in manufacturing to break up the fat globules until they are very fine and unable to separate and rise to the top.
it will dilute and get  weaker each time, so its best to start with freshly made kefir (from kefir  grains) each time for the freshest and safest ferment.
this is ok,  just make sure that you have some backup grains or even some that you are  maintaining in a liquid that they do grow in.
this means there would be a minor amount of milk (5%-10%) in your milk-alternative kefir, but it is another option if that is not an issue.
artificial sweeteners will not provide kefir with the calories or nutrients it needs to live.
what can you do to encourage growth and proper  fermenting in milk-alternatives?
this process uses a forceful spinning motion to break the fat globules of milk by propelling them at high speeds against the sides of the container, bursting the globules into small pieces (like paint hitting a wall).
goats yogurt is thinner too, because of this.
milk kefir needs real calories to survive, being the lactose sugar found naturally in milk.
what can  you do to encourage growth and proper fermenting in milk-alternatives?
raw milk also has the cream which floats to the top  and can be used to make butter, whip cream, cream cheese, sour cream, etc.!
we encourage you to read more about raw milk  safety and faq's atraw milk facts.
grains usually  have very little to no trouble adjusting to another type of milk of the same  mammal - in other words, switching from cow whole milk to cow skim milk or  simply to another brand is usually quite easy for the grains to do.
if the grains refuse to ferment in your milk-alternative, then it  may be best to continue to ferment your grains in their native milk, and then simply take a spoonful or two of the finished kefir and add it to your  milk-alternative.
kefir grains love and thrive on raw milk, be it cow or goat.
raw milk also has the cream which floats to the top and can be used to make butter, whip cream, cream cheese, sour cream, etc.!
some people with cancer have even experimented fermenting human milk as a medicinal therapy.
in most cases  you will see them happily adapt.
artificial sweeteners will not provide kefir with  the calories or nutrients it needs to live.
yes, but experiment carefully as some things may hinder or even harm the grains (some foods contain natural antibacterial properties, such as grapefruit).
switching mammal to mammal (such as cow to goat) is usually almost just as well tolerated.
can you use kefir liquid as a starter (instead of the grains)?
simply put in about 10% kefir into the soy or other milk-alternative and let sit out for 12-24 hours at room temperature.
can  you add other things in with kefir while its fermenting?
goats yogurt is thinner  too, because of this.
what milks or other liquids can you ferment with kefir grains?
you will want to be sure that the cow is healthy and the owner is using sanitary methods to ensure your milk is safe.
you can also go with just adding a little bit of milk (10%-50%) if that is not an issue.
besides the fact that it will most likely be coming from a cow that is not  confined (thus less stress and other issues like growth hormones), raw milk  is much healthier and some argue it tastes much better, too.
it is more likely you will see an adjustment period of a couple  days - week, but in most cases it is able to still properly ferment it into  kefir that you can drink.
this is ok, just make sure that you have some backup grains or even some that you are maintaining in a liquid that they do grow in.
what about  raw milk?
as far as we're concerned it only makes sense  that milk in its natural form has more to offer and is sometimes better  digested or tolerated.
converting grains is a patient process of trial and error.
there  may be a small adjustment period, where you may notice the consistency  fluctuating, but usually they switch over just fine with no help needed.
yes, kefir liquid contains billions of microscopic organisms that are effective at making a yogurt-like consistency out of milk when you stir in a tablespoon or two in a cup or two of milk and let sit out or in the fridge for 24 hours.
milk, though they are not the best options for continued grain health.
it is best to mix the two mediums for awhile if possible, letting the  grains get acquainted with the new liquid, while still having access to some of its familiar liquid (for example, if you usually ferment with cows milk  and want to switch to soy, mix in half cows milk, half soy milk for a week  or two).
it's  not even necessary because kefir grains act much in the same way as the  lactase put into lactaid and other brands of lactose-free milk (and that is  why kefir is so well tolerated by lactose intolerant individuals!).
it also supports a more natural, sanitary and less stressful environment for the cow, the farmer and the world at large while promoting local foods and respect for and connection to the animals and their farms we consume from.
this finished kefir, even without the grains, is powerful enough to properly ferment.
homogenization is used in manufacturing to break up the fat globules until they  are very fine and unable to separate and rise to the top.
you can also convert them to be used in making water kefir with sugar and water or juice and water.
you can also try to ferment other non-milk mediums such as coconut milk, coconut water (also called juice), soy milk, rice milk, or almond milk.
we encourage you to read more about raw milk safety and faq's atraw milk facts.
it is actually quite common for kefir grains to be able to produce a kefir, but are not able to grow and reproduce in it.
its possible to ferment all forms of mammalian milk (mare, goat, sheep, cow, buffalo, camel etc).
adding mangos, vanilla beans or raspberries are some of our favorite secondary ferment flavors!