- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
blu-ray playback will yield roughly two and a half hours while dvd playback achieves nearly three.
this means that it still can't fully display 1080p high definition video content from either blu-ray or streaming.
hp has done an amazing job of features in the pavilion dv7-4080us and kept  the price down.
the overall performance of the hp pavilion dv7-4080us hasn't changed much.
review - hp pavilion dv7-2180us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop personal comput... - hp pavilion dv9750us desktop replacement laptop pc
more traditional laptop usage adds about an  extra hour which is above most system but still well short of apple's macbook  pro 17.
rather than using a single drive, hp has packed in two 500gb hard drives to provide just under one terabyte of storage space.
storage is what really sets the hp pavilion apart from other desktop replacement laptops.
at least the new graphics can support the panel's resolution better than the previous version.
hp has increased the size of the battery slightly from the previous  version.
the biggest downside is the display panel that doesn't reach full 1080p resolutions but with a $1300 price tag that is a sacrifice many will accept.
the nine cell battery has helped push it to be slightly better than  average.
this  provides roughly double what most desktop replacements in its price range  provide giving more than enough space for programs, data and media files.
graphics on the hp pavilion dv7-4080us have been upgraded thanks to the use of the ati radeon mobility hd 5650 graphics processor.
this  means that it still can't fully display 1080p high definition video content  from either blu-ray or streaming.
the new brushed aluminum exterior gives it a nicer feel but it is the terabyte of storage space, blu-ray drive and improved ati graphics that make this system a good choice for just about any type of pc using.
most notable of these is the new brushed aluminum exterior that gives the system a new look and feel.
by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - hp hp pavilion dv7 ©hp inc. the bottom line jul 9 2010 - hp has done an amazing job of storage functions and performance in the pavilion dv7-4080us while keeping it affordable.
g/n wireless - four usb 2.0, esata, firewire, hdmi, vga, 5-in-1 card reader, fingerprint scanner - 16.4" x 10.8" x 1.5" @ 8 lbs.
while hp includes some useful software packages with their systems including mediasmart, they tend to include a large number of less useful or trialware applications that clutter up the system.
with all the space and performance, it doesn't slow things down much but it does still take up drive space and leave random shortcuts.
in  addition to this, hp continues to include a blu-ray combo drive that can  playback blu-ray movies or be used to playback and record cds and dvds.
- laptop pc buyer's guide - how to save on buying a pc - buyer's mistakes - hp support profile - hp pavilion dv9830us desktop replacement laptop pc
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
most notable of these is the new brushed  aluminum exterior that gives the system a new look and feel.
this lets the system power though just about any application that can be thrown at it including processor intensive desktop video work or pc gaming.
review - hp pavilion dv6-3160us 15.6-inch thin
rather than using a single drive, hp has packed in two  500gb hard drives to provide just under one terabyte of storage space.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - hp - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
the  drives also spin at the faster 7200rpm desktop rate for quick data access.
like its previous version, it comes equipped with a quad core intel core i7-720qm mobile processor paired up with 6gb of ddr3 memory.
at least the new graphics can support the  panel's resolution better than the previous version.
and light laptop personal computer re... - hp pavilion dv7-3180us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop personal comput... mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches norton internet security internet security guide fingerprint scanner dual layer dvd burner laptop manufacturers preloaded applications explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
with all the space and  performance, it doesn't slow things down much but it does still take up drive  space and leave random shortcuts.
this provides roughly double what most desktop replacements in its price range provide giving more than enough space for programs, data and media files.
- windows 7 home premium, works, hp mediasmart, cyberlink dvd suite, norton internet security guide review - hp pavilion dv7-4080us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jul 9 2010 - hp has made some significant changes to its flagship pavilion dv7 desktop replacement.
this gives the new  version full direct x 11 capabilities for improved 3d graphics in modern games.
blu-ray playback will yield roughly two and a half hours while dvd  playback achieves nearly three.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
like its previous version, it comes equipped with a quad core intel core  i7-720qm mobile processor paired up with 6gb of ddr3 memory.
hp has done an amazing job of features in the pavilion dv7-4080us and kept the price down.
the nine cell battery has helped push it to be slightly better than average.
storage is what really sets the hp pavilion apart from other desktop  replacement laptops.
it is certainly a step up from the plastic employed by the majority of laptop manufacturers but it does fall short of hp's envy line or apple's macbook pro's.
the display panel unfortunately still retains the 1600x900 resolution.
a part of the new york times company.
it is possible to find the system for just under $1300 which is  a good deal less than what many other companies are charging for a similar set  of features.
graphics on the hp pavilion dv7-4080us have been upgraded thanks to the use  of the ati radeon mobility hd 5650 graphics processor.
while hp includes some useful software packages with their systems  including mediasmart, they tend to include a large number of less useful or  trialware applications that clutter up the system.
more traditional laptop usage adds about an extra hour which is above most system but still well short of apple's macbook pro 17.
it is possible to find the system for just under $1300 which is a good deal less than what many other companies are charging for a similar set of features.
windows 7 home premium, works, hp mediasmart, cyberlink dvd suite, norton  internet security guide review - hp pavilion dv7-4080us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop  pc jul 9 2010 - hp has made some significant changes to its flagship  pavilion dv7 desktop replacement.
hp has increased the size of the battery slightly from the previous version.
it is certainly a  step up from the plastic employed by the majority of laptop manufacturers but  it does fall short of hp's envy line or apple's macbook pro's.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - best desktop replacements - best budget laptops - best thin & light laptops - best ultraportable laptops - best netbooks suggested reading related articles - what computer should i buy?
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum hp pavilion dv7-4080us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc about.com rating 4 star rating be the first to write a review
this gives the new version full direct x 11 capabilities for improved 3d graphics in modern games.
g/n wireless four usb 2.0, esata, firewire, hdmi, vga, 5-in-1 card reader, fingerprint  scanner 16.4" x 10.8" x 1.5" @ 8 lbs.
improved direct x 11 graphics from previous version cons display can't handle 1080p video large number of preloaded applications clutter system description intel core i7-720qm quad core mobile processor 6gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory two 500gb 7200rpm sata hard drives blu-ray reader and dual-layer dvd burner combo drive 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam ati radeon mobility hd 5650 graphics with 1gb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
this lets the  system power though just about any application that can be thrown at it  including processor intensive desktop video work or pc gaming.
in addition to this, hp continues to include a blu-ray combo drive that can playback blu-ray movies or be used to playback and record cds and dvds.
pros - lots of storage space - blu-ray compatible drive - improved direct x 11 graphics from previous version cons - display can't handle 1080p video - large number of preloaded applications clutter system description - intel core i7-720qm quad core mobile processor - 6gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory - two 500gb 7200rpm sata hard drives - blu-ray reader and dual-layer dvd burner combo drive - 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam - ati radeon mobility hd 5650 graphics with 1gb memory - gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
the drives also spin at the faster 7200rpm desktop rate for quick data access.