use a laptop docking station.
run through a quick task analysis to determine what the main thing you will be doing is.
even though laptops are designed for portability, many people use them as a desktop computer.
then lean back in your chair so that your arms are now in line with the keyboard.
unfortunately, certainergonomic features are compromised for  the sake of portability.
the makeshift ergonomic solution
they allow you to take immense computing power with you  where ever you go.
still, with a little diligence and a few accessories you can make your laptop work for you as a desktop.
laptop docking stations the next best ergonomic laptop solution
this lets you place the laptop at the correct monitor position and have a comfortable keyboard and mouse at their proper locations.
preventing eye strain  becomes even more of a priority as well.
these devices let you plug in your laptop to  a base station that has a monitor, keyboard and mouse already connected.
the main ergonomic issues with laptops general ergonomic tips - keyboard spacing - laptop keyboards are often compact with odd placement of some keys and cramped spacing of others.
aproper ergonomic monitor setup has the monitor and keyboard at different levels and spaced far apart.
- keep the wrists in the most natural wrist position that you can achieve.
cordless desktop® review chris adams ergonomics guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches repetitive stress injuries poor ergonomics long periods of time bad posture laptop keyboards ergonomic tips explore ergonomics must reads most popular - what is ergonomics?
more on computing ergonomics guide to setting up an ergonomic computer station stretch break repetitive stress injury prevention software more on repetitive stress injury prevention the essential 2 minute stretch program 5 tips to prevent eye strain 10 tips to prevent wrist repetitive stress injuries related  articles beginning web designer's setup (windows) - computer setup for web desig...
essential stretches tips to prevent wrist injuries most popular
if it is reading, then set the laptop up in aproper ergonomic monitor position.
the best ergonomic laptop solution use a laptop docking station.
they are not even that  ergonomically sound on your lap.
rotate the screen so that bending of the neck is minimized.
the large muscles of the back and neck can take more stress than the arms and wrists so the bending of the neck to read the screen is the lesser of two ergonomic evils.
posture, keyboard spacing, screen size and  positioning, and pointing devices usually take the biggest ergonomic hit.
preventing wrist repetitive stress injuries becomes even more of a priority.
wrist related repetitive  stress injuries pop up here as well.
this placement causes bad posture with  either arms and hands held high or the neck and back bent low.
- have a repetitive stress injury?
monitor size - laptop screens are often smaller than desktop monitors.
whether it's as a main computer or a temporary setup, you can improve  your ergonomics.
a part of the new york times company.
beginning web designer's setup (windows) - computer setup for web desig... personal computer buyer's guides logitech® dinovo™ cordless desktop® review chris adams sign up for my newsletter headlines forum related searches repetitive stress injuries  poor ergonomics long periods of time bad posture laptop keyboards ergonomic tips explore ergonomics  must reads have a repetitive stress injury?
despite the poor ergonomics inherent in most laptops,  certain steps can be taken to create a sound ergonomic laptop setup as a  desktop.
monitor placement - the relation of the keyboard to monitor on a laptop  is fixed.
if it is typing, then set the laptop up in a proper ergonomic keyboard position.
more on computing ergonomics - guide to setting up an ergonomic computer station - stretch break repetitive stress injury prevention software more on repetitive stress injury prevention related articles - the essential 2 minute stretch program - 5 tips to prevent eye strain - 10 tips to prevent wrist repetitive stress injuries - beginning web designer's setup (windows) - computer setup for web desig... - ergonomic keyboard -- microsoft natural ergonomic desktop 7000 -- ergonomic... - beginning web designer's setup (windows) - computer setup for web desig... - personal computer buyer's guides - logitech® dinovo
sign up discuss in my forum how to ergonomically set up your laptop as a desktop laptop ergonomics for a desktop setup by chris adams, about.com guide see more about: laptop ergonomics computer ergonomics laptop computers are wonderful  pieces of technology.
free ergonomics newsletter!
the best ergonomic laptop solution - make your laptop setup as close to the desktop ergonomic computer station setup as possible.
if it is a mix, then set the laptop up in a proper ergonomic  keyboard setup.
summary laptops do not make good ergonomic desktops.
these devices are adequate for there task, but not very  comfortable or easy to use for long periods of time.
- about.com - home & garden - ergonomics ergonomics search free ergonomics newsletter!
if you have to place the laptop on a desktop, and thereby be higher than a good keyboard height, try changing planes.
if a docking station is out of your budget or otherwise impractical do the next best thing.
if it is a mix, then set the laptop up in a proper ergonomic keyboard setup.
hand cramps andrepetitive stress  injuries are more of a concern on compact keyboards.
tuck the chin in to rotate the head instead of bending the neck.
wrist related repetitive stress injuries pop up here as well.
sign up - ergonomics - injuries / conditions - products - lifestyle discuss in my forum how to ergonomically set up your laptop as a desktop laptop ergonomics for a desktop setup by chris adams, about.com guide see more about: - laptop ergonomics - computer ergonomics laptop computers are wonderful pieces of technology.
whether it's as a main computer or a temporary setup, you can improve your ergonomics.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
the next best ergonomic laptop solution
preventing eye strain becomes even more of a priority as well.
ergonomic keyboard -- microsoft natural ergonomic desktop 7000 --
elevate the rear of the laptop so  that the keyboard is inclined.
but that is not why you have one.
even though laptops are designed for portability, many people use them as  a desktop computer.
elevate the rear of the laptop so that the keyboard is inclined.
general ergonomic tips make your laptop setup as close to the desktop ergonomic computer station  setup as possible.
these devices let you plug in your laptop to a base station that has a monitor, keyboard and mouse already connected.
then lean back in your chair so that your arms  are now in line with the keyboard.
the large muscles of the back and neck can take more stress  than the arms and wrists so the bending of the neck to read the screen is the  lesser of two ergonomic evils.
hand cramps andrepetitive stress injuries are more of a concern on compact keyboards.
if you can not get a separate keyboard and mouse, or you are in a temporary location there is still plenty you can do to improve your laptop ergonomic setup.
by category - laptop ergonomics - computer ergonomics - ergonomic basics - computing ergonomics - everyday ergonomics - workplace ergonomics - ergonomics at home - ergonomics at play - fitness ergonomics - ergonomics for children - ergonomics for the aging - buying guide - seasonal ergonomics - body mechanics - repetitive stress injuries - recently diagnosed - glossary ergonomics - about.com - home & garden - ergonomics - workplace ergonomics - office - how to ergonomically set up your laptop as a desktop - laptop ergonomics for a desktop setup - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
you basically have a desktop setup with a removable computer that just happens to have a keyboard and screen attached.
this lets you  place the laptop at the correct monitor position and have a comfortable  keyboard and mouse at their proper locations.
have a separate keyboard and mouse at the desk.
- ergonomic computer setup - tendonitis - symptoms of eye strain - bar top height
if it is reading, then set the laptop up in aproper ergonomic  monitor position.
run through a quick task analysis to determine what the main thing you  will be doing is.
if a docking station is out of your budget or otherwise impractical do the  next best thing.
if you can not get a separate keyboard and mouse, or you are in a  temporary location there is still plenty you can do to improve your laptop  ergonomic setup.
if you have to place the laptop on a desktop, and thereby be higher than a  good keyboard height, try changing planes.
the main ergonomic issues with laptops keyboard spacing - laptop keyboards are often compact with odd placement  of some keys and cramped spacing of others.
- monitor placement - the relation of the keyboard to monitor on a laptop is fixed.
these devices are adequate for there task, but not very comfortable or easy to use for long periods of time.
small screens can cause moreeye strain than larger ones.
preventing wrist  repetitive stress injuries becomes even more of a priority.
you  basically have a desktop setup with a removable computer that just happens to  have a keyboard and screen attached.
still, with  a little diligence and a few accessories you can make your laptop work for you  as a desktop.
this placement causes bad posture with either arms and hands held high or the neck and back bent low.
despite the poor ergonomics inherent in most laptops, certain steps can be taken to create a sound ergonomic laptop setup as a desktop.
posture, keyboard spacing, screen size and positioning, and pointing devices usually take the biggest ergonomic hit.
- rotate the screen so that bending of the neck is minimized.
aproper ergonomic monitor setup has the monitor and keyboard at  different levels and spaced far apart.
keep the wrists in the most natural wrist position that you can achieve.
both of which can cause some serious problems and pain.
they allow you to take immense computing power with you where ever you go.
- essential stretches - computer setup guide - tips to prevent wrist injuries see more about: - what is ergonomics?
if it is typing, then set the laptop up in a proper ergonomic  keyboard position.
- monitor size - laptop screens are often smaller than desktop monitors.
small pointers - laptops usually have an integrated pointing device such  as a touch pad or dot.
they are not even that ergonomically sound on your lap.
unfortunately, certainergonomic features are compromised for the sake of portability.
- tuck the chin in to rotate the head instead of bending the neck.
both of which  can cause some serious problems and pain.
- small pointers - laptops usually have an integrated pointing device such as a touch pad or dot.