because employee data is  stored in the iland workforce cloud—not in a pc or vulnerable  laptop—data is safe even if devices are stolen or destroyed.
" disaster recovery is a key feature because solutions for desktops can be costly and complex," says sparvero.
this liberates it staff from one-at-a-time fixes and allows them to spend more time supporting strategic business priorities.
with centralized control over desktops and laptops, the iland  workforce cloud is ideal for auditing, control, reporting, and compliance  purposes for businesses with five or more desktops.
"we create a seamless, secure, cloud infrastructure  solution that closes the loop between the desktop and the datacenter."
"  disaster recovery is a key feature because solutions for desktops can be costly  and complex," says sparvero.
provides printer support at  virtually any user location  • stores data securely and centrally while  maintaining availability even if devices are stolen or destroyed  •  simplifies management of desktop deployment, configuration, and migration  centralizes patch management  • serves as key component of business  continuity and disaster recovery plan  • enables workforce mobility for  traveling, telecommuting, or remote workers  • reduces storage  requirements and costs up to 70 percent  • facilitates regulatory  compliance  •
the iland workforce cloud is available immediately within iland private cloud© configurations.
the iland workforce cloud also delivers easy, secure access for  traveling or telecommuting workers while offering organizations the benefits of  business continuity as well as simplified management.
as a partner of vmware and other industry-leaders, iland  infrastructure enables organizations to go beyond the cloud computing buzz and  realize tangible business benefits including reduced and predictable it costs;  streamlined and simplified management; and a nimble infrastructure that lets  customers prepare and respond to changing environments.
the iland workforce cloud allows secure desktop connections to  corporate data while supporting disaster recovery, business continuity, and  compliance.
by backing-up desktops in our datacenter, businesses also benefit from greater fault-tolerance and reliability while providing higher levels of availability to their end users."
the iland workforce cloud also allows businesses to reduce capital expenditures since it turns it spending into a predictable operational expense paid on a monthly basis, including the ability to lease all the os licenses from iland.”
by backing-up desktops in our datacenter, businesses also  benefit from greater fault-tolerance and reliability while providing higher  levels of availability to their end users."
the iland workforce cloud also delivers easy, secure access for traveling or telecommuting workers while offering organizations the benefits of business continuity as well as simplified management.
"the iland workforce cloud lets us  deliver cost-effective enterprise computing to everyone,” continues  sparvero.
"the iland workforce cloud lets us deliver cost-effective enterprise computing to everyone,” continues
"with the iland workforce cloud, we extend the benefits of cloud computing to the desktop environment," explains scott sparvero, iland ceo.
"but with our integrated infrastructure solution, the workforce cloud enables businesses to extend enterprise-class features to the desktop such as high availability, disaster recovery, and business continuity.
the iland workforce cloud is also a viable  solution for resellers, helpdesks, and outsourced it firms, allowing them to  effectively support applications and desktops remotely.
key  features of the iland workforce cloud: • closes the loop  between the desktop and the datacenter  •
offers seamless access into shared or saas environments about iland iland is a provider of cloud computing infrastructure with high-availability datacenters specifically designed for cloud computing in boston, washington d.c., houston, los angeles, dallas, and london.
for pricing and more information please contact iland via email at sales@iland.com, by phone at +1.800.697.7088, or visithttp://www.iland.com for additional details.
this liberates  it staff from one-at-a-time fixes and allows them to spend more time supporting  strategic business priorities.
end-users experience better application performance compared to single-disk desktops and can access their virtual desktops securely from any internet connection.
enables workforce mobility for traveling, telecommuting, or remote workers •
products managed resource cloud dedicated private cloud iland cloud services colocation connectivity managed services - about - our customers - careers - awards & certifications - iland leadership - partners - technology partners - partner registration form - support - support portal - cloud training - contact support - contact - sign up for iland cloud services - request a quote - request a test drive - customer portal - services - iland cloud services - pay as you go - reserved virtual datacenter - iland managed resource cloud - dedicated private clouds - managed services - colocation - houston - dallas - reston - boston - london - los angeles - connectivity - solutions - cloud disaster recovery - cloud enterprise - cloud dev and test - saas cloud - cloud desktops - cloud proof of concept - hybrid cloud - mixed cloud/physical environments - resources - case studies - testimonials - recorded webinars - videos - cloud benefits - news & events - in the media - events - press releases © copyright 2012 iland™
contact iland in the us +1.800.697.7088 or in europe +44 (0) 20.7096.0149
"with the iland workforce cloud, we extend the  benefits of cloud computing to the desktop environment," explains scott
"we create a seamless, secure, cloud infrastructure solution that closes the loop between the desktop and the datacenter."
hosting of servers, applications, and data provides a completecloud computing solution for an entire office environment.
end-users experience better application performance  compared to single-disk desktops and can access their virtual desktops securely  from any internet connection.
houston, tx – september 16, 2009 – iland™ announced today the general availability of the  iland workforce cloud©, a unified platform that integrates desktop pcs,  laptops and other devices with hosted servers, data, and services.
key features of the iland workforce cloud: • closes the loop between the desktop and the datacenter •
as a partner of vmware and other industry-leaders, iland infrastructure enables organizations to go beyond the cloud computing buzz and realize tangible business benefits including reduced and predictable it costs; streamlined and simplified management; and a nimble infrastructure that lets customers prepare and respond to changing environments.
the unified  solution allows secure desktop connections to hosted corporate data via the  iland workforce cloud, which is supported by six existing iland  high-availability, cloud-computing datacenters located in north america and  europe.
restoring a user’s desktop to a new machine can be done in minutes.
general  availability
“our solution reduces total it expenditures for desktops and  laptops since any device with a web browser or client can be  used?—including dumb terminals.
please contact iland via email at sales@iland.com, by phone at  +1.800.697.7088, or visithttp://www.iland.com for additional details.
"but with our integrated infrastructure  solution, the workforce cloud enables businesses to extend enterprise-class  features to the desktop such as high availability, disaster recovery, and  business continuity.
“our solution reduces total it expenditures for desktops and laptops since any device with a web browser or client can be used?—including dumb terminals.
in addition to  providing workforce mobility and data protection, the iland workforce cloud  allows companies to simplify desktop management by creating standardized disk  images that can be deployed, configured, and migrated centrally.
offers seamless access into shared or saas environments about iland iland is a provider of cloud  computing infrastructure with high-availability datacenters specifically  designed for cloud computing in boston, washington d.c., houston, los angeles,  dallas, and london.
with centralized control over desktops and laptops, the iland workforce cloud is ideal for auditing, control, reporting, and compliance purposes for businesses with five or more desktops.
the unified solution allows secure desktop connections to hosted corporate data via the iland workforce cloud, which is supported by six existing iland high-availability, cloud-computing datacenters located in north america and europe.
iland puts desktop in the cloud, enables security and mobility
for pricing and more information
the iland workforce cloud also allows  businesses to reduce capital expenditures since it turns it spending into a  predictable operational expense paid on a monthly basis, including the ability  to lease all the os licenses from iland.”
houston, tx – september 16, 2009 – iland™ announced today the general availability of the iland workforce cloud©, a unified platform that integrates desktop pcs, laptops and other devices with hosted servers, data, and services.
restoring a  user’s desktop to a new machine can be done in minutes.
because employee data is stored in the iland workforce cloud—not in a pc or vulnerable laptop—data is safe even if devices are stolen or destroyed.
provides printer support at virtually any user location • stores data securely and centrally while maintaining availability even if devices are stolen or destroyed • simplifies management of desktop deployment, configuration, and migration centralizes patch management • serves as key component of business continuity and disaster recovery plan •
reduces storage requirements and costs up to 70 percent • facilitates regulatory compliance •
in addition to providing workforce mobility and data protection, the iland workforce cloud allows companies to simplify desktop management by creating standardized disk images that can be deployed, configured, and migrated centrally.
hosting of servers,  applications, and data provides a completecloud computing solution for an  entire office environment.
the iland workforce cloud allows secure desktop connections to corporate data while supporting disaster recovery, business continuity, and compliance.
the iland workforce cloud is also a viable solution for resellers, helpdesks, and outsourced it firms, allowing them to effectively support applications and desktops remotely.