normally, desktop replacements are quite bulky and hence are not at all suitable for regular travellers.
laptop up to 4.6x faster w/ intel® core | w/ 1tb sata hard disk.
desktop replacements offer the best performance, largest screens and keyboards, and the most complete set of features available on a laptop.
dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth maximum number of ports available least battery backup of 30-40 minutes for emergency.
the hidden cost is, however, the heavy price tag — almost 2–3  times that of mainstream laptops.
pl z suggest lowest ret.
also, ultra-portables have the best-in-class battery backup — a must have for the wanderer.
check out consumermate.com happy visiting consumermate!
desktop replacements (power laptops) the biggest and the bulkiest among laptops are those meant for desktop replacement.
desktop replacements offer the best performance, largest screens  and keyboards, and the most complete set of features available on a laptop.
| 4gb ram & 1tb hdd @
some of the key defining features of desktop replacements are: - heavier than most laptops - display ranges from 15 to 19 inches - full-size keyboards with dedicated numeric keys and touch pads - high performance multi-core processors - dedicated high-performance video and audio solutions - 160 to 500 gb hard drive options available with dual hdd as an option.
they come at a higher price too.
tirumuzhi tirunelveli tirupati tiruvannama..
online stores accessories laptop vs.
when you go out to buy a laptop, the first question that you need to ask is "what kind of a laptop would meet my needs?"
on the other hand, desktop replacement laptops are  heavy and take up more space.
dell new inspiron 13z business opportunity for dealers contact us camcorders sony vpceh26en/b discussion forum sitemap mp3 players user review contest winner consumer support tablets accessories follow us on: © copyright 2012 www.consumermate.com
desktop replacements (power laptops)
chitradurga chitrakoot cochin/erna..
however, they offer better performance, almost equivalent to that of a desktop pc.
nevertheless, they are not well suited for regular travellers.
find compare get offers - home - | - login - | - register - | - feedback - laptops - mobiles - tablets - digital cameras - lcd/plasma tvs - mp3 players - accessories - compare models - test center ratings - user reviews - laptop guru - know
desktop laptop components and features important buying factors laptop types buying guide improve netbook
angamally arakkonam asansol aurangabad bahadurgarh bangalore baramati bareilly baroda/vado..
unlike ultra-portables, most lightweight  laptops have larger keyboards and displays and offer larger hard disk drives.
hence, you need to think about what's ideal for you — computing power, travel convenience, sleek and stylish design, or lower price.
thank you and waiting to hear from you soonest reply to this comment jun 24,2010 | soundar says please give me details of laptop with 14" , ddr2,320gb, and 2gb ram........in
when you go out to buy a laptop, the first question that  you need to ask is "what kind of a laptop would meet my needs?"
a mainstream laptop is well suited for people with all-round computing needs, ranging from basic computing and online communication, to entertainment.
mainstream - portability and light weight - display ranges from 11 to 15.4 inches - mobile processors up to 2.4 ghz - come with built-in wifi and bluetooth (optional in some) - 80 to 160 gb hard drive options available - price ranges from rs. 60,000 to 1,20,000.
eventually, it depends on how important price  is to you, when weighed against comfort.
panasonic razer roverbook sahara samsung sharp simmtronics sony terra mobile toshiba wespro wipro zenith model:
if you have limited space at home or your office desk, but want higher levels of computing power, then these are your safe bet.
ultra-portable the smallest and lightest among laptops, ultra-portables are meant for frequent travellers who need to have their pc with them all the time.
dharamshala dharmapuri dharwad dindigul(t.n) erode faridabad ferozpur g.i.d.c.vapi gandhidham gandhinagar ghaziabad goa gorakhapur gulbarga guntur gurgaon guwahati gwalior habra hamirpur haridwar hassan haveri hindupur hoshiarpur howrah hubli hyderabad/s..
presently this service is absolutely free.
jayanagar jodhpur joka junagadh kakinada kanchipuram kangra kannur/cann..
infibeam pendrive webcam mouse headset external  hard disk drive speaker battery home >>  know the  basics >>  laptop types  what type of laptop do you need?
laptop types  what type of laptop do you need?
however, they provide maximum productivity with a portable  form factor.
with much higher configurations compared to other laptops, they can deliver enough power for serious gaming, multimedia authoring, and even high-level digital audio and video content authoring.
mumbai-navi mundra munnar mussoorie muzaffarnagar muzaffarpur mysore nagapittinam nagpur nahanh.o. nainital namakkal narsinghpur nashik nasik-greater navsari nellore noida noida-greater ooty osmanabad palani palghat panchgani panchkula,h.. panchmahal pandharpur panihati panipat pathanamthi..
- dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth - maximum number of ports available - least battery backup of 30-40 minutes for emergency.
now that you’ve decided to go ahead and buy a laptop, deciding on one is the next hurdle.
however, they offer better performance, almost  equivalent to that of a desktop pc.
they  come in different shapes and sizes, each with its own set of merits and  demerits.
while ultra-portable laptops are easy to carry, they also have smaller  keyboards and displays, fewer features, and have lower performance levels  compared to other laptops.
some of the key defining features of desktop replacements are: heavier than most laptops display ranges from 15 to 19 inches full-size keyboards with dedicated numeric keys and touch pads high performance multi-core processors dedicated high-performance video and audio solutions 160 to 500 gb hard drive options available with dual hdd as an option.
some of the key defining features of mainstream laptops are: larger and bulkier display ranges from 13.3 to 15.4 inches feature full-size keyboards and touch pads high performance single- and multi-core processors 120 to 320 gb hard drive options available dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth smaller battery backup of 2 to 3 hours 4.
also, ultra-portables have the best-in-class battery backup — a must  have for the wanderer.
- battery backup up to 4 hours with 9 batteries.
some even have a battery backup of almost 18 hours with emerging technologies.
light-weight a light-weight laptop is an effective balance between portability,  performance and features.
feedback * marked fields are mandatory.
this is the best choice if you require performance and need to travel frequently for work.
your enquiry is forwarded real time to the selected dealers in your city and they will be contacting you within 24 hours.
mainstream mainstream laptops are mid-size laptops that are good in terms of  performance.
light-weight laptops have mobile processors (like  intel centrino / pentium mobile) and configurations that deliver sufficient  power to manage your work easily.
desktop replacements (power laptops) the biggest and the bulkiest among laptops are those meant for desktop  replacement.
some of the key defining features of lightweight laptops are: 3.
close a very happy diwali to all of you!
dell laptops starting from rs. 30,990.
light-weight laptops have mobile processors (like intel centrino / pentium mobile) and configurations that deliver sufficient power to manage your work easily.
based on size and use, laptops are categorised into four main groups as follows: 1.
feedback type * report bug in website report missing models request new features/service any other feedback your name * your email * message * ask us more info ask us if you want to purchase any gadget and want to receive most competitive rates from multiple dealers in your city within 24 hours.
some of the key highlights of ultra-portables are: slim and light weight display ranges from 7 to 11 inches low-power consumption processors such as the intel atom or the amd mobile  athlon / sempron fewer ports and connections 60 gb to 120 gb hard drive (ssd options also coming in some)
decide accordingly after thoroughly examining along these lines.
eventually, it depends on how important price is to you, when weighed against comfort.
please select imediately within a week within 15 days within one month price range: select less than 20000 20000-40000 40000-60000 60000-80000 80000-100000 100000-120000 120000-140000 140000-160000 160000-180000 180000-200000 200000 and above 200000 city: select agoda/bebra agra ahmedabad ahmednagar ajmer akola aligarh allahabad alleppey almora aluva
reply to this comment jul 03,2010 | m.b. yawa says please how can i get a durable laptop from the usa with long battery life, with good processor and ram of not lower than 2g at a good price.
sholapur shoranur sibsagar siliguri silvassa sindhudurg solan,hp sonepat srinagar surat talegaon tehri thalasseri thanjavur thiruvalla thiruvallur thiruvanant.. tindivanam tiruchirapp..
battery backup up to 4 hours with 9 batteries.
the basics - new launches - hot deals - file complaint - ask experts - online stores - accessories laptop vs.
if you have limited space at home or  your office desk, but want higher levels of computing power, then these are  your safe bet.
other other: name: mobile: email: message - - top brands: - apple - | - dell - | - hp - | - compaq presario - | - lenovo - | - sony - | - acer - | - hcl - | - toshiba - | - asus - | - samsung - | - lg - | - aci - | - benq - | - champion - | - chirag - | - clevo - | - compaq - | - esys - | - fujitsu - | - g7 - | - gateway - | - hercules - | - intex - | - jetway - | - msi - | - olive - | - panasonic - | - razer - | - roverbook - | - terra mobile - | - wespro - | - wipro - | - zenith consumermate.com categories popular laptop models
“try out” a new diwali this year by bringing in a tech filled season by visiting the exciting hot deals section of our site.
pathankot patiala patna periyar phagwara phaltan pollachi pondicherry pudukottai pune pune-greater puttapurthi raichur raigad-dist.
share it with community: del.icio.us digg reddit technorati stumble upon email a friend bookmark print  comments: sep 24,2010 | donette says please can u give me price list of laptop 14'',with rate of under 20,000/-thnx reply to this comment aug 25,2010 | mhatre nandkumar says want's to bye laptop for networking.
did you finalize your gift...?
interactive about us laptops samsung 900x3a ask our experts advertise with us mobile phones apple macbook air 11 64gb file a complaint privacy policy lcd / plasma tvs acer aspire one happy 2 submit hot deals disclaimer digital cameras
these are designed to deliver the power and features that a desktop pc provides, but in a smaller form factor.
idukki indore jabalpur jaipur jaisalmer jalandhar jammutawi jamnagar jamshedpur/..
light-weight - some of the key highlights of ultra-portables are: - slim and light weight - display ranges from 7 to 11 inches - low-power consumption processors such as the intel atom or the amd mobile athlon / sempron - fewer ports and connections - 60 gb to 120 gb hard drive (ssd options also coming in some) - may lack an internal optical drive a light-weight laptop is an effective balance between portability, performance and features.
based on size and use, laptops are categorised into four main groups  as follows: 1.
mainstream laptops are mid-size laptops that are good in terms of performance.
meerut mhow moradabad mumbai mumbai-grea..
lowest prices details sent me sir, reply to this comment (0 - 4) of 18 comments « previous 1 2 3 4 5 next » post your comment name * e-mail website comment * type the code shown * try a different image home >>
this is the best choice if you require performance and need to  travel frequently for work.
raipur rajkot rajpura ramnagar rampur ranchi ratnagiri rewa rewari rishikesh rohtak roorkee ropar saharanpur salem sangli satara shahdol shantiniketan shimla shimoga shirdi(shri..
these laptops offer more value for the buck with their varied  applications and uses.
decide accordingly after thoroughly examining along these  lines.
share  it with community:
as far as cost is involved, these are more expensive than the heavier  mainstream laptops.
- some of the key defining features of mainstream laptops are: - larger and bulkier - display ranges from 13.3 to 15.4 inches - feature full-size keyboards and touch pads - high performance single- and multi-core processors - 120 to 320 gb hard drive options available - dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth - smaller battery backup of 2 to 3 hours 4.
kanpur kanyakumari kapurthala karikudi karimnagar katni katpadi khandala khargone kodaikanal kolar kolhapur kollam kota kotagiri kottayam kullu/manali kumbakonam kundapur lalgudi latur lonavala lucknow lucknow-gre.. ludhiana madhupur madurai mahabaleshwar malegaon manali mandya mangalore matheran mathura/vri..
these are designed to deliver the power and features that a  desktop pc provides, but in a smaller form factor.
while ultra-portable laptops are easy to carry, they also have smaller keyboards and displays, fewer features, and have lower performance levels compared to other laptops.
these laptops offer more value for the buck with their varied applications and uses.
dell epson esys fujitsu g7 gateway gigabyte hcl hercules hp iball intex jetway lenovo lg maingear msi olive
some even have a battery backup of almost 18 hours with  emerging technologies.
for better portability and greater ease of use, you need to compromise in areas of performance and some other features and settle for a smaller screen and touch pad.
however, they provide maximum productivity with a portable form factor.
the season of lights, gifts, sweets and wishes has almost taken the plunge this year, about how to pleasantly surprise our near and dear ones.
hence, you need to think about what's ideal  for you — computing power, travel convenience, sleek and stylish design,  or lower price.
alwar ambala amravati amritsar anand anantpur andaman/nic..
rs.39,990 - - more info ask us for receiving best price quotes from multiple dealers in your city within 24 hours brand: any brand acer aci apple asus benq champion chirag clevo compaq compaq pres..
coimbatore coonoor coorg cuttack dabhol
nevertheless, they are not well suited for regular  travellers.
ultra-portable the smallest and lightest among laptops, ultra-portables are meant for  frequent travellers who need to have their pc with them all the time.
the hidden cost is, however, the heavy price tag — almost 2–3 times that of mainstream laptops.
desktop laptop components and  features important buying factors laptop types buying guide improve netbook  performance new launches articles news featured articles file  complaint view all complaints ask experts view all solutions flipkart.com tradus.in
new inspiron 14r laptops w/ intel® core & hd graphics.
now that you’ve decided to go ahead and buy a laptop, deciding on one  is the next hurdle.
with much higher configurations compared to other laptops, they can deliver  enough power for serious gaming, multimedia authoring, and even high-level  digital audio and video content authoring.
on the other hand, desktop replacement laptops are heavy and take up more space.
dalhousie daltonganj daman darjeeling dehradun delhi
laptop types << back to home - digit developer's corner win an assured windows mobile phone how about building a couple of apps and winning a guaranteed windows phone - - dell offers dell inspiron™ 14r
belgaon bellary bharuch bhatinda bhavnagar bhilai bhiwadi bhopal bhubaneswar bikaner bilaspur bulandshahr buldana calcutta/ko.. calicut chandigarh chennai chinglepet chiplun
for  better portability and greater ease of use, you need to compromise in areas of  performance and some other features and settle for a smaller screen and touch  pad.
some of the key defining features of lightweight laptops are: portability and light weight display ranges from 11 to 15.4 inches mobile processors up to 2.4 ghz come with built-in wifi and bluetooth (optional in some) 80 to 160 gb hard drive options available price ranges from rs. 60,000 to 1,20,000.
normally, desktop  replacements are quite bulky and hence are not at all suitable for regular  travellers.
trichur udaipur udupi uttarkannada uttarkashi valsad varanasi varkala vellore vijaywada villupuram visakhapatnam westgodavari wynad yamunanagar yawatmal zaheerabad
these laptops are not specialised for providing better portability, but are still better than desktop replacements.
as far as cost is involved, these are more expensive than the heavier mainstream laptops.
they come in different shapes and sizes, each with its own set of merits and demerits.
performance new launches articles news featured articles file complaint view all complaints ask experts view all solutions flipkart.com tradus.in infibeam pendrive webcam mouse headset external hard disk drive speaker battery home >>
these laptops are not specialised  for providing better portability, but are still better than desktop  replacements.
a mainstream laptop is well suited for people with all-round  computing needs, ranging from basic computing and online communication, to  entertainment.
may lack an internal optical drive 2.
unlike ultra-portables, most lightweight laptops have larger keyboards and displays and offer larger hard disk drives.