homeforumscontact hijackthissearchhelp please visit our forums for help with malware  removal or any tech support question.
laptops are becoming more prevalent in the tech world today, becoming the staple of computing especially on the college scene.
laptops are becoming more prevalent in the tech world today, becoming the  staple of computing especially on the college scene.
they should not care too much about battery life and be willing to spend more money to purchase less.
desktops, the office work horse, are slowly becoming edged out of the picture due to their lack of portability…but are they being underrated?
uri enter your email address: all trademarks and copyrights on this page are owned by their respective owners.
homeforumscontact hijackthissearchhelpplease visit our forums for help with malware removal or any tech support question.
if you’re considering buying either a new desktop or laptop, you have to view the pros and cons of both and whether which would serve you better.
they are becoming very light, increasingly more  powerful and have better features as the days go on.
laptop computers are portable, have the “virtual” no cord image  and can travel with you.
a desktop user should be looking for a more high end type of computer but  lack of portability.
if you’re considering buying either a new desktop or laptop, you have  to view the pros and cons of both and whether which would serve you  better.
the desktop user may have a limited budget but will  have the ability to continually upgrade the desktop over time to continue to  preserve its longevity and life in an increasingly growing industry.
let’s outline a few.
take me to the forums!
a desktop user should be looking for a more high end type of computer but lack of portability.
desktop computers are the ultimate powerhouse, out perform laptops and are  much cheaper with the ability to upgrade making them less obsolete and  preserving your investment longer.
i am not sure if laptops are just replacing desktops and if i should just not waste my money on a desktop or if they are still better computers.
i am  not sure if laptops are just replacing desktops and if i should just not waste  my money on a desktop or if they are still better computers.
desktops, the office  work horse, are slowly becoming edged out of the picture due to their lack of  portability…but are they being underrated?
they should  not care too much about battery life and be willing to spend more money to  purchase less.
usb device has exceeded its power limits of its hub support error hp laptop battery recall the macbook experience (day 27)
the user for a laptop should be purchasing the laptop because they want to carry it around with them and be mobile with their computing.
desktop portability and higher budget/need of slim and sleek =
the user for a laptop should be purchasing the laptop because they want to  carry it around with them and be mobile with their computing.
desktop or laptop 31 aug posted by hemal in hardware do i buy a laptop or a desktop computer for my next machine?
high end demand and low budget =
desktop computers are the ultimate powerhouse, out perform laptops and are much cheaper with the ability to upgrade making them less obsolete and preserving your investment longer.
laptop related posts how to use a usb key as a laptop alarm can i keep my laptop plugged in for hours?
the desktop user may have a limited budget but will have the ability to continually upgrade the desktop over time to continue to preserve its longevity and life in an increasingly growing industry.
rss feed for comments on this post leave a reply
31 aug posted by hemal in hardware do i buy a laptop or a desktop computer for my next machine?
they are becoming very light, increasingly more powerful and have better features as the days go on.
laptop rss feed for comments on this post name (required) e-mail (required, never displayed)
laptop computers are portable, have the “virtual” no cord image and can travel with you.
what the tech is powered by wordpress - © geeks to go, inc. - all rights reserved -privacy policy