a five volt power supply is included.
adjustable screen height, tilt and swivel for optimal viewing and ergonomic  comfort.
just press the large hinge-release button on the right-hand  side of the unit, use your other hand to adjust the laptop sleeve to the  desired height, and release the button.
one suggestion: since this is a true desktop dock, just four usb ports seems a bit stingy.
it's not terribly difficult to pop the computer out of the sleeve to insert a cd or dvd in a front-mounted drive once in a while, but it could get very old if you use your optical drive a lot.
the laptop desktop usb rests on a 360 degree swiveling turntable, which makes it easy to "pan" the docked laptop's screen for better viewing from another angle or for access to its connection ports.
features and benefits in summary: • space-saving, money-saving  solution eliminates the need for extra monitors.
just press the large hinge-release button on the right-hand side of the unit, use your other hand to adjust the laptop sleeve to the desired height, and release the button.
the laptop desktop usb handled my big wallstreet powerbook (which weighs more than eight pounds, but has only a 12.1-inch display) with no problem, and the 17-inch aluminum powerbook is lighter than the wallstreet.
named by ces 2005 as an innovations design and engineering showcase honoree in the computer accessories category, this laptop-to-desktop solution will also be featured in wayport's laptop lane business airport centers across the country.
the blue cushion that contacts the bottom of your laptop is soft, as are two blue contact buttons on the sleeve top.
there is plenty of room for more.
features and benefits in summary: space-saving, money-saving solution eliminates the need for extra monitors.
genuinely unique and original in concept, the attractively styled laptop desktop usb has no pretensions of being a portable laptop accessory, measuring 15.0" x 4.5" x 12.25" in its most compactly folded mode, and weighing about four pounds by my rough estimate.
with its 3 to 45 degree range of tilt, the laptop desktop usb has no difficulty setting the laptop screen at an ergonomically sound level.
the blue cushion that  contacts the bottom of your laptop is soft, as are two blue contact buttons on  the sleeve top.
the four-port usb hub module is located at the rear base of the unit, and the connector cord and plug for the laptop pull out of a storage pod on the underside of the laptop sleeve.
the computer sleeve's front panel  obscures the keyboard from view or access with the machine inserted.
the computer sleeve's front panel obscures the keyboard from view or access with the machine inserted.
however, it isn't an issue with my ibook, or pismo and wallstreet  g3 powerbooks, all of which have side-mounted optical drives, as does the  12" powerbook.
curved back and padded insert ensure constant ventilation  and secure fit, while enclosure offers protection from spills.
• laptop desktop usbêis backed by the kensington 1-year warranty and  free technical support.
while the kensington laptop desktop usb is primarily a desktop device, but  the laptop sleeve component of the laptop desktop usb can be unfastened from  its base by removing four screws, and attached to a standard vesa monitor arm,  cubicle hanger, or wall mount, enhancing the versatility of this interesting  product.
the laptop desktop usb rests on a 360 degree swiveling turntable, which  makes it easy to "pan" the docked laptop's screen for better viewing  from another angle or for access to its connection ports.
this could  be a mixed blessing in certain circumstances, such as system freezes that put  the external input devices out of action, but it is a relatively simple matter  to pull the laptop out of the sleeve in order to manipulate the keyboard if  necessary.
this could be a mixed blessing in certain circumstances, such as system freezes that put the external input devices out of action, but it is a relatively simple matter to pull the laptop out of the sleeve in order to manipulate the keyboard if necessary.
at $79.95, the kensington laptop desktop usb  isn't the cheapest laptop stand solution, but it's not the most expensive  either, and when you factor in the four-port usb hub, it's really a bit of a  bargain.
vesa mounting plate can attach to monitor arms, wall mounts and cubicle hangers.
the lowest position is 14.6"l x 5.0"h x 11.6"w, and the highest position 11.6"l x 9.5"h x 11.6"w. adjusting the tilt angle is simple and slick.
terms of use | privacy | about us copyright © 1996-2011 itracx llc.
why not six or eight?
the built-in 4-port usb 2.0 compatible hub provides convenient one-time connection for peripheral devices, allowing you to leave your keyboard, mouse, printer, and so forth plugged into the stand/dock unit with just one usb plug to disconnect for quick conversion of your 'book back to portable or road warrioring mode.
at $79.95, the kensington laptop desktop usb isn't the cheapest laptop stand solution, but it's not the most expensive either, and when you factor in the four-port usb hub, it's really a bit of a bargain.
adjusting the tilt angle is  simple and slick.
you only need pull out as much cord as  necessary to reach a usb report on the laptop, but there is plenty available to  reach around to the side mounted ports on ibooks and aluminum powerbooks.
the fact that this is a pure desktop device is amplified by there being no  immediate access to the laptop's built-in keyboard or trackpad when the  computer is docked in the laptop desktop usb.
no more  makeshift propping up limp sheets of paper!
the rationale behind the solid front panel is that it will protect the laptop from spills and dust, and it also facilitates one of the the laptop desktop usb's neatest features -- a handy clipboard-type copy holder that can keep a paper document front and center while you copy it by typing or dictation.
built-in copyholder positions documents in line with the screen for easier viewing.
while the kensington laptop desktop usb is primarily a desktop device, but the laptop sleeve component of the laptop desktop usb can be unfastened from its base by removing four screws, and attached to a standard vesa monitor arm, cubicle hanger, or wall mount, enhancing the versatility of this interesting product.
one  suggestion: since this is a true desktop dock, just four usb ports seems a bit  stingy.
adjustable screen height, tilt and swivel for optimal viewing and ergonomic comfort.
the hinge apparatus works smoothly, the clipboard copy stand feature is clever, and little touches like the clip that holds the usb connector cable neatly without hanging or flopping are evidence of thoughtful design and attention to detail.
the laptop desktop usb also addresses the laptop cooling issue.
kensington specifies 16 inch or smaller as being that the laptop sizes  officially supported by this product, but i don't see any obvious reason why  the 17-inch powerbook wouldn't work with the laptop desktop usb, so long as you  don't mind the aesthetics of the keyboard-flanking "wings" protruding  from either side of sleeve.
the kensington laptop desktop usb is nicely finished and appears to be  well-constructed.
laptop desktop usbêis backed by the kensington 1-year warranty and free technical support.
it's not terribly difficult to pop the computer out of the  sleeve to insert a cd or dvd in a front-mounted drive once in a while, but it  could get very old if you use your optical drive a lot.
the four-port usb hub module is located at the rear base of the unit, and  the connector cord and plug for the laptop pull out of a storage pod on the  underside of the laptop sleeve.
no more makeshift propping up limp sheets of paper!
genuinely unique and original in concept, the attractively styled laptop  desktop usb has no pretensions of being a portable laptop accessory, measuring  15.0" x 4.5" x 12.25" in its most compactly folded mode, and  weighing about four pounds by my rough estimate.
• built-in 4-port usb  2.0 hub provides one-time connection for computer accessories.
for all laptops 16 inches and smaller.
the fact that this is a pure desktop device is amplified by there being no immediate access to the laptop's built-in keyboard or trackpad when the computer is docked in the laptop desktop usb.
the built-in 4-port usb 2.0 compatible hub provides convenient  one-time connection for peripheral devices, allowing you to leave your  keyboard, mouse, printer, and so forth plugged into the stand/dock unit with  just one usb plug to disconnect for quick conversion of your 'book back to  portable or road warrioring mode.
more problematical with certain 'books will be the lack of access to front mounted optical drives, as in the tibook and the 15 inch and 17-inch aluminum powerbooks.
built-in 4-port usb 2.0 hub provides one-time connection for computer accessories.
with its 3 to 45 degree range of tilt, the laptop desktop usb has no  difficulty setting the laptop screen at an ergonomically sound level.
however, it isn't an issue with my ibook, or pismo and wallstreet g3 powerbooks, all of which have side-mounted optical drives, as does the 12" powerbook.
macprices.net | ipod prices | power'book central apple news price trackers macbook news reviews ios news  gear columns reseller list resources home > columns  > charles moore powerbook mystique review - kensington laptop desktop usb laptop stand by charles w. moore one of the most interesting and innovative laptop stand alternatives in an  increasingly crowded field is the kensington laptop desktop usb laptop  stand-cum-usb docking station.
the laptop desktop usb handled my big wallstreet  powerbook (which weighs more than eight pounds, but has only a 12.1-inch  display) with no problem, and the 17-inch aluminum powerbook is lighter than  the wallstreet.
named by ces 2005 as an innovations design and engineering showcase honoree  in the computer accessories category, this laptop-to-desktop solution will also  be featured in wayport's laptop lane business airport centers across the  country.
built-in copyholder positions documents in line with the screen for easier  viewing.
curved back and padded insert ensure constant ventilation and secure fit, while enclosure offers protection from spills.
• vesa mounting plate can attach to monitor arms, wall mounts  and cubicle hangers.
the back  panel of the laptop sleeve is curved to "belly" away from the bottom  of the computer, allowing air to circulate and cool the machine by convection.
the kensington laptop desktop usb is nicely finished and appears to be well-constructed.
the back panel of the laptop sleeve is curved to "belly" away from the bottom of the computer, allowing air to circulate and cool the machine by convection.
"with the growth of notebook sales continuing at a rapid pace, it's  clear that consumers are seeking solutions for going from mobile to stationary  quickly and easily, while allowing them to claim back their home and office  desks," says don angel, kensington's vp of product development.
more problematical with certain 'books will be the lack of access to front  mounted optical drives, as in the tibook and the 15 inch and 17-inch aluminum  powerbooks.
i found this extremely convenient, as i usually draft articles longhand and then dictate them using ilisten or viavoice software.
kensington specifies 16 inch or smaller as being that the laptop sizes officially supported by this product, but i don't see any obvious reason why the 17-inch powerbook wouldn't work with the laptop desktop usb, so long as you don't mind the aesthetics of the keyboard-flanking "wings" protruding from either side of sleeve.
powerbook mystique review - kensington laptop desktop usb laptop stand by charles w. moore one of the most interesting and innovative laptop stand alternatives in an increasingly crowded field is the kensington laptop desktop usb laptop stand-cum-usb docking station.
"with the growth of notebook sales continuing at a rapid pace, it's clear that consumers are seeking solutions for going from mobile to stationary quickly and easily, while allowing them to claim back their home and office desks," says don angel, kensington's vp of product development.
the hinge apparatus works smoothly, the clipboard copy stand  feature is clever, and little touches like the clip that holds the usb  connector cable neatly without hanging or flopping are evidence of thoughtful  design and attention to detail.
i found this extremely convenient, as i usually draft articles  longhand and then dictate them using ilisten or viavoice software.
just takes a few seconds.
the  lowest position is 14.6"l x 5.0"h x 11.6"w, and the highest  position 11.6"l x 9.5"h
the rationale behind the solid front panel is that it will protect the  laptop from spills and dust, and it also facilitates one of the the laptop  desktop usb's neatest features -- a handy clipboard-type copy holder that can  keep a paper document front and center while you copy it by typing or  dictation.
it is intended as a desktop docking station to convert your laptop into a desktop substitute with a comfortable screen viewing height and for use with an external keyboard and pointing device.
there's nothing else quite like it on the market.
you only need pull out as much cord as necessary to reach a usb report on the laptop, but there is plenty available to reach around to the side mounted ports on ibooks and aluminum powerbooks.
it is intended as a desktop  docking station to convert your laptop into a desktop substitute with a  comfortable screen viewing height and for use with an external keyboard and  pointing device.
price - $79.99 for more information, visit: http://www.kensington.com/html/5558.html cmoore@powerbookcentral.com macprices.net price trackers: ( )