originally posted by mikecuzzy without a decent graphics card in that laptop, it won't play any games bar flash based games.
bluetooth * 6 cell battery * web cam it's $749 before cashback, with a $50 cash back incentive.
the only positive i can really add here is "impressive battery life" considering they're running windows by default and considering well, they really are shit.
so even if your computer has 4gb of ram installed, windows will only read 3.3gb.
same goes to certain asus laptops.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in saudi that's now properly badged!reply with quote not talking about this are you?
hp, a good brand also.
maybe dual-boot it, maybe run it exclusively, just give it a  thought, it's a worthwhile os, i run it in 3/4 of my computers.
4.29 billion addresses were considered an appropriate size to work with for another important reason: 4.29 billion integers are enough to assign unique references to most entities in applications like databases.
memory:  for future sake, insist on at least 4gb, but there's not much point going above  6gb.
a basic gaming desktop, capable of playing any modern game but not about to win any competitions regarding frame rates etc, can be put together for about 400 bucks, then you will need a screen as well.
you will  usually get a better deal.
reply with quote posts 828 buy a netbook for school, cheap as chips, and get a desktop for  games at home.
service pack 1 (build 7601) internet explorer 8.0.7601.17514
they are cheap, reliable and wonderfully middle-of-the-line.
network adapter cd / dvd drives d: hl-dt-stdvdram gt30n |
i guess maybe i abused mine too hard lol, though the only thing i can think of with that is the smaller it is, the less it has to work for, which means less heat?
macs are a rock solid laptop, they are made  from good hardware with a good os, however, you pay for the  "top-of-the-line" mentality.
their customer support is run by goons, their hardware breaks like my mates sister when she see's me walk through the door, and well, they're shit.
you pay a little more for them, but  they seem to come with better hardware.
i have a hp running pentium d @ 2.13ghz cost me $530 4 months ago.
but which hp laptop was this specifically, so i'll definetely avoid it.
amending my earlier post, when i recommended a net-top it was just for data input and such at school, and i would have foreseen the bulk of the actual work happening at home on the desktop, with such added benefits of cheaper, faster internet thrown in.
with quote there is no such thing as stupid questions, only stupid people.
my personal laptop is an asus.
again, don't buy into the hype that you need a brand new video card.
it's like arguing ford vs holden lol.
my r32 gtr, 306.5 awkwreply
can also rip songs right off ipods, recovery data off damaged hard drives or usb sticks.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in saudi that's now properly badged!reply with quote
you will pay more but the amd  processors don't even stack up.
the reason they make such good laptops is because they aim  their services at rich executives with expensive suits, fast cars and  (probably) small penises.
i know that when comparing similar ati and nvidea cards, the ati wins in performance, but the nvidea excels in operating temperatures.
thanks in advance guys.
you specified you wanted a gaming computer too.
you can use it at school, bring it home and transfer stuff into a  desktop.
long story  short, the parents think games are completely useless and do nothing but kill  brains.
i guess i should point out that mine was pretty old, well not like packard bell old, but i got it when the burning crusade expansion came out for wow, so whenever that was haha +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+reply
only i have heard good things about hp before, it may be your series had a fault.
they are also loaded with alot of shit  software, so uninstall that with something like pcdecrapifier straight away.
share america  just kicked in yo ride posts 2,327 go with an intel i5 or i7 (7 is better than 5) with 6-8gb of ram  and one of those fancy onboard 1gb-2gb graphics cards, it wont stack up to  anywhere near as good as a gaming desktop pc but it will be pretty fast but  heavy and expensive.
it seems that now the options have narrowed down to lenovo and asus.
it sports longer battery like than windows and well, with gnome desktop installed, is really, really pretty.
might cost a few extra bickies, but it has features which will save your sanity later, like the ability to turn off uac (annoying black "do you want to run this program" screen".
avoid acer like the ####ing plague.
as long as it's got a decent clock speed, and a decent amount of memory, you'll be fine.
e: wjm efg9yvgx | f: dtsoft bdrom |
my mate has the next model up (qosimo or whatever) and his is roughly the same as mine in terms of gaming etc, i see no real differences except maybe his loads certain screens 1 second faster, which doesn't seem to matter, and the price tag (mine was about $1300 after haggling, his was around $2000 with no haggling).
ubuntu is a free linux distro which comes jam-packed full of fun shit which spans right across from hacking tools all the way to free photoshop alternatives.
not so sure, have you had or heard of anyone's experience with hp?
a 32-bit address register meant that 232 addresses, or 4 gb of ram, could be referenced.
in my opinion, it's a rather impractical idea to have 2 computers,  a netbook and a gaming desktop.
64 bit operating systems can handle well over 128gb of ram.
hi folks, i'll be getting a new laptop soon, but my  knowledge on computers and understanding of what i really need is limited.
go down to china town and see what they are using.
don't expect fantastic things out of it, because you won't get it.
as far as nvidia vs ati, it's mostly down to preference.
i really can't speak more highly of it.
in my own laptop hating world, they serve a purpose, but its only a very minor part.
they tend to be over priced and like hp, come loaded with alot of shit you don't need.
i  also hear good things about toshiba, but have never dealt with them personally.
the lenovo's usually sit around 300-700 dollars above  most laptops, but it's a cost you will appreciate down the line.
depending on what you consider that to be, that also limits your choices.
a basic netbook is not enough for me.
the lenovo's usually sit around 300-700 dollars above most laptops, but it's a cost you will appreciate down the line.
oh and also it was stuffed to the guys fixed it too since i didn't have my old cds so i couldn't fresh install, cost around $500 and after a week my gfx card melted.
however, 64-bit operating systems support much more: for example, the amd64 architecture currently has a 52 bit limit on physical memory and supports a 48-bit virtual address space.[4] this is 4 pb (4 × 10245 bytes) and 256 tb (256 × 10244 bytes), respectively.
can someone please recommend a laptop that would suit my needs as a student and gamer?
asus would be my recommendation of laptop if you can afford it (i can't lol).
i'm always moving around the house and go out quite a lot.
some features are turbo cpu, 4xusb ports w/ 1 being a super fast/high speed or whatever it is, tv aerial input, hdmi port, sd card port, touch-buttons for volume & music controls etc, ethernet port & standard monitor port (blue plug with the screws)
a good gaming laptop is a myth.
seems that its nvidea video card is not so recent... there's always something behind these bargain prices, outdated hardware and such...
they  are too expensive right now.
not exclusively mind you, but it is what they are built for.
got some cool features with facebook integration and automatic teaming up with windows.
any nvidia card that has a model number of only three numbers (gt250, 330 ect.) will be more than sufficient without knowing the ins and outs of every damn card on the market.
hi mate, i know that a desktop is better (and cheaper) than a laptop for gaming.
mine's been soldiering on for years, still a rock solid performer.
i really do recommend mac's to people going into any sort of creative environment.
avoid  vista, it's very shit.
the reason i've got the chance to get a gaming laptop is they see a  laptop as a useful investment.
a basic gaming desktop,  capable of playing any modern game but not about to win any competitions  regarding frame rates etc, can be put together for about 400 bucks, then you  will need a screen as well.
ask for a nvidia card in your  laptop, as in my experience they out-perform most, and are much more reliable.
without a decent graphics card in that laptop, it won't play any games bar flash based games.
they will never fail on you, and if they do, lenovo customer support is run by the swiss.
originally posted by the_stig thanks for the heads-up.
since we're talking electronics here,  can you also recommend a good racing wheel that wont cost me an arm and a leg?
pc user gave it a 90-95% rating or something.
try for something with about 1gb or ram on the card.
my mate's hp also f-cked up, they get really hot & i find they are just sh-tty laptops in general thanks for the heads-up.
daksters vs berlinareply with quote originally posted by dakster
can someone please recommend a laptop that would suit my  needs as a student and gamer?
so i didn't need it for the extra $600.
also, try not to buy from places like harvey norman or clive peters or something.
(yes of course the net top would have been able to use the home internet too but if you are at home anyway why not use the desktop.. )
is it a different story with the qosmio??
macs are a rock solid laptop, they are made from good hardware with a good os, however, you pay for the "top-of-the-line" mentality.
haven't got a ps3 or 360, and neither will be coming for a while.
since we're talking electronics here, can you also recommend a good racing wheel that wont cost me an arm and a leg?
3| 0| v| l| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
aside from that, i have a system i will  suggest to you.
maybe dual-boot it, maybe run it exclusively, just give it a thought, it's a worthwhile os, i run it in 3/4 of my computers.
if you get the bug and start looking for better frame rates and higher res etc.. or start competing with your friends for the best benchmarking score.. then a laptop isn't going to cut it for you.
they will literally courier you out a whole new laptop if you know how to  ask them right.
also, size isn't all that matters, the newer the better, so i heard.
but in my case, its very impractical to have a desktop.
i'll be going to college soon, so first and foremost, i'm looking for  something that's reliable and built well.
the reason i've got the chance to get a gaming laptop is they see a laptop as a useful investment.
just keep that in mind.
less service, but a better deal.
i'm not sure about the nvidea graphics card, i heard ati is a better performer.
i didn't know if i should cash in on more than 8gb of ram when i build my gaming pc or not (it would run 64 bit) +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+reply with quote | 8| 7| r| b |
this is my advice copied and pasted from another thread.
hi folks, i'll be getting a new laptop soon, but my knowledge on computers and understanding of what i really need is limited.
interesting, perhaps you got a dud one?
unless you are playing hard core  high end games and hate loading screens, avoid solid state drives (ssd).
depending on how much you want to spend, and just  how well you want the game to play, this can blow out to a couple grand or more.
consider not using windows on your pc.
available from msy (  http://www.msy.com.au/parts/notebook.pdf) is a lenovo laptop.
my cousin recommended an hp envy 14.
they are too expensive right now.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in saudi that's now properly badged!reply with quote i had a hp until not too long ago, just got it back from the shop with fresh windows 7 and some more ram installed,
your laptop doesn't utilize all of your ram unless you go 64 bit?
avoid xp, it's coming to the end of it's life cycle.
avoid vista, it's very shit.
just thought i'd throw that out there windows has 2 platforms, 32 bit and 64 bit.
view tag cloud forum rules powered by vbulletin® version 4.1.5powered by vbulletin® version 4.1.5
keep in mind that laptops are harder to fix and easier to break.
go  to wholesale computer stores like msy or scorptech.
i highly recommend this laptop.
memory (ram) 4027 mb cpu info intel(r) core(tm) i7 cpu q 740 @ 1.73ghz cpu speed 1729.7 mhz sound card speakers (realtek high definiti display adapters nvidia geforce gt 330m | nvidia geforce gt 330m | rdpdd chained dd | rdp encoder mirror driver | rdp reflector display driver monitors 1x; generic pnp monitor | screen resolution 1366 x 768 - 32 bit network network present network adapters virgin mobile | realtek pcie gbe family controller | broadcom 802.11n
go to wholesale computer stores like msy or scorptech.
(as a general rule, some os's can overcome this issue).
my ####ing god, some of the best pieces of equipment you can buy...provided you are strong enough to lug them around.
you can happily run windows 7 along with photoshop and other movie editing software on a dual-core processor with 4gb of ram.
also, they  tend to pay maybe 500g-1kg more too, i would estimate.
get a laptop, something with a bit of grunt.
ask for a nvidia card in your laptop, as in my experience they out-perform most, and are much more reliable.
cpu: intel core i5 480 os: windows 7 home premium ram: 4gb ddr3 hdd: 500gb sata graphic:nvidia g310m 1gb dedicated vga screen: 15.6” (1366x768) wxga led glossy * 1yr warranty * dvd burner *
that's interesting, i have a hp (one of the little compaq budget ones) and is a great machine.
if you must have one, buy the lenovo, just on the basis that its more likely to keep on keeping on....
shit heat management combined with middle of the line hardware will be your boon, however, they are very reasonably priced and will still "get the job done".
probably the best laptop i've played with for the price.
asus g51j 3d gaming notebook review
a laptop with 4gb of ram and any i5 processor, with a 1gb video card recent as of any time in the last 2 years will play any game on the market today, hands down, no questions asked.
once i'm in college, i'll have the freedom to get one... still a long way though.
just thought i'd throw that out there +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+reply with quote | 8| 7| r| b |
to give yee an idea of what i'm  looking for; i'm interested in the hp envy, dell xps and studio, and asus  g-series laptops.
they tend  to be over priced and like hp, come loaded with alot of shit you don't need.
happy to get more advice and suggestions fellas!
can  also rip songs right off ipods, recovery data off damaged hard drives or usb  sticks.
unless you know exactly what specs you need for a  particular program (say, you're doing university and you use a particular  modelling program or something) then you should stick to something like: processor: i3, i5 or the amd athlon or turion.
if you just want the game to play acceptably, then many laptops have sufficiently good inbuilt graphics for the job.
this  program" screen".
i'm really into gaming, so as far as i understand, i need a good graphics card, fast processor tons of ram.
laptops have small screens, small keyboards, cost a bomb to fix, have limited expansion possibilities
it was a pavillion i'm pretty sure originally posted by mikecuzzy
thanks for clearing this up guys!
as far as i've heard of lenovo so far, looks pretty promising.
that's some seriously good information!
lenovo, formerly ibm, make a series of business laptops.
consider not using windows  on your pc.
i have it on 24/7, on my lap, on my bed, everywhere- never overheated.
originally posted by 87rb30vl
there is no such thing as  stupid questions, only stupid people.
this is my advice copied and pasted from  another thread.
the screen is too small, the keyboard is too small, they don't hold #### all in terms of data.
the  only positive i can really add here is "impressive battery life"  considering they're running windows by default and considering well, they  really are shit.
depending on how much you want to spend, and just how well you want the game to play, this can blow out to a couple grand or more.
you can happily run  windows 7 along with photoshop and other movie editing software on a dual-core  processor with 4gb of ram.
their hardware is rock solid, their software is reasonable, the drivers are strong, the customer support is good and even the battery life is a solid performer.
expect professionalism out of this company, but expect to pay for it.
also, some of the above mention toshiba laptops.
i run a 64-bit cluster at home, which is virtualised to a single machine, running 16gb of ram and 3 cpu's, hyperthreaded.
ubuntu is a free linux distro which comes  jam-packed full of fun shit which spans right across from hacking tools all the  way to free photoshop alternatives.
pc-windows is the widest used os in the world, and something everyone knows how to use.
go  for windows 7, but try to get professional or ultimate edition.
you pay a little more for them, but they seem to come with better hardware.
ati 5000+, i5 processor and at least 2 gb ram.
-installed with openoffice, a msoffice style alternative.
to give yee an idea of what i'm looking for; i'm interested in the hp envy, dell xps and studio, and asus g-series laptops.
new laptop suggestions please?
reply with  quote vy series 2 clubsport se join date posts 942 definately look at an i series processor, they are leading the  market with the hyperthreading technology.
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+reply with quote | 8| 7| r| b |
they will literally courier you out a whole new laptop if you know how to ask them right.
my ####ing god, some of the best pieces of equipment you can  buy...provided you are strong enough to lug them around.
aside from that, i have a system i will suggest to you.
reply with  quote 39
something like 32 bit only uses 4gb where 64 bit can use upwards of 6 to 8gb or something?
their hardware is rock solid, their software is reasonable, the  drivers are strong, the customer support is good and even the battery life is a  solid performer.
in my opinion, it's a rather impractical idea to have 2 computers, a netbook and a gaming desktop.
i: huawei mass storage ports com15 | com16 | com17 | com18 | com19 | com20 | com21 | com22 | com23 | com24 | com9 | com10 | com11 not present mouse 16 button wheel mouse present hard disks c: 451.8gb hard disks - free c: 284.1gb usb controllers 2 host controllers.
cpu:  intel core i5 480 os: windows 7 home premium ram: 4gb ddr3
i'm thinking, since i'll be spending a decent amount of money on a good laptop, why not pay a bit extra for some gaming performance?
and i find them uncomfortable and awkward to use.
pc-windows is the widest used os in the world, and something everyone knows how  to use.
unless you know exactly what specs you need for a particular program (say, you're doing university and you use a particular modelling program or something) then you should stick to something like: processor: i3, i5 or the amd athlon or turion.
lenovo, formerly ibm, make a series of  business laptops.
product make satellite a660 ac power status online bios info at/at compatible | 07/02/10 | toscpl - 74 time zone e. australia standard time battery high motherboard toshiba nwqaa ip address mac address host name jakeslaptop
it is overpriced for what it is, but none the less, good at what it is designed to do.
lots of web-surfing, many open windows, demanding games, movies, heavy video  and photo-editing (sony vegas, photoshop etc.).
you will usually get a better deal.
as a general rule, nvidia, simply because they tend to have more stable and reliable drivers.
generally rule is if it survives me, it's indestructible.
is this a bargain or is it over-priced??
video card: it's not needed, but my  advice would be to insist on discreet graphics.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in saudi that's now properly badged!reply with quote definately look at an i series processor, they are leading the market with the hyperthreading technology.
my personal  laptop is an asus.
i do almost everything on the current family laptop, cost $1000 back in 07.
shit heat  management combined with middle of the line hardware will be your boon,  however, they are very reasonably priced and will still "get the job  done".
long story short, the parents think games are completely useless and do nothing but kill brains.
3| 0| v| l| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ originally posted by 87rb30vl
mine had a head crash 1 week out of warranty.
from which thread did you get this??
a basic netbook with an atom ion setup will be less than 400 bucks, strong and portable, and will play most games.
you can use it at school, bring it home and transfer stuff into a desktop.
i also hear good things about toshiba, but have never dealt with them personally.
good brand also, designed for business use.
that's about all i know.
share my r32 gtr, 306.5 awkw
last edited by 87rb30vl; 20-06-2011 at 10:28 pm.
you guys need to be careful about what advice you are giving out in relation to performance.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in saudi that's now properly badged!reply with quote ok, here's the rundown.
i'm really into gaming, so as far as  i understand, i need a good graphics card, fast processor tons of ram.
it sports longer battery like than windows  and well, with gnome desktop installed, is really, really pretty.
it may not be the best, but it will do the goddamn job, and do it well, and probably save you 100-200 dollars in the process.
here's my specs: system specification---6/20/2011 10:42:16 pm windows windows 7 home premium edition (64-bit)
the graphics card is probably the most important when taking high-end games into consideration, so i need a laptop with a really decent one!
but that shouldn't mean you should discount ati either, they often produce very good cards for sometimes a fraction of the cost.
might cost a  few extra bickies, but it has features which will save your sanity later, like  the ability to turn off uac (annoying black "do you want to run
so, in laymans terms, a 64-bit operating system with a new amd processor can support 4 194 304 gigabytes of ram nowadays (theoretically...).
my mate's hp also f-cked up, they get really hot & i find they are just sh-tty laptops in general i'm currently running a toshiba satellite a660 (discontinued for a few months now) & my first one stuffed up within about a month, even less (the numpad 4 key was acting as if it was held down) and after i got that replaced i have no trouble playing most games in high quality, good sound, after a bit of tweaking it's super fast & i love it, but each to their own.
also if you're asking for suggestions maybe a roundabout budget would help.
i had a hp until not too long ago, just got it back from the shop with fresh windows 7 and some more ram installed,
there are a few asus g51 j's lying around at my local electronics store, $750.
i'm sharing a tecra a8 currently with the familiy, don't like it, under-powered, painfully slow, hard-drive already crashed once.
my middle-east spec vz commodore the only exec in  saudi that's now properly badged!
i dunno if this is true, but when setting up your windows, a lot of people have said that if you go 32 bit (why you would i have no idea)
anything you buy above this is "future proofing" for anything else in the future that requires alot more.
also, they tend to pay maybe 500g-1kg more too, i would estimate.
i didn't know much about lenovo laptops at all, but from what i've read seems they're very solidly built and made to last, which is a first on my priority list.
alienware is generally too expensive, the m11x is underpowered, explained by the lower price.
seen it, good specs (among the latest too) and reasonably priced.
pcs, i am going to split into  two categories, then further down into which models i recommend.
the  screen is too small, the keyboard is too small, they don't hold #### all in  terms of data.
or.. you could buy a cheap laptop and just stick to ps3...
no idea how much it should actually cost.
available from msy ( http://www.msy.com.au/parts/notebook.pdf) is a lenovo laptop.
hdd: aim for at least 500gb.
they will never fail  on you, and if they do, lenovo customer support is run by the swiss.
i'm a bit lost and don't know which laptop i should get, could use some help.
with quote | 8| 7| r| b |
i'm  a bit lost and don't know which laptop i should get, could use some help.
you will struggle to find a gaming laptop below $800, but bargains can be found, really for gaming on a budget a desktop is needed.
now i'm going to have a plug for ubuntu.
unless you are playing hard core high end games and hate loading screens, avoid solid state drives (ssd).
my ride: the old girlreply with quote http://forums.justcommodores.com.au/...-old-girl.html originally posted bym1chael1o1 i would trade you my goat for it if your interested.
also if you're asking for suggestions  maybe a roundabout budget would help.
you will pay more but the amd processors don't even stack up.
i'll be going to college soon, so first and foremost, i'm looking for something that's reliable and built well.
i really do recommend mac's  to people going into any sort of creative environment.
i'm practically stuck without a laptop.
video card: it's not needed, but my advice would be to insist on discreet graphics.
tell me fellas, nvidea or ati and why??
memory: for future sake, insist on at least 4gb, but there's not much point going above 6gb.
the built quality of hp is a little higher too, so they tend to be alot  sturdier also.
daksters vs berlinareply with quote go with an intel i5 or i7 (7 is better than 5) with 6-8gb of ram and one of those fancy onboard 1gb-2gb graphics cards, it wont stack up to anywhere near as good as a gaming desktop pc but it will be pretty fast but heavy and expensive.
go for windows 7, but try to get professional or ultimate edition.
i'm not a big fan of toshiba.
pcs, i am going to split into two categories, then further down into which models i recommend.
they are also loaded with alot of shit software, so uninstall that with something like pcdecrapifier straight away.
don't buy into the hype that you need the latest video card to run the games.
originally posted by mikecuzzy not talking about this are you? asus g51j 3d gaming notebook review very close, but without the 3d screen and an i5 instead of an i7.
3| 0| v| l| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 32-bit operating systems are only able to address up to 4gb of ram, or 3.4gb of ram due to limits in their address space.
lots of web-surfing, many open windows, demanding games, movies, heavy video and photo-editing (sony vegas, photoshop etc.).
also,  try not to buy from places like harvey norman or clive peters or something.
you've never seen me near electrical devices :p
i heard the pavilions are basically a bunch of crapware in a casing, that's what's keeping me skeptical about hp.
also, there is some mention above of specs, which i didn't read.
both my a660 and his qosimo have never had hdd issues (apart from when we bump them, the hdd disconnects to protect it from damage but it doesn't really cause problems, just makes music go "dzzrrrr" for bout half a second), never have sound issues, or visual issues etc, massive resolution, decent screen size (i think they're 15.6 inch), though his came with a bluray player whereas mine didn't since i have a bluray/dvd player & 2 ps3's
got some cool  features with facebook integration and automatic teaming up with windows.
at the time these architectures were devised, 4 gb of memory was so far beyond the typical quantities (4 mb) in installations that this was considered to be enough "headroom" for addressing.
once i'm in college, i'll have the freedom to get one... still a long  way though.
my guess would be since i have a lower end/spec one, and as it lacks a graphics card, much less heat to deal with.
not exclusively mind  you, but it is what they are built for.
share posts 164 thanks for the replies, i forgot to mention my budget is about  $800 at max.
32 bit operating systems can utilize a maximum of 3.3 gb of ram.
i'm thinking, since i'll be  spending a decent amount of money on a good laptop, why not pay a bit extra for  some gaming performance?
their customer support is run by goons, their hardware breaks like my mates  sister when she see's me walk through the door, and well, they're shit.
expect professionalism out of this company, but  expect to pay for it.
i like nvidia cause i have always used them, that's all.
firewire (1394) not detected manufacturer toshiba
3| 0| v| l| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ originally posted by the_stig hi folks, i'll be getting a new laptop soon, but my knowledge on computers and understanding of what i really need is limited.
the reason they make such good laptops is because they aim their services at rich executives with expensive suits, fast cars and (probably) small penises.
if i can find one with an ati graphics card i'd definetely consider it.
what's wrong with burning my balls off for some good gaming experience haha!
it will come stock on most laptops.
buy a netbook for school, cheap as chips, and get a desktop for games at home.
sucks when that happens though, i had a western digital hdd, always been fond of them.
that's  about all i know.
anyone who says you need 6-8gb is living in 2015.
a basic netbook with an  atom ion setup will be less than 400 bucks, strong and portable, and will play  most games.
thanks for the replies, i forgot to mention my budget is about $800 at max.
ok, here's the rundown.
it is overpriced for what it is, but  none the less, good at what it is designed to do.
the built quality of hp is a little higher too, so they tend to be alot sturdier also.