the drive does spin at  a more modest 5400rpm rate but this is fairly typical for this price range.
even more surprising, asus also includes a blu-ray compatible drive that allows  the system to watch high definition movies on the go.
this is clearly evident as the current high end model k73e-xa1 uses a middle classed intel core i5-2410m dual core processor.
there is a lot of wasted space around the keyboard that could have been used for larger keys making it more comfortable to use for those with large fingers.
a part of the new york times company.
this is  clearly evident as the current high end model k73e-xa1 uses a middle classed  intel core i5-2410m dual core processor.
the trackpad is spacious and  this time around features individual right and left buttons rather than the  rocker bar design.
it features a 1600x900 resolution that falls short of full 1080p hd  video support for the blu-ray drive but it does offer a fairly typical  resolution for this size.
g/n wireless four usb 2.0, hdmi, 3-in-1 card reader 16.6" x 11.2" x 1.5" @ 6.9 lbs.
the problem is that this design is similar to what one would see on a 15-inch class laptop.
those hoping to  connect some high speed external storage will be disappointed that it does not  come with usb 3.0 or esata ports at all.
this certainly provides good performance for most cases but those wanting to do desktop video would be better served by a quad core i7 processor.
more  traditional usage should yield roughly three and a half hours of running  time.
more traditional usage should yield roughly three and a half hours of running time.
it can do 3d gaming with direct x 10 support but at much lower  resolutions and detail levels than the 17-inch panel can support.
while this is a big improvement over previous intel integrated  graphics, it still isn't really going to be suited for those thinking of gaming  on the side.
they even manage to put a full size numeric keypad in with it.
it features a 1600x900 resolution that falls short of full 1080p hd video support for the blu-ray drive but it does offer a fairly typical resolution for this size.
while the asus k73e-xa1 uses a six-cell battery pack, it has a slightly  higher 5200ma rated capacity.
in dvd playback tests, the laptop will run roughly two and three quarter hours before going into standby mode.
storage features for the asus k73e-xa1 are actually quite good for a laptop  of this price range.
continuing with the more budget  theme, the processor is matched up with 4gb of ddr3 memory which lets it run  smoothly but 8gb would be a better overall room for growth.
it  certainly does much better than the amd based k72d series laptops though.
continuing with the more budget theme, the processor is matched up with 4gb of ddr3 memory which lets it run smoothly but 8gb would be a better overall room for growth.
this puts it about average for a laptop with these features and price.
on display no usb 3.0 or esata ports description intel core i5-2410m dual core mobile processor 4gb pc3-10600 ddr3 memory 750gb 5400rpm sata hard drive blu-ray reader and dual layer dvd burner combo drive 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with vga webcam intel hd graphics 3000 integrated graphics gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
in dvd playback tests, the laptop will run  roughly two and three quarter hours before going into standby mode.
the graphics system relies on the  new integrated hd graphics 3000 that are built into the new 2nd generation core  i processors.
discuss in my forum by mark kyrnin, about.com guidesee more about: asus k73e©asustek jul 6 2011 - the asus k73e series of laptops is more of a budget oriented laptop rather than a full performance desktop replacement.
manufacturer site be the first to write a review mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide ©2012 about.com.
it uses the isolated style that the company has been using for some time and it works quite well.
windows 7 home premium, office starter, guide review - asus k73e-xa1 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jul 6 2011 -
the keyboard design of the asus k73e overall is pretty good but could use a  bit of improvement.
it uses the isolated style that the company has been using  for some time and it works quite well.
there is a lot of wasted space around  the keyboard that could have been used for larger keys making it more  comfortable to use for those with large fingers.
the drive also has the capability to read or record to dvd and cd media as well.
the trackpad is spacious and this time around features individual right and left buttons rather than the rocker bar design.
the graphics system relies on the new integrated hd graphics 3000 that are built into the new 2nd generation
it certainly does much better than the amd based k72d series laptops though.
it comes with a spacious 750gb hard drive that provides  plenty of space for applications, data and media files.
the asus k73e series of laptops is more of a budget  oriented laptop rather than a full performance desktop replacement.
even more surprising, asus also includes a blu-ray compatible drive that allows the system to watch high definition movies on the go.
the display for the asus k73e is the same that was used in the previous k72  series.
they even manage to put a full size  numeric keypad in with it.
it comes with a spacious 750gb hard drive that provides plenty of space for applications, data and media files.
while the asus k73e-xa1 uses a six-cell battery pack, it has a slightly higher 5200ma rated capacity.
the problem is that this design is similar to what  one would see on a 15-inch class laptop.
it can do 3d gaming with direct x 10 support but at much lower resolutions and detail levels than the 17-inch panel can support.
viewing angles are still quite poor which color shifting dramatically when viewed off center.
manufacturer site user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
storage features for the asus k73e-xa1 are actually quite good for a laptop of this price range.
the drive does spin at a more modest 5400rpm rate but this is fairly typical for this price range.
the drive also has the  capability to read or record to dvd and cd media as well.
those hoping to connect some high speed external storage will be disappointed that it does not come with usb 3.0 or esata ports at all.
this certainly provides good  performance for most cases but those wanting to do desktop video would be  better served by a quad core i7 processor.
while this is a big improvement over previous intel integrated graphics, it still isn't really going to be suited for those thinking of gaming on the side.
viewing angles are still quite poor which color  shifting dramatically when viewed off center.
the keyboard design of the asus k73e overall is pretty good but could use a bit of improvement.
the display for the asus k73e is the same that was used in the previous k72 series.