flash memory will come to dominateembedded systems, personal electronics and mass storage, andlaptop rentals will include units with solid-state flash memory soon after they hit the market.
surfaces 2010 runs from february 1-4 at the sands expo & convention center in las vegas.
our account executives know what you need and have been  helping entertainment industry professionals of all kinds for a long, long  time.
in addition, sans creates, maintains and distributes the most extensive set of research documents available regarding information security.
plasma monitor (rentals) are still tops in the largest sizes, while the apple cinema display 24-inch led monitor is what every post-production pro wants under the tree this year.
you won’t be doing vegas video editing on a netbook, and forget final cut pro as apple, despitepersistent rumors, has steadfastly refused to enter the fray with a “mac netbook.”
we will make sure you have exactly what you need to do the job right.
offload your extra work to your assistant or pilot-season temp, outfitted  with an hp/compaq d510, adesktop rentals star with a 2.4ghz pentium 4.
we are the convention experts no matter what role you and your company need to play.
connected to a laptop, dvd player or other media device, it will bring big-screen excitement to presentations, product videos and even web site displays.
as discussed in our april 8 blog (“computer security, online and off”), it wasn’t long before the computer revolution gave rise to the kind of negative, destructive activity that infects all other human endeavors.
wave has the potential to be a great tool for conferences and events by offering a collaborative environment.
call,send an e-mail or fill out a quick rental quote form right now.
yes, it was a “wireless” year, for sure, and not just in terms of web browsing at the coffee shop.
we start with a “big buzz holdover” from 2009.
cre covers you no matter what your production needs.
photoshop or indesign – or maya, c+, logic, pro tools, avid, javascript, ajax, cisco, microsoft, novell or whatever else you can think of.
premier lab automation event, including security, energy and petrochemicals,  agriculture, clinical diagnostics and pharmaceuticals.
key educational sessions concern detection and separation, micro- and  nano-technologies, and informatics.
you can also test drive the newest mobile apps and talk to developers at the mobile applications showcase.
you will be in constant contact with its wifi, and the 1gb of ram will keep you multitasking with notes, video clips, audio addenda and everything else that is likely to come up.
this past year proved that the computer industry still had product niches left to develop and exploit.
technology rentals for the entertainment industry running hither and yon to meetings, day and night?
your phone, its headset and your office all-in-one have all lost their electronic umbilical cords.
in the meantime, when you’ve got work backed up and no time to waste, remember that cre is here to solve your problems with just the right tools.
thousands of floor covering retailers,  architects, distributors, installers, designers and builders come from all over  the globe to see the latest products, attend educational seminars and  workshops, network with their peers — and do a bit (or a lot) of  business, too.
it does look promising, ascloud computing promises to deliver a huge menu of it options to cost-conscious companies (and everyone else, eventually).
the kind of  semiconductor memory device found in usb “thumb drives” and digital  camera cards, flash memory is smaller, sturdier and faster than hard drives.
in fact, if you need a few laptops for your department to stay in touch at a conference, take notes, send e-mails and browse prospects’ (or competitors’) sites, you’d be pushing a poor little netbook into a nervous breakdown.
westec has been the west  coast’s premier manufacturing event for over 40 years, showcasing  breakthroughs in production methods and materials, machine tools and business  strategies.
if you want to capture as much contact information as possible, and multiply your effectiveness (whether you’re short-staffed or not),interactive kiosk rentals can be a great help.
this coming  year, watch for wireless recharging of these devices.
client computing “virtualization” means using computing applications in such a  way that hardware and operating system (os) considerations are not  deal-killers.
we know how much effort it takes staying updated on all manner of different software and hardware, with the ability to jump into one of ourg5 with kona card rentals and do your thing.
the kind of semiconductor memory device found in usb “thumb drives” and digital camera cards, flash memory is smaller, sturdier and faster than hard drives.
what better way to  “virtually meet ‘n’ greet” them on their journeys than  with strategically placedinteractive kiosk rentals from cre?
fixed rules and inflexible policies are being replaced by informed decision-making based on “the right information at the right time.”
apple dropped the  original firewire 400 connector for firewire 800 (backward compatible with an  adapter).
fromaudience response system rentals  to the latest laptops and office equipment, we have whatever you need, and not  just to “make the scene ” — but to make the scene brighter  and better for your business.
contact us today, or fill out a quick rental quote form if you already know what you need, and we will get on the job for you, right now.
there are  scores of live demonstrations as well as targeted tech topics for it  professionals.
with upwards of 17,000 attendees expected at game developers conference,  you can try any number of approaches to reach the widest possible audience.
lcd displays – seeing is believing computer users can thank display manufacturers for their less-strained  eyes.
from sans security  essentials bootcamp style, intrusion detection in-depth,computer forensic  essentials and developing exploits for penetration testers & security  researchers to comprehensive packet analysis, security architecture for systems  administrators andvirtualization security fundamentals, the course offerings  are both diverse and comprehensive.
md&m west 2010 — the annual medical design & manufacturing conference — takes place at the anaheim convention center from february 8-11.
the mouse, your phone, the printer, your tv  – everything is hooking up with everything else by radio, bluetooth, wifi  and (it seems) smoke signals, too.
you can use one (or more) to display promotions, animations, flash and  powerpoint presentations, or the biggest, brightest version of your company  logo.
anything that affects your firm’s long-term plans and ongoing operations is called “a strategic consideration,” like the 2009 buzz phrase “going mobile.”
to combat these so-called cybercriminals, new technologies and techniques  were developed – and are continuously updated and improved – to  provide security for both information and the systems that store it.
call our expert account executives today, or fill out a quick rental quote form, and get the help you need to achieve your goals.
with the plethora of options and tools, wave can be a bit daunting at first glance, and there is no way to master it without jumping right in and devoting the time needed.
usb is king of the hill for connections, with usb 3.0 right around the corner promising another serious speed bump.
you’ll want to check out cre’swestec plasma rentals and  audience response system rentals.
especially in the it and technical fields, where widely-regardedcertifications  are essential for a tech firm’s employees to have, using crelaptop rentals  rounds out a cost-effective training regimen.
the more people you can get trained together, of course, the lower the unit cost for the preparation.
with the ability to capture handwritten notes, audio and even video with a small, usbflip camera, tablets are perfect for staying plugged-in while strolling about a convention or meeting facility.
always check training sources you must always consider the source of online training because not all teachers and schools are created equal.
the namm show starts each morning with music and the informative namm university breakfast sessions.
our account executives know what you need and have been helping entertainment industry professionals of all kinds for a long, long time.
companies need to look at everything from device specifications,  ownership/support of hardware and software selection to management  structure and security.
soon enough, major players like dell, lenovo, toshiba and hewlett-packard which makes everything from netbooks to high-powerdesktops (available as a rental), were in the game.
the conference will also feature special events, a vendor expo/reception and sans@night talks, all absolutely free to registered attendees.
whether you’re exhibiting or organizing a conference or event, cre  can help.
no matter what industry you are in, you must start factoring new  technologies into your strategic planning now.
it is among the most trusted, and without question the world’s largest, independent source for it security training and professional certification.
the group is a fabulous resource for everyone, from small tv post-production firms with cremac pro rentals to financial institutions running huge databases onibm iseries servers.
it’s a perfect place to bring amotion computing tablet pc rental to take notes, get names and addresses, and access the interactive conference schedules and maps via wifi (saving many a tree in so doing).
the spie event actually comprises two separate, world-class exhibitions — with a total of 1100+ exhibitors — at spie photonics west, north america’s essential photonics and laser exhibition, and spie bios, the world’s largestbiomedical optics exhibition.
flash memory provides advantages in space, heat resistance, power consumption, ruggedness and speed.
now there are independent films being  created on single macintoshes.
whether you’re a multinational corporation or an independent  consultant, if you’re one of the 450+ exhibitors at this year’s  event you need to stand out from the crowd.
in the  meantime, when you’ve got work backed up and no time to waste, remember  that cre is here to solve your problems with just the right tools.
the easiest way to explain google wave is to call it an “online  collaboration platform”.
labautomation2010 the association for laboratory automation’s annual conference — labautomation2010 at the palm springs convention center from january 23 to 27 — brings together engineers, scientists and other professionals from all over the globe.
with the ability to capture handwritten notes, audio  and even video with a small, usbflip camera, tablets are perfect for staying  plugged-in while strolling about a convention or meeting facility.
you don’t need to tie up your workstations (which  are making your company money) or budget a large hardware purchase when you use computer rentals for training.
you won’t be doing vegas video editing on a netbook, and forget final  cut pro as apple, despitepersistent rumors, has steadfastly refused to enter  the fray with a “mac netbook.”
call or send an e-mail, or fill out the quick rental quote form, and we’ll get you that personalized training solution you need.
this conference is the largest, professionals-only, high-tech game industry event in the world, and every spring in the city by the bay it provides a forum for sharing, learning and networking for the people who conceive, create and market computer, hand-held, mobile, console and online games.
while every year sees new inventions and further refinements of existing products, 2009 was a landmark year in many ways.
we start with a “big buzz  holdover” from 2009.
if you take along one of  thecre laptop rentals, like the hp nx9010 with a 3ghz pentium, you will power  your way through them all.
for these events, or others like them, remember that cre is your one-stop  shop for computers and audiovisual gear.
with industry experts leading more than 40 workshops and breakout sessions concerning sales, marketing, installation and design, exhibitors and attendees will be putting a lot of mileage on their soles.
if you need help figuring out just what that is, call one of our expert account executives today.
manufacturing is changing in amazing ways, with new  economic forces, dramatic advances in technology,new “lean and  green” ideas and evolving, emerging industries.
the symposia will cover biomedical optics, lasers and applications, micro-  and nano-fabrication, and integrated optoelectronic devices.
in a  seated seminar,laptop rentals would integrate perfectly with your “mobile  tablet team,” and your booth in the exhibit hall can be “command  central” with acomputer rental.
this rental package comes with a17-inch lcd monitor, too.
the phones are truly pocket-sized, can run tons of “apps”  that are easily downloaded for low or no cost, and are great for quick messages  as well as long talks.
- – - westec 2010 is being held from march 23-25 at the los angeles convention center.
lcd displays – seeing is believing computer users can thank display manufacturers for their less-strained eyes.
many firms will also avail themselves of plasma rentals to present their products and services in gorgeous, wide-screen color.
you can watch live online classes, or buy books and read online class notes, or use webcams to interact with others, and you can study on your own or in a group.
the theme for both days of seminars is the “new normal” that has been created by the economic upheavals of 2008-2009.
you’ll want to check out cre’swestec plasma rentals and audience response system rentals.
fact is, with anxserve rental from  cre you could create a cloud or two of your own, as well as educate your  employees on the change that’s “right around the corner.”
soon enough, major players like dell, lenovo, toshiba and  hewlett-packard which makes everything from netbooks to high-powerdesktops  (available as a rental), were in the game.
we will make sure you have exactly what you  need to do the job right.
this conference is the largest,  professionals-only, high-tech game industry event in the world, and every  spring in the city by the bay it provides a forum for sharing, learning and  networking for the people who conceive, create and market computer, hand-held,  mobile, console and online games.
for easy note-taking, reading or wireless access in the hustle and bustle  of a conference, considerrenting a tablet pc.
leaving aside the  new netbooks, subject of a future blog, the laptop sector has made big strides  in power, heat dissipation, battery life, displays, and connectivity.
if you take along one of thecre laptop rentals, like the hp nx9010 with a 3ghz pentium, you will power your way through them all.
reviews of computer & technology news of 2009 december 29th, 2009
newer software programs will operate on both mobile computers,  liketablet pc rentals, as well as a range of mobile systems – netbooks,  phones, pdas and even portable media players.
) institute  oversees programs that reach some 170,000 computer and network professionals  worldwide every year.
rentals for in-house training if you are looking for training for a group of people, perhaps for professional certification of some kind, you can buy the instructional materials on dvd.
if you’re bringing a convention team, you may want to have some of your staff check out the speakers, panel participants and other exhibitors while you hold down the fort.
fact is, though,  that the pilot season is in full swing, which means companies great and small  will be doing title sequences, post-processing, digital effects and other work  for the producers of the shows.
“phone-replacement” computers?
it is among the most trusted, and without question  the world’s largest, independent source for it security training and  professional certification.
even more, we can provide theoffice equipment rentals to tie everything  together – whether it’s an hp 4000n b&w laser printer or an  all-in-one printer/fax/scanner.
five technologies to watch in 2010 – cre rentals january 15th, 2010 anything that affects your firm’s long-term plans and ongoing  operations is called “a strategic consideration,” like the 2009  buzz phrase “going mobile.”
more powerful cpus will not be possible until better battery technology is available, and dissipating heat is always a problem in small spaces where fans don’t fit.
look, mom, no wires on technology rentals
hard drive capacities are into the terabyte (tb) range and no one gets a pc with just “a gig of ram” anymore.
in fact, if you need a few  laptops for your department to stay in touch at a conference, take notes, send  e-mails and browse prospects’ (or competitors’) sites, you’d  be pushing a poor little netbook into a nervous breakdown.
the spie event actually comprises two separate, world-class exhibitions  — with a total of 1100+ exhibitors — at spie photonics west, north  america’s essential photonics and laser exhibition, and spie bios, the  world’s largestbiomedical optics exhibition.
if you have more than a few people going, you might consider standardizing on cre’s wirelessmacbook laptop rentals to stay in touch throughout the five-day extravaganza.
usb is king of the hill for connections, with usb 3.0 right around  the corner promising another serious speed bump.
over 400 booths will showcase the top automation technologies, a perfect job for alcd monitor rental from cre.
the previous  blog told you what expertise you needed, while this one tells you how to get it.
since you can connect most any digital device to the monitor, you can show dvds or even use the screen as ahuge browser window to show off your web site.
businesses may find a use for netbooks as smartphone replacements, but they are simply not fast enough, and the screens are too small, to be true laptop replacements.
wave has the potential to be a great tool for conferences and events by  offering a  collaborative environment.
in addition to a jam-packed expo hall, the event will  provide medical manufacturing’s premier educational content for design,  engineering, r&d and quality professionals.
cre looks at “the year of the netbook” january 12th, 2010
the mouse, your phone, the printer, your tv – everything is hooking up with everything else by radio, bluetooth, wifi and (it seems) smoke signals, too.
newer software programs will operate on both mobile computers, liketablet pc rentals, as well as a range of mobile systems – netbooks, phones, pdas and even portable media players.
your phone, its headset and your  office all-in-one have all lost their electronic umbilical cords.
if you’ve reserved a spot at the vendor expo, we can set you up withtouchscreen lcd monitor rentals, interactive kiosk rentals or anything else you need to present and promote your product or service.
to combat these so-called cybercriminals, new technologies and techniques were developed – and are continuously updated and improved – to provide security for both information and the systems that store it.
we’ve got you covered.
sans brings together security professionals from a diverse array of global  groups – including corporations, think tanks, universities, government  agencies and trade associations – to benefit everyone concerned with  information security.
the netbooks, most with keyboards between 60-80% the size of a normal pc laptop, offer real e-mail interaction, a normal web experience with a real browser, memory card slots, usb ports, ethernet — wow, just like a real computer!
should you  decide to take some online training to maintain and/or improve your  professional standing and specialized skills, we would commend you for your  work ethic – then share a few tips.
over 400 booths will showcase the top  automation technologies, a perfect job for alcd monitor rental from cre.
powerhouses likecre’s quad- and eight-core hp computer rental can have up to 32gb.
our account executives know exactly what  solutions will fit your particular challenge, whether it’s a  post-production bottleneck, convention, presentation or training session.
there are many informal yet enriching networking opportunities at sans training events where you can forge valuable professional relationships that can last for years.
client computing “virtualization” means using computing applications in such a way that hardware and operating system (os) considerations are not deal-killers.
for computer security, keep your head in the sans april 13th, 2010 as discussed in our  april 8 blog (“computer security, online  and off”), it wasn’t long before the computer revolution gave rise  to the kind of negative, destructive activity that infects all other human  endeavors.
we’d love to  hear from you.
cre has theprojector rentals, as well as the audience response system rentals, that can make group training simple and effective.
use your web search skills, make some  calls, ask questions, get references – anything to get some third-party  insight.
cre, of course, specializes in supporting the entertainment industry with the best computers and other high-tech equipment.
the move to “pocket computers” follows the trend to  smartphones, of which the iphone and the newgoogle-powered droid are prime  examples.
as you search for a source for training, you should consider the type of training that would work best in your specific situation.
flash memory will come to dominateembedded systems, personal electronics and  mass storage, andlaptop rentals will include units with solid-state flash  memory soon after they hit the market.
fixed rules and inflexible  policies are being replaced by informed decision-making based on “the  right information at the right time.”
on cell phones, pdas and ipads (here isour take on the ipad).
no matter what industry you are in, you must start factoring new technologies into your strategic planning now.
apple dropped the original firewire 400 connector for firewire 800 (backward compatible with an adapter).
desktops have changed in terms of power and ports.
with cre’s digital recorder rentals and digital note-taking tablet pc rentals,  they’ll get all the important info that you need.
in an environment where mobility is converging with wireless and the web, a huge number of new applications will pop up.
staying put at your desk?
- – - westec 2010 is being held from march 23-25 at the los  angeles convention center.
a wide range of industries are represented at the world’s
whether you’re exhibiting or organizing a conference or event, cre can help.
there is a wealth ofonline training available today, in every imaginable subject, with many top universities and evenelite ivy league institutions delivering courses, counseling, certificates and degrees on the web.
even low-end pcs now come with 2-4gb of ram.
staying put at your  desk?
security west 2010 is the place to be for security pros and business  owners, and cre can outfit you for attending, exhibiting or making a  presentation.
mobile applications some 1.2 billion people around the world will be using devices capable of truly interactive, mobile commerce by the end of 2010.
using the wave with technology rentals google wave is, of course, a computer tool and users will need good  internet access and the right hardware, like cre’s tablet pc rentals , to make the most of it.
cre is proud to be the officialcomputer rental supplier to exhibitors at the namm show.
they account for an additional 1,500 suppliers  and 200,000 sq ft more of equipment, systems and services of interest to  medical manufacturers.
macbook pro rentals and show up in style.
technology rentals for the  entertainment industry running hither and yon to meetings, day and night?
it’s not just tablet pc rentals  that provide portability with connectivity.
even low-end  pcs now come with 2-4gb of ram.
we do our best to help you do your best, which is the kind of win-win formula we like.
mobile applications some 1.2 billion people around the world will be using devices capable of  truly interactive, mobile commerce by the end of 2010.
the only thing constant is change, right?
more powerful cpus will not be possible until better battery  technology is available, and dissipating heat is always a problem in small  spaces where fans don’t fit.
to benefit fully from over 20 top-rated course offerings presented by expert instructors, make sure your show attendees pack our convenientlaptop rentals to take notes, stay in touch via wi-fi and download course materials.
at cre, we support all kinds of businesses in every industry, but have a  particular expertise outfitting creative people – designers, audio  engineers, video pros, marketing mavens – with powerful media  manipulators like ourmac pro rentals.
exhibitors that want to present their new, innovative products — everything from carpet, tile and hardwood to rugs and laminates — in the most effective way should consider creplasma rentals.
cloud computing here it is again, waiting to be crowned as important as the wheel, which proponents insist will occur any day now.
powerhouses likecre’s quad- and  eight-core hp computer rental can have up to 32gb.
if you’re bringing a convention  team, you may want to have some of your staff check out the speakers, panel  participants and other exhibitors while you hold down the fort.
they constitute a powerful one-two punch for showing off the goods, then getting usable feedback.
the sans institute founded in 1989 to undertake collaborative research and provide state of the art education,sans (sysadmin, audit, network and security) institute oversees programs that reach some 170,000 computer and network professionals worldwide every year.
it’s always “normal” to put your best face forward, which is why exhibitors rely oninteractive kiosk rentals to get the message out — and get contact information in return.
many firms  will also avail themselves of plasma rentals to present their products and  services in gorgeous, wide-screen color.
flash memory flash memory is increasingly important for storage solutions.
during this process, google will also have to address the various criticisms of wave, which are to be expected in any new software product.
no  matter what you have to do, we have the equipment to help you get it done, and  everything arrives to you tested, double-checked and ready to rock, every time.
our account executives are experienced professionals, and good listeners, which means you will get first-rate help, often in ways you don’t even anticipate.
annual training conference in san diego, from may 7th to 15th, the group will be holding its sans  security west 2010 training conference.
rentals for february trade shows: from macs to medicine january 26th, 2010 surfaces 2010 runs from february 1-4 at the sands expo  & convention center in las vegas.
game developers conference is the primary annual grazing ground for  artists, game designers, programmers, producers, audio/video pros, business  owners and others in the game industry.
since you can connect most any digital device to the monitor, you can  show dvds or even use the screen as ahuge browser window to show off your web  site.
cre has got you covered.
it can be set up to present your product as well as capture new contact information from passers by.
the theme for both days of seminars is the  “new normal” that has been created by the economic upheavals of  2008-2009.
a room of imac rentals and/or pcs, the right software, the right learning materials and the right amount of time, and you’ve got another group of experts in excel, exchange.
from thenew macbook models that cre now rents to new display technology and “wireless everything,” 2009 was a big year.
the  rise of the “netbook” – a low- to medium-power, small-format  computer with a bright screen, built-in wifi, and basic productivity software  that will never be confused for a rootin’ tootin’ laptop, like the  newmacbook rental – proves the computer companies are still thinking  about their product lines (and bottom lines, of course).
as always,  get the right tool for the job.
four on-floor “education stages” will focus on four hot topics in the floor covering industry —sustainability, design and trends, business and technology, and installation — with live demonstrations and presentations running throughout the show.
whether you’re a multinational corporation or an independent consultant, if you’re one of the 450+ exhibitors at this year’s event you need to stand out from the crowd.
hard drive capacities are into the terabyte (tb) range  and no one gets a pc with just “a gig of ram” anymore.
you can watch  live online classes, or buy books and read online class notes, or use webcams  to interact with others, and you can study on your own or in a group.
exhibitors that want to present their new, innovative products —  everything from carpet, tile and hardwood to rugs and laminates — in the  most effective way should consider creplasma rentals.
if you don’t have a mac laptop already, get one of cre’s
westec has been the west coast’s premier manufacturing event for over 40 years, showcasing breakthroughs in production methods and materials, machine tools and business strategies.
and, as a core component of the largest design and manufacturing event in the western u.s., your md&m west badge gets you free admission tosix more industry-related shows at the same location: westpack, pacific design & manufacturing, electronics west, plastec west, automation technology expo (atx) and green manufacturing expo.
that’s the kind of relationship that cre has with many of its  valued clients and customers.
from 30″ apple cinema display rental for a big-screen work window, to powerful video and post solutions like the powermacg5 with kona card rentals, we have it all.
many of these valuable resources are free for the asking, including use of theinternet storm center (an “early warning system”), a weekly news digest called newsbites, a weekly vulnerability report entitled @risk and timely security alerts available by rss or e-mail.
various features of chat, texting, e-mail, wikis, photo-sharing, blogging and instant messaging are brought to bear on a “hosted conversation,” or “wave.”
md&m west 2010 — the annual medical design &  manufacturing conference — takes place at the anaheim convention center  from february 8-11.
the macworld demo best of show presentation will unveil the most  anticipated new products (but nomac tablet, as apple no longer attends the  event), while musician bt will team with berklee college of music faculty and  students to demonstrate the latest digital music-making trends.
critical mass for netbooks interestingly, it was the niche players — companies like acer and  asus that were more business- than consumer-oriented, and also sold  motherboards and other components — that drove the development of  netbooks.
the conference offers access to the latest mac products and  services, and provides expert advice at the hands-on maclabs classes.
we will feature tech trends in 2010, laptop and desktop guides, a netbook report, gadget updates and other problem-solving, trend-spotting news.
in addition to a jam-packed expo hall, the event will provide medical manufacturing’s premier educational content for design, engineering, r&d and quality professionals.
the lcd and led-backlit monitors look better, use less power and emit  less radiation.
flash memory provides advantages in  space, heat resistance, power consumption, ruggedness and speed.
even the17-inch imac, for example, has a core 2 duo processor and a gigabyte of ram, an unthinkably powerful combination that would have seemed otherworldly in the 2001 tv season (rememberthe lone gunmen?).
from sans security essentials bootcamp style, intrusion detection in-depth,computer forensic essentials and developing exploits for penetration testers & security researchers to comprehensive packet analysis, security architecture for systems administrators andvirtualization security fundamentals, the course offerings are both diverse and comprehensive.
with cre’s digital recorder rentals and digital note-taking tablet pc rentals, they’ll get all the important info that you need.
westec puts you face to face and right in the midst of all the experts,  vital suppliers and industry innovators.
thousands of floor covering retailers, architects, distributors, installers, designers and builders come from all over the globe to see the latest products, attend educational seminars and workshops, network with their peers — and do a bit (or a lot) of business, too.
spie, the international society for optical engineering spie, the international society for optical engineering, presents spie photonics west at san francisco’s moscone convention center from january 23 to 28, featuring four symposia and access to 3,600+ research papers.
with industry experts leading more than 40 workshops and breakout sessions  concerning sales, marketing, installation and design, exhibitors and attendees  will be putting a lot of mileage on their soles.
whether you’re planning to exhibit, attend or both, as one of the  leading convention and computer rental firms cre can help you maximize your  presence while minimizing the cost and complexity.
in a seated seminar,laptop rentals would integrate perfectly with your “mobile tablet team,” and your booth in the exhibit hall can be “command central” with acomputer rental.
laptops have gotten more powerful while getting lighter.
even more, we can provide theoffice equipment rentals to tie everything together – whether it’s an hp 4000n b&w laser printer or an all-in-one printer/fax/scanner.
even the17-inch imac, for example, has a core 2  duo processor and a gigabyte of ram, an unthinkably powerful combination that  would have seemed otherworldly in the 2001 tv season (rememberthe lone  gunmen?).
call  or send an e-mail, or fill out the quick rental quote form, and we’ll get  you that personalized training solution you need.
you must determine how to approach each of the top five new business technologies for 2010 that are presented here (in no particular order).
the software is in beta testing and will be released to the public  sometime in 2010.
always check training sources you must always consider the source of online training because not all  teachers and schools are created equal.
it makes taking notes, downloading files, and staying in touch, even collaborating with colleagues and others easy.
a wide range of industries are represented at the world’s premier lab automation event, including security, energy and petrochemicals, agriculture, clinical diagnostics and pharmaceuticals.
businesses may find a use for netbooks as smartphone replacements, but they  are simply not fast enough, and the screens are too small, to be true laptop  replacements.
it is muscular enough for audio/video chores and provides a potent platform foradobe’s creative suite, too.
the software is in beta testing and will be released to the public sometime in 2010.
did we miss any technologies that should be watched?
the more people you can get  trained together, of course, the lower the unit cost for the preparation.
and, as a core component of the largest design and manufacturing event in  the western u.s., your md&m west badge gets you free admission tosix more  industry-related shows at the same location: westpack, pacific design &  manufacturing, electronics west, plastec west, automation technology expo (atx)  and green manufacturing expo.
as you search for a source for training, you should consider the type  of training that would work best in your specific situation.
four on-floor “education stages” will focus on four hot topics  in the floor covering industry —sustainability, design and trends,  business and technology, and installation — with live demonstrations and  presentations running throughout the show.
as wave matures, it is likely that mobile applications will emerge to make “waving” (perhaps there’s a better verb available) possible on cell phones, pdas and ipads (here isour take on the ipad).
if you like, explain your situationin an e-mail or, if you know what you need, just send us aquick rental quote form.
advanced analytics a variety of analytical tools help companies investigate alternative  scenarios and manufacturing/marketing outcomes.
created by  the google brain trust, it is an open source product that will be integrated in  zillions of ways with facebook, twitter, other web sites and other software  services.
diverse and comprehensive sans veterans will recognize both classic, always-relevant offerings as well as exciting new courses in the comprehensive lineup.
it makes taking notes,  downloading files, and staying in touch, even collaborating with colleagues and  others easy.
westec puts you face to face and right in the midst of all the experts, vital suppliers and industry innovators.
march 2010 trade shows spring forth february 9th, 2010 the 2010 game developers conference (gdc) is set for march  9-13 at the moscone center in san francisco.
you can also  test drive the newest mobile apps and talk to developers at the mobile  applications showcase.
cre has theprojector rentals, as well as the audience  response system rentals, that can make group training simple and effective.
nothing pulls people to your booth like the impressive plasma rentals for game developers conference, offering up to 65 inches of high-definition pizazz.
photonics west  covers all the bases, from product roll-outs that save you money to free  courses that offer training and a healthy dose of “value added.”
with upwards of 17,000 attendees expected at game developers conference, you can try any number of approaches to reach the widest possible audience.
when you have questions about new technology – especially tools that  can help you work more cost-effectively – give our account executivesa  call or send an e-mail.
the group is a fabulous resource for everyone, from  small tv post-production firms with cremac pro rentals to financial  institutions running huge databases onibm iseries servers.
the conference will also feature special events, a vendor expo/reception  and sans@night talks, all absolutely free to registered attendees.
rentals for in-house training if you are looking for training for a group of people, perhaps for  professional certification of some kind, you can buy the instructional  materials on dvd.
attendees can uselaptop rentals to stay connected while exhibitors display  their wares in various ways (including a61″ plasma  rental available  from cre rentals).
it’s even better for ongoing education and professional certification, as well as for people who want to learn specific skills or knowledge without a degree program.
if you need apowerful hp or mac laptop in your line of work, an atom-powered hp mini is just not going to cut it.
this past year, for computer lovers, was as good as it gets.
there are already almost 100,000 programs for the apple iphone and google-ized droid, even with the high prices and unique coding for each device.
getting a powerfuldesktop rental can help you discover the difference between running your current, aging hardware and the new generations of macintosh and pc computers, especially in terms of the new internet standards heading your way.
holding a breakout session or  tutorial?
hackers became the new anti-heroes – they destroyed research,  stole credit card account information, brought down communications  infrastructure and generally made a (costly) nuisance of themselves.
plasma monitor (rentals) are still tops in the largest sizes,  while the apple cinema display 24-inch led monitor is what every  post-production pro wants under the tree this year.
if you don’t have a mac laptop already, get one of cre’s macbook pro rentals and show up in style.
whether you are a creative  professional or a programming pro, macworld has all the conference content,  special presentations, exciting exhibits and networking opportunities you could  possibly want.
since advanced analytics provide  overlapping, real-time alternatives and predictions, not just dry data, it may  take a widescreenlcd monitor rental to keep everything in front of you at once  while you make some very important decisions.
they stay abreast of all new products and services that  can help you get your jobs done better.
there is a fairly stiff  learning curve, although there are a lot ofonline tutorials from google and  third parties.
game developers conference is the primary annual grazing ground for artists, game designers, programmers, producers, audio/video pros, business owners and others in the game industry.
it can be set up  to present your product as well as capture new contact information from passers  by.
the lcd and led-backlit monitors look better, use less power and emit less radiation.
macworld 2010, at san francisco’s moscone center from february 9-13, is afive-day event that immerses attendees in the mac community.
spie, the international society for optical engineering spie, the international society for optical engineering, presents spie  photonics west at san francisco’s moscone convention center from january  23 to 28, featuring four symposia and access to 3,600+ research papers.
critical mass for netbooks interestingly, it was the niche players — companies like acer and asus that were more business- than consumer-oriented, and also sold motherboards and other components — that drove the development of netbooks.
it’s not just tablet pc rentals that provide portability with connectivity.
yes, it was a “wireless” year, for sure, and not just in terms  of web browsing at the coffee shop.
call,send an e-mail or fill out a quick rental  quote form right now.
many of these  valuable resources are free for the asking, including use of theinternet storm  center (an “early warning system”), a weekly news digest called newsbites, a weekly vulnerability report entitled @risk and  timely security alerts available by rss  or e-mail.
there are scores of live demonstrations as well as targeted tech topics for it professionals.
the rise of the “netbook” – a low- to medium-power, small-format computer with a bright screen, built-in wifi, and basic productivity software that will never be confused for a rootin’ tootin’ laptop, like the newmacbook rental – proves the computer companies are still thinking about their product lines (and bottom lines, of course).
if you want to know what else to watch for in 2010, keep checking our blog.
we know what you’re up against, and we know how to help.
networking opportunities abound, of course, as educators, researchers and  manufacturers discuss the hot topics of the day.
labautomation2010 the association for laboratory automation’s annual conference —  labautomation2010 at the palm springs convention center from january 23 to 27  — brings together engineers, scientists and other professionals from all  over the globe.
there are already almost 100,000 programs for the  apple iphone and google-ized droid, even with the high prices and unique coding  for each device.
need some help configuring a system or figuring out a solution for your pilot season workload?
nothing pulls people to your booth like the impressive plasma rentals for  game developers conference, offering up to 65 inches of high-definition pizazz.
our account executives know exactly what solutions will fit your particular challenge, whether it’s a post-production bottleneck, convention, presentation or training session.
whether you are an exhibitor showing off your wares onapple cinema display rental or plasma rental for macworld, cre can help you make the most of every convention you attend – and every connection you make.
now there are independent films being created on single macintoshes.
we will  feature tech trends in 2010, laptop and desktop guides, a netbook  report, gadget updates and other problem-solving, trend-spotting news.
the processors, although intel,  aren’t quad-core, dual-core or even hard-core (like some tried-and-true  pentiums).
they stay abreast of all new products and services that can help you get your jobs done better.
it’s even better for ongoing education and professional  certification, as well as for people who want to learn specific skills or  knowledge without a degree program.
what better way to “virtually meet ‘n’ greet” them on their journeys than with strategically placedinteractive kiosk rentals from cre?
to benefit fully from over 20 top-rated  course offerings presented by expert instructors, make sure your show attendees  pack our convenientlaptop rentals to take notes, stay in touch via wi-fi and  download course materials.
sans brings together security professionals from a diverse array of global groups – including corporations, think tanks, universities, government agencies and trade associations – to benefit everyone concerned with information security.
in an environment where  mobility is converging with wireless and the web, a huge number of new  applications will pop up.
cre rentals, your co-pilot during pilot season february 23rd, 2010 those of you who read variety and the hollywood reporter,  not to mention all the specialty tv-biz newsletters, know that the last six  weeks or so have seen a lot of action on thetv pilot front.
that’s the kind of relationship that cre has with many of its valued clients and customers.
the macworld demo best of show presentation will unveil the most anticipated new products (but nomac tablet, as apple no longer attends the event), while musician bt will team with berklee college of music faculty and students to demonstrate the latest digital music-making trends.
should you decide to take some online training to maintain and/or improve your professional standing and specialized skills, we would commend you for your work ethic – then share a few tips.
the 2010 namm (national association of music merchants) show runs from january 14-17 at the anaheim convention center.
connected to a laptop,  dvd player or other media device, it will bring big-screen excitement to  presentations, product videos and even web site displays.
the “waves”  — discussions, pictures, drawings, audio notes — can be “threaded” separately and can help event organizers, booth staff  and conference attendees manage meetings, develop agendas, share content,  capture data, record audio and video, and interact with one another in both  planned and improvised ways.
contact  us or fill out the quick rental quote, and an expert account executive will  take good care of you.
the sans institute founded in 1989 to undertake collaborative research and provide state of  the art education,sans (sysadmin, audit, network and security
it was not that long ago that it took a room full of computing power to  produce a single four-minute cartoon.
from auditors and system operators to network  administrators and chief information officers (cios), increasing numbers of it  professionals are sharing insights, learning lessons and finding solutions to a  never-ending stream of security challenges.
cre is proud to be affiliated with namm.
whether you’re an old friend or a new one, call or send an e-mail to our experienced account executives (or use the quick  rental quote form) for all of your computer, networking, storage, presentation  and event management rental needs.
this coming year, watch for wireless recharging of these devices.
they constitute a powerful one-two punch for  showing off the goods, then getting usable feedback.
fromaudience response system rentals to the latest laptops and office equipment, we have whatever you need, and not just to “make the scene ” — but to make the scene brighter and better for your business.
as wave matures, it is likely that mobile applications will emerge to make  “waving” (perhaps there’s a better verb available) possible
need some help configuring a system or figuring out a solution for your  pilot season workload?
during this  process, google will also have to address the various criticisms of wave, which  are to be expected in any new software product.
if you need help figuring  out just what that is, call one of our expert account executives today.
networking opportunities abound, of course, as educators, researchers and manufacturers discuss the hot topics of the day.
it was not that long ago that it took a room full of computing power to produce a single four-minute cartoon.
cloud computing here it is again, waiting to be crowned as important as the wheel, which  proponents insist will occur any day now.
with the plethora of options and tools, wave can be a bit  daunting at first glance, and there is no way to master it without jumping  right in and devoting the time needed.
especially in the it and technical fields, where widely-regardedcertifications are essential for a tech firm’s employees to have, using crelaptop rentals rounds out a cost-effective training regimen.
this past year proved that the  computer industry still had product niches left to develop and exploit.
the namm show starts each morning with music and the informative namm  university breakfast sessions.
the conference offers access to the latest mac products and services, and provides expert advice at the hands-on maclabs classes.
it’s always “normal” to put your best face  forward, which is why exhibitors rely oninteractive kiosk rentals to get the  message out — and get contact information in return.
we know how much effort it takes staying  updated on all manner of different software and hardware, with the ability to  jump into one of ourg5 with kona card rentals and do your thing.
since advanced analytics provide overlapping, real-time alternatives and predictions, not just dry data, it may take a widescreenlcd monitor rental to keep everything in front of you at once while you make some very important decisions.
there is a wealth ofonline training available today, in  every imaginable subject, with many top universities and evenelite ivy league  institutions delivering courses, counseling, certificates and degrees on the  web.
our account executives are  experienced professionals, and good listeners, which means you will get  first-rate help, often in ways you don’t even anticipate.
new technologies always fit that description.
use your web search skills, make some calls, ask questions, get references – anything to get some third-party insight.
with large enough hardware or software purchases, vendors can also customize a total solution for your firm and easily integrate online or offline training into the plan.
you can also follow the namm show on the group’s twitter page.
various features of chat, texting,  e-mail, wikis, photo-sharing, blogging and instant messaging are brought to  bear on a “hosted conversation,” or “wave.”
catching a new wave with google february 25th, 2010
whether you’re planning to exhibit, attend or both, as one of the leading convention and computer rental firms cre can help you maximize your presence while minimizing the cost and complexity.
if you know what you need, use ourquick  rental quote form.
it does look promising, ascloud  computing promises to deliver a huge menu of it options to cost-conscious  companies (and everyone else, eventually).
the move to “pocket computers” follows the trend to smartphones, of which the iphone and the newgoogle-powered droid are prime examples.
hackers became the new anti-heroes – they destroyed research, stole credit card account information, brought down communications infrastructure and generally made a (costly) nuisance of themselves.
when you have questions about new technology – especially tools that can help you work more cost-effectively – give our account executivesa call or send an e-mail.
as the  technologies are in a state of constant improvement,it security professionals  must be involved in ongoing education or risk catastrophic losses.
from the start, the educational potential of the internet was a source of tremendous excitement.
diverse and comprehensive sans veterans will recognize both classic, always-relevant offerings as  well as exciting new courses in the comprehensive lineup.
as the technologies are in a state of constant improvement,it security professionals must be involved in ongoing education or risk catastrophic losses.
contact us or fill out the quick rental quote, and an expert account executive will take good care of you.
cre is proud to be the  officialcomputer rental supplier to exhibitors at the namm show.
a room of imac rentals and/or pcs, the right  software, the right learning materials and the right amount of time, and  you’ve got another group of experts in excel, exchange.
the easiest way to explain google wave is to call it an “online collaboration platform”.
it may take time for everyone to catch this wave, but it  looks like it promises to be quite a ride.
you must determine how to  approach each of the top five new business technologies for 2010 that are  presented here (in no particular order).
security west 2010 is the place to be for security pros and business owners, and cre can outfit you for attending, exhibiting or making a presentation.
annual training conference in san diego, from may 7th to 15th, the group will be holding its sans security west 2010 training conference.
those of you who read variety and the hollywood reporter, not to mention all the specialty tv-biz newsletters, know that the last six weeks or so have seen a lot of action on thetv pilot front.
created by the google brain trust, it is an open source product that will be integrated in zillions of ways with facebook, twitter, other web sites and other software services.
companies need to look at everything from device specifications, ownership/support of hardware and software selection to management structure and security.
in addition, sans creates, maintains and distributes the most extensive set  of research documents available regarding information security.
live, up-to-the-minute web coverage of the namm show will be streamed at the namm web site.
while every  year sees new inventions and further refinements of existing products, 2009 was  a landmark year in many ways.
manufacturing is changing in amazing ways, with new economic forces, dramatic advances in technology,new “lean and green” ideas and evolving, emerging industries.
it may take time for everyone to catch this wave, but it looks like it promises to be quite a ride.
key educational sessions concern detection and separation, micro- and nano-technologies, and informatics.
photoshop or  indesign – or maya, c+, logic, pro tools, avid, javascript, ajax, cisco,  microsoft, novell or whatever else you can think of.
you will be in constant contact with its wifi, and  the 1gb of ram will keep you multitasking with notes, video clips, audio  addenda and everything else that is likely to come up.
if you  like, explain your situationin an e-mail or, if you know what you need, just  send us aquick rental quote form.
if you’ve reserved a spot at the vendor expo, we can set  you up withtouchscreen lcd monitor rentals, interactive kiosk rentals or  anything else you need to present and promote your product or service.
you can use one (or more) to display promotions, animations, flash and powerpoint presentations, or the biggest, brightest version of your company logo.
the “waves” — discussions, pictures, drawings, audio notes — can be “threaded” separately and can help event organizers, booth staff and conference attendees manage meetings, develop agendas, share content, capture data, record audio and video, and interact with one another in both planned and improvised ways.
for easy note-taking, reading or wireless access in the hustle and bustle of a conference, considerrenting a tablet pc.
you don’t need to tie up your workstations (which are making your company money) or budget a large hardware purchase when you use computer rentals for training.
it’s a perfect place to  bring amotion computing tablet pc rental to take notes, get names and  addresses, and access the interactive conference schedules and maps via wifi  (saving many a tree in so doing).
the netbooks, most with keyboards between 60-80% the  size of a normal pc laptop, offer real e-mail interaction, a normal web  experience with a real browser, memory card slots, usb ports, ethernet —  wow, just like a real computer!
let them help you make the most of your trade show time bycalling, sending an e-mail or filling out aquick rental quote form today.
from auditors and system operators to network administrators and chief information officers (cios), increasing numbers of it professionals are sharing insights, learning lessons and finding solutions to a never-ending stream of security challenges.
we’d love to hear from you.
the 2010 game developers conference (gdc) is set for march 9-13 at the moscone center in san francisco.
they account for an additional 1,500 suppliers and 200,000 sq ft more of equipment, systems and services of interest to medical manufacturers.
photonics west covers all the bases, from product roll-outs that save you money to free courses that offer training and a healthy dose of “value added.”
from thenew macbook models that cre now rents to  new display technology and “wireless everything,” 2009 was a big  year.
if you want to capture as much contact  information as possible, and multiply your effectiveness (whether you’re  short-staffed or not),interactive kiosk rentals can be a great help.
let them help  you make the most of your trade show time bycalling, sending an e-mail or  filling out aquick rental quote form today.
at cre, we support all kinds of businesses in every industry, but have a particular expertise outfitting creative people – designers, audio engineers, video pros, marketing mavens – with powerful media manipulators like ourmac pro rentals.
contact us  today, or fill out a quick rental quote form if you already know what you need,  and we will get on the job for you, right now.
abc gave the  greenlight to two dramas and a comedy in one day, with fox, nbc and cbs  spreading out their action over a bit more calendar space.
getting a powerfuldesktop rental can help you discover  the difference between running your current, aging hardware and the new  generations of macintosh and pc computers, especially in terms of the new  internet standards heading your way.
this  rental package comes with a17-inch lcd monitor, too.
no matter what you have to do, we have the equipment to help you get it done, and everything arrives to you tested, double-checked and ready to rock, every time.
as always, get the right tool for the job.
the processors, although intel, aren’t quad-core, dual-core or even hard-core (like some tried-and-true pentiums).
the year  started off with dual-core processors limited to themacbook pro laptop rental  and pcs, and ended with quad-core processors available at the high end of some  lines.
it is muscular enough for audio/video chores and provides a  potent platform foradobe’s creative suite, too.
from 30″  apple cinema display rental for a big-screen work window, to powerful video and  post solutions like the powermacg5 with kona card rentals, we have it all.
training tips, online and off april 29th, 2010 from the start, the educational potential of the internet was a source of  tremendous excitement.
we are the convention experts no matter what role you and your  company need to play.
abc gave the greenlight to two dramas and a comedy in one day, with fox, nbc and cbs spreading out their action over a bit more calendar space.
the previous blog told you what expertise you needed, while this one tells you how to get it.
the phones are truly pocket-sized, can run tons of “apps” that are easily downloaded for low or no cost, and are great for quick messages as well as long talks.
for these events, or others like them, remember that cre is your one-stop shop for computers and audiovisual gear.
the year started off with dual-core processors limited to themacbook pro laptop rental and pcs, and ended with quad-core processors available at the high end of some lines.
fact is, with anxserve rental from cre you could create a cloud or two of your own, as well as educate your employees on the change that’s “right around the corner.”
advanced analytics a variety of analytical tools help companies investigate alternative scenarios and manufacturing/marketing outcomes.
whether you’re an old friend or a new one, call or send an e-mail to our experienced account executives (or use the quick rental quote form) for all of your computer, networking, storage, presentation and event management rental needs.
offload your extra work to your assistant or pilot-season temp, outfitted with an hp/compaq d510, adesktop rentals star with a 2.4ghz pentium 4.
attendees can uselaptop rentals to stay connected while exhibitors display their wares in various ways (including a61″ plasma rental available from cre rentals).
whether you are a creative professional or a programming pro, macworld has all the conference content, special presentations, exciting exhibits and networking opportunities you could possibly want.
new technologies always fit that  description.
we do our best to help you do  your best, which is the kind of win-win formula we like.
using the wave with technology rentals google wave is, of course, a computer tool and users will need good internet access and the right hardware, like cre’s tablet pc rentals , to make the most of it.
holding a breakout session or tutorial?
with large enough hardware or software purchases, vendors can also  customize a total solution for your firm and easily integrate online or offline  training into the plan.
the symposia will cover biomedical optics, lasers and applications, micro- and nano-fabrication, and integrated optoelectronic devices.
you can also follow the namm show on the group’s twitter  page.
if you need apowerful hp or mac laptop in your line of work, an  atom-powered hp mini is just not going to cut it.
cre has its share of experts, too.
whether you are an exhibitor showing off your wares onapple  cinema display rental or plasma rental for macworld, cre can help you make the  most of every convention you attend – and every connection you make.
if you  have more than a few people going, you might consider standardizing on  cre’s wirelessmacbook laptop rentals to stay in touch throughout the  five-day extravaganza.
tradeshow roundup for january january 7th, 2010 the 2010 namm (national association of music merchants) show runs from  january 14-17 at the anaheim convention center.
fact is, though, that the pilot season is in full swing, which means companies great and small will be doing title sequences, post-processing, digital effects and other work for the producers of the shows.
macworld 2010, at san francisco’s moscone center  from february 9-13, is afive-day event that immerses attendees in the mac  community.
there is a fairly stiff learning curve, although there are a lot ofonline tutorials from google and third parties.
if you know what you need, use ourquick rental quote form.
leaving aside the new netbooks, subject of a future blog, the laptop sector has made big strides in power, heat dissipation, battery life, displays, and connectivity.
there are  many informal yet enriching networking opportunities at sans training events  where you can forge valuable professional relationships that can last for  years.