beyond this, preinstalled software is kept to a minimum.
the standard configuration is 2gb with 4gb  for those needing the most memory and 1gb for those trying to cut costs.
in fact, a system that is built with the top of the line options is nearly an unbeatable mobile platform when it comes to pc gaming.
networking: every configuration of the alienware area-51 m9750 comes  equipped with a gigabit ethernet and v.92 56kbps model.
of course, this limited design does have its advantages which is cost.
software: alienware offers a variety of operating systems for their  systems.
hard drives: a large number of hard drive options are available with the area-51 m9750.
the t5500 processor is the base which offers decent overall performance but with only 2mb of cache.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - desktop replacements - laptops - notebooks - computer games - alienware - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
it uses the newer expresscard/54 expansion slot over the more traditional pc card slot.
three memory configurations of 1gb, 2gb  or 4gb are offered for the system.
this is where the  highly flexible component selection of the alienware system shines.
with the introduction of the area-51 m9750 desktop replacement notebook, they are looking to push their way back to the top of the mobile pc gaming world.
upgrade options include a variety of pc games that can be installed or upgraded productivity suites.
so, if you are in the market for a notebook computer for pc gaming notebook and have a tight budget or can afford pretty much anything, be sure to take a look at the alienware area-51 m9750.
for those looking at a single graphics core, the 1440x900  screen is probably the better choice while the sli configurations are better  suited towards driving games on the 1920x1200 screen.
in terms of the display, the system features one of two 17” lcd panels.
overall impressions: alienware has a clear goal in mind with the production of the area-51 m9750 and that is to make a top of the line gaming system.
the standard configuration is 2gb with 4gb for those needing the most memory and 1gb for those trying to cut costs.
while their desktop systems doe have some color combinations, the area-51 m9750 comes in a single black color design.
software: alienware offers a variety of operating systems for their systems.
the problem with most gaming specific notebooks is their extremely high price.
upgrade options include a variety  of pc games that can be installed or upgraded productivity suites.
what the area-51 m9750 gives in terms of performance it gives up in terms  of styling.
users will want to upgrade to the dvd burner as there is really no  reason not to have the ability to burn dvds.
a part of the new york times company.
beyond this,  preinstalled software is kept to a minimum.
some of the drives feature a 5400rpm spin rate  while others have 7200rpm for increased performance.
other companies that are geared towards pc gaming tend to offer customized designs that include a variety of colors and stenciled graphics on the case.
networking: every configuration of the alienware area-51 m9750 comes equipped with a gigabit ethernet and v.92 56kbps model.
a total of six different drives are available that can be  purchases as single drive or two drive raid 0 or raid 1 configurations.
by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - desktop replacements - laptops - notebooks - computer games - alienware alienware area-51 m9750 notebook ©alienware 7/16/07 – alienware made a name for themselves by building pc systems specifically for gaming.
other companies that are geared towards pc gaming tend to offer  customized designs that include a variety of colors and stenciled graphics on  the case.
the problem with most gaming specific notebooks is their extremely high  price.
memory: in order to get the best performance possible, alienware  offers pc2-5300 ddr2 memory to match the 667mhz frontside bus of the intel core  2 duo processor that come in the m9750.
users who want even more performance can elect to have a second graphics processor installed in an sli configuration.
in terms of the drive capacities, users can select between 80gb, 100gb, 160gb, 200gb and 250gb capacities.
users will want to upgrade to the dvd burner as there is really no reason not to have the ability to burn dvds.
for those looking at a single graphics core, the 1440x900 screen is probably the better choice while the sli configurations are better suited towards driving games on the 1920x1200 screen.
for those looking for  more performance, the t7200, t7400 or t7600 with its 4mb of cache would be the  preferred choices.
in addition to the traditional mini-jacks it  also has a toslink optical port.
the big difference hear is that consumers can get a very strong graphics notebook at a very reasonable price if they are willing to go with more mainstream components.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
some of the drives feature a 5400rpm spin rate while others have 7200rpm for increased performance.
in fact, a system that is built with the top of the line options is nearly an  unbeatable mobile platform when it comes to pc gaming.
wireless networking comes standard with an 802.11a/b/g networking adapter.
for those wanting high definition  video support, there is also the option of a bluray burner that also supports  dvd burning.
if you want to hook up an external monitor, it  features both a vga and dvi-d connector.
let's take a close look at what they have to offer ... processor: alienware's area-51 m9750 is all about gaming performance.
graphics and displays: since the area-51 m9750 is built for gaming, the graphics and display are critical.
so, if you are in the market for a notebook computer for pc gaming notebook  and have a tight budget or can afford pretty much anything, be sure to take a  look at the alienware area-51 m9750.
manufacturer's site read/leave comments guide picks - best desktop replacements - best budget notebooks - best thin & light notebooks related resources related articles - what computer should i buy?
hard drives: a large number of hard drive options are available with  the area-51 m9750.
users have the option for some basic anti-virus and productivity software.
as such, they offer a variety of high performance intel core 2 duo  processors to power the system.
for those looking for more performance, the t7200, t7400 or t7600 with its 4mb of cache would be the preferred choices.
- notebook pc buyer's guide - buyer's mistakes - alienware aurora m9700 - alienware area-51 x58 performance gaming desktop personal computer review - alienware area-51 m5550 thin and light notebook pc review - alienware area-51 gaming desktop pc
what the area-51 m9750 gives in terms of performance it gives up in terms of styling.
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
in  terms of the drive capacities, users can select between 80gb, 100gb, 160gb,  200gb and 250gb capacities.
an optional tv tuner  module is also available.
if you want to hook up an external monitor, it features both a vga and dvi-d connector.
let's take a close look at what they have to offer ... processor: alienware's area-51 m9750 is all about gaming  performance.
the fact that they are willing to configure the notebook with a sli  setup using two geforce go 7950 gtx graphics cores is a testament to that goal.
cd/dvd drive: while most notebook and desktop pcs come standard with a dvd burner, alienware actually offers users the base of a 24x cd-rw/dvd combo drive.
while their desktop systems doe have some color combinations, the  area-51 m9750 comes in a single black color design.
of course, this limited  design does have its advantages which is cost.
as such, they offer a variety of high performance intel core 2 duo processors to power the system.
those looking to use the upcoming high speed wireless standard can elect to upgrade this adapter to a draft 802.11b wireless card that also supports the 802.11a/b/g standards.
graphics and displays: since the area-51 m9750 is built for gaming,  the graphics and display are critical.
with the introduction of the area-51 m9750 desktop  replacement notebook, they are looking to push their way back to the top of the  mobile pc gaming world.
in terms of the display, the system features one of two  17” lcd panels.
ports: as far as the general expansion ports found on a notebook,  the alienware area-51 m9750 has the traditional 4 usb 2.0 ports and single  mini-firewire port.
the systems name is derived from the geforce go 7950 gtx 512mb graphics card that is standard.
those looking to use the  upcoming high speed wireless standard can elect to upgrade this adapter to a  draft 802.11b wireless card that also supports the 802.11a/b/g standards.
this is where the highly flexible component selection of the alienware system shines.
alienware area-51 m9750 notebook ©alienware 7/16/07 – alienware made a name for themselves by building pc systems  specifically for gaming.
it uses the newer expresscard/54 expansion slot over the  more traditional pc card slot.
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum alienware area-51 m9750 desktop replacement
memory: in order to get the best performance possible, alienware offers pc2-5300 ddr2 memory to match the 667mhz frontside bus of the intel core 2 duo processor that come in the m9750.
choices include either the new vista home premium or ultimate editions  or the windows xp professional or media center editions.
the systems name is derived from the  geforce go 7950 gtx 512mb graphics card that is standard.
three memory configurations of 1gb, 2gb or 4gb are offered for the system.
users who want even  more performance can elect to have a second graphics processor installed in an  sli configuration.
in addition to the traditional mini-jacks it also has a toslink optical port.
the t5500 processor is the base which offers  decent overall performance but with only 2mb of cache.
while most notebook and desktop pcs come standard with  a dvd burner, alienware actually offers users the base of a 24x cd-rw/dvd combo  drive.
the big difference hear is that  consumers can get a very strong graphics notebook at a very reasonable price if  they are willing to go with more mainstream components.
wireless networking  comes standard with an 802.11a/b/g networking adapter.
overall impressions: alienware has a clear goal in mind with the  production of the area-51 m9750 and that is to make a top of the line gaming  system.
sure, the area-51 m9750 can pack a very high price tag if it is fully  configured with top of the line options.
users have the option for some  basic anti-virus and productivity software.
manufacturer's site
the fact that they are willing to configure the notebook with a sli setup using two geforce go 7950 gtx graphics cores is a testament to that goal.
ports: as far as the general expansion ports found on a notebook, the alienware area-51 m9750 has the traditional 4 usb 2.0 ports and single mini-firewire port.
choices include either the new vista home premium or ultimate editions or the windows xp professional or media center editions.
it has very good connections for those looking  to use external speakers or audio.
an optional tv tuner module is also available.
it has very good connections for those looking to use external speakers or audio.
sure, the area-51 m9750 can pack a very high price tag if it is fully configured with top of the line options.
review - alienware m17 17-inch gaming desktop replacement laptop pc review mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches pc gaming world desktop replacement notebook preferred choices performance intel memory configurations memory memory explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
for those wanting high definition video support, there is also the option of a bluray burner that also supports dvd burning.
a total of six different drives are available that can be purchases as single drive or two drive raid 0 or raid 1 configurations.