fortunately, this usb modem manager doesn’t require a restart so it’s possible to run and test the internet while using the live cd, which i highly recommend doing.
how can you tell which commands are the gnu / linux commands?
playing video games and other windows software in ubuntu i don’t play games much and haven’t attempted to do so yet, but i’ll try wine sometime and see if that works.
when the two such conflicting  software’s needs to coexist then the library file preferences need to be  sorted out.
ubuntu is a great program for beginners mandriva originally appeared to be a restructured version of red hat linux.
austin is a software engineer working on askr.com, a social recommendations  site.
fortunately, this usb modem manager doesn’t require a restart so  it’s possible to run and test the internet while using the live cd, which  i highly recommend doing.
a discussion of runlevels is beyond the scope of this article, and if you wish to know more, there are a number of good resources on the internet.)
you’d care to do, there’s an app for that.”
there had to be another answer.
if you are trying to get  something working, your windows knowledge will not help you.
there is no one right answer because it depends on your experience and specific needs.
thek symlink is unnecessary.
which  was obviously a bit of a non-starter for me.
however, it is fast, stable and has  over 15,000 software applications available.
of course, this is not an option if you require additional commands to be run at shutdown.
looking for exam help?
first, in your ~/.bashrc file, add in this line.
at the end of /etc/rc.local, but before the exit 0 line, i can  simply add a call to my server startup script: # run website processes /home/prod/start_server.sh it is a one-line change, instead of adding an overly complicated script and  the related symlinks.
there are a few packages you need to get in order to get chinese text displayed correctly in your kde desktop.
there is no one right answer  because it depends on your experience and specific needs.
by default this script does nothing.
you might need to troubleshoot problems using the command line interface – similar to windows dos, but many times more powerful.
all my hardware was detected and within minutes i was surfing the web using  firefox and getting my email using evolution, chatting to friends in messenger  and yahoo chat using gaim, writing documents and opening spreadsheets in open  office and listening to internet radio with rythmbox.
to get started, go to the ubuntu site.
red hat has yum (yellowdog updater modified) package manager for  the convenience of the user.
if you learn how to use commands, then you learn  how to use linux for all distros!
however,  /etc/rc.local is preferred for all other cases.
first thought was, being used to  windows, what the hell do i do with a debian file?
a very useful page at http://www.unifont.org/fontguide/, you might want to check it out.
once you do this you are under obligation to make your new source code available to others.
this is my personal experience with chinese environment setup on my debian box, with kde desktop.
here are some resources: distrowatch.com distrowatch – news on the latest linux distributions.
you will get to choose their own default font.
you can explore the software categories like, sound and video, graphics, education, games, programming and office and pick the one according to your need.
debian gnu/linux supports more infrastructures than any other linux  distribution program and contains more than 20,000 software packages.
http://www.frogshape.com tags: debian, iso9660, redhat, ubuntu getting started with ubuntu – how to connect to the internet and do  common window tasks monday, november 2nd, 2009 | learn linux - linux help  |no comments getting started with ubuntu – how to connect to the internet and do  common window tasks by david babble download the latest version of ubuntu from their official site and burn the  downloaded iso file to a blank cd.
yien bin is a part-time tech blogger.
could come in handy for photoshop  since the free equivalent, gimp, just doesn’t cut it for some things i  want to do, such as batch image processing.
xserver-xorg 7.1.0-4 kde 3.5.5 setting your system with english locales, so that your desktop, menus and  programs’ file menus won’t show english characters in blurry  chinese ttf fonts.
this is when i came across some  luck.
in other words, for each popular distro,  there are several commands that are specific that just that version.
gentoo uses portage as its software installer but is a bit different in behavior from other package managers in that it deals with source code and compiles and installs for the specific machine on which it is running.
ubuntu and pclinuxos enable beginners to use linux without requiring a steep learning curve to produce results.
the main one is that there is a learning curve that can be quite steep.
conclusion hopefully this guide will help the average computer user out there decide  whether they really want to take the plunge with a different, but free  operating system.
based and the  source based.
these package managers install  software from any recorded media like cd or dvd or from internet servers called  repositories maintained by distributions and communities associated with its  development.
thus, to run a process at startup on your linux machine, you would need to both add a script to /etc/init.d that takes “start” as an argument, and you would want to add symlinks to your script to the /etc/rc*.d directories.
to conclude let us assume that the competition in  the field gives rise to wonderful linux based operating systems easily  manageable and gives a new dimension to computing capabilities of the new  generation.
if you just learn how to use linux by running the gui utilities in one  distro, and then you stop using that distro, then you have to learn all the gui  utilities of the next distro.
(the numbers in the rc directory names are known as runlevels.
dpkg-reconfigure localesconf use this command to set scim as your default input method for x. update-alternatives –config xinput-all_all again this is my system wide setting.
i had lost everything and was  pretty angry about it.
there are  so many to try… fedora, mandrake, puppy, pclinuxos, debian, knoppix, and  the most popular, ubuntu linux.
and the most interesting thing is that you get all these through a single window.
you will still have the ability to input chinese in almost everything(browsers, konquerer, instant messengers, konsole, xchat and more).
/home/prod/start_server.sh ;; *) echo "usage: [this]  {start|stop|restart|reload|force-reload}" >&2 exit 1 ;; esac exit 0 to ensure that daemons are started and stopped, particularly in the correct  order, the machine runs special symlinks to these scripts.
austin is a software engineer working on askr.com, a social recommendations site.
here is an example of a script that is used only for starting a process.
the third category uses the source code for its primary operations gentoo  linux being one among them.
ubuntu linux is not only much secure than windows os, but it also includes free apps and renders safe and fast web browsing.
however, these gui utilities are usually specific to a single linux distribution.
my default chinese font is ttf-fireflysung which i’ve forgot where to get.
once you get past the mind  set of using closed source software a whole new world opens up before you and  you realise that amazing things are possible with linux.
linux training tips: linux distributions are rising and falling in popularity all the time.
the next class is.deb or debian based distros.
conclusion: use /etc/rc.local to run processes at startup in linux classic startup scripts in /etc/init.d and /etc/rc*.d are appropriate for  many daemons and some more complicated user processes that must either start  before a system process or be cleaned up during shutdown.
this software is very easy  to use and you can create professional documents, spreadsheets and  presentations.
if you  want the very best technologies straight to your desktop, ubuntu linux is the  pick for you.
in addition to this, the linux system  administration pros only use commands because gui utilities are too slow to run  and time-consuming to use.
gentoo uses  portage as its software installer but is a bit different in behavior from other  package managers in that it deals with source code and compiles and installs  for the specific machine on which it is running.
listed below are the  top seven linux operating systems for 2011.
it’s time to give ubuntu  linux a whirl monday, november 9th, 2009 | learn linux - linux help | 1  comment are you getting sick of microsoft windows?
dependencies arise when a software might be compatible with a particular implementation of a library file where as another software we are trying to install might need a different underlying implementation of the same concept.
software’s usually depend on many libraries and hence the  automatic management of dependencies is a welcome move as far as the huge linux  users community across the globe is considered as it would alleviate the  problems in managing the system.
just to get the modem to  connect.
the program has a reputation for stability and being the most bug-free linux distribution system on the market.
mandriva, debian gnu/linux, and opensuse are the best programs if you are willing to trade some advanced features for stability and continuing support.
ubuntu.com ubuntu – download the ubuntu linux operating system for your computer ubuntuforums.com ubuntu forums – go here for help and advice wikipedia.org/wiki/linux linux on wikipedia order linux on cd from frogshape!
in addition, if you need your process to be started before some other system process, you must resort to the classic startup script as discussed above.
wine is a program to let you play windows only software in ubuntu.
however, their  intensive testing has led to lengthy intervals between releases, typically 1-3  years.
however, long compilation times and occasionally instability makes it  less of a crowd pleaser than other available software.
being on the basic package means connecting to the internet using a usb  modem, not an ethernet live box that orange provides on the upgraded package.
eddison sherry had been working in linux and other unix flavours for long  years.
pick any of theircomputer repair plan and enjoy hassle-free  computing.
so after a couple of times of re-extracting the firmware, disconnecting and reconnecting using the options in the manager, the progress bar for the internet connection located in the top right went fully green, it must’ve worked.
any good cd burning software should be able  to handle writing iso files to a disc.
the quality of a lot of the software is incredible.
you won’t regret trying it.
i placed the cd in my drive and booted up my computer.
scripts beginning withs are used to start a process during bootup.
luckily i had a backup of most  of my documents on an external disk.
this  software is fully compatible with microsoft office.
this is a good chance to see if you really  like what ubuntu has to offer before really committing.
within 10 minutes my computer was running ubuntu linux without even having to install it!
if you have access to the source  code for a piece of software then you can change the program to fix bugs and  make it better.
i tried playing an mp3 and the same happened, just a click of a  message and ubuntu located and installed the required files to play my music.
gentoo was designed for power users, allowing them to have ultimate  customization capabilities.
is it a ubuntu version of a  windows zip file or what?
ubuntu has the synaptic package manager which uses the underlying apt(advanced packaging tool) to gather and install software.
setting utf-8 locale system wide dpkg-reconfigure locales this command will prompt you a screen to select your desired locales.
of course, there  are downsides to running linux.
i placed the cd in my drive  and booted up my computer.
tags: debian, distro, gentoo, linux, manager, modified, package, package manager, red hat, rpm ,synaptic, synaptic package manager, system, yellowdog updater, yum ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer thursday, march 17th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
being on the basic package means connecting to the internet using a usb modem, not an ethernet live box that orange provides on the upgraded package.
however, its heavy use of resources for desktop setup and graphical utilities tend to slow the program down.
it allows you instant access to thousands of  open-source and carefully selected free applications.
that is, it can be downloaded and copied and distributed without a fee.
ubuntu is a flavour of linux that is becoming a popular, free alternative to windows.
there is an abundance of free open source software just waiting for you to experience.
so, rather than learn a command that is specific to a single linux  distribution, learn the gnu commands because these commands are common to all  distributions.
so, learning how to use a linux gui in one distro is basically useless if  you have to use a different one later, or if you’re working in an  environment with multiple linux distributions.
a newbie can easily get confused with the  concepts in linux, thanks to microsoft which serves as an introductory course  to using a computer the way you want it.
after trying it for just over 24 hours i became convinced that this was an  operating system that i would be using for the long term.
=xim restart your x-server, and login to kde.
the program  also includes user-friendly desktop environments (gnome and kde).
so after a couple of times of  re-extracting the firmware, disconnecting and reconnecting using the options in  the manager, the progress bar for the internet connection located in the top  right went fully green, it must’ve worked.
there are also plenty of apps that allow the user to fix and share their photos with the world.
ctrl+space again to switch back to english.
using linux commands that are common to all distributions – the gnu commands the gnu commands are the most popular linux commands – and they are common to all distributions.
there are plenty of stunning features of ubuntu linux that make it one of the best operating systems available in the present days.
restarting ubuntu whilst using live cd will just restart into windows, so that’s no good!
conclusion hopefully this guide will help the average computer user out there decide whether they really want to take the plunge with a different, but free operating system.
in summary, if you’re prepared to spend a few hours to  get used to it and to get it working the way you want, go for it!
after trying it for just over 24 hours i became convinced that this was an operating system that i would be using for the long term.
if you have access to the source code for a piece of software then you can change the program to fix bugs and make it better.
tags: debian, script, terminal, ubuntu are you getting sick of microsoft windows?
in my research i discovered a website: distrowatch.com.
this was a “live-cd” and it can be used without  installing to hard disk – it can be run from a cd without affecting your  computer at all.
his blog can be found athttp://www.nixser.comtags: chinese, debian ,kde
if you are unable to get firefly, uming is probably your best choice for chinese text.
if you are working on linux or unix server its best to have a look on his blogs atlinux technical forum.
it allows you instant access to thousands of open-source and carefully selected free applications.
just to get the modem to connect.
new  versions are released about every six months.
this is my personal experience with chinese environment setup on my debian  box, with kde desktop.
you can try also install gtk2-engines-gtk-qt.
within 10 minutes my computer was running ubuntu linux without even having  to install it!
this might seem odd to have to enter a password just to change the date/time.
debian is his favorite operating system.
for other programs like firefox, xchat, amarok and more.
for example, a linux distribution will likely have a command that is used  to manage partitions (disk space) and this command is specific to that  distribution.
when it comes to picking any software, the ubuntu software centre is right there to meet your requirements.
at that point i decided that i would look for another alternative to windows
so after checking out the usb modem manager site and then following the link to the latest version, i downloaded the debian file for it, .deb.
i found a thread in a forum thread where a guy made a usb adsl modem  manager program!
you can get your instant access at: http://www.linuxcommandstrainingcourse.com from clyde boom – the easy linux training guy – easy, self-paced linux training – in plain english!tags: debian, fdisk, fedora, gui, kubuntu, learning linux, linux administration, linux commands, linux distribution, linux training, linux videos, opensuse, red hat, slackware, suse, ubuntu learn how to install software in linux and unix distros by eddison sherry
the package management system – synaptic, allows you to  search repositories of software and download them.
there is an abundance of free open source software just waiting for you to  experience.
those beginning withk are used  to kill a process during shutdown.
http://www.frogshape.comtags: debian, iso9660, redhat, ubuntu getting started with ubuntu – how to connect to the internet and do common window tasks by david babble download the latest version of ubuntu from their official site and burn the downloaded iso file to a blank cd.
i remember getting it from a taiwan site, if any of you have the address, please kindly let me know.
it has  become the largest linux distribution ever created and has inspired over 120  debian-based distributions.
this program is easy to install  and use.
for more software reviews go to http://www.softwareinreview.com running commands at startup in debian and ubuntu – the simplest approach by austin white running custom scripts on startup is a common operation in the linux community.
after installing the internationalized packages, you will have to install ttf(true type fonts).
i was delighted with the easy to use and gorgeous looking desktop.
so rebooting the computer and finding a web page came up with the instructions  to extract some firmware, write a boot script etc.
this time was different however and to my horror, i discovered that windows  had somehow corrupted my external disk as well.
get an excellent set of videos that shows you the popular gnu commands and then try these linux commands yourself.
in this article we will check what all options are catered for a normal user in installing software.
since the operating system includes plenty of stunning features, you can get your job done without paying for third party software.
export lc_ctype=”zh_cn.utf-8″ this will export your lc_type as zh_cn.utf-8 since we have already set all these to en_us.utf-8.
after looking around the help pages built into the operating system you’ll notice that connecting to the internet is pretty simple, unless you have a usb adsl modem.
the program prompted me to unplug and plug my  modem back in and it still didn’t work.
taking the plunge with ubuntu with this caveat fixed, i took the plunge, backed up all my files onto an external hard drive and fully installed ubuntu over windows.
ubuntu linux integrates software like pitivi video editor, and movie player which allows you to watch all your favorite contents from youtube, iplayer, and msn player.
the first category.rpm has its basis on red hat operating system or extensive usage of their code.
apply several substitution ttfs like ar pl new sung and ar pl shanheisun uni, so your text will be displayed correctly.
the quality of a lot of the  software is incredible.
your scripts have to follow the naming convention described above,  probably starting with s99 or s98 to ensure that your processes start after all  the important system daemons.
here is a step by step instruction.
this time was different however and to my horror, i discovered that windows had somehow corrupted my external disk as well.
my system is as stable as a rock.
/home/prod/start_server.sh ;; *) echo "usage: [this] {start|stop|restart|reload|force-reload}" >&2 exit 1 ;; esac exit 0 to ensure that daemons are started and stopped, particularly in the correct order, the machine runs special symlinks to these scripts.
it’s time to give ubuntu  linux a whirl by alan oliver about 18 months ago, i had another disastrous crash on my pc that caused me  to lose a host of photos, music and documents.
you can seamlessly create professional  documents and presentations with openoffice.org that comes with this os.
free linux help, tips & tricks!
debian gnu/linux supports more infrastructures than any other linux distribution program and contains more than 20,000 software packages.
for my case, once qt3-qtconfig is set properly, these programs have no problem using the settings.
tags: bsd, debian, freebsd, gentoo, mandriva,  opensuse, pclinuxos, ubuntu running commands at startup in debian and ubuntu – the simplest  approach thursday, april 1st, 2010 | learn linux - linux help | 6 comments running commands at startup in debian and ubuntu – the simplest  approach by austin white running custom scripts on startup is a common operation in the linux  community.
here you get the opportunity to connect to all your favorite chat channels and make updates.
i knew that big advances were being made in the linux world
i  decided to install it straight away and since then i haven’t looked back.
if you have used qt3-qtconfig, you definitely should choose “/usr/bin/qtconfig-qt3″ as your default.
the current software has added user-friendly features including better hardware  detection and intuitive disk partitioning.
the progress is amazing!
of course, this is not an option if you require  additional commands to be run at shutdown.
tag: debian 3 methods of linux system administration and why linux commands are best  – linux training online sunday, november 13th, 2011 | learn linux -  linux help |
it is a simple bash script you  can edit as root on your machine.
in my case, when the machine hosting my website needs to be rebooted or even crashes, it is critical that the backend processes that the website depends on start correctly.
you can seamlessly create professional documents and presentations with openoffice.org that comes with this os.
the program also includes user-friendly desktop environments (gnome and kde).
additionally, the program is only  available in a 32-bit version and new releases are not scheduled regularly.
linux commands training tips: the linux system administration concepts and commands covered here apply to all linux distros, including: red hat, ubuntu, kubuntu, edubuntu, slackware, debian, fedora, suse and opensuse.
using /etc/rc.local – a better way to start processes on debian and ubuntu instead of adding a startup script and the related symlinks, a much easier approach is to add your commands to the bash script /etc/rc.local.
after looking  around the help pages built into the operating system you’ll notice that  connecting to the internet is pretty simple, unless you have a usb adsl modem.
i tried a number of data recovery programs but most of the files wore gone.
when a machine shuts down, it is important for many daemons to clean up their pid files and otherwise shut down nicely.
could come in handy for photoshop since the free equivalent, gimp, just doesn’t cut it for some things i want to do, such as batch image processing.
after playing around in ubuntu’s environment for a bit you’ll  notice an examples folder on the desktop that has various types of files that  can be opened using ubuntu’s default programs installed.
it also has exceptional security.
many distros provide additional front end programs  to make it easier for the user to add or remove libraries or software’s  to the system which may be either gui based or command based.
ubuntu linux integrates software like pitivi video editor, and movie player  which allows you to watch all your favorite contents from youtube, iplayer, and  msn player.
and now i would like to offer you free access to my linux commands training mini-course, a 7 lesson, daily mini-course, including the free linux commands ebook and linux audio podcasts – showing you how to get started learning how to use linux commands.
additionally, the program is only available in a 32-bit version and new releases are not scheduled regularly.
to conclude let us assume that the competition in the field gives rise to wonderful linux based operating systems easily manageable and gives a new dimension to computing capabilities of the new generation.
mandriva also utilizes a kde desktop and has great support which makes it a good program for beginners.
these package managers install software from any recorded media like cd or dvd or from internet servers called repositories maintained by distributions and communities associated with its development.
each program was ranked based on  ease of installation, user-friendliness, and amount of support available.
for a linux enthusiast there are a variety of distributions (distros) or otherwise called flavors available in the internet.
the third category uses the source code for its primary operations gentoo linux being one among them.
using linux gui utilities for system administration many linux distributions have “point-and-click” gui (graphical  user interface) utilities that allow you to do common and popular tasks, like  manage the file system, create linux users, and manage user and group  permissions.
a quick look  at /etc/rc.local demonstrates that it is rather self-explanatory.
linux training tips: to run a gui utility, you need  to have a desktop installed and sometimes one isn’t installed on a linux  server because it isn’t needed.
when it comes to picking any software, the ubuntu software centre is right  there to meet your requirements.
the symlinks have  special names that either begin with ans or a k. for example,  my machine has /etc/rc3.d/s20lighttpd and /etc/rc0.d/k20lighttpd.
the program is not in the same league as the other programs listed.
being on an orange broadband basic package means a usb adsl modem has to be used unless you own a router separately.
then you can learn linux the easy way – by watching it and then working with it!
so, rather than learn a command that is specific to a single linux distribution, learn the gnu commands because these commands are common to all distributions.
this program is easy to install and use.
these distros vary mostly in the package management system they use to install software and also in their philosophy.
then you can learn linux the easy way  – by watching it and then working with it!
however, their intensive testing has led to lengthy intervals between releases, typically 1-3 years.
i tried opening a video file and ubuntu complained that it couldn’t  play that type of file, but it promptly came up with a message telling me i can  download the required files to get it to work, so a click of the ok button and  it was fixed.
linux training tips: to run a gui utility, you need to have a desktop installed and sometimes one isn’t installed on a linux server because it isn’t needed.
if above methods still do not work out for you.
fortunately, help is at hand on the incredibly friendly and helpful forums at ubuntuforums.org i have been running ubuntu linux now for 18 months and can’t see any reason now to return to windows.
gentoo and freebsd are definitely for more advanced users.
this software is very easy to use and you can create professional documents, spreadsheets and presentations.
linux is an operating system that is free.
in order to enable or disable this script just change the execution # bits.
after completing the modem installation in the ubuntu’s live cd environment you’ll be prompted to restart ubuntu to get started.
thus, to run a process at startup on your linux machine, you would need to  both add a script to /etc/init.d that takes “start” as an argument,  and you would want to add symlinks to your script to the /etc/rc*.d  directories.
eddison sherry had been working in linux and other unix flavours for long years.
gentoo and freebsd are definitely for more advanced  users.
i hope you found this article helpful
in order to get scim to work in almost everywhere in kde, some settings need to be done.
for a linux enthusiast there are a variety of distributions (distros) or  otherwise called flavors available in the internet.
opensuse, fedora, mandriva are a few to mention in this class.
live cd allows  you to temporarily run ubuntu and most of its features without doing anything  to your installation of windows.
of course, there are downsides to running linux.
considering all these, it could easily be said that ubuntu linux is the best operating system for your computer.
this operating system is super-fast and great-looking.
dpkg-reconfigure locales this command will prompt you a screen to select your desired locales.
3 methods of linux system administration and why using linux commands is the best method 1.
a few years earlier i had experimented with redhat linux but had no real success with it as it had problems detecting my usb keyboard and mouse.
sh -e # # rc.local # # this script is executed  at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
now we will have a look at a few conceptually best package managers used by  the distros.
all these software managers resolve dependencies between packages while installing a software or library.
you might  need to troubleshoot problems using the command line interface – similar  to windows dos, but many times more powerful.
linux commands training tips: the linux system  administration concepts and commands covered here apply to all linux distros,  including: red hat, ubuntu, kubuntu, edubuntu, slackware, debian, fedora, suse  and opensuse.
in addition to this, the linux system administration pros only use commands because gui utilities are too slow to run and time-consuming to use.
tags: debian, gnu, linux, ubuntu 2011 best linux distributions by judith ceja which linux distribution is right for you?
this script must take an argument that can be one of “stop,” “start,” and “restart.”
these are for kde internationalization.
doing linux system administration tasks with commands that are  specific to a distribution the major (popular) linux distributions all have several commands that are  specific to that single distribution.
tags: debian,  script, terminal, ubuntu are you getting sick of microsoft windows?
tags: debian, fdisk,  fedora, gui, kubuntu, learning linux, linux administration, linux commands,  linux distribution, linux training, linux videos, opensuse, red hat, slackware,  suse, ubuntu learn how to install software in linux and unix distros friday,  november 11th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
in other words, for each popular distro, there are several commands that are specific that just that version.
a few months later i plucked up the courage to try ubuntu again but  the internet connection issue was still stick in my mind.
# make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other # value on error.
$ cat /etc/init.d/boot_server #!/bin/sh -e case "$1" in start)
these files need to be downloaded separately due to propriety issues.
that is, it can be downloaded  and copied and distributed without a fee.
for example,  ubuntu will use open office (a free alternative to microsoft office) to open  doc files.
so i searched around  on google more and searched the ubuntu forums.
this means you don’t need to pay hefty amount for buying this operating system like that of windows os.
i can copy large amounts of files from one hard drive to the other without my pc noticeably slowing or making music stutter, file transfers are seamless whilst doing other tasks.
a few things take a while to get used to, such as the folder views it has  and the prompts that come up occasionally requesting your password to be  entered.
i had lost everything and was pretty angry about it.
if you learn how to use commands, then you learn how to use linux for all distros!
so, learning how to use a linux gui in one distro is basically useless if you have to use a different one later, or if you’re working in an environment with multiple linux distributions.
so rebooting the computer and finding a web page came up with the instructions to extract some firmware, write a boot script etc.
setting your system with english locales, so that your desktop, menus and programs’ file menus won’t show english characters in blurry chinese ttf fonts.
the ample support comes from both technical professionals as well as end users.
$ cat /etc/rc.local #!/bin/
now we will have a look at a few conceptually best package managers used by the distros.
subscribe for testking 642-426 online training and  get certifiedtestking 1z0-051 study material including testking 642-566 q  &a for practice and pass the real test on first try.
with windows latest operating system, vista, prompting for requests  on more admin type tasks, the odd one or two from ubuntu are manageable.
however, long compilation times and occasionally instability makes it less of a crowd pleaser than other available software.
opensuse has an extensive and intuitive configuration tool.
since the operating  system includes plenty of stunning features, you can get your job done without  paying for third party software.
for more software reviews go to http://www.softwareinreview.com buy linux today!
the current software has added user-friendly features including better hardware detection and intuitive disk partitioning.
each  distribution contains different software and has a different focus.
a distribution is a  collection of linux software that together makes an operating system.
software’s usually depend on many libraries and hence the automatic management of dependencies is a welcome move as far as the huge linux users community across the globe is considered as it would alleviate the problems in managing the system.
taking the plunge with ubuntu with this caveat fixed, i took the plunge, backed up all my files onto an  external hard drive and fully installed ubuntu over windows.
gentoo was designed for power users, allowing them to have ultimate customization capabilities.
this was a “live-cd” and it can be used without installing to hard disk – it can be run from a cd without affecting your computer at all.
http://launchpad.net/usb-adsl-modem-manager – usb adsl modem manager for ubuntu http://www.babblestorm.co.uk/search.php?search=ubuntu – ubuntu related newstags: debian, games, ubuntu, wine debian chinese how-to by yien bin
3 methods of linux system administration and why using linux  commands is the best method 1.
this might seem odd to have to enter a password just to change the  date/time.
view his personal website.
the most documented way of starting processes when the machine boots is to add a control script to /etc/init.d.
at this point i got fed up and went back to windows.
so i searched around on google more and searched the ubuntu forums.
pclinuxos is great for new linux users due to its intuitive graphical  installer.
ubuntu.com ubuntu – download the ubuntu linux operating system for your computer ubuntuforums.com ubuntu forums – go here for help and advice wikipedia.org/wiki/linux order linux on cd from frogshape!
this is a good chance to see if you really like what ubuntu has to offer before really committing.
mandriva also utilizes a kde desktop  and has great support which makes it a good program for beginners.
i decided to install it straight away and since then i haven’t looked back.
first thought was, being used to windows, what the hell do i do with a debian file?
in order to  enable or disable this script just change the execution # bits.
whether you have a netbook, desktop or laptop, you can easily install this os.
should you focus on learning gui utilities – or should you learn  linux commands for doing system administration?
it is free in a deeper sense too.
in my case, when the machine hosting my website needs to be rebooted  or even crashes, it is critical that the backend processes that the website  depends on start correctly.
by clyde e. boom when you are a new user needing to get linux training, it is often confusing to decide what to focus on.
when a machine shuts down, it is important for many  daemons to clean up their pid files and otherwise shut down nicely.
for example, the linux fdisk command is a gnu command that is used to manage the partitions on a system and this command exists on all distributions.
no comments ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer by eve wilson are you looking for a good alternative for your windows operating system?
a quick look at /etc/rc.local demonstrates that it is rather self-explanatory.
mandriva, debian gnu/linux, and opensuse are the best programs if you  are willing to trade some advanced features for stability and continuing  support.
freebsd lacks a graphical  installer and the convenient features of hardware detection and system  configuration which must be performed manually by the user.
this website keeps a list of the most popular distributions of linux.
those beginning withk are used to kill a process during shutdown.
ubuntu linux is not only much secure than windows os, but it also includes  free apps and renders safe and fast web browsing.
ubuntu has the synaptic package manager which uses the underlying  apt(advanced packaging tool) to gather and install software.
no comments by clyde e. boom
using linux gui utilities for system administration many linux distributions have “point-and-click” gui (graphical user interface) utilities that allow you to do common and popular tasks, like manage the file system, create linux users, and manage user and group permissions.
there are so many to try… fedora, mandrake, puppy, pclinuxos, debian, knoppix, and the most popular, ubuntu linux.
if you just learn how to use linux by running the gui utilities in one distro, and then you stop using that distro, then you have to learn all the gui utilities of the next distro.
at that point i decided that i would look for another  alternative to windows
when the two such conflicting software’s needs to coexist then the library file preferences need to be sorted out.
with windows latest operating system, vista, prompting for requests on more admin type tasks, the odd one or two from ubuntu are manageable.
he had been writing blogs and article on the linux storage,linux commands and linux server administration.
linux is written from the ground up to be a secure operating system.
it’s time to give ubuntu linux a whirl by alan oliver about 18 months ago, i had another disastrous crash on my pc that caused me to lose a host of photos, music and documents.
mainly the distros can be categorized on the basis of package management system into three viz, .rpm based (redhat package manager), .deb
one of its best features is the ability to keep the system current without re-installing the software.
based on the debian gnu/linux distribution this operating system is distributed as free.
linux training tips: linux distributions are rising  and falling in popularity all the time.
i can copy large  amounts of files from one hard drive to the other without my pc noticeably  slowing or making music stutter, file transfers are seamless whilst doing other  tasks.
it was originally developed to manage red hat  linux systems at duke university’s physics department.
according to  the guardian, “in terms of software ubuntu is like the iphone.
however,  for user-run processes, simply being sent sigterm as part of normal shutdown is  sufficient.
once you do this you are under obligation to make your new  source code available to others.
freebsd lacks a graphical installer and the convenient features of hardware detection and system configuration which must be performed manually by the user.
most of the software is written under a license called the “gpl” which effectively means that source code is available to everyone for each and every component of the linux operating system.
a distribution is a collection of linux software that together makes an operating system.
here you get the opportunity to connect to all  your favorite chat channels and make updates.
for example, the linux fdisk command is a gnu command that is used to  manage the partitions on a system and this command exists on all distributions.
for other linux or bsd users, it can be useful to  start up useful background processes, perhaps servers for accessing your  machine remotely.
i  had experienced many crashes on windows before and usually i was able to  recover most of my documents and restore the system back to normal without too  much effort.
fortunately, help is at hand on the incredibly friendly and helpful forums  at ubuntuforums.org i have been running ubuntu linux now for 18 months and  can’t see any reason now to return to windows.
i had experienced many crashes on windows before and usually i was able to recover most of my documents and restore the system back to normal without too much effort.
you can explore the  software categories like, sound and video, graphics, education, games,  programming and office and pick the one according to your need.
when the cd finishes remove it and put it back into the drive so it auto  plays and followed the instructions to boot into the live cd.
not only watching, you can also edit your videos with pitivi video editor.
based and the source based.
i opened firefox, typed in a url and hey presto, the internet worked.
so after checking out the usb  modem manager site and then following the link to the latest version, i  downloaded the debian file for it, .deb.
wine is a program to let  you play windows only software in ubuntu.
for  my case, i have selected en_us iso-8859-1
this  means that you won’t have to worry about getting viruses, spyware or any  other kind of malware.
an example of such a script would be /etc/init.d/ssh, which is used to start and stop the ssh server.
using /etc/rc.local – a better way to start processes on  debian and ubuntu instead of adding a startup script and the related symlinks, a much easier  approach is to add your commands to the bash script /etc/rc.local.
however, /etc/rc.local is preferred for all other cases.
computer repair houston has ubuntu certified professionals who offer you computer services for installing, uninstalling and reinstalling ubuntu linux on your computer.
i double clicked the debian file downloaded to my desktop and voilà, it started to install the modem manager, great, must be just ubuntu’s version of a windows .exe file.
if you want the very best technologies straight to your desktop, ubuntu linux is the pick for you.
live cd allows you to temporarily run ubuntu and most of its features without doing anything to your installation of windows.
you can always add your desired encoding for other languages.
the main one is that there is a learning curve  that can be quite steep.
this has worked extremely well and linux is being developed by programmers all over the world to make it better and better.
should you focus on learning gui utilities – or should you learn linux commands for doing system administration?
learning how to use commands that are only available on a single distribution is a huge waste of time – if there is an equivalent gnu / linux command – and there almost always is.
however, it is fast, stable and has over 15,000 software applications available.
connecting to the internet in ubuntu there was no obvious signs of how to connect to the internet.
is it a ubuntu version of a windows zip file or what?
the ample support comes from both technical professionals as well as  end users.
remember not to install the skim(kde frontend for scim), as it will somehow freeze your keyboard frequently.
/etc/rc.local almost the last script  to be run as part of the boot process.
all my hardware was detected and within minutes i was surfing the web using firefox and getting my email using evolution, chatting to friends in messenger and yahoo chat using gaim, writing documents and opening spreadsheets in open office and listening to internet radio with rythmbox.
and now i would like to offer you free access to my linux commands training  mini-course, a 7 lesson, daily mini-course, including the free linux commands  ebook and linux audio podcasts – showing you how to get started learning  how to use linux commands.
you should also check with update-alternatives –config qtconfig to see whether which qt config is currently in use.
however, these gui utilities are usually specific to a single linux  distribution.
in addition, if you need your  process to be started before some other system process, you must resort to the  classic startup script as discussed above.
almost anything you’d care to do, there’s an app for that.”
after playing around in ubuntu’s environment for a bit you’ll notice an examples folder on the desktop that has various types of files that can be opened using ubuntu’s default programs installed.
for example, a linux distribution will likely have a command that is used to manage partitions (disk space) and this command is specific to that distribution.
ubuntu is one of the most popular linux distributions for desktops.
once you get past the mind set of using closed source software a whole new world opens up before you and you realise that amazing things are possible with linux.
the program is not in the  same league as the other programs listed.
this program will use your qt settings to draw your gtk applications’ user interface, including the fonts of course.
he had been writing blogs and article on the linux storage,linux commands  and linux server administration.
however, its heavy use of resources for  desktop setup and graphical utilities tend to slow the program down.
ubuntu linux is also ideal for servers.
this means you  don’t need to pay hefty amount for buying this operating system like that  of windows os.
there are plenty of stunning features of ubuntu linux that make  it one of the best operating systems available in the present days.
# make sure that the script will  "exit 0" on success or any other # value on error.
i downloaded the iso of ubuntu linux from the ubuntu website http://www.ubuntu.com/ and burned it to cd (an iso file is cd image that can be recreated using a cd burning tool such as nero).
these distros vary mostly  in the package management system they use to install software and also in their  philosophy.
/etc/rc.local almost the last script to be run as part of the boot process.
when you are a new user needing to get linux training, it is often  confusing to decide what to focus on.
luckily i had a backup of most of my documents on an external disk.
this software is fully compatible with microsoft office.
ubuntu is a flavour of linux that is becoming a popular, free alternative  to windows.
however, for user-run processes, simply being sent sigterm as part of normal shutdown is sufficient.
your scripts have to follow the naming convention described above, probably starting with s99 or s98 to ensure that your processes start after all the important system daemons.
# # by default  this script does nothing.
red hat has yum (yellowdog updater modified) package manager for the convenience of the user.
this website keeps  a list of the most popular distributions of linux.
multitude of distros are  available in this too most prominent one being ubuntu.
this means kde is unable to find appropriate font substitution for unknown characters.
judith ceja writes articles for softwareinreview.com
this is per user’s local setting, for my case i’ve set my lc_type to zh_cn.utf-8system wide, with this command.
by now, when you output your locales settings withlocale command, all the variables with “lc_xxx” shoud be already in “ en_us.utf-8“.
although the basis is same, it is the differences in handling the  power that the kernel (core program of the operating system) delivers that  makes them distinct from each other.
a few things take a while to get used to, such as the folder views it has and the prompts that come up occasionally requesting your password to be entered.
one of its best  features is the ability to keep the system current without re-installing the  software.
tags: debian, gnu, linux, ubuntu 2011 best linux distributions thursday, february 10th, 2011 | learn  linux - linux help | 10 comments 2011 best linux distributions by judith ceja which linux distribution is right for you?
for other linux or bsd users, it can be useful to start up useful background processes, perhaps servers for accessing your machine remotely.
it was originally developed to manage red hat linux systems at duke university’s physics department.
conclusion: use /etc/rc.local to run processes at startup in linux classic startup scripts in /etc/init.d and /etc/rc*.d are appropriate for many daemons and some more complicated user processes that must either start before a system process or be cleaned up during shutdown.
i tried opening a video file and ubuntu complained that it couldn’t play that type of file, but it promptly came up with a message telling me i can download the required files to get it to work, so a click of the ok button and it was fixed.
many distros provide additional front end programs to make it easier for the user to add or remove libraries or software’s to the system which may be either gui based or command based.
for example, ubuntu will use open office (a free alternative to microsoft office) to open doc files.
here are some resources: distrowatch – news on the latest linux distributions.
a newbie can easily get confused with the concepts in linux, thanks to microsoft which serves as an introductory course to using a computer the way you want it.
there are also plenty of apps that allow the user to fix and share  their photos with the world.
(the numbers  in the rc directory names are known as runlevels.
http://launchpad.net/usb-adsl-modem-manager – usb adsl modem manager  for ubuntu http://www.babblestorm.co.uk/search.php?search=ubuntu – ubuntu  related news tags: debian, games, ubuntu, wine debian chinese how-to friday, october 16th, 2009 | international  linux | 1 comment debian chinese how-to by yien bin
and i thought i would give linux another try.
the number in the link name is used to  determine the order in which these processes are started and killed.
when the cd finishes remove it and put it back into the drive so it auto plays and followed the instructions to boot into the live cd.
this has worked extremely well and linux  is being developed by programmers all over the world to make it better and  better.
using linux commands that are common to all distributions  – the gnu commands the gnu commands are the most popular linux commands – and they are  common to all distributions.
multitude of distros are available in this too most prominent one being ubuntu.
so i wasn’t too concerned by this.
it is a simple bash script you can edit as root on your machine.
so i decided to do a bit of research.
i tried playing an mp3 and the same happened, just a click of a message and ubuntu located and installed the required files to play my music.
all these software managers resolve dependencies between packages  while installing a software or library.
the most documented way of starting processes when the machine boots is to  add a control script to /etc/init.d.
you can consult a computer repair company for linux setup.
imo, scim is always the best choice because it has pinyin support, the only chinese input method i’m familiar with.
freebsd was introduced into the market in 1993.
opensuse, fedora, mandriva are a few to  mention in this class.
doing linux system administration tasks with commands that are specific to a distribution the major (popular) linux distributions all have several commands that are specific to that single distribution.
most of the software is written under a license called the “gpl”  which effectively means that source code is available to everyone for each and  every component of the linux operating system.
it has become the largest linux distribution ever created and has inspired over 120 debian-based distributions.
listed below are the top seven linux operating systems for 2011.
if you are working on linux or unix server  its best to have a look on his blogs atlinux technical forum.
and i hope it inspires you to try out  ubuntu linux as i did.
this operating system is  super-fast and great-looking.
there is a new me menu which allows you to access your facebook and twitter accounts right from the desktop.
mainly the distros can be categorized on the basis of package management  system into three viz, .rpm based (redhat package manager), .deb
was this going to end the problem?
i downloaded the iso of ubuntu linux from the ubuntu website  http://www.ubuntu.com/ and burned it to cd (an iso file is cd image that can be  recreated using a cd burning tool such as nero).
this program received our lowest rating for support because it does not provide  support in any language other than english.
this means that you won’t have to worry about getting viruses, spyware or any other kind of malware.
/home/prod/start_server.sh ;; stop) ;; reload|restart|force-reload)
inside the program you will get to set font substitution for your default kde font(mine is bitstream vera).
computer repair houston has ubuntu certified professionals who offer you  computer services for installing, uninstalling and reinstalling ubuntu linux on  your computer.
the symlinks have special names that either begin with ans or a k. for example, my machine has /etc/rc3.d/s20lighttpd and /etc/rc0.d/k20lighttpd.
according to the guardian, “in terms of software ubuntu is like the iphone.
in this article we will check what all  options are catered for a normal user in installing software.
you can get your instant access at:  http://www.linuxcommandstrainingcourse.com from clyde boom – the easy linux training guy – easy,  self-paced linux training – in plain english!
you will still have the ability to input chinese in almost  everything(browsers, konquerer, instant messengers, konsole, xchat and more).
each distribution contains different software and has a different focus.
a few months later i plucked up the courage to try ubuntu again but the internet connection issue was still stick in my mind.
new versions are released about every six months.
a few years earlier i had experimented with redhat linux but had no real  success with it as it had problems detecting my usb keyboard and mouse.
not only watching, you can also edit your videos with pitivi video  editor.
the classic method for running processes at startup
pclinuxos is great for new linux users due to its intuitive graphical installer.
in summary, if you’re prepared to spend a few hours to get used to it and to get it working the way you want, go for it!
if you are trying to get something working, your windows knowledge will not help you.
the program  gets high marks for help and support.
restarting ubuntu whilst using live cd will just restart into windows, so  that’s no good!
the number in the link name is used to determine the order in which these processes are started and killed.
the program prompted me to unplug and plug my modem back in and it still didn’t work.
and the most interesting thing is  that you get all these through a single window.
scripts beginning withs are  used to start a process during bootup.
if yes, you can consider ubuntu linux.
ultimately, you must choose the program that is right for you.
sometimes in your kde desktop, if you have downloaded files with chinese/japanese file names, it will be displayed in square unreadable characters.
i knew that big advances were  being made in the linux world so i decided to do a bit of research.
i double clicked the debian file downloaded to my desktop and voilà,  it started to install the modem manager, great, must be just ubuntu’s  version of a windows .exe file.
should you learn how to use linux for just one distribution (a.k.a.
the package management system – synaptic, allows you to search repositories of software and download them.
this program received our lowest rating for support because it does not provide support in any language other than english.
this is when i came across some luck.
get an excellent set of videos that shows you the popular gnu commands and  then try these linux commands yourself.
which was obviously a bit of a non-starter for me.
i found a thread in a forum thread where a guy made a usb adsl modem manager program!
and i hope it inspires you to try out ubuntu linux as i did.
you can getqt3-qtconfig to deal with this problem.
in any text input field(gaim, firefox, xchat, open office, thunderbird and more), when you hit ctrl+space, the scim toolbar will pop up and you are able to input chinese text.
for my case, i have selected set en_us.utf-8 utf-8 as default locales.
no comments learn how to install software in linux and unix distros by eddison sherry
there is ample scope if you are a nerd or a geek to have your own way of  tweaking the system and this is what fancies the computer addicts to use this  powerful operating system.
would you like to install this operating system on your computer?
apart from the above mentioned features, there are many more.
this script must take an argument that can  be one of “stop,” “start,” and “restart.”
a discussion of runlevels is  beyond the scope of this article, and if you wish to know more, there are a  number of good resources on the internet.)
any good cd burning software should be able to handle writing iso files to a disc.
tags: debian, distro, gentoo, linux, manager, modified, package, package manager, red hat, rpm ,synaptic, synaptic package manager, system, yellowdog updater, yum ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer by eve wilson are you looking for a good alternative for your windows operating system?
learning how to use commands that are only available on a single  distribution is a huge waste of time – if there is an equivalent gnu /  linux command – and there almost always is.
i have also kde-i18n-ko for korean, and kde-i18n-ja for japan.
the program has a reputation for stability and  being the most bug-free linux distribution system on the market.
whether you have a netbook, desktop or laptop,  you can easily install this os.
sh -e # # rc.local # # this script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
you will have to get these packages.
being on an orange broadband basic package means a usb adsl modem has to be  used unless you own a router separately.
ubuntu and  pclinuxos enable beginners to use linux without requiring a steep learning  curve to produce results.
playing video games and other windows software in ubuntu i don’t play games much and haven’t attempted to do so yet, but  i’ll try wine sometime and see if that works.
there is ample scope if you are a nerd or a geek to have your own way of tweaking the system and this is what fancies the computer addicts to use this powerful operating system.
pick any of theircomputer repair plan and enjoy hassle-free computing.
considering  all these, it could easily be said that ubuntu linux is the best operating  system for your computer.
although the basis is same, it is the differences in handling the power that the kernel (core program of the operating system) delivers that makes them distinct from each other.
you can enjoy social networking very easily with this operating system.
each program was ranked based on ease of installation, user-friendliness, and amount of support available.
there is a new me menu which allows you to access your facebook and twitter  accounts right from the desktop.
after completing the modem installation in the ubuntu’s live cd  environment you’ll be prompted to restart ubuntu to get started.
at the end of /etc/rc.local, but before the exit 0 line, i can simply add a call to my server startup script: # run website processes /home/prod/start_server.sh it is a one-line change, instead of adding an overly complicated script and the related symlinks.
subscribe for testking 642-426 online training and get certifiedtestking 1z0-051 study material including testking 642-566 q &a for practice and pass the real test on first try.
the first category.rpm has its basis on red hat operating system  or extensive usage of their code.
the program gets high marks for help and support.
dependencies arise when a software  might be compatible with a particular implementation of a library file where as  another software we are trying to install might need a different underlying  implementation of the same concept.
working on ubuntu linux is a very pleasing experience.
at this point i got fed up and went back to  windows.
it provides users with current desktop software and fast boot times.
an example of such a script would be /etc/init.d/ssh, which is used to start  and stop the ssh server.
for user’s local setting, add these lines in your ~/.bashrc export xim=scim export xim_program=/usr/bin/scim export xim_args=”-d” export gtk_im_module=xim export qt_im_module