some people carry an external laptop battery with them, which can double computing time.
workarounds are available, however, to mitigate these issues.
this and other advances make it easier to set up a network in a  business or home and to connect to an existing wi-fi network for internet  access in selected airports, hotels, coffee shops, restaurants, supermarkets,  libraries and college campuses.
desktop pcs still  have an advantage in these areas, but the difference has decreased  dramatically.
portable pcs today come in four main flavors, listed here by decreasing size: variations include tablet pcs with touch screens that can be used without a keyboard and "rugged" laptops built to withstand strong vibrations, heat and cold, moisture and dust i've been experimenting with using a sony vaio desktop-replacement laptop as my main work machine to see how well it replicates my current desktop pc experience.
the particular strength of dc is its focus on encouraging collaboration and creating productive relationships between and among cities, counties, regions and select private sector companies uniquely positioned to help improve the delivery of public services.
the digital infrastructure task force is a collaborative networking group for government it professionals.
sony makes some of the most reliable laptop pcs, according to a study by digital communities (dc) is e.republic‘s local government program.
portable pcs today come in four main flavors,  listed here by decreasing size: desktop replacements notebooks netbooks.
unless you're near an outlet, laptops are also limited by their battery  life.
most laptops today have a security slot to secure the unit to a desk or  other immovable object with a security cable and lock such as those from kensington.
sales of  laptop pcs surpassed desktop pcs for the first time in the third quarter of  2008, according to the market research firmisuppli.
it can be significantly more affordable than buying individual computers for every employee, and it provides similar capability.
energizer'senergi to go xp18000 is a portable power pack that can charge a laptop and two other devices at once while away from an electrical outlet.
the law enforcement task force is a collaborative networking group for local law enforcement officials from across the nation.
their greater speed and  capacity make them better suited for video editing, computer aided design, and  high-end gaming.
traditionally, desktops far outperformed  laptops with cost, speed, storage capacity and reliability.
sony makes some of the most reliable laptop pcs, according to a  study by prev 1 | 2 next
more people have been answering this question in the affirmative.
their greater speed and capacity make them better suited for video editing, computer aided design, and high-end gaming.
a larger keyboard makes it easier to type and larger screen makes it easier to view.
for your next personal computer, should you go with a laptop pc even though you compute primarily at one location?
unless you're near an outlet, laptops are also limited by their battery life.
aviiq has recently introduced its portable laptop stand which, unlike most other laptop stand, folds up so you can carry it along with the laptop.
the word "laptop" has evolved into an umbrella term for "portable computer."
aviiq has  recently introduced its portable laptop stand which, unlike most other laptop  stand, folds up so you can carry it along with the laptop.
most laptops today have a security slot to secure the unit to a desk or other immovable object with a security cable and lock such as those from kensington.
subscribe | view digital issue digital communities members get access to our collaboration task forces 427 members 77 discussions 84 files latest members become a member digital communities members get access to our collaboration task forces 669 members 145 discussions 150 files latest members become a member until recently, there was no alternative to the familiar desktop computer, and its expensive upgrades and maintenance requirements.
tweet personal computing: going smaller with netbooks new software equips laptops with remote data destruction capability track stolen laptops using google maps november 19, 2009
several factors explain the trend.
personal computing: laptop as desktop pc replacement?
for your next personal computer, should you go with a laptop pc even though  you compute primarily at one location?
this paper shows how vdi is the future of the desktop and is a game-changer for local governments.
rather than being tethered to one spot, you can compute wherever you happen to be, whether from building to building, within an office, factory, house or even outside.
stationary desktop pcs still have their benefits.
and laptops are more easily stolen than larger desktop pcs, which is a big factor in organizational settings.
laptop stands  can improve the ergonomics without requiring supplemental devices.
cio leadership task force provides a unique forum for chief information officers from the largest cities and counties in the u.s. to privately interact, both through an online collaboration site and in regular face-to-face meetings.
in online and regular face to face meetings, both sworn and civilian law enforcement officials come here to discuss technology trends, collaboration and information sharing opportunities within the local law enforcement community.
by reid goldsborough the sony vaio cw series laptops (pictured), start at about $720, and have large 14-inch screens and keys with about the same size and spacing as desktop keyboards.
some people carry an external laptop battery with them, which can double  computing time.
sales of laptop pcs surpassed desktop pcs for the first time in the third quarter of 2008, according to the market research firmisuppli.
for cash-strapped local governments, the desktop computer is quickly becoming an unsustainable option for future progress.
this and other advances make it easier to set up a network in a business or home and to connect to an existing wi-fi network for internet access in selected airports, hotels, coffee shops, restaurants, supermarkets, libraries and college campuses.
the smallest laptops, the netbooks, are now priced equivalently  to the least expensive desktop pcs.
the smallest laptops, the netbooks, are now priced equivalently to the least expensive desktop pcs.
the word "laptop" has evolved into an umbrella term for  "portable computer."
a larger keyboard makes it easier to type and larger screen  makes it easier to view.
you can use a supplemental mouse, keyboard, and/or monitor with a laptop pc.
this portability is accentuated by the recent improvements in wireless internet technology, with wireless network adapters now built into most laptops.
click sponsor logos for whitepapers, case studies, and best practices.
energizer'senergi to go xp18000 is a portable power pack that  can charge a laptop and two other devices at once while away from an electrical  outlet.
traditionally, desktops far outperformed laptops with cost, speed, storage capacity and reliability.
laptop stands can improve the ergonomics without requiring supplemental devices.
it offers these leaders an on-going opportunity to share information and experiences, and to discussing it challenges facing larger community jurisdictions.
the main advantage of laptops is the most obvious.
people using desktops are also generally less prone to  ergonomic problems, such as neck and back strain from slumping over a small  machine.
desktop pcs still have an advantage in these areas, but the difference has decreased dramatically.
gtc east don't miss this opportunity to see the latest in digital government solutions, keep abreast of current policy issues and network with key government executives, technologists and industry specialists.
rather than being  tethered to one spot, you can compute wherever you happen to be, whether from  building to building, within an office, factory, house or even outside.
you can use a  supplemental mouse, keyboard, and/or monitor with a laptop pc.
and laptops are more easily stolen than larger desktop pcs, which is a  big factor in organizational settings.
variations include tablet pcs with touch screens that can be used without a  keyboard and "rugged" laptops built to withstand strong vibrations,  heat and cold, moisture and dust i've been experimenting with using a sony vaio desktop-replacement laptop  as my main work machine to see how well it replicates my current desktop pc  experience.
this portability is accentuated by the recent improvements in wireless  internet technology, with wireless network adapters now built into most  laptops.
through timely exchange of information and experiences, both online and through regular face to face meetings, municipal and regional government members help each other to make smarter technology decisions for their communities.
people using desktops are also generally less prone to ergonomic problems, such as neck and back strain from slumping over a small machine.
by reid goldsborough the sony vaio cw series laptops (pictured), start at about $720, and  have large 14-inch screens and keys with about the same size and spacing as  desktop keyboards.
now, a technology known as virtual desktop infrastructure (vdi) offers an alternative.