it is possible to have a custom built model with asolid state drive installed but the cost is just way too much for an already quite expensive system.
no mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide ©2012 about.com.
the hard drive is a large 750gb  capacity but runs are the slightly mundane 5400rpm spin rate.
this makes the entry to a 17-inch apple laptop a bit more affordable for those that don't necessarily need the slight boosts made in this revision.
for those using the laptop for more mundane tasks, there won't be any real  noticeable benefit.
more traditional usage should be able to yield up to the full running time that apple claims.
the better part though is that it has caused the price of the past spring 2011 version of the macbook pro 17 to drop several hundred dollars.
""the biggest disappointment is the lack of a sdxc slot that is found in the smaller macbook pro models.
most windows based systems at half this price are offering double that amount.
instead, an expresscard slot is provided that has less relevance for consumers than it did several years ago."
the firewire  800 port is a bit dated now but still can be used for external storage.
the other change is the graphics system.
the solid aluminum chassis still stands out for its  durability and overall design that has been imitated by many other companies.
instead, anexpresscard slot is  provided that has less relevance for consumers than it did several years ago.
this does include the new thunderbolt port which is an electrical only variant of thelight peak interface codeveloped with intel.
of these changes, the launchpad function that makes the desktop work  more like an ios based device like anipad is the most interesting if not  controversial change.
also external video adapters, and 4g wlan adapters for the road warriors who don't want to go usb 2.0.
externally, it looks identical to the version that was first  introduced back in 2009.
sandisk's extreme pro adapter reads the high capacity sdxc  cards.
the remaining features all are the same as past versions.
the past amd radeon hd 6750m has  been upgraded to the amd radeon hd 6770m. for the most part, this won't have a  huge impact for many users.
it gets a slightly faster quad core processor and amd graphics processor.
discuss in my forum by mark kyrnin, about.com guidesee more about: apple macbook pro 17©apple
a dual layer dvd  burner is there for those that still use physical media to load programs or  watch movies.
it still retains the feature where it will switch automatically between the integrated intel hd graphics 3000 that is built into the core i7 processor and the amd radeon graphics when an application requires it.
there are also usb 3.0 adapters, but usb 3.0 being what it is, on the mac, only the manufacturer's drives work with their cards.
it still has the same flaws as the version it replaces though including the lack of usb 3.0, a sd card slot and just 4gb of memory compared to most similarly priced laptops featuring twice as much.
it would have been nice to see apple increase the memory from the 4gb of ddr3 memory to something a bit more fitting a system priced at $2500.
it functions as both a mini-displayport port and a high speed interface for external devices such as storage.
the price  remains unchanged which is nice for those that want the added performance.
yes thunderbolt should supplant esata, but the current choices are limited.
it would have been nice to see an upgrade to theusb 3.0 for at least one of the ports but this will most likely have to wait till the next major revision.
of these changes, the launchpad function that makes the desktop work more like an ios based device like anipad is the most interesting if not controversial change.
there are also high performance multi-card or compactflash readers for digital photographers.
essentially, this is a slightly bump in the overall speed of the processor but  it has the same basic feature set.
for the most part, the system remains  unchanged.
instead, an expresscard slot is  provided that has less relevance for consumers than it did several years  ago."
apple  still keeps the seven hour running time claim even with the slightly improved  graphics and processor.
the solid aluminum chassis still stands out for its durability and overall design that has been imitated by many other companies.
the past amd radeon hd 6750m has been upgraded to the amd radeon hd 6770m. for the most part, this won't have a huge impact for many users.
many of the changes to the operating system are cosmetic and can be enabled or disabled depending on if you want it to function more like past versions.
" that may be true of consumers, but this model is for professionals.
it would have been nice to see apple increase the memory  from the 4gb of ddr3 memory to something a bit more fitting a system priced at  $2500.
essentially, this is a slightly bump in the overall speed of the processor but it has the same basic feature set.
sandisk's extreme pro adapter reads the high capacity sdxc cards.
the biggest disappointment is the lack of a sdxc slot that is  found in the smaller macbook pro models.
a part of the new york times company.
this should help benefit those that are using their system for intensive computing tasks such as desktop video editing.
since most people don't get a macbook pro for gaming, it will be more beneficial to those using it toaccelerate video, bitcoin mining or accelerating applications like photoshop.
this does include  the new thunderbolt port which is an electrical only variant of thelight peak  interface codeveloped with intel.
no related guide picks
yes thunderbolt should supplant esata, but the current choices are  limited.
everything else remains the same which means that it still has the thinnest profile and lightest weight of 17-inch laptops as well as some of the best battery life.
it was  upgraded from the quad core intel core i7-2720qm to the intel core i7-2760qm.
version of the macbook pro 17 to drop several hundred dollars.
a $20 adapter will do, but there exist faster  options.
since most  people don't get a macbook pro for gaming, it will be more beneficial to those  using it toaccelerate video, bitcoin mining or accelerating applications like  photoshop.
most windows based systems at half this price are offering double that  amount.
this should help benefit those that are  using their system for intensive computing tasks such as desktop video editing.
the increased speed will benefit those that run tasks that actually will utilize the 3d acceleration features.
battery life for the macbook pro 17 is still incredible thanks to its large  internal lithium polymer battery pack with its 95 whr capacity rating.
externally, it looks identical to the version that was first introduced back in 2009.
dual layer burner 17" wuxga (1920x1200) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam amd radeon hd 6770m graphics with 1gb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11a/g/n wireless, bluetooth three usb 2.0, firewire 800, thunderbolt, expresscard/34 15.5" x 10.5" x 1" @ 6.6 lbs.
fewer usb ports and no flash memory slot could really use more than 4gb ram description intel core i7-2760qm quad core mobile processor 4gb pc3-10600 ddr3 memory 750gb 5400rpm sata hard drive 8x dvd+/-rw
it was upgraded from the quad core intel core i7-2720qm to the intel core i7-2760qm.
back in the fall of 2011, apple silently refreshed theirspring 2011 macbook pro 17.
a $20 adapter will do, but there exist faster options.
for the most part, the system remains unchanged.
i'd rather have choice via inexpensive adapters  than be locked into sd
the hard drive is a large 750gb capacity but runs are the slightly mundane 5400rpm spin rate.
the  better part though is that it has caused the price of the past spring 2011
was this review helpful to you?
for those using the laptop for more mundane tasks, there won't be any real noticeable benefit.
battery life for the macbook pro 17 is still incredible thanks to its large internal lithium polymer battery pack with its 95 whr capacity rating.
the slot offers the ability to connect large and fast drives or  arrays of drives via esata.
instead, anexpresscard slot is provided that has less relevance for consumers than it did several years ago.
apple still keeps the seven hour running time claim even with the slightly improved graphics and processor.
it is possible to  have a custom built model with asolid state drive installed but the cost is  just way too much for an already quite expensive system.
there are also high performance multi-card or compactflash readers for digital  photographers.
storage features remain unchanged as well.
i'd rather have choice via inexpensive adapters than be locked into sd/sdhc/sdxcwrite a review 2 out of 2 people found this helpful.
it still retains the feature where it will switch automatically  between the integrated intel hd graphics 3000 that is built into the core i7  processor and the amd radeon graphics when an application requires it.
the bottom line jan 2 2012 - apple's silent refresh of the apple macbook pro 17 added a few spec increases that help keep the system at high levels of performance.
one benefit that i haven't mentioned though is the pricing.
in dvd playback tests, it still exceeds over five hours  of playback time which is far longer than the majority of 17-inch laptops on  the market.
macbook pro 17 jan 2 2012 -
the biggest disappointment is the lack of a sdxc slot that is found in the smaller macbook pro models.
there are also usb 3.0 adapters, but usb 3.0 being what it is, on the  mac, only the manufacturer's drives work with their cards.
it  would have been nice to see an upgrade to theusb 3.0 for at least one of the  ports but this will most likely have to wait till the next major revision.
the first change made to the macbook pro 17 was the processor.
the price remains unchanged which is nice for those that want the added performance.
many of the changes to the operating system are cosmetic and can be  enabled or disabled depending on if you want it to function more like past  versions.
back in the fall of 2011, apple silently refreshed  theirspring 2011
it functions as both a mini-displayport port  and a high speed interface for external devices such as storage.
more traditional usage should be able to yield up to the full  running time that apple claims.
mac osx 10.7, ilife review - apple fall 2011
user reviews 3 out of 5 don't  undersell the expresscard/34 slot, member bradmacpro ""the biggest disappointment is the lack of a sdxc slot that is  found in the smaller macbook pro models.
this makes the  entry to a 17-inch apple laptop a bit more affordable for those that don't  necessarily need the slight boosts made in this revision.
the final change is the release of the mac os x 10.7 or lion operating system.
also external video adapters, and 4g wlan adapters for the road warriors  who don't want to go usb 2.0.
" that may be true of consumers, but this model is for  professionals.
a dual layer dvd burner is there for those that still use physical media to load programs or watch movies.
the slot offers the ability to connect large and fast drives or arrays of drives via esata.
still, it is hard to top apple's design in terms of functionality or style.
/sdhc/sdxc write a review 2 out of 2 people found this helpful.
the increased speed will benefit those that run  tasks that actually will utilize the 3d acceleration features.
the firewire 800 port is a bit dated now but still can be used for external storage.
the final change is the release of the mac os x 10.7 or lion operating  system.
in dvd playback tests, it still exceeds over five hours of playback time which is far longer than the majority of 17-inch laptops on the market.