unfortunately it contains no check for the irda ® port.
discuss in my forum from authors,filed in: linux on the road: prev chapter 1.
please note this quotation from the disclaimer: "this program is  written with the target audience being a trained, experienced technician.
a part of the new york times company.
next some recommendations to check a used laptop, before buying it: review the surface of the case for visible damages.
with the tool bonnie .
it is to be applied with care, in the right situation, in order to find answers to specific problems.
lcd screen backlighting grows dim.
this software should be considered to be just like any other  tool in a tech's toolbox.
by the way: there is a standard for pixel faults etc.
maybe it's useful to take a magnifying glass therefore.
i have provided a survey of  databases for stolen laptops .
do a cpu stress test, e.g. with the command md5sum /dev/urandom or by compiling a kernel.
you may usebattery-stats to do so, but note this tool only offer apm support, it is not available with acpi support yet.
it is not designed to be used by those ignorant of computer servicing.
one of the best in my humble opinion is the toolpc diagnostics 95 made by craig hart.
we have heard of a machine used on the table in a train  being shaken to unusability in one trip.
to check the battery seems difficult, because it needs some time: one  charge and one work cycle.
despite the 95 in its name it's plain dos, tiny ( 76kb program  and 199kb data) reliable and free.
lithium batteries are good for no more than 400 recharge cycles, sometimes much fewer.
to check the battery seems difficult, because it needs some time: one charge and one work cycle.
these tools include many of the tests in one integrated suite.
linux on the road indexsuggested reading juergen haas linux guide ©2012 about.com.
unfortunately it contains no check for the  irda ® port.
these tools include many of the tests in one integrated  suite.
prev    home    next writing a device driver    up     no hardware recommendations * license * linux on the road index suggested reading
we have heard of a machine used on the table in a train being shaken to unusability in one trip.
it is  not designed to be used by those ignorant of computer servicing.
check whether the machine seems to be stolen.
to test the entire disk (non-destructively), time it for performance, and determine its size, as root do:time dd if=/dev/hda of=/dev/null bs=1024k .
afaik there is no linux tool like the dos tools check-it, dr.
maybe it's useful to take a magnifying  glass therefore.
please note this quotation from the disclaimer: "this program is written with the target audience being a trained, experienced technician.
lithium batteries are good for no more than 400 recharge cycles, sometimes  much fewer.
i have provided a survey of databases for stolen laptops .
next writing a device driver up no hardware recommendations * license *
hard,  sysdiag and others.
there is also a linux tooldosfsck or the other fsck tools.
check the floppy drive by formatting a floppy.
if you are an end user who is less than confident of dealing with computer hardware, this is probably not a program for you.
hard, sysdiag and others.
displays are  notpretty but functional.
information is not explained since we are not  trying to educate.
this software should be considered to be just like any other tool in a tech's toolbox.
you may usebattery-stats to do so, but note  this tool only offer apm support, it is not available with acpi support yet.
do a cpu stress test, e.g. with the command md5sum /dev/urandom or  by compiling a kernel.
buying a second hand laptop some recommendations to check a used laptop, before buying it: review the surface of the case for visible damages.
if you are an end  user who is less than confident of dealing with computer hardware, this is  probably not a program for you.
" laptop computers, unlike desktop machines, really do get used up.
there is  also a linux tooldosfsck or the other fsck tools.
it is to be applied with care, in the right  situation, in order to find answers to specific problems.
information is not explained since we are not trying to educate.
despite the 95 in its name it's plain dos, tiny ( 76kb program and 199kb data) reliable and free.
to test the entire disk (non-destructively), time it for performance, and  determine its size, as root do:time dd if=/dev/hda of=/dev/null bs=1024k .
worst of all, connectors get loose as a  result of vibration, causing intermittent failures (e.g. only when you hit the   key).
displays are notpretty but functional.
check the display for pixel faults.
one of the best in my humble opinion is the toolpc diagnostics 95 made  by craig hart.
to check the surface of the harddisk you may take e2fsck .
you may use memtest and crashme to achieve a memory test.
do an io stress-test, .e.g.
worst of all, connectors get loose as a result of vibration, causing intermittent failures (e.g. only when you hit the  key).
check the cd/dvd drive by reading and writing a cd/dvd.