now the refurbishment of the product may be done by the manufacturer or a third party.
when pricing a refurbished computer, it is important to note if the system is still available for sale new.
while that  defect may have been corrected and no further problems may develop you want to  make sure that some coverage is included for potential faults.
third party warranties can cause major problems as replacements parts may not be guaranteed and it may take longer for the system to be repaired.
the first  type have failed a quality control check during manufacturing.
free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
consumers are  often tricked into paying for a system that looks like a good deal but is not.
rather than simply disposing of these systems, the manufacturer will rebuild it to pass quality control but sell it at a discounted price.
if one is available, then the same cost analysis of 10 to 25% still holds.
also be wary of the cost for extended  warranties.
refurbished computers typically fall into one of two categories.
of course the amount of discount is only really relevant if you happen to be looking at the same exact product.
costs cost is the primary reason people purchase refurbished desktops and  laptops.
what is the price relative to the same pc new?
this makes it important that the consumer read the  specifications of the refurbished system and compare them to the standard specs  for the product.
often  times consumers in this case will find that for the same price they can get a  better, newer laptop or desktop.
with those in  hand, try to find a comparable brand new system.
manufacturers rebuild the system using the same parts used in the  new pcs.
the problem is  that warranties are typically modified for refurbished products.
if an optional warranty is offered  for purchase with the system, it should be a manufacturer extended warranty and  not one through a third party.
conclusions refurbished laptops and desktops are one way consumers can find a good  deal, but they have to be much more informed before the purchase.
this is where the specifications become extremely important.
who will handle warranty work?
as long as they have similar  warranties to the new products these can be an excellent way to get a system  for below retail.
discuss in my forum by mark kyrnin, about.com guidesee more about: sometimes offers for desktop and laptop computers seem to be priced too low to be real.
if the warranty is not provided by the manufacturer it should raise a red flag for consumers.
if the manufacturer is not offering the same coverage consumers should once again beware.
a manufacturer warranty will guarantee that the system will be  repaired to the original specifications with manufacturer parts or certified  replacements can be used with the system.
these are products that typically were returned or rejected due to a defect.
pcs such as this generally can be found for modest discounts  of between 10 and 25% off the retail prices.
if a comparable system is not  available, then look for a comparably priced system and see what you get.
if the  warranty is not provided by the manufacturer it should raise a red flag for  consumers.
refurbished laptops and desktops are one way consumers can find a good deal, but they have to be much more informed before the purchase.
a part of the new york times company.
if all of these can be answered satisfactorily, then consumers can  generally feel secure in the purchase of a refurbished pc.
a third party that rebuilds the machine may use alternate parts to get it up and running.
the problem comes from older systems that are no longer sold.
the lower cost of the system may be the result of them not offering to support the product.
related resourcesrelated resources mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide ©2012 about.com.
most refurbished pcs available will  typically be older products that are being compared to the original suggested  retail prices for the product when it was first released.
finally, be wary of extended warranties.
if an optional warranty is offered for purchase with the system, it should be a manufacturer extended warranty and not one through a third party.
the lower cost of the  system may be the result of them not offering to support the product.
in the description of these products you might find the term  refurbished.
if it is, this makes the price comparison very easy to determine.
a manufacturer warranty will guarantee that the system will be repaired to the original specifications with manufacturer parts or certified replacements can be used with the system.
both manufacturers and retailers may be offering these systems  below what a normal pc costs, but what is a refurbished product and are they  safe to buy?
what type of warranty comes with the pc?
now the refurbishment of the product may be done by the manufacturer or a  third party.
manufacturers rebuild the system using the same parts used in the new pcs.
these differ from a refurbished product as it has not been rebuilt.
both manufacturers and retailers may be offering these systems below what a normal pc costs, but what is a refurbished product and are they safe to buy?
if it is, this makes the price comparison very  easy to determine.
the key is to ask several key questions to know if it is really a good and safe deal:
the next thing to look at is the length of the warranty.
third party warranties can cause  major problems as replacements parts may not be guaranteed and it may take  longer for the system to be repaired.
with those in hand, try to find a comparable brand new system.
often times consumers in this case will find that for the same price they can get a better, newer laptop or desktop.
these alternate parts may change the system from its original design.
this makes it important that the consumer read the specifications of the refurbished system and compare them to the standard specs for the product.
consumers are often tricked into paying for a system that looks like a good deal but is not.
rather than  simply disposing of these systems, the manufacturer will rebuild it to pass  quality control but sell it at a discounted price.
it should provide the same length as if it was purchased new.
pcs such as this generally can be found for modest discounts of between 10 and 25% off the retail prices.
while that defect may have been corrected and no further problems may develop you want to make sure that some coverage is included for potential faults.
the key to any refurbished computer system is the warranty.
if a comparable system is not available, then look for a comparably priced system and see what you get.
of course the amount of discount is only really relevant if you happen to  be looking at the same exact product.
it  is simply a product that was returned by a customer but it has not been tested.
is the system comparable to an equivalent priced new pc?
in the description of these products you might find the term refurbished.
if one is available, then the  same cost analysis of 10 to 25% still holds.
as long as they have similar warranties to the new products these can be an excellent way to get a system for below retail.
another type of product that consumers will find discounted is an open box product.
when pricing a refurbished computer, it is important to note if the system  is still available for sale new.
as a result, the deals may not always be the best.
a third party that rebuilds the machine may use alternate parts to get  it up and running.
if the cost of the extended warranties makes the system cost more  than buying it new, avoid the purchase.
if all of these can be answered satisfactorily, then consumers can generally feel secure in the purchase of a refurbished pc.
these are  products that typically were returned or rejected due to a defect.
the key is to  ask several key questions to know if it is really a good and safe deal: is it sold by the manufacturer or a retailer?
the other type is a rebuilt  system from a customer return likely due to a component failure.
it should provide  the same length as if it was purchased new.
the other type is a rebuilt system from a customer return likely due to a component failure.
another type of product that consumers will find discounted is an open box  product.
consumers should be very careful when purchasing any open box product.
first and foremost, the warranty should be a manufacturer one.
if the manufacturer is not offering  the same coverage consumers should once again beware.
cost is the primary reason people purchase refurbished desktops and laptops.
these alternate parts may change the system from its  original design.
it is simply a product that was returned by a customer but it has not been tested.
if the cost of the extended warranties makes the system cost more than buying it new, avoid the purchase.
the problem is that warranties are typically modified for refurbished products.
they are often priced below the average computer system currently sold.
also be wary of the cost for extended warranties.
the first type have failed a quality control check during manufacturing.
most refurbished pcs available will typically be older products that are being compared to the original suggested retail prices for the product when it was first released.
sign up discuss in my forum refurbished desktop and laptop computers how to save money by buying a refurbished laptop or desktop pc by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: selecting a pc budget desktops sometimes offers for desktop and laptop computers seem to be priced too low  to be real.
they are often priced below the average computer system currently  sold.
as a result, the  deals may not always be the best.