these things should happen in the background, and not distract me from doing the things i want (games, internet, word, excel, etc.).
but i've never really tried it.
yes no do not show this message again mobile | rss tom's guide | tom's it pro | tom's hardware worldwide tom's hardware search search | ads - home - articles - graphics - cpu - motherboards - storage - cooling - cases - memory - tablets and smartphones - all other categories - news - graphics - cpu - motherboards - storage - cooling - cases - memory - all other categories - forums - graphics & displays - cpu & components - motherboards & memory - games - storage - overclocking - all categories - charts - graphics cards - hard drives and ssds - processors - power supplies - external storage - cooling - watercooling - nas & raid storage - system configurations - for it pros - it resources - it community - feature articles - brands - akasa - antec - cooler master - cougar - corsair - deepcool - msi - ecs - enermax - g.skill - samsung ssd - see all brands - shopping tom's hardware > news > solutions > software > windows start button gone forever, replaced by tutorial windows start button gone forever, replaced by tutorial 12:00 pm - april 1, 2012 by kevin parrish - source:
iceman1992 04/01/2012 6:15 pm the fundamental purpose of an os for me is to provide and invisible interface to access all of my stuff
+ when using the preview build, i found myself using ctrl + alt + del a lot to bring up the task bar and kill metro or to back-out of metro apps (some appeared to not have any way to navigate back).
seems like people running ms nowadays aren't too bright, and driven by investors.
6:13 pm hide - -3 + i am a pc fanboy, and this looks awful.
i was getting tired of its conveniences anyway.
the best april fools pranks should have at least a month if not more of buildup.
lordconrad 04/01/2012
as it stands now, windows 8 doesn't feature a start button, but rather depends on hot corners for essential functionality.
hide - -3 + i really think ms is shooting themselves in the foot on this.
show - -9 + maddy143ded : this just means that unless windows 8 has some clearly compelling performance boost like they claim for multicore usage (which as far as i know has not yet been proved ) most people will not want to go for an upgrade to windows 8.
hazbot 04/01/2012 6:32 pm show - -7 + well... looks like vista 2.0!
just because ram and hdd are cheap (relatively ) doesnt give them the right to keep increasing its usage........
latest software news - 03/30 – reasons why firefox could become a top browser
without any instructions  whatsoever, desktop users must figure out how to navigate through the new metro  ui and access the metro commands to get back to the start screen.
+ as a computer tech, i will unfortunately have to learn this piece of crap.
reller also assured investors that office 15 will feel unaltered in windows  8's desktop mode when using office even though the new suite has been  metro-ized.
i'm willing to bet many avg consumors will want to revert back to windows 7 after trying to figure out windows 8 which will prompt many pc vendors to do a downgrade program.
some of the decisions they make are so obviously stupid that it makes you wonder a) who managed to come up with them and b) how the hell those changes were kept despite nothing but negative feedback.
although the new version -- which offers a complete revamp of the ui since the release of windows 95 -- is seemingly well suited for touch-based devices, it's reportedly a headache for the desktop user accustomed to accessing the computer's installed programs through the start menu.
(meaning m$ will see the falling os sales and go back to basics as it were....
zloginet 04/01/2012 7:09 pm show - -9 + hazbot : well... looks like vista 2.0!
gin fushicho 04/01/2012 6:38 pm show - -8 + sooooooo....
vendors were in a made rush to get drivers out and people were trying to upgrade old ill working machines to vista...
win7 still works perfectly fine.
devoteicon 04/01/2012
see more ads - components - peripherals - how to - storage - special best offers latest news sponsored - windows start button
let's all call it a day, and jump over to linux, now that all 3 platforms are performing about the same, but at least with linux, you have a simplified user interface, and you can do os customizations via all kinds of advanced menu's and the shell; something which might take forever in windows 8.
i will also be sticking with windows 7 with this news.
according to nomura, reller addressed concerns that end users have raised about the windows 8 consumer preview.
i don't understand how there are so many 'common' people that have good ideas, yet microsoft pays millions for a couple of people that clearly don't...
whatever win 8 can do in 12 gb+ space android/ios/ubuntu can do it better in just 1-2 gb space.so effectively microsoft is shooting itself in the ass with this move.
assuming it is : very funny toms!
the avg consumor will not take kindly to this change.
i want to see my os do all the back-end stuff (anti-virus, backup, file management, etc.) in the cleanest, fastest way possible.
- related stories - latest news - microsoft - 04/01 – windows start button gone...
i'll be trying it with an open mind.
they should have just upgraded the windows phone 8 for usage on a tablet, instead they are destroying their only plus point in the computer market.i
zloginet 04/01/2012 7:04 pm no need to become a clone of apple!
the implication here is you are supposed to *use* the os as an application.
maybe i should try it on my laptop or see it on a friend's computer.
instead, the discoverability problem will be  addressed through a tutorial "to show keyboard/mouse users the new  commands that they need to orient themselves with in the new os so they are not  lost when they first encounter the product." isn't that nice?
without any instructions whatsoever, desktop users must figure out how to navigate through the new metro ui and access the metro commands to get back to the start screen.
i wish it was about it...
" unfortunately, reller confirmed that microsoft has officially killed off the start button for good.
+ kenratboy : i am a pc fanboy, and this looks awful.
prodigit10 04/01/2012 7:00 pm show - -7 + finally,windows has become like apple: ezioas 04/01/2012 7:01 pm
+ i am having my suspicions here, is this an april fool's prank?
7:11 pm windows 8 is going to be a major flop, what in the hell are they (microsoft) thinking?!
this is not what i want, i want to have a clear, clean, fast, customizable utility to do what i desire.
but that's not a joke gmarsack 04/01/2012
at the very least ms should have an option to enable the start menu.
"un-intuitive & clunky", i hope they have that quote in the adverts... reminds of the vista launch, "you'll need double the ram just to keep your pc performing as it did in xp".
i mean 20 fu*king gbs for just the installation?
davewolfgang 04/01/2012
i honestly don't know how well it's gonna work.
+ it is not urgent to move to win8 anyway..
businesses are not going to like windows 8 on their pc workstations.
hmmm maybe, but maybe not.
show - -7 + i keep hearing the bad news on windows 8 over and over again
it doesn't feel right to use a os as heavy as windows 8(i think it was somewhere around 12gb of installation) on a tablet.
vista 2.0 is windows 7 (i want to call you a name)...
the saying "if it ain't broken, don't fix it" maybe appropriate here.
- 02/21 – web browser grand prix 9: chrome 17, firefox 10, and ubuntu - 02/13 – ubuntu 11.10 review: benchmarked against windows 7 - all software reviews latest microsoft news - windows start button gone forever, replaced by tutorial - microsoft co-founder paul allen falls victim to identity theft - microsoft may be preparing led screen keyboard - microsoft says chrome market share records are misleading - internet explorer 8
the seattle  times calls this method "unintuitive and clunky.
stupid... jaquith 04/01/2012 7:09 pm show - -7 +
i will keep using widows 7 on my desktop as well as laptop for the foreseeable future.and
6:12 pm hide - 15 + april 1st.....
in the cleanest, fastest way possible.
really, where you been, they are gone!!!!!
submit my comment this username already exists.
" unfortunately, reller confirmed that microsoft has officially killed off  the start button for good.
( whatever it's called ), and not under settings.
so this is not an april fools joke...
it's not like getting rid or quick launch, the start menu is a pretty big thing for many users.
if i wanted a mac os, i would have bought one!
if people want to use them, they can, if they want to go to the start menu or task bar and launch from there as they have in the past, they still could.
chickenhoagie 04/01/2012 6:38 pm show - -7 +
yet another mistake for ms!
7:15 pm the source article is dated "march 30, 2012".
instead, windows 7 will be its last, official home.
please enter a comment!
also, vista wasn't all that bad if you actually stayed with it for awhile.
the more buildup the better the prank will be.
turns 3 years old, still going strong latest microsoft reviews - web browser grand prix 9: chrome 17, firefox 10, and ubuntu - web browser grand prix viii:
prodigit10 04/01/2012 7:02 pm anyway...thanks for nothing microsoft for removing the good ol start button show - -7 +
again - deals march 30: 17.3" vostro 3750 core i7 laptop $799.99 - transcend has a pata ssd for your aging pc - nvidia geforce gtx 680 graphics cards vendor roundup - google opens seven-story startup incubator in london - intel patents fan speed control to cool cpus submit comments add your comment show comments:
the seattle times calls this method "unintuitive and clunky.
these things should happen in the background, and not distract me from doing the things i want (games, internet, word, excel, etc.).the implication here is you are supposed to *use* the os as an application.
i fuggen hate people that compare without knowledge but based off they say...
please choose another one already registered e-mail already registered nickname with a different e-mail wrongly formed e-mail address an error has occured please provide your username (required) please provide your email address (required)
cool newsletters - tom's hard news - example ok ads tom's hardware around the world tom's hardware around the world subscribe to tom's hardware - denmark - norway - finland - russia - france - turkey - germany - uk - italy - usa search the site search the site ok about tom's hardware advertising about us contact privacy review product submission legal tom's it pro copyright © 1999-2012bestofmedia group.
according to nomura, reller addressed concerns that end users have raised  about the windows 8 consumer preview.
it was the first time microsoft released a os on time...
if they ask me, and they haven't, i would compromise by making the desktop version of windows 8 essentially an update of windows 7 and then toss the metro tiles on the desktop.
i really feel strongly about one thing that m$ could have done right, reduce the god damn size of the os .
tom's hardware > news >  solutions > software > windows start button gone forever, replaced by  tutorial windows start button gone forever, replaced by tutorial 12:00 pm -  april 1, 2012 by kevin parrish - source: the seattle times despite complaints stemming from the consumer preview, the start  button will not be officially added to windows 8.
thanks for nothing m$. cybrcatter 04/01/2012
i want to see my os do all the back-end stuff (anti-virus, backup, file management, etc.)
yeah, definitely has to be april fool's...right...??
this is just microsoft seeing apple's success and trying to replicate that in ways and places that just do not work.
if you're going for an apple look then imo port (license) mac os x on the pc, and not some moronic attempt to reinvent theround wheel as a square.
6:43 pm show - -5 + davewolfgang : april 1st.....
asthedeath 04/01/2012 7:25 pm show - -7 + i am seriously wondering what's happening at the top of microsoft.
removing a landmark of a button from the interface.
it looks like microsoft is trying to turn the os into an application itself.
i really wish that companies would stop promoting the stupid tablets as a computer replacement and instead promote it as a computer compliment.one of the main reason ubuntu/mint os has not replaced my windows installation is their poor attempt to copy the start menu.. and i have been tinkering with different linux oses since 2003(when i got my first linux os as a free cd.)
the seattle times reports that the beloved start button we've grown accustomed to pressing each and every day won't end up in the final version of windows 8 despite complaints.
thank goodness too, it felt like using a cell phone instead of using a pc.
what the heck, microsoft? leakingpaint 04/01/2012 6:53 pm show - -7 + this had better be an april fools joke...
7:24 pm click "desktop" button to close menu show - -8 + hvdynamo : the original article in the seattle times was from yesterday.
smileytpb1 04/01/2012 6:24 pm show - -5 + it wouldn't be the first time that feedback on a product has been completely negative and ms has gone off in the wrong direction anyway.
gone forever, replaced by tutorial - pny adds 2133mhz and 1866mhz xlr8 memory - amd catalyst 12.3 update: bug fixes, supports 7000 series - british gang nets £500,000 in itunes royalties scam - awesome battlefield 3 case mod also keeps your soda
but i guess that's win8 in a nutshell.
chrome 16, firefox 9, and mac os x - tom's hardware's 2011 gift guide: part 2,... - lan 102:
such stories always have a bad ending!
the whole time i played with win 8, i though to myself how much i appreciate the fact that windows 7 is so good and that i really didn't need to upgrade to windows 8.
they should at least allow people to turn on the start button from somewhere in the settings, not get rid of it completely.
6:24 pm show - -6 + i'm not missing the start-button, but the power-button should be available straight form
show - -10 + click corner to open start menu...
instead of making touch devices better, they just decide to make the desktop pc worse - that also works to bring them to the same level!
as it stands now, windows 8 doesn't feature a start button, but rather  depends on hot corners for essential functionality.
fu microsoft if they keep this idea going i'm switching to linux or mac os.
devoteicon 04/01/2012 6:57 pm show - -7 + good.
again - 03/30 – gearbox: duke nuken forever was victim of expectations - 03/29 – mozilla hints that firefox's 6-week release cycle may... - 03/29 – google releases update for chrome browser to v18 - 03/28 – mozilla launches online game using html5, websockets - all software news latest software reviews - 03/21 – the top 15 best-selling pc games of all time - 03/20 – fedora 16 and gnome shell: tested and reviewed - 03/02 – how well will mass effect 3
by default all good ratings poor ratings keyanf 04/01/2012 6:10 pm show - -5 + i'm sure you'll get along perfectly with me windows 8.
whereas i understand them wanting to make the interface identical across all formats of computing, pretty much everyone agrees the metro interface is not as useful on a desktop or laptop pc as it is on a phone or a tablet.
the fundamental purpose of an os for me is to provide and invisible interface to access all of my stuff my way.
although the new version -- which offers  a complete revamp of the ui since the release of windows 95 -- is seemingly  well suited for touch-based devices, it's reportedly a headache for the desktop  user accustomed to accessing the computer's installed programs through the  start menu.
what about my wallpaper?
the meetings talked about what's coming up for the next version of microsoft's operating system.
download the tom's hardware app from the app store the reference for current tech news
why does this have to be an all or nothing proposition?
the seattle times despite complaints stemming from the consumer preview, the start button will not be officially added to windows 8.
steelcity1981 04/01/2012
the news arrives by way of investment banking firm nomura, which hosted  meetings this week for investors with tami reller, the head of marketing and  cfo of the windows and windows live division at microsoft.
i have even tried mac os (hacintosh some one?)
reller also assured investors that office 15 will feel unaltered in windows 8's desktop mode when using office even though the new suite has been metro-ized.
assuming it isn't : smart move microsoft.
the right-corner -menu
this is going to backfire in a big way.
network hardware and assembly - do antivirus suites impact your pc's performance?
show - -7 + the original article in the seattle times was from yesterday.
exactly what windows 8 will be... bloob 04/01/2012
williehmmm 04/01/2012 7:14 pm show - -7 + aprill fools day...
the seattle times reports that the beloved start button we've grown  accustomed to pressing each and every day won't end up in the final version of  windows 8 despite complaints.
instead, the discoverability problem will be addressed through a tutorial "to show keyboard/mouse users the new commands that they need to orient themselves with in the new os so they are not lost when they first encounter the product." isn't that nice?
share: 85 comments x send link to this page by email : your email address * your name * recipient address * send *
another great advertising slogan.
6:54 pm show - -7 + what a stupid idea i dont want my desktop to be like a touch pad or smart phone.
if you want to do something in it,it's impossible!
the meetings talked  about what's coming up for the next version of microsoft's operating system.
the email addresses collected via this form are not recorded on our servers and are only used for the sending request read more pny adds 2133mhz and 1866mhz xlr8 memory - microsoft, - microsoft windows, - windows-8 , - start-button , - metro , - tami-reller , - nomura subscribe to the tom's hardware newsletter x - amd catalyst 12.3 update: bug fixes, supports 7000 series - british gang nets £500,000 in itunes royalties scam - awesome battlefield 3 case mod also keeps your soda cool - reasons why firefox could become a top browser
do not believe that the tablet can replace a laptop in its usage.. a netbook yes definitely, an ultra-book most probably, but not a full blown laptop/desktop system.
7:30 pm show - -8 + we should start taking bets on how big of a flop win 8 (on pc) will be.
anonymous_26 04/01/2012
instead, windows 7 will be its last, official  home.
the news arrives by way of investment banking firm nomura, which hosted meetings this week for investors with tami reller, the head of marketing and cfo of the windows and windows live division at microsoft.
but the ease of use and familiarity and the collection of games keep pulling me back to windows.well windows 7 seems good enough for use for next 5-7 years, till then something will give...