it elevates your laptop display to a better viewing position and allows you to use more usb enabled peripherals such as an external mouse, keyboard, external hard drives, printers or scanners.
in: kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 kensington, inc. the bottom line not all mobile professionals will have a desktop  computer at home and rely on using their laptop only.
it  elevates your laptop display to a better viewing position and allows you to use  more usb enabled peripherals such as an external mouse, keyboard, external hard  drives, printers or scanners.
- about.com - electronics & gadgets - mobile office technology mobile office technology search - mobile office tech - work from home - work anywhere - gadgets & apps discuss in my forum kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 about.com rating 4.5 star rating be the first to write a review from catherine roseberry,
i don’t find the footprint a problem, some laptop desks use the same  amount of space, so that hasn't been an issue for me.
- 4 usb 2.0 ports for external peripherals.
a part of the new york times company.
i also used a loaner ultra portable with it.
pros - increases the functionality of your laptop.
guide review - kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 i have an older model compaq and i've been quite impressed that the laptop  desktop handles it with no problems.
there is no hassle  connecting the laptop desktop to a usb port.
- provides a better ergonomic position for your laptop.
i also used a loaner ultra portable with  it.
description - small footprint - doesn't eat up precious real estate on your desk.
- covered by 1-warranty and free technical support.
what i've enjoyed the most is bringing the laptop display up to a  "normal" level for viewing.
in: - mobile office technology kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 kensington, inc. the bottom line not all mobile professionals will have a desktop computer at home and rely on using their laptop only.
useful if you have a small desk.
it's been great to have something that works with older, heavier laptop  models.
what i've enjoyed the most is bringing the laptop display up to a "normal" level for viewing.
x 11.6"w - has a padded insert which provides a secure ensclosure and the curved back enables ventilation.
has 4 usb 2.0 ports.
description small footprint - doesn't eat up precious real estate on your desk.
x 4.5"h x 12.25"w. - set up heights: highest position: 14.6"l x 5"h x 11.6"w. lowest position: 11.6"l x 9.5"h
using the laptop desktop will provide a great option to purchasing a second desktop for use at-home for mobile professionals and also allow you to work in a better ergnomic environment.
it's been great to have something that works with older, heavier laptop models.
the usb cord placed in the centre back has worked well with both laptops.
this makes it more comfortable to use my laptop regularly at my desk.
built-in copyholder keeps documents easy to view and organized.
x 11.6"w has a padded insert which provides a secure ensclosure and the curved back  enables ventilation.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
using your laptop on a desk isn't always the most comfortable or provide you with the best ergonomic position.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
this makes it more comfortable to use my  laptop regularly at my desk.
kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 about.com rating 4.5 star  rating be the first to write a review from catherine roseberry, former about.com guide filed
if you use a wireless mouse with the laptop desktop, you've freed up one of the usb ports which can then be used for a scanner, digital camera or other usb
the built-in copyholder has certainly been useful and makes it much easier to work from a document, when you don't have to worry about an extra accessory for holding paper.
the kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 eliminates those problems.
pros increases the functionality of your laptop.
with two displays, and my laptop going, having  everything at the same level is a huge bonus.
screen height is adjustable, it can be tilted and swiveled.
- screen height is adjustable, it can be tilted and swiveled.
fits laptops 16" and smaller.
i dont find the footprint a problem, some laptop desks use the same amount of space, so that hasn't been an issue for me.
- has a vesa mounting plate which can be used for attaching to monitor arms or wall mounts.
former about.com guide filed
using your laptop on a  desk isn't always the most comfortable or provide you with the best ergonomic  position.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - ultra portables under $1000 - laptop lights - wireless laptop mice - wireless usb adapters - alternative home office furnishings suggested reading related articles - laptop case buyer's guide - buying a laptop - threats to mobile security - laptop computer safety - laptop accessories under $25 - portable laptop desks - keep your laptop cool on the road - xbrand laptop cradle w/usb 2.0 - laptop i/o ports - what you need to know about getting data into and out of... - docking stations to extend the functionality of your laptop - lapinator laptop desk related searches ergonomic position laptop models external peripherals external hard drives mouse keyboard cons cons explore mobile office technology must reads most popular - best apps for goals and resolutions - laptop bag buying guide - 5 tips for cooling a hot laptop - troubleshoot wifi problems - how to become a telecommuter by category - how to tether - set up a wi-fi connection - tethering - bluetooth tethering - wi-fi connection tutorial - mobile computing 101 - wi-fi & mobile internet - apps / software - conferencing & collaboration - mobile security / vpn - mobile devices & smartphones - laptops, tablets, pcs - laptop and mobile accessories - business travel tips - remote work lifestyle - home & mobile offices - telecommuting jobs - mobile workforce mobile office technology - about.com - electronics & gadgets - mobile office technology also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
you can reach either side of the laptop with no problem.
provides a better ergonomic position for your laptop.
covered by 1-warranty and free technical support.
i found it useful being able to scan documents directly to  my laptop rather than transferring the images from one computer to the other.
using the laptop desktop will provide a great option to purchasing a second  desktop for use at-home for mobile professionals and also allow you to work in  a better ergnomic environment.
- has 4 usb 2.0 ports.
- built-in copyholder keeps documents easy to view and organized.
guide review - kensington laptop desktop usb 2.0 i have an older model compaq and i've been quite impressed that the laptop desktop handles it with no problems.
i found it useful being able to scan documents directly to my laptop rather than transferring the images from one computer to the other.
with two displays, and my laptop going, having everything at the same level is a huge bonus.
there is no hassle connecting the laptop desktop to a usb port.
4 usb 2.0 ports for external peripherals.
- fits laptops 16" and smaller.
useful  if you have a small desk.
dimensions: 15"l x 4.5"h x 12.25"w. set up heights: highest position: 14.6"l x 5"h x 11.6"w.  lowest position: 11.6"l x 9.5"h
cons the hinge adjustment may be difficult to change with laptop inside.
the built-in copyholder has certainly been useful and makes it much easier  to work from a document, when you don't have to worry about an extra accessory  for holding paper.
if you use a wireless mouse with the laptop desktop, you've freed up one of  the usb ports which can then be used for a scanner, digital camera or other usb
cons - the hinge adjustment may be difficult to change with laptop inside.
has a vesa mounting plate which can be used for attaching to monitor arms  or wall mounts.