when you go out to buy a laptop, the first question that you need to ask is "what kind of a laptop would meet my needs?"
a mainstream laptop is well suited for people with all-round  computing needs, ranging from basic computing and online communication, to  entertainment.
desktop replacements (power laptops)
this is the best choice if you require performance and need to  travel frequently for work.
on the other hand, desktop replacement laptops are heavy and take up more space.
while ultra-portable laptops are easy to carry, they also have smaller keyboards and displays, fewer features, and have lower performance levels compared to other laptops.
infibeam pendrive webcam mouse headset external  hard disk drive speaker battery home >>  know the  basics >>  laptop types  what type of laptop do you need?
this is the best choice if you require performance and need to travel frequently for work.
also, ultra-portables have the best-in-class battery backup — a must have for the wanderer.
dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth maximum number of ports available least battery backup of 30-40 minutes for emergency.
trichur udaipur udupi uttarkannada uttarkashi valsad varanasi varkala vellore vijaywada villupuram visakhapatnam westgodavari wynad yamunanagar yawatmal zaheerabad
eventually, it depends on how important price is to you, when weighed against comfort.
“try out” a new diwali this year by bringing in a tech filled season by visiting the exciting hot deals section of our site.
laptop up to 4.6x faster w/ intel® core | w/ 1tb sata hard disk.
alwar ambala amravati amritsar anand anantpur andaman/nic..
ultra-portable the smallest and lightest among laptops, ultra-portables are meant for frequent travellers who need to have their pc with them all the time.
coimbatore coonoor coorg cuttack dabhol
dalhousie daltonganj daman darjeeling dehradun delhi
desktop laptop components and  features important buying factors laptop types buying guide improve netbook  performance new launches articles news featured articles file  complaint view all complaints ask experts view all solutions flipkart.com tradus.in
now that you’ve decided to go ahead and buy a laptop, deciding on one  is the next hurdle.
light-weight - some of the key highlights of ultra-portables are: - slim and light weight - display ranges from 7 to 11 inches - low-power consumption processors such as the intel atom or the amd mobile athlon / sempron - fewer ports and connections - 60 gb to 120 gb hard drive (ssd options also coming in some) - may lack an internal optical drive a light-weight laptop is an effective balance between portability, performance and features.
these laptops are not specialised  for providing better portability, but are still better than desktop  replacements.
ultra-portable the smallest and lightest among laptops, ultra-portables are meant for  frequent travellers who need to have their pc with them all the time.
pathankot patiala patna periyar phagwara phaltan pollachi pondicherry pudukottai pune pune-greater puttapurthi raichur raigad-dist.
however, they provide maximum productivity with a portable  form factor.
dell laptops starting from rs. 30,990.
presently this service is absolutely free.
the hidden cost is, however, the heavy price tag — almost 2–3  times that of mainstream laptops.
angamally arakkonam asansol aurangabad bahadurgarh bangalore baramati bareilly baroda/vado..
some of the key defining features of mainstream laptops are: larger and bulkier display ranges from 13.3 to 15.4 inches feature full-size keyboards and touch pads high performance single- and multi-core processors 120 to 320 gb hard drive options available dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth smaller battery backup of 2 to 3 hours 4.
- some of the key defining features of mainstream laptops are: - larger and bulkier - display ranges from 13.3 to 15.4 inches - feature full-size keyboards and touch pads - high performance single- and multi-core processors - 120 to 320 gb hard drive options available - dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth - smaller battery backup of 2 to 3 hours 4.
they come at a higher price too.
as far as cost is involved, these are more expensive than the heavier  mainstream laptops.
share  it with community:
other other: name: mobile: email: message - - top brands: - apple - | - dell - | - hp - | - compaq presario - | - lenovo - | - sony - | - acer - | - hcl - | - toshiba - | - asus - | - samsung - | - lg - | - aci - | - benq - | - champion - | - chirag - | - clevo - | - compaq - | - esys - | - fujitsu - | - g7 - | - gateway - | - hercules - | - intex - | - jetway - | - msi - | - olive - | - panasonic - | - razer - | - roverbook - | - terra mobile - | - wespro - | - wipro - | - zenith consumermate.com categories popular laptop models
kanpur kanyakumari kapurthala karikudi karimnagar katni katpadi khandala khargone kodaikanal kolar kolhapur kollam kota kotagiri kottayam kullu/manali kumbakonam kundapur lalgudi latur lonavala lucknow lucknow-gre.. ludhiana madhupur madurai mahabaleshwar malegaon manali mandya mangalore matheran mathura/vri..
however, they offer better performance, almost equivalent to that of a desktop pc.
based on size and use, laptops are categorised into four main groups  as follows: 1.
with much higher configurations compared to other laptops, they can deliver  enough power for serious gaming, multimedia authoring, and even high-level  digital audio and video content authoring.
may lack an internal optical drive 2.
unlike ultra-portables, most lightweight laptops have larger keyboards and displays and offer larger hard disk drives.
light-weight laptops have mobile processors (like  intel centrino / pentium mobile) and configurations that deliver sufficient  power to manage your work easily.
these laptops offer more value for the buck with their varied applications and uses.
some of the key defining features of lightweight laptops are: portability and light weight display ranges from 11 to 15.4 inches mobile processors up to 2.4 ghz come with built-in wifi and bluetooth (optional in some) 80 to 160 gb hard drive options available price ranges from rs. 60,000 to 1,20,000.
mumbai-navi mundra munnar mussoorie muzaffarnagar muzaffarpur mysore nagapittinam nagpur nahanh.o. nainital namakkal narsinghpur nashik nasik-greater navsari nellore noida noida-greater ooty osmanabad palani palghat panchgani panchkula,h.. panchmahal pandharpur panihati panipat pathanamthi..
normally, desktop replacements are quite bulky and hence are not at all suitable for regular travellers.
feedback * marked fields are mandatory.
some of the key defining features of desktop replacements are: - heavier than most laptops - display ranges from 15 to 19 inches - full-size keyboards with dedicated numeric keys and touch pads - high performance multi-core processors - dedicated high-performance video and audio solutions - 160 to 500 gb hard drive options available with dual hdd as an option.
normally, desktop  replacements are quite bulky and hence are not at all suitable for regular  travellers.
mainstream - portability and light weight - display ranges from 11 to 15.4 inches - mobile processors up to 2.4 ghz - come with built-in wifi and bluetooth (optional in some) - 80 to 160 gb hard drive options available - price ranges from rs. 60,000 to 1,20,000.
on the other hand, desktop replacement laptops are  heavy and take up more space.
performance new launches articles news featured articles file complaint view all complaints ask experts view all solutions flipkart.com tradus.in infibeam pendrive webcam mouse headset external hard disk drive speaker battery home >>
- dvd burner/reader, memory card reader, lan, modem, wifi and bluetooth - maximum number of ports available - least battery backup of 30-40 minutes for emergency.
some of the key defining features of lightweight laptops are: 3.
these laptops offer more value for the buck with their varied  applications and uses.
tirumuzhi tirunelveli tirupati tiruvannama..
dharamshala dharmapuri dharwad dindigul(t.n) erode faridabad ferozpur g.i.d.c.vapi gandhidham gandhinagar ghaziabad goa gorakhapur gulbarga guntur gurgaon guwahati gwalior habra hamirpur haridwar hassan haveri hindupur hoshiarpur howrah hubli hyderabad/s..
meerut mhow moradabad mumbai mumbai-grea..
for better portability and greater ease of use, you need to compromise in areas of performance and some other features and settle for a smaller screen and touch pad.
dell new inspiron 13z business opportunity for dealers contact us camcorders sony vpceh26en/b discussion forum sitemap mp3 players user review contest winner consumer support tablets accessories follow us on: © copyright 2012 www.consumermate.com
they come in different shapes and sizes, each with its own set of merits and demerits.
a mainstream laptop is well suited for people with all-round computing needs, ranging from basic computing and online communication, to entertainment.
chitradurga chitrakoot cochin/erna..
desktop replacements (power laptops) the biggest and the bulkiest among laptops are those meant for desktop replacement.
thank you and waiting to hear from you soonest reply to this comment jun 24,2010 | soundar says please give me details of laptop with 14" , ddr2,320gb, and 2gb ram........in
however, they offer better performance, almost  equivalent to that of a desktop pc.
dell epson esys fujitsu g7 gateway gigabyte hcl hercules hp iball intex jetway lenovo lg maingear msi olive
raipur rajkot rajpura ramnagar rampur ranchi ratnagiri rewa rewari rishikesh rohtak roorkee ropar saharanpur salem sangli satara shahdol shantiniketan shimla shimoga shirdi(shri..
| 4gb ram & 1tb hdd @
based on size and use, laptops are categorised into four main groups as follows: 1.
some of the key highlights of ultra-portables are: slim and light weight display ranges from 7 to 11 inches low-power consumption processors such as the intel atom or the amd mobile  athlon / sempron fewer ports and connections 60 gb to 120 gb hard drive (ssd options also coming in some)
close a very happy diwali to all of you!
new inspiron 14r laptops w/ intel® core & hd graphics.
belgaon bellary bharuch bhatinda bhavnagar bhilai bhiwadi bhopal bhubaneswar bikaner bilaspur bulandshahr buldana calcutta/ko.. calicut chandigarh chennai chinglepet chiplun
now that you’ve decided to go ahead and buy a laptop, deciding on one is the next hurdle.
jayanagar jodhpur joka junagadh kakinada kanchipuram kangra kannur/cann..
idukki indore jabalpur jaipur jaisalmer jalandhar jammutawi jamnagar jamshedpur/..
for  better portability and greater ease of use, you need to compromise in areas of  performance and some other features and settle for a smaller screen and touch  pad.
reply to this comment jul 03,2010 | m.b. yawa says please how can i get a durable laptop from the usa with long battery life, with good processor and ram of not lower than 2g at a good price.
the basics - new launches - hot deals - file complaint - ask experts - online stores - accessories laptop vs.
nevertheless, they are not well suited for regular  travellers.
some of the key defining features of desktop replacements are: heavier than most laptops display ranges from 15 to 19 inches full-size keyboards with dedicated numeric keys and touch pads high performance multi-core processors dedicated high-performance video and audio solutions 160 to 500 gb hard drive options available with dual hdd as an option.
feedback type * report bug in website report missing models request new features/service any other feedback your name * your email * message * ask us more info ask us if you want to purchase any gadget and want to receive most competitive rates from multiple dealers in your city within 24 hours.
some even have a battery backup of almost 18 hours with  emerging technologies.
decide accordingly after thoroughly examining along these lines.
some even have a battery backup of almost 18 hours with emerging technologies.
when you go out to buy a laptop, the first question that  you need to ask is "what kind of a laptop would meet my needs?"
nevertheless, they are not well suited for regular travellers.
sholapur shoranur sibsagar siliguri silvassa sindhudurg solan,hp sonepat srinagar surat talegaon tehri thalasseri thanjavur thiruvalla thiruvallur thiruvanant.. tindivanam tiruchirapp..
lowest prices details sent me sir, reply to this comment (0 - 4) of 18 comments « previous 1 2 3 4 5 next » post your comment name * e-mail website comment * type the code shown * try a different image home >>
did you finalize your gift...?
if you have limited space at home or your office desk, but want higher levels of computing power, then these are your safe bet.
rs.39,990 - - more info ask us for receiving best price quotes from multiple dealers in your city within 24 hours brand: any brand acer aci apple asus benq champion chirag clevo compaq compaq pres..
desktop replacements offer the best performance, largest screens  and keyboards, and the most complete set of features available on a laptop.
desktop replacements offer the best performance, largest screens and keyboards, and the most complete set of features available on a laptop.
pl z suggest lowest ret.
battery backup up to 4 hours with 9 batteries.
mainstream mainstream laptops are mid-size laptops that are good in terms of  performance.
share it with community: del.icio.us digg reddit technorati stumble upon email a friend bookmark print  comments: sep 24,2010 | donette says please can u give me price list of laptop 14'',with rate of under 20,000/-thnx reply to this comment aug 25,2010 | mhatre nandkumar says want's to bye laptop for networking.
desktop replacements (power laptops) the biggest and the bulkiest among laptops are those meant for desktop  replacement.
these are designed to deliver the power and features that a  desktop pc provides, but in a smaller form factor.
find compare get offers - home - | - login - | - register - | - feedback - laptops - mobiles - tablets - digital cameras - lcd/plasma tvs - mp3 players - accessories - compare models - test center ratings - user reviews - laptop guru - know
the hidden cost is, however, the heavy price tag — almost 2–3 times that of mainstream laptops.
these are designed to deliver the power and features that a desktop pc provides, but in a smaller form factor.
check out consumermate.com happy visiting consumermate!
please select imediately within a week within 15 days within one month price range: select less than 20000 20000-40000 40000-60000 60000-80000 80000-100000 100000-120000 120000-140000 140000-160000 160000-180000 180000-200000 200000 and above 200000 city: select agoda/bebra agra ahmedabad ahmednagar ajmer akola aligarh allahabad alleppey almora aluva
if you have limited space at home or  your office desk, but want higher levels of computing power, then these are  your safe bet.
while ultra-portable laptops are easy to carry, they also have smaller  keyboards and displays, fewer features, and have lower performance levels  compared to other laptops.
hence, you need to think about what's ideal  for you — computing power, travel convenience, sleek and stylish design,  or lower price.
laptop types  what type of laptop do you need?
decide accordingly after thoroughly examining along these  lines.
interactive about us laptops samsung 900x3a ask our experts advertise with us mobile phones apple macbook air 11 64gb file a complaint privacy policy lcd / plasma tvs acer aspire one happy 2 submit hot deals disclaimer digital cameras
panasonic razer roverbook sahara samsung sharp simmtronics sony terra mobile toshiba wespro wipro zenith model:
the season of lights, gifts, sweets and wishes has almost taken the plunge this year, about how to pleasantly surprise our near and dear ones.
unlike ultra-portables, most lightweight  laptops have larger keyboards and displays and offer larger hard disk drives.
light-weight laptops have mobile processors (like intel centrino / pentium mobile) and configurations that deliver sufficient power to manage your work easily.
as far as cost is involved, these are more expensive than the heavier mainstream laptops.
eventually, it depends on how important price  is to you, when weighed against comfort.
also, ultra-portables have the best-in-class battery backup — a must  have for the wanderer.
online stores accessories laptop vs.
desktop laptop components and features important buying factors laptop types buying guide improve netbook
hence, you need to think about what's ideal for you — computing power, travel convenience, sleek and stylish design, or lower price.
these laptops are not specialised for providing better portability, but are still better than desktop replacements.
with much higher configurations compared to other laptops, they can deliver enough power for serious gaming, multimedia authoring, and even high-level digital audio and video content authoring.
they  come in different shapes and sizes, each with its own set of merits and  demerits.
light-weight a light-weight laptop is an effective balance between portability,  performance and features.
- battery backup up to 4 hours with 9 batteries.
laptop types << back to home - digit developer's corner win an assured windows mobile phone how about building a couple of apps and winning a guaranteed windows phone - - dell offers dell inspiron™ 14r
your enquiry is forwarded real time to the selected dealers in your city and they will be contacting you within 24 hours.
however, they provide maximum productivity with a portable form factor.
mainstream laptops are mid-size laptops that are good in terms of performance.