this falls squarely in the middle of the desktop replacement laptops in  terms of battery life.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
- windows 7 home premium, works, mcafee security center guide review - dell inspiron 17r 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jul 8 2010 - dell's inspiron 17r is their latest revision of their consumer desktop replacement laptop.
this includes a new external case design that has a sleeker look and profile that the last version.
it does use an ati radeon  mobility hd 5470 dedicated graphics with 1gb of memory but series gamers will  want to look elsewhere.
while the majority of the inspiron 17r units come with a standard dual  layer dvd burner, this $1000 version includes a blu-ray combo drive.
the inspiron 17r comes with a few key applications but without as much bloat as competing systems which clutter the system and performance.
the glossy exterior will quickly pick up fingerprints and smudges but the interior is a bit more resistant albeit still glossy.
it does spin at a more traditional 5400rpm spin rate rather than the faster 7200rpm desktop rate which impacts performance slightly.
in the unit reviewed, a moderate level core i5-450m dual core processor is teamed up with 4gb of ddr3 memory.
the 500gb hard drive is fairly typical of the desktop replacement market now and provides a good amount of space for applications and data.
pros - blu-ray drive - good performance - software installation free of much bloatware cons - exterior shows lots of fingerprints and smudges - display can't handle 1080p hd video - 3d graphics best suited for casual gaming description - intel core i5-450m dual core mobile processor - 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 - 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive - blu-ray reader and dual layer dvd burner combo drive - 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900)
windows 7 home premium, works, mcafee security center guide review - dell inspiron 17r 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jul 8 2010 - dell's inspiron 17r is their latest revision of their  consumer desktop replacement laptop.
it is sufficient for handling all hd video streaming  and casual pc gaming but will likely have to play 3d games below the panel's  full resolution.lt;/p> to keep the profile slimmer on the inspiron 17r, dell ships most with a  standard 6-cell battery pack.
it will fall short of higher end core i5 and core i7 processors but most people probably won't see the difference unless they do video editing or similar heavy computing tasks.
with the inclusion of a blu-ray drive, a high resolution lcd panel would be  expected.
in more traditional computing usage, this should translate to roughly three and a half to four hours of usage.
with the inclusion of a blu-ray drive, a high resolution lcd panel would be expected.
one nice aspect of dell's latest computers is the limited amount of software installed on them.
the 17.3-inch panel uses a 1600x900 resolution that falls short of  providing full 1080p hd video support.
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
this  allows the system to be used as a mobile high definition blu-ray player or for  playback and recording of cd and dvd media.
at $1000, there are less expensive blu-ray equipped systems or models with better graphics for gaming.
in my dvd playback tests, this resulted in under three hours before going into standby mode.
the panel does use an led backlight that  provides a good level of color but a tad bit more subdued in brightness.
this falls squarely in the middle of the desktop replacement laptops in terms of battery life.
and light laptop personal computer review - dell inspiron 530 mainstream desktop pc review mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches mcafee security center dual core processor dual layer dvd burner mobile processors laptop pc cons cons explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
it is sufficient for handling all hd video streaming and casual pc gaming but will likely have to play 3d games below the panel's full resolution.lt;/p> to keep the profile slimmer on the inspiron 17r, dell ships most with a standard 6-cell battery pack.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - dell - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
in more traditional computing  usage, this should translate to roughly three and a half to four hours of  usage.
this allows the system to be used as a mobile high definition blu-ray player or for playback and recording of cd and dvd media.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
the 17.3-inch panel uses a 1600x900 resolution that falls short of providing full 1080p hd video support.
the glossy exterior  will quickly pick up fingerprints and smudges but the interior is a bit more  resistant albeit still glossy.
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum dell inspiron 17r 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc about.com rating 3 star rating be the first to write a review
powering the inspiron 17r is the new intel 2010 core mobile processors.
it  uses a standard glossy coating like most laptops do now that can be prone to  glare and reflections in certain lighting conditions.
- laptop pc buyer's guide - how to save on buying a pc - buyer's mistakes - dell support profile - dell inspiron 17 17-inch desktop replacement laptop personal computer revie... - dell inspiron 14r 14-inch budget laptop pc - dell inspiron e530s slimline desktop pc - dell inspiron 15r
this provides for a very smooth overall experience  in most computing tasks.
in my dvd playback tests, this resulted in under  three hours before going into standby mode.
the inspiron 17r comes with a few key applications  but without as much bloat as competing systems which clutter the system and  performance.
a part of the new york times company.
led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam - ati radeon mobility hd 5470 graphics with 1gb memory - gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
it uses a standard glossy coating like most laptops do now that can be prone to glare and reflections in certain lighting conditions.
this provides for a very smooth overall experience in most computing tasks.
this high end model comes equipped with a higher resolution display and blu-ray drive.
©dell inc. the bottom line jul 8 2010 - dell's inspiron 17r is a slimmed down desktop replacement that provides a more compact and lightweight design.
g/n wireless - four usb 2.0, esata, hdmi, 7-in-1 card reader - 16.5" x 10.9" x 1.4" @ 6.7 lbs.
the panel does use an led backlight that provides a good level of color but a tad bit more subdued in brightness.
it does use an ati radeon mobility hd 5470 dedicated graphics with 1gb of memory but series gamers will want to look elsewhere.
the 500gb hard drive is fairly  typical of the desktop replacement market now and provides a good amount of  space for applications and data.
an optional 9-cell battery pack option is available that  will give it more running time but add to its bulk and cost.
one nice aspect of dell's latest computers is the limited amount of  software installed on them.
this includes a new external case design  that has a sleeker look and profile that the last version.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - best desktop replacements - best budget laptops - best thin & light laptops - best ultraportable laptops - best netbooks suggested reading related articles - what computer should i buy?
it does a decent job of being a good general purpose desktop replacement without costing too much.
while the majority of the inspiron 17r units come with a standard dual layer dvd burner, this $1000 version includes a blu-ray combo drive.
it does spin at a more traditional 5400rpm  spin rate rather than the faster 7200rpm desktop rate which impacts performance  slightly.
software installation free of much bloatware cons exterior shows lots of fingerprints and smudges display can't handle 1080p hd video 3d graphics best suited for casual gaming description intel core i5-450m dual core mobile processor 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive blu-ray reader and dual layer dvd burner combo drive 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam ati radeon mobility hd 5470 graphics with 1gb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/g/n wireless four usb 2.0, esata, hdmi, 7-in-1 card reader 16.5" x 10.9" x 1.4" @ 6.7 lbs.
in  the unit reviewed, a moderate level core i5-450m dual core processor is teamed  up with 4gb of ddr3 memory.
it will fall short of higher end core i5 and core i7  processors but most people probably won't see the difference unless they do  video editing or similar heavy computing tasks.
an optional 9-cell battery pack option is available that will give it more running time but add to its bulk and cost.
by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - dell dell inspiron 17r