it provides basic power management functionality and support for internal wifi cards for a new class of low cost laptops ready to hit the market.
when you close the computer's lid, or it runs low on power or sits idle with inactivity, you expect your laptop to go into energy conservation -- more commonly referred to as "sleep."
copyright © 2001 - 2011.
this is a tricky computational task and requires close participation between the software and the hardware manufacturers -- something linux has been slow to develop.
in  addition, wifi has made them more practical then ever by allowing for wireless  net connectivity.
what started off as an  expensive niche is now the fastest growing sector of the pc business with more  than 30 million laptops sold last year.
laptops used to regularly run $2,000 - $3,000, but over the last few years prices have dropped dramatically.
the first  machines running lindowsos laptop edition (le) are available immediately in  more than 50pc club stores.
primarily the issue circles around power management...or the lack thereof .
then you expect to click a key and have it awaken and resume where you left off.
the first talk radio radio - making every talk radio show available on demand teacher's union deception - propaganda to get more money youtube legal battle with viacom ain't over behind the scenes: record label demands from amazon the sinkhole which doesn't sync - amazon's cloud music amazon throws down with the major record labels apple
sign up for mm | manage subscriptions | mm archive new & improved linux - 40% better get a lindowsos laptop today for $899!
get a lindowsos laptop today for $959!
lindowsos laptop edition is that product.
some months ago i traveled to taipei to meet with the leading laptop manufacturers to discuss this problem.
mixed do you generally agree or disagree with michael in this week's minute shown above?
the first machines running lindowsos laptop edition (le) are available immediately in more than 50pc club stores.
together these factors have pushed the laptop business in dollar terms to rival the desktop business (since laptops typically cost considerably more than desktops).
a range of laptops to suit every budget and need are available starting atjust $899 for a powerful 5.9 lb model.
a range of laptops to suit every budget and need  are available starting atjust $899 for a powerful 5.9 lb model.
that should put some smiles  on the faces of a certain 40%.
that should put some smiles on the faces of a certain 40%.
this is a tricky computational  task and requires close participation between the software and the hardware  manufacturers -- something linux has been slow to develop.
when you close the computer's lid, or it runs low on power or sits idle with  inactivity, you expect your laptop to go into energy conservation -- more  commonly referred to as "sleep."
what started off as an expensive niche is now the fastest growing sector of the pc business with more than 30 million laptops sold last year.
i generally agree with michael this week i generally disagree with michael this week
first a little background on why laptops are so important.
the smart phone killed the car radio eavesdrop on the day the music dj died a 99% victory in emi v mp3tunes will a mp3.com strategy work with radio shows on dar.fm?
i am mixed or don't have an opinion either way
is college worth it??
my trip to sxsw, new music technology & new bands introducing dar.fm - your digital audio
today we're making available our laptop edition to computer manufacturers andend-users for use on their laptop computers.
in addition, wifi has made them more practical then ever by allowing for wireless net connectivity.
since that time we've been working closely with many of them on  their next generation of value-priced laptops (typically under $1000) to ensure  that we could provide a linux solution.
it provides basic power management functionality and support for  internal wifi cards for a new class of low cost laptops ready to hit the  market.
lindowsos laptop edition is that  product.
if you've been  thinking aboutgetting a laptop, you can expect to see a host of new  linux-driven laptops hitting the store shelves soon.
up until now, shortcomings in linux  have made it a poor choice for this growing population of mobile users.
then you expect to click a key and  have it awaken and resume where you left off.
you didn't invent the app store!
-- michael the michael's minute meter 50% 50% 0% agree disagree
decision reserved sides line up for jan. 28th
laptops used to regularly run $2,000 -  $3,000, but over the last few years prices have dropped dramatically.
this is a vital development for linux because it challenges microsoft in the last pc sector in which they've faced no competition -- laptops.
blog comments powered bydisqus
up until now, shortcomings in linux have made it a poor choice for this growing population of mobile users.
because lindowsos le is available to system builders and resellers for less than a tenth of the cost of microsoft windows xp, you will see a flurry of more affordable laptop computers in the months to come.
together these factors have pushed the laptop business in  dollar terms to rival the desktop business (since laptops typically cost  considerably more than desktops).
(if you're looking for anaffordable laptop for the holiday season, this may be it.)
sign up for mm  |  manage subscriptions  |   mm archive new & improved linux - 40% better get a lindowsos laptop today for $899!
(if you're  looking for anaffordable laptop for the holiday season, this may be it.)
jury finds kevin carmony and chad olson liable for fraud and conspiracy
first  a little background on why laptops are so important.
since that time we've been working closely with many of them on their next generation of value-priced laptops (typically under $1000) to ensure that we could provide a linux solution.
recorder pandora turns down $550 million to go public a fascinating case...
showdown over music lockers martha stewart gets bamboozled by detox "doc" please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
some months ago i  traveled to taipei to meet with the leading laptop manufacturers to discuss  this problem.
today we're making available our laptop edition to computer  manufacturers andend-users for use on their laptop computers.
view the michael's minute meter report why spotify can never be profitable: the secret demands of record labels the myth of the underpaid teacher more clouds of music - why use mp3tunes? emi loses again, maybe an unlimited legal budget isn't such a good thing facebook - learning tricks from record labels will radio learn from tv?
because  lindowsos le is available to system builders and resellers for less than a  tenth of the cost of microsoft windows xp, you will see a flurry of more  affordable laptop computers in the months to come.
this is a vital development for linux because it challenges microsoft in  the last pc sector in which they've faced no competition -- laptops.
if you've been thinking aboutgetting a laptop, you can expect to see a host of new linux-driven laptops hitting the store shelves soon.