when you are thinking about the items you should bring to college, your  computer is a must-have on the list.
as a freshman, it is quite  helpful to have your own computer as it can assist you in completing your  routine tasks very efficiently and conveniently.
therefore, hard  drives in a laptop usually have relatively smaller storage capacities than  their desktop counterparts.
- with a laptop, you get all the peripherals built into the machine, which need to be separately bought in case of a desktop.
this may be either good or  bad depending upon your choice of peripherals and budget.
here are few points you should consider while making a choice between a laptop and a desktop: - a laptop is smaller in size as compared to a desktop.
however, it is often difficult to decide whether you should buy a traditionaldesktop or a laptop, considering your own specific needs.
not only a laptop is movable, but it can also work on battery power giving you the freedom to work wherever you want.
- if your work involves graphic editing, animations, designing etc., choosing a desktop is advisable because of the larger screen sizes and flexibility of desktop monitors.
eduweb a laptop or a full-sized computer: choose your thing for college february 16, 2011 by admin leave a comment
to make a well-informed decision, it can be helpful to  first analyze the purposes for which you need a computer and then to identify  which of the two suits your needs better.
however, it is often difficult  to decide whether you should buy a traditionaldesktop or a laptop, considering  your own specific needs.
if you need a computer for research, for taking notes, or for any other  purpose that demands mobility, buying a laptop will be the better choice.
however, the decision of which one to buy should be made based on your requirements as well as the economic feasibility of buying the most suitable solution.
filed under: education · tagged with:desktop computer recent posts - launching your career as a traveling therapist - affordable ways to pay for college - doors to adult education thrown open by online classes - online education options - become an online instructor - tips to having a successful college career - 4 apartment hunting tips for college students - refinance tips for college students -
with a laptop, you get all the peripherals built into the machine, which  need to be separately bought in case of a desktop.
here are few points you should consider while making a choice between a  laptop and a desktop:
when tuition is due - education in india- a survey categories - education - general - online education - students - teachers © copyright 2012 eduweb .
a laptop or a full-sized computer: choose your thing for college february 16, 2011 by admin leave a comment
not  only a laptop is movable, but it can also work on battery power giving you the  freedom to work wherever you want.
therefore, hard drives in a laptop usually have relatively smaller storage capacities than their desktop counterparts.
if you need a computer for research, for taking notes, or for any other purpose that demands mobility, buying a laptop will be the better choice.
as a freshman, it is quite helpful to have your own computer as it can assist you in completing your routine tasks very efficiently and conveniently.
so, if you need a computer for data storage, it is  advisable to go for a desktop.
a college freshman needs to deal with many new things in the college, such  as projects, assignments, research, deadlines, etc.
filed under: education ·  tagged with:desktop computer recent posts launching your career as a traveling therapist affordable ways to pay for college doors to adult education thrown open by online classes online education options tips to having a successful college career 4 apartment hunting tips for college students refinance tips for college students when tuition is due education in india- a survey categories
this may be either good or bad depending upon your choice of peripherals and budget.
when you are thinking about the items you should bring to college, your computer is a must-have on the list.
a college freshman needs to deal with many new things in the college, such as projects, assignments, research, deadlines, etc.
if your work involves graphic editing, animations, designing etc.,  choosing a desktop is advisable because of the larger screen sizes and  flexibility of desktop monitors.
so, if you need a computer for data storage, it is advisable to go for a desktop.
to make a well-informed decision, it can be helpful to first analyze the purposes for which you need a computer and then to identify which of the two suits your needs better.
however, the decision of which one to buy  should be made based on your requirements as well as the economic feasibility  of buying the most suitable solution.
a laptop is smaller in size as compared to a desktop.