patches and upgrades are just as simple.
mokafive is an exciting new approach to desktop management.
do you manage dozens of corporate images that you must match with  different hardware types?
do you struggle to deliver critical patches to every  machine in the company?
- ability to run virtual desktops on any hardware type.
mokafive provides: - a single solution that can deploy virtual desktops to all machines—corporate or personal, mac or pc, desktop or laptop.
do you struggle to deliver critical patches to every machine in the company?
—philip hoare, cio wilson sonsini goodrich & rosati learn more idc opinion paper products overview case study: mobile computing podcast:
how do recover corporate data when a laptop is lost or  stolen?
mokafive suite offers baremetal—which is installed directly on the hardware itself—as well as a solution that can be installed on any existing mac or windows machine.
see how - solutions - overview - mac in the enterprise - better vdi - byoc - desktop and laptop management - windows 7 migration - contractors and outsourcing - products - overview - how it works - why mokafive - compare - features - architecture - baremetal - resources - overview - videos - case studies - analyst reports and white papers - recorded webinars - trial - support - overview - support center login - about us - about us - board members - news - events - partners - careers - blog - contact us - legal - terms of use - trademarks - privacy - copyright notice - eula - - extras - send a letter to it - support software - vpat™ - solutions - overview - mac in the enterprise - better vdi - byoc - desktop and laptop management - windows 7 migration - contractors and outsourcing - products - overview - how it works - why mokafive - compare - features - architecture - baremetal - resources - overview - videos - case studies - analyst reports and white papers - recorded webinars - trial - support - overview - support center login - about us - about us - board members - news - events - partners - careers - blog - contact us - legal - terms of use - trademarks - privacy - copyright notice - eula - - extras - send a letter to it - support software - vpat™ © copyright 2005-2012 moka5, inc.
wipe lost or stolen laptops remotely.
experience virtual desktops now try now interview with the ceo
xml sitemap support login | contact us friend us on facebook follow us on twitter join our group on linkedin - overview - mac in the enterprise - better vdi - byoc - desktop and laptop management - win 7 migration - outsourcing next solution deploy a single golden image to any hardware.
terms of use | trademarks |
it leverages  virtualization to deploy a master (“golden”) image to any pc,  installing the same virtual machine on every user’s computer  simultaneously.
do you wish you had a single solution that would work for all classes of machines—including corporate desktops and laptops, personal machines and macs.
and it’s all  done remotely through one central console, eliminating the need for individual  configuration.
mokafive suite offers baremetal—which is installed directly on the  hardware itself—as well as a solution that can be installed on any  existing mac or windows machine.
do you wish you had a single solution that would work for all classes  of machines—including corporate desktops and laptops, personal machines  and macs.
- iron-clad security.
privacy |copyright notice | free license agreement secure the business.
- seamless updating (just update your golden image, and automatically the differentials are sent to all endpoints).
it leverages virtualization to deploy a master (“golden”) image to any pc, installing the same virtual machine on every user’s computer simultaneously.
do you manage dozens of corporate images that you must match with different hardware types?
and it’s all done remotely through one central console, eliminating the need for individual configuration.
how do recover corporate data when a laptop is lost or stolen?
ability to run virtual desktops on any hardware type.
seamless updating (just update your golden image, and automatically the  differentials are sent to all endpoints).
- wipe lost or stolen laptops remotely.
deploying desktop virtualization see all request tco cut at least 45% of your desktop management tco by implementing mokafive.
mokafive® secure the business.
- blazing performance.
mokafive provides: a single solution that can deploy virtual desktops to all  machines—corporate or personal, mac or pc, desktop or laptop.
“we’ve had mokafive in production for over 2 years, and user satisfaction with it has never been higher.”
next solution deploy a single golden image to any hardware.