if you plan to use your pc for everyday computing tasks like e-mail and watching videos, there are affordable options for desktop pcs (starting around $300) and laptop pcs (starting around $400).
which is better for…?
laptops with more powerful processors and compact components, laptop pcs are now  more full-featured than ever before.
some desktop pcs are taking cues from laptops.
desktops vs. laptops: which is right for you?
desktop pc laptop pc portability x things to consider before you buy price—you often can get a desktop pc for less than a  laptop because laptops’ smaller components are more complex and costly to  manufacture.
author:resoton posted:3/25/2010
convenience—laptops offer a variety of  conveniences, including the freedom to go where you please thanks towi-fi and  wwan1 connectivity options.
feedback hp office locations all hp contacts online communities - hp consumer support forum - get answers on hp's peer to peer support forum.
laptops are a great choice if you want the flexibility to move from room to room—without wires—or if you need to travel with your pc.
desktop pc laptop pc portability x tight budget x easier upgrades and repairs x ergonomics x small spaces x convenience x things to consider before you buy price—you often can get a desktop pc for less than a laptop because laptops’ smaller components are more complex and costly to manufacture.
look for these icons while shopping: upgrades and repair—desktop pcs often give you more  flexibility to modify components, such as adding more ram or upgrading your  processor.
there are  good reasons for both.
here’s some information to help you make the right choice  when it’s time to buy.
how do desktop pcs and laptop pcs measure up?
author:resoton  posted:3/25/2010 more hp for home facebook fanpage follow hp on twitter pc learning center › why buy hp?
portability—laptops are made to be portable and  allow you to take your digital life with you wherever you go.1 they come in a  wide range of sizes—with displays ranging from 12 inches to 18 inches or  more—and in thin and light or ultra-portable models.
ergonomics—in general, desktop pcs lend themselves  to a more ergonomically correct workspace.
ultimately, it comes down to which will best meet your specific needs.
it really comes down to what your needs and preferences are.
laptops with more powerful processors and compact components, laptop pcs are now more full-featured than ever before.
the hp touchsmart pc, for  example, features a combined monitor and cpu for a sleek, space-saving design,  plus wireless connectivity.1 now the big question: should you buy a desktop or a laptop pc?
portability—laptops are made to be portable and allow you to take your digital life with you wherever you go.1 they come in a wide range of sizes—with displays ranging from 12 inches to 18 inches or more—and in thin and light or ultra-portable models.
however, with laptops’ all-in-one design, you won’t  have to buy components like a monitor and keyboard separately.
if you have a small work area but  don’t mind keeping the pc in one place, there are several space-saving  desktop pcs, like the hp slimline pc, that are specifically designed for  compact spaces.
learn more › pc learning center - hp technology article index - - browse products - laptops, tablets & netbooks - desktop & all-in-one pcs - storage & accesories - monitors - find
› desktops vs. laptops: which is right for you?
a stationary computer may also work best for your family if you have children who require monitoring while on the pc.
author:resoton  posted:3/25/2010 more for touchsmart enthusiasts and customers of hp technology.
direct - e-mail: sign up for hot deals - small & medium business - laptops tablets & netbooks - desktops & all-in-one pcs - workstations - monitors & accessories - printers & multifunction - ink, toner & paper - smartphones & handhelds - point of sale systems - thin clients - servers - blade servers - storage - networking - services - scanners & fax - printer & driver management - all business products - large enterprise business - solutions - services - servers - blades - storage - networking - software - printing & multifunction - ink, toner & paper - laptops tablets & netbooks - desktops & workstations - monitors & accessories - smartphones & handhelds - video conferencing - all large enterprise products & services - government, health & education - technology solutions - laptops & tablet pcs - desktops & workstations - printing & multifunction - servers - blades - storage - networking - services - software - handhelds & calculators - ink, toner & paper - scanners & fax - e-mail: sign up offers & promos - all government, health & education products - graphic arts - designjet printers - scitex industrial printers - indigo digital presses - inkjet web press - specialty printing systems - workflow solutions - all graphic arts products - promotions & offers - support & drivers - at home - free printing projects - pc ideas, guides and how-to's - share & print photos online - home office printing tips - photo printing tips & ideas - free online classes - free printing software - exclusive extras for your pc - at work - get professional looking marketing materials - tips & tools to manage and protect your business - free online classes - how-to software and technology tips - step-by-step technology guides - graphic arts printing tools support & drivers
laptops can also be set up  with ergonomics in mind using a docking station, external monitor, keyboard and  mouse.
if convenience  and portability are important to you, than a laptop is probably a good fit for  your needs.
laptops can also be a wise choice if your family has an older student who needs to do homework in a quiet place away from the family room, or work in the library, classroom or at a friend’s house.
if convenience and portability are important to you, than a laptop is probably a good fit for your needs.
a desktop pc’s adjustable  monitor, full-size keyboard and position on dedicated desk space help minimize  strain on the eyes, neck, back, wrists and hands.
ultimately, it comes down to which will best meet your  specific needs.
more see all communities - hp for home facebook fanpage - follow hp on twitter - pc learning center › why buy hp?
if you have a small work area but don’t mind keeping the pc in one place, there are several space-saving desktop pcs, like the hp slimline pc, that are specifically designed for compact spaces.
hp.com home - shop for products & services - explore & create - home & home office - laptops & mini netbooks - desktop & all-in-one pcs - printers & all-in-ones - ink, toner & paper - monitors - accessories & software - scanners - smartphones & handhelds - calculators - storage - home servers - services - top rated consumer products - shop small business
a laptop’s all-in-one design makes it harder to upgrade or  repair components.
many laptops also feature extended battery life to give you more time to get things done before you have to plug in and recharge.
laptops can also be set up with ergonomics in mind using a docking station, external monitor, keyboard and mouse.
laptops can also be a wise choice if your family has an older student who  needs to do homework in a quiet place away from the family room, or work in the  library, classroom or at a friend’s house.
the hp touchsmart pc, for example, features a combined monitor and cpu for a sleek, space-saving design, plus wireless connectivity.1 now the big question: should you buy a desktop or a laptop pc?
but their main selling point remains their portability.
if you want a  pc for everyday use such as checking e-mail, sharing photos and watching  movies, both desktop and laptop pcs offer affordable options.
pakistan philippines singapore sri lanka 台灣 thailand vietnam i
use the chart below to quickly compare some of the major factors before purchasing a new pc.
if you want a pc for everyday use such as checking e-mail, sharing photos and watching movies, both desktop and laptop pcs offer affordable options.
printable reviews about hp company information global citizenship environment investor relations jobs blogs hp videos ethics concerns and questions resources offers & rebates /
so, if you have no difficulty using the computer in a dedicated space and have the room, a desktop pc should work well for your needs.
latest discussionsopens an accordion author:resoton  posted:3/25/2010    hp pavilion dv-3 - red harddrive  led author:resoton  posted:3/25/2010    walkman not unpluged right  now what?
américa central argentina bolivia brasil canada canada - français caribbean chile colombia ecuador méxico paraguay perú puerto rico united states uruguay venezuela europe, middle east and africa africa afrique albania azərbaycan беларусь belgië belgique bosna i hercegovina българия česká republika crna gora danmark deutschland eesti ελλάδα españa france hrvatska iceland ireland italia казахстан kenya kosovo κύπρος საქართველო ישראל latvija lietuva luxembourg magyarország македонија malta maroc middle east الشرق الأوسط moldova nederland norge österreich россия polska portugal românia saudi arabia schweiz slovensko slovenija south africa srbija suisse suomi sverige türkiye украина دولة الإمارات العربية المتحدة united kingdom asia and oceania australia bangladesh 中国 hong kong
use the chart below to quickly compare some of the major factors before  purchasing a new pc.
a laptop’s all-in-one design makes it harder to upgrade or repair components.
if you’d rather buy a pc now and have greater flexibility to  upgrade it later, than you may want to get a desktop pc.
to learn more about hp desktop pcs and hp laptop pcsgo to www.hp.com.
if you plan to  use your pc for everyday computing tasks like e-mail and watching videos, there  are affordable options for desktop pcs (starting around $300) and laptop pcs  (starting around $400).
if you’d rather buy a pc now and have greater flexibility to upgrade it later, than you may want to get a desktop pc.
- latest discussionsopens an accordion dc jackpower c700 author:resoton posted:3/25/2010 hp pavilion dv-3 - red harddrive led author:resoton posted:3/25/2010 walkman not unpluged right now what?
so, if you have no difficulty  using the computer in a dedicated space and have the room, a desktop pc should  work well for your needs.
direct › find a retailer › visit the hp consumer support forums › desktop pcs desktop pcs are a good choice if you frequently work with large graphics, video or other demanding applications because they typically have more powerful components.
a retailer - - how-to topics - connectivity - security - pc health - software - entertainment - how-to video index - hp in real life - pc offers & solutions explore - digital photography - everyday printing - pc learning center - free online classes - hp newsgram sign-up create - hp creative studio - snapfish - retail photo services shop - buy from hp - find a retailer - rebate center support & drivers - support & troubleshooting - support forums - software & drivers - hp total care - product registration http://h71036.www7.hp.com/hho/us/en/article-ratings-submission-test.html introduction you’ve decided it’s time for a new computer, but you’re not sure whether a laptop or a desktop pc would be the better fit.
visit the hp consumer support forums › desktop pcs desktop pcs are a good choice if you frequently work with large graphics,  video or other demanding applications because they typically have more powerful  components.
laptops are a great choice if you want the flexibility to move  from room to room—without wires—or if you need to travel with your  pc.
look for these icons while shopping: upgrades and repair—desktop pcs often give you more flexibility to modify components, such as adding more ram or upgrading your processor.
in contrast, the size and wire connections of a desktop  pc require it to remain stationary.
as advertised subscribe register your product education & training partners & developers product recycling accessibility pc security customer support contact hp/customer support support & troubleshooting software & driver downloads accessories & parts - about hp - support & drivers - hp labs - resources - customer support - site map - hp mobile - contact hp / customer service - recalls & replacements - privacy statement - terms of use - 2011 hewlett-packard development company, l.p. select another location/language: opens popup layer united states americas
space—when space is limited, a laptop can fit almost  anywhere in your home.
space—when space is limited, a laptop can fit almost anywhere in your home.
ergonomics—in general, desktop pcs lend themselves to a more ergonomically correct workspace.
however, with laptops’ all-in-one design, you won’t have to buy components like a monitor and keyboard separately.
but their main selling point remains their  portability.
many laptops also feature extended battery life to  give you more time to get things done before you have to plug in and recharge.
wireless access point and internet service required, not included.
learn more › http://h71036.www7.hp.com/hho/us/en/article-ratings-submission-test.html introduction you’ve decided it’s time for a new computer, but you’re  not sure whether a laptop or a desktop pc would be the better fit.
convenience—laptops offer a variety of conveniences, including the freedom to go where you please thanks towi-fi and wwan1 connectivity options.
a stationary computer may also work best for your family if you have  children who require monitoring while on the pc.
there are good reasons for both.
in contrast, the size and wire connections of a desktop pc require it to remain stationary.
get answers on hp's peer to peer support forum.
here’s some information to help you make the right choice when it’s time to buy.
a desktop pc’s adjustable monitor, full-size keyboard and position on dedicated desk space help minimize strain on the eyes, neck, back, wrists and hands.
author:resoton posted:3/25/2010 more - touchsmart community - for touchsmart enthusiasts and customers of hp technology.
香港 - 中文 india indonesia 日本 한국 malaysia new zealand
connect with hp email us - questions before you buy - technical support after you buy - other questions / feedback call us - questions before you buy - technical support after you buy - other questions /