you have a separate keyboard, mouse and  monitor so it may be more comfortable to use.
since a laptop will run pretty much the same software as your  desktop, it's more about whether you want to play processor-hungry games, work  with high-resolution images or edit videos quickly and efficiently, or whether  you prefer to relax on your couch, or maybe lie in bed, surfing the web,  checking email and visiting social networks.
the first question should be, do you need a laptop or a desktop?
when you buy your laptop, think about what screen size you will need.
clearly the key feature of a laptop is mobility.
whatever you need, clickaway's friendly technicians will help you find the computer that is best for you, and we always make sure you get the best value for your money!
a desktop computer can give you better  performance and while you do need an outlet, you won't need to worry about your  battery dying.
2) you are a big gamer or a designer, because you are going to require higher specifications for your video card, memory and sound card.
2) you do presentations or want to  share information with others.
an added  advantage with a desktop is you can easily upgrade your video card, memory and  sound card as your computer ages.
whatever you need, clickaway's friendly technicians will help you find the  computer that is best for you, and we always make sure you get the best value  for your money!
the first question should be, do you  need a laptop or a desktop?
comment (required) name (required) e-mail (required) website i have read and agree to the terms & conditions.
since a laptop will run pretty much the same software as your desktop, it's more about whether you want to play processor-hungry games, work with high-resolution images or edit videos quickly and efficiently, or whether you prefer to relax on your couch, or maybe lie in bed, surfing the web, checking email and visiting social networks.
you are a student, business person or someone moving from place to place.
all these are available in a desktop computer for less  money than a higher end laptop.
a laptop is right for you if: 1)
when you make your final decision you are comparing performance and portability.
desktop vs laptop buyers guide thursday, 29 september 2011 0 comment tweet
all these are available in a desktop computer for less money than a higher end laptop.
the main reasons to buy a desktop are faster processors, better graphics and bigger screens.
2) you are a big gamer or a designer,  because you are going to require higher specifications for your video card,  memory and sound card.
the clickaway name and clickaway logo are registered trademarks of clickaway corporation.
there is a  great deal of choice and many different features are available.
should i buy a desktop?
please read ourterms of use for more details clickaway provides apple computer repair, cell phone repair, tablet, laptop, & computer repair, it services, computer networking, data recovery, & more in san jose, campbell, almaden, san mateo, sunnyvale, los altos, & santa cruz
an added advantage with a desktop is you can easily upgrade your video card, memory and sound card as your computer ages.
you have a separate keyboard, mouse and monitor so it may be more comfortable to use.
when you buy your laptop, think about what screen  size you will need.
copyright © 2003-2011 clickaway corporation, all rights reserved ®
when you buy your desktop, there will be many more options.
a desktop computer can give you better performance and while you do need an outlet, you won't need to worry about your battery dying.
our guide will help you take the first step to  determine which option is best for you.
if you aren't near a power source, what battery life would you need?
purchasing a personal computing system is a big investment.
a desktop is right for you if: 1) you don't need mobility.
price will be dependent on memory, disk space and cpu power.
you are a student, business person or  someone moving from place to place.
visit clickaway to test-drive a new computer
3) you want to have internet access at a  variety of locations.
our guide will help you take the first step to determine which option is best for you.
should i buy a laptop?
if you aren't near a power source, what battery life would  you need?
the  lower these specifications, the lighter and cheaper your laptop will be.
it can all be a little overwhelming!
the lower these specifications, the lighter and cheaper your laptop will be.
you know you will want to upgrade your computer  easily in the future.
2) you do presentations or want to share information with others.
when you make your final decision you are comparing performance and  portability.
you know you will want to upgrade your computer easily in the future.
the main reasons to buy a desktop are faster processors, better graphics  and bigger screens.
3) you want to have internet access at a variety of locations.