it also uses  split buttons which is a nice change from the rocker bar used by many  companies.
some older games will run smoothly at the maximum resolution but most will require reduced settings.
windows 7 home premium, office starter, powerdvd, norton internet security guide review - fujitsu lifebook nh570 18.4-inch desktop replacement laptop  pc
consumers can find alternatives that are smaller, more affordable and have additional features.
one really  nice touch from fujitsu is the keyboard is spill resistant making small  splashes of coffee or soda a non-issue for destroying your laptop.
sure it can playback and record cds or dvds but missing out on playing hd movies on the go even though many similarly priced laptops are now offering this.
one really nice touch from fujitsu is the keyboard is spill resistant making small splashes of coffee or soda a non-issue for destroying your laptop.
even though it uses a large 18.4-inch display, it is one of the lightest laptops to use such a display.
the lifebook n570 is a very different laptop from  fujitsu's typical lineup because it is so big.
dual layer burner - 18.4" wsxga+ (1680x945) display with 1.3 megapixel webcam - nvidia geforce gt 330m graphics with 1gb memory - gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/g/n wireless, bluetooth - three usb 2.0, esata, firewire, hdmi, vga, expresscard/54,
it mixes features that might appeal to corporate and  consumers but fails to really address issues for both.
for being so large, it falls short of a true 1080p hd display by only reaching a maximum 1680x945 resolution.
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum fujitsu lifebook nh570 18.4-inch desktop replacement laptop pc about.com rating 3
a bigger let down comes from the  dual-layer dvd burner rather than using a blu-ray compatible drive.
dvd+/-rw dual layer burner 18.4" wsxga+ (1680x945) display with 1.3 megapixel webcam nvidia geforce gt 330m graphics with 1gb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/g/n wireless, bluetooth three usb 2.0, esata, firewire, hdmi, vga, expresscard/54, 3-in-1 card  reader 17.2" x 11.3" x 1.8" @ 7.9 lbs.
it mixes features that might appeal to corporate and consumers but fails to really address issues for both.
- windows 7 home premium, office starter, powerdvd, norton internet security guide review - fujitsu lifebook nh570 18.4-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jan 6 2010 -
it isn't as high capacity as some but does give it a bit more running time than most.
the 18.4-inch display is probably one of the weakest aspect of the lifebook  nh570.
but it does quite well at applications that aren't optimized for extra cores.
a bigger let down comes from the dual-layer dvd burner rather than using a blu-ray compatible drive.
a part of the new york times company.
it does not support direct x 11 graphics and is  better suited for hd media and casual pc gaming.
the trackpad  is a fairly large size although off center from the spacebar.
sure it can  playback and record cds or dvds but missing out on playing hd movies on the go  even though many similarly priced laptops are now offering this.
star rating be the first to write a review by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - desktop replacements - 18-inch laptops - fujitsu fujitsu lifebook nh570 ©fujitsu the bottom line jan 6 2010 - fujitsu sort of misses the mark with the lifebook nh570.
pros display offers anti-glare coating and wide viewing angles larger eight cell battery pack spill resistant keyboard large display doesn't have full 1080p display older, slower generation graphics storage features below average for price description intel core i7-620m dual core mobile processor 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive 8x
thanks to the large size of the laptop, it comes with a full sized keyboard that includes a numeric keypad.
thanks to the large size of the laptop, it  comes with a full sized keyboard that includes a numeric keypad.
many companies have switched over to isolated keyboard designed but fujitsu  keeps a more traditional design.
it comes with a fairly average 500gb capacity hard drive
even though it uses a large  18.4-inch display, it is one of the lightest laptops to use such a display.
the 4gb of memory is standard of most laptops and helps it run things smoothly.
many companies have switched over to isolated keyboard designed but fujitsu keeps a more traditional design.
performance is  strong with the system thanks to the higher clock speed intel core i7-620m dual  core processor.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
one nice aspect of  display though is an anti-glare coating that does help reduce glare and  reflections.
3-in-1 card reader - 17.2" x 11.3" x 1.8" @ 7.9 lbs.
storage features on the lifebook nh570 are a bit disappointing considering  the $1400 price tag.
one nice aspect of display though is an anti-glare coating that does help reduce glare and reflections.
viewing angles - larger eight cell battery pack - spill resistant keyboard cons - large display doesn't have full 1080p display - older, slower generation graphics - storage features below average for price description - intel core i7-620m dual core mobile processor - 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory - 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive - 8x dvd+/-rw
another unique feature to the laptop is a dust filter on the bottom  of the laptop that can help extend the life of the laptop provided users  remember to periodically clean it.
the trackpad is a fairly large size although off center from the spacebar.
in addition, the color and brightness  just aren't as good as some of the other laptops out there.
performance is strong with the system thanks to the higher clock speed intel core i7-620m dual core processor.
storage features on the lifebook nh570 are a bit disappointing considering the $1400 price tag.
driving the graphics is an older nvidia geforce gt 330m graphics processor with 1gb of memory.
another unique feature to the laptop is a dust filter on the bottom of the laptop that can help extend the life of the laptop provided users remember to periodically clean it.
in dvd playback tests,  it yield just over two hours of running time before going into standby mode.
unlike most laptops, fujitsu does ship the lifebook nh570 with a larger  eight cell battery with a 5200mah capacity rating.
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
it lags behind quad core models in tasks such as video editing
the lifebook n570 is a very different laptop from fujitsu's typical lineup because it is so big.
unlike most laptops, fujitsu does ship the lifebook nh570 with a larger eight cell battery with a 5200mah capacity rating.
©fujitsu the bottom line jan 6 2010 - fujitsu sort of misses the mark  with the lifebook nh570.
but it spins at the more sedate 5400rpm rate that does impact performance  compared to others than use 7200rpm.
some older games will run  smoothly at the maximum resolution but most will require reduced settings.
it offers decent performance, improved battery life and some unique features to help let the laptop have a long lifespan, but there are too many features missing for its base price tag.
the 18.4-inch display is probably one of the weakest aspect of the lifebook nh570.
consumers can find alternatives that are smaller, more  affordable and have additional features.
it offers decent  performance, improved battery life and some unique features to help let the  laptop have a long lifespan, but there are too many features missing for its  base price tag.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
driving the graphics is an older nvidia geforce gt 330m graphics  processor with 1gb of memory.
for being so large, it falls short of a true 1080p hd display by only  reaching a maximum 1680x945 resolution.
still, this is not as easy to carry around as a 17-inch laptop.
while not as long as some smaller laptops this is above average for desktop replacements.
while not as long as some smaller laptops this is above average for desktop  replacements.
pros - display offers anti-glare coating and wide
it does not support direct x 11 graphics and is better suited for hd media and casual pc gaming.
it isn't as high capacity as  some but does give it a bit more running time than most.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - desktop replacements - 18-inch laptops - fujitsu - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
in dvd playback tests, it yield just over two hours of running time before going into standby mode.
but it spins at the more sedate 5400rpm rate that does impact performance compared to others than use 7200rpm.
in addition, the color and brightness just aren't as good as some of the other laptops out there.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - best desktop replacements - best budget laptops - best thin & light laptops - best ultraportable laptops - best netbooks related resources related articles - laptop pc buyer's guide - how to save on buying a pc - common buyer mistakes - fujitsu support profile - fujitsu lifebook p8020 12.1-inch ultraportable laptop personal computer rev... - fujitsu lifebook e8420 15.4-inch thin and light laptop computer review - fujitsu lifebook s710 14-inch thin and light laptop personal computer revie... - msi cr720-265us 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop personal computer revi... - fujitsu lifebook a6230 15.4-inch thin and light laptop personal computer re... mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches cell battery pack norton internet security internet security guide fujitsu lifebook lightest laptops dual core processor explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
it also uses split buttons which is a nice change from the rocker bar used by many companies.