it would have been nice to see them keep the blu-ray at this price point and drop the number of applications installed that slow down the boot times but overall, toshiba's changes are generally an improvement for consumers looking at a general purpose 17-inch laptop.
pros above average 3d graphics for price segment cons too many preloaded programs slow down system would have been nice to have blu-ray drive description intel core i5-2430m dual core mobile processor 6gb pc3-10600 ddr3 memory 750gb 5400rpm sata hard drive 8x dvd+/-rw
this  includes a 750gb hard drive that is larger than the average 17-inch laptop  currently so there is more space for storing applications, data and media  files.
more typical usage will yield close to toshiba's 4.18 hour claim.
this is great for those looking to do tasks like desktop video work.
thepast model offered a high performance quad  core processor.
many of these are fairly frivolous or just too elaborate for what they need to do.
since toshiba has dropped the blu-ray drive from the  system, the fact that the 17.3-inch display only has a 1600x900 resolution  isn't as much of a problem.
dual layer burner 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam nvidia geforce gt 540m dedicated graphics with 1gb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
since toshiba has dropped the blu-ray drive from the system, the fact that the 17.3-inch display only has a 1600x900 resolution isn't as much of a problem.
the other significant change to the satellite p775-s7368 is the graphics system.
rather than relying on the intel hd graphics that is built into the intel processor, it now uses an nvidia geforce gt 540m graphics processor.
jan 13 2012 - toshiba has made a few modifications to it satellite p775 that is priced around $1000.
more typical usage  will yield close to toshiba's 4.18 hour claim.
the result is a desktop that gets more cluttered and too many things loading at startup that slows down the boot process.
the other significant change to the satellite p775-s7368 is the graphics  system.
most consumers tendnot to use their computers for such demanding tasks.
some duplicate functions already included in the os or other software  installed.
in addition to helping 3d applications, the nvidia graphics offer a broader support foraccelerating non-3d applications such as photoshop compared to the intel quicksync feature.
toshiba has installed a large number of branded utilities and software applications onto the system.
it still may struggle to have high detail levels especially at higher resolutions but this isn't designed for gaming like theqosmio series is.
discuss in my forum by mark kyrnin, about.com guidesee more about: toshiba satellite p775©toshiba
unfortunately, toshiba has not dealt with the extreme number of preinstalled programs that come on the satellite p775.
rather than relying on the intel hd graphics that is built into the  intel processor, it now uses an nvidia geforce gt 540m graphics processor.
performance from the panel is fairly typical and  the standard glossy coating can make it difficult to use outdoors or in certain  conditions without a fair amount of glare and reflections.
user reviews  write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
in addition to reducing the processor, toshiba has replaced the blu-ray  compatible optical drive with a standard dual-layer dvd burner.
this is great for those looking to do tasks like desktop video  work.
it still may struggle to have high detail levels especially at  higher resolutions but this isn't designed for gaming like theqosmio series is.
since the high  definition optical format hasn't taken off like dvd did and more people are  using digital media files and streaming, this isn't a big loss for some but it  is notable as toshiba does market the p series laptops as entertainment  focused.
windows 7 home premium, office stater, norton internet security review - toshiba satellite p775-s7368 jan 13 2012 - toshiba has made a few modifications to it satellite  p775 that is priced around $1000.
thepast model offered a high performance quad core processor.
in addition to helping 3d applications, the nvidia graphics offer a broader  support foraccelerating non-3d applications such as photoshop compared to the  intel quicksync feature.
the drive spins at the traditional 5400rpm rate that means it it lacks a  bit in performance compared to systems using 7200rpm drives.
memory stays the same at 6gb of ddr3 memory  that allows for a generally smooth overall experience with the windows 7  operating system.
because of this, toshiba has reduced the processor down to an intel core i5-2430m dual core which still offers a fair amount of performance and more than enough for the average user.
this is pretty typical of a laptop with these features and battery size.
toshiba still  includes a singleusb 3.0 port for adding high speed external storage if this  isn't enough space to store all your files.
because of this, toshiba has reduced the processor down to an intel core  i5-2430m dual core which still offers a fair amount of performance and more  than enough for the average user.
while it does drop the blu-ray drive and quad core processor in favor of a dual core, the addition of a dedicated nvidia graphics processor boosts the overall capabilities of what the laptop can be used for.
like most consumer laptops, the satellite p775-s7236 comes equipped with a  six-cell battery pack that is rated with a 48whr capacity.
users will want to pick  and choose what they want to keep and remove.
this  adds significant 3d performance such that the laptop is now a viable casual pc  gaming platform.
memory stays the same at 6gb of ddr3 memory that allows for a generally smooth overall experience with the windows 7 operating system.
be the first to write a review mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide ©2012 about.com.
a part of the new york times company.
toshiba still includes a singleusb 3.0 port for adding high speed external storage if this isn't enough space to store all your files.
performance from the panel is fairly typical and the standard glossy coating can make it difficult to use outdoors or in certain conditions without a fair amount of glare and reflections.
in addition to reducing the processor, toshiba has replaced the blu-ray compatible optical drive with a standard dual-layer dvd burner.
it would have been nice to see  them keep the blu-ray at this price point and drop the number of applications  installed that slow down the boot times but overall, toshiba's changes are  generally an improvement for consumers looking at a general purpose 17-inch  laptop.
while it  does drop the blu-ray drive and quad core processor in favor of a dual core,  the addition of a dedicated nvidia graphics processor boosts the overall  capabilities of what the laptop can be used for.
the remaining storage features have all been left the same.
some duplicate functions already included in the os or other software installed.
like most consumer laptops, the satellite p775-s7236 comes equipped with a six-cell battery pack that is rated with a 48whr capacity.
dvd playback tests  yielded just under three hours before going into standby mode.
this is pretty  typical of a laptop with these features and battery size.
users will want to pick and choose what they want to keep and remove.
the bottom line jan 13 2012 - toshiba's reworking of their $1000 priced satellite p775 does a better job of balancing out the 17-inch laptops features.
toshiba has installed a  large number of branded utilities and software applications onto the system.
the result is a desktop that gets more cluttered and too many things  loading at startup that slows down the boot process.
the bottom line jan 13 2012 - toshiba's reworking of their $1000 priced satellite  p775 does a better job of balancing out the 17-inch laptops features.
the drive spins at the traditional 5400rpm rate that means it it lacks a bit in performance compared to systems using 7200rpm drives.
since the high definition optical format hasn't taken off like dvd did and more people are using digital media files and streaming, this isn't a big loss for some but it is notable as toshiba does market the p series laptops as entertainment focused.
many of these are fairly frivolous or just too elaborate for what they need to  do.
g/n wireless one usb 3.0, three usb 2.0, hdmi, vga, 8-in-1 card reader 16.5" x 10.8" x 1.4" @ 6.6 lbs.
this includes a 750gb hard drive that is larger than the average 17-inch laptop currently so there is more space for storing applications, data and media files.
unfortunately, toshiba has not dealt with the extreme number of  preinstalled programs that come on the satellite p775.
dvd playback tests yielded just under three hours before going into standby mode.
this adds significant 3d performance such that the laptop is now a viable casual pc gaming platform.