the feel is a bit softer than previous models but this may likely be by design so that it can accommodate a silicon based keyboard skin to prevent debris or liquid from getting inside the keyboard.
mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches norton internet security internet security guide dual core processors dual core processor dual layer dvd
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
it isn't going to perform anyone  close to desktop replacements with the core i7 processors but unless you are  doing desktop video or heavy multitasking, this won't be an issue.
in order to achieve these dimensions, sony uses  a relatively small 3500mah battery pack.
burner sony vaio explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
the graphics are driven by an ati radeon mobility hd 5470 processor with 512mb of memory.
and casual gaming only description - intel core i3-350m dual core mobile processor - 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory - 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive - blu-ray reader and dual layer dvd burner combo drive - 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam - ati radeon mobility hd 5470 graphics with 512mb memory - gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/g/n wireless - four usb 2.0, esata, hdmi, vga, expresscard/34, memory stick slot, sd card slot - 16.1" x 10.8" x 1.3" @ 7.3 lbs.
this is a good resolution compared to  those found in smaller laptops but it falls short of the necessary pixels to  fully support 1080p high definition video streams which is a bit disappointing.
the downside to this media focuses laptop is the price.
the feel is a bit softer than previous models but this may likely be by  design so that it can accommodate a silicon based keyboard skin to prevent  debris or liquid from getting inside the keyboard.
like most laptops today, it uses a glossy coating but it didn't tend to produce  as much glare or reflections as many others on the market.
pros solid performance from core i3 processor glossy display coating does better than average job with reflections and  glare cons slightly more expensive than similarly equipped laptops display falls short of full 1080p video support dedicated graphics best suited for hd and casual gaming only description intel core i3-350m dual core mobile processor 4gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory 500gb 5400rpm sata hard drive blu-ray reader and dual layer dvd burner combo drive 17.3" wsxga+ (1600x900) led backlit display with 1.3 megapixel webcam ati radeon mobility hd 5470 graphics with 512mb memory gigabit ethernet, 802.11b/
while priced under $1000,  there are similarly equipped laptops from the likes of gateway and toshiba that  can be found for even less.
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
the 4gb of memory should help keep multitasking issues to a minimum.
the sony vaio ec25fx certainly has a relatively thin profile for a desktop replacement at just 1.3-inches.
performance is good even with the core i3 processor and the media features including the blu-ray compatible drive are a nice addition.
for the hard drive,  sony uses a fairly typical 500gb hard drive that provides plenty of storage  space for applications, data and media files.
this is one step up from intel's base core i3  model and fares very well compared to the lower end core i5 dual core  processors thanks to its clock speed bump.
in my dvd rundown test, the laptop was able to run just over two and a quarter hours before going into standby mode.
star rating be the first to write a review by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - sony sony vaio ec ©sony
the colorful designs may attract some to be willing to pick up the $20 accessory.
- windows 7 home premium, sony vaio suite, works, norton internet security guide review - sony vaio
user  reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
most modern games will either need to be played at lower resolutions or details that those equipped with a 5650 processor.
the colorful designs may  attract some to be willing to pick up the $20 accessory.
in addition to being able to play blu-ray movies, the drive can also be used to record and playback cds and dvds.
in order to achieve these dimensions, sony uses a relatively small 3500mah battery pack.
sony has elected to use a 17.3-inch display panel for the vaio ec25fx model with a modest resolution of 1600x900.
compatible - solid performance from core i3 processor - glossy display coating does better than average job with reflections and glare cons - slightly more expensive than similarly equipped laptops - display falls short of full 1080p video support - dedicated graphics best suited for hd
sony has elected to use a 17.3-inch display panel for the vaio ec25fx model  with a modest resolution of 1600x900.
the 4gb of  memory should help keep multitasking issues to a minimum.
it still does  produce glare and reflections compared to anti-glare coatings.
it  falls short for anyone who wants to play 3d games seriously on the laptop.
sony is one of the major backers of the blu-ray optical storage format.
the sony vaio ec25fx certainly has a relatively thin profile for a desktop  replacement at just 1.3-inches.
it  is not that surprising to see the company include a blu-ray compatible optical  drive on the vaio ec25fx.
in addition to being able to play blu-ray movies, the  drive can also be used to record and playback cds and dvds.
it isn't going to perform anyone close to desktop replacements with the core i7 processors but unless you are doing desktop video or heavy multitasking, this won't be an issue.
this is a good processor for dealing with hd video or playing casual games but it falls short for anyone who wants to play 3d games seriously on the laptop.
the result is running times that are  decent for the size of battery but not all that long.
most  modern games will either need to be played at lower resolutions or details that  those equipped with a 5650 processor.
this will translate to just around 3 hours of more typical usage.
it still does produce glare and reflections compared to anti-glare coatings.
rather than a faster 7200rpm spin rate drive that is equivalent to desktop speeds, it uses the more sedate 5400rpm rate that does impact data access speeds somewhat.
a part of the new york times company.
powering the sony vaio ec25fx laptop is an intel core i3-350m dual core processor.
like many previous sony laptops, the vaio ec25fx uses an isolated key  design.
g/n wireless four usb 2.0, esata, hdmi, vga, expresscard/34, memory stick slot, sd card  slot 16.1" x 10.8" x 1.3" @ 7.3 lbs.
this  is a good processor for dealing with hd video or playing casual games but
for the hard drive, sony uses a fairly typical 500gb hard drive that provides plenty of storage space for applications, data and media files.
like many previous sony laptops, the vaio ec25fx uses an isolated key design.
the graphics are  driven by an ati radeon mobility hd 5470 processor with 512mb of memory.
windows 7 home premium, sony vaio suite, works, norton internet security guide review - sony vaio vpc-ec25fx/bi 17.3-inch desktop replacement  laptop pc jul 20 2010 -
- laptop pc buyer's guide - how to save on buying a pc - buyer's mistakes - sony support profile - sony vaio pcg-k33 - sony vaio vgn-ar520e desktop replacement notebook review - sony vaio vgn-ar890e desktop replacement laptop personal computer review - sony vaio vgn-aw310j/h 18.4-inch desktop replacement laptop personal comput... - sony vaio vpc-ef37fx/bi 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop personal compu...
it is not that surprising to see the company include a blu-ray compatible optical drive on the vaio ec25fx.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks - best desktop replacements - best budget laptops - best thin & light laptops - best ultraportable laptops - best netbooks suggested reading related articles - what computer should i buy?
the bottom line jul 20 2010 - sony's vaio ec25fx brings a much more powerful yet feature rich desktop replacement laptop to the company's lineup.
rather than a faster 7200rpm spin  rate drive that is equivalent to desktop speeds, it uses the more sedate  5400rpm rate that does impact data access speeds somewhat.
in my dvd rundown test,  the laptop was able to run just over two and a quarter hours before going into  standby mode.
while priced under $1000, there are similarly equipped laptops from the likes of gateway and toshiba that can be found for even less.
like most laptops today, it uses a glossy coating but it didn't tend to produce as much glare or reflections as many others on the market.
this is one step up from intel's base core i3 model and fares very well compared to the lower end core i5 dual core processors thanks to its clock speed bump.
performance is good even with the core i3 processor and the media  features including the blu-ray compatible drive are a nice addition.
vpc-ec25fx/bi 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc jul 20 2010 -
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum sony vaio vpc-ec25fx/bi 17.3-inch desktop replacement laptop pc about.com rating 3
this is a good resolution compared to those found in smaller laptops but it falls short of the necessary pixels to fully support 1080p high definition video streams which is a bit disappointing.
the result is running times that are decent for the size of battery but not all that long.
the  downside to this media focuses laptop is the price.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - desktop replacements - 17-inch laptops - sony - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
©sony the bottom line jul 20 2010 - sony's vaio ec25fx brings a  much more powerful yet feature rich desktop replacement laptop to the company's  lineup.
powering the sony vaio ec25fx laptop is an intel  core i3-350m dual core processor.