before people start writing comments about how much better their distributions  run than the one i chose, let me say i played no favorites.
i felt like i was using a memory-starved microsoft windows machine.
"intel corporation" > device: pci 0x1229
the information in the article was useful.
this comment made from a position of relative ignorance as i haven't actually tried either of these distros on my thinkpad (i used plain debian, which also works all the function keys and volume keys 'out of the box' so far as i can tell), but the above is what i have gleaned from postings on the thinkpad mailing list.
but that linux has such a hard time with suspend and resume in general "implies" (i understand why but to newbs this is what it seems like) either someone is asleep at the wheel, or there is some underlying stick in the spokes of the whole linux os preventing it from smoothly implementing such a basic function as a suspend/resume.
the first packages i added include linux-image- 2.6.10-5-686, linux-source-2.10.10 and linux-headers-2.6.10-5.
i get the thing about printer drivers and winmodems and i accept that.
you know it, i know it and whoever cares to read this post knows it.
call it a challenge, but many postings exist on the mailing lists i follow from international users who simply can't afford to upgrade their memory.
to an  american, it doesn't seem so unrealistic simply to upgrade.
the user would just do their work and have no adminstration tasks.
i decided to stay with 256mb of ram, primarily so i could help linux users who could not afford to add the memory needed to get to 512mb.
acpi works for suspend-to-ram but not suspend-to-disk.
tpb has a on-screen display (osd) to show volume, mute, brightness and some other informations.
i don't find them necessary and never installed them in 10.1 although they are available without needing any compiling etc. tpctl seems to be installed by default when the installer detects a thinkpad.
currently i run mostly debian.
last new, i just arrived to configure and connect through wvdial and kinternet, > but the dns connection and lookup failed to view any internet site... > > >
i installed mandrake 10.1 on my toshiba satellite (128mb ram, 20g hard drive) and it has been working great for over 8 months.
give a big result file > > with "hwinfo --pci"
suspend-to-ram then worked perfectly using the appropriate keys (fn-f4).
don't fall into that trap if you can avoid it.
magic sys-request is enabled and alt-graphics is enabled as the compose key for áccêntèd chðract€rs.
ubuntu calls their kernel packages linux-images instead of kernel-image.
pci 0x2408 > driver: "serial" > i/o ports: ....... (rw) > memory range: 0xe8121000-0xe8121fff (rw,non-prefetchable) > irq: 11 (9824 events) > config status: cfg=
although the fedora tutorial gave me many of hints on how to configure  tools to take advantage of the thinkpad's built-in functionality, fedora did  not work for me.
the media, on the other hand, ran with the quote  attributed to him.
and, if you look at his history, he did take the initiative and helped create the internet.
flame flame flame.. don't you have something better to do?
tallying the results, i decided to go with an ibm thinkpad.
the package is set up so that make-kpkg compiles the correct driver sources for the kernel you are running.
as far as my home computer, i prefer to work on a tower based system because it allows me to use a large lcd monitor, runs much faster and simply performs better than the laptop.
but i'm not much of a fan.
worked right 'out of the box'.
screenshot of configure-thinkpad here, you need to do some command-line work to get ubuntu to work with the packages you downloaded.
he also has an ibook.
to friends in  hungary, the costs seem high.
of course, something that works easily doesn't offer much for a professional problem-solver to write about :-)
so it is possible to trigger  several actions on different events.
every relative newb who tries this thinks there must be something simple they are overlooking to get something so basic to work, hence the newb questions, expecting not a complete set of instructions (which is needed) but a quick one line "just hit this switch or run this one command" - not expecting that to get it to do that is as complicated as it is for them.
when i go out of my home and have to connect me under linux on internet through a basic or standard phone line ...
and i have wireless networking.
l o w l y when it starts to swap.
to use suspend-to-disk you need to create the suspend partition first using a utility from the ibm thinkpad support on the web.
like mandriva, it is a distro that supports the free ethos and has a strong community around it with plenty of online-documentation/support, and it seems to 'just work' for a lot of people.
(yes i've had more than one computer at a time ...
it can also  control the resources used by the parallel and serial ports.
finding the best distribution
earlier we referred to thinkpad-base and thinkpad-source.
unfortunately, i didn't find configure-thinkpad in the ubuntu repositories.
kde includes the tools for viao toshiba and ibm laptops by default.
he wrote, "james ross clemens, a cousin of mine was seriously ill two or three weeks ago in london.
i'm reminded of statement attributed to al gore that he "invented the internet".
linux in government: you can use the desktop on a laptop now jul 25,  2005  by tom adelstein in desktop linux has open-source developers'  attention.
(ok there was a bit of time with a ti-99....)
tpctl gives the user access to all the functions of the smapi bios that are documented in the various thinkpad technical reference manuals.
followed by all of the usual "problems" usually caused by poor research and not paying attention to details.
and a number of "unique to the system" os's in the early 80's.
(ok up until 3.0 not so useful) opera ... it's ok
thanks a lot for your help, > > best regards, marc / paris - france great article.
tpctl contains everything but the drivers.
my partner bought a thinkpad t21 and has liked it a lot.
for others to jump on top of that with bogus pedantic rantings merely cements the misconceptions about the community.
ooo is my current office suite.
i use a couple of different wi-fi cards (smc 2632w and aironet 340) and also move seamlessly between home and a wi-fi hot-spot.
so i changed distro on the way.
the media, on the other hand, ran with the quote attributed to him.
fedora and ubunto both include tools for ibm laptops.
funny how people get so cross about mandriva...
specifically, apm does not work for me at all.
when it was only under windows, that seems to be ok.
i have hp omnibook x3 (?)
summary: http://swiss.csail.mit.edu/projects/omnibook/ including omnibook kernel module: http://sourceforge.net/projects/omke/ i have still ongoin project with laptop-net
the first leg of my journey will take 24 hours, and i have a speaking engagement about 12 hours after i arrive.
it can also control the resources used by the parallel and serial ports.
i hope that answers your question.
right now, i'm running my primary desktop system and it has fedora core 4 running at the moment.
of course, having all laptop functions fully operational at all times reduces the battery life.
in a way, it helps prove up my argument that if linux were  bundled on hp, lenovo, dell, gateway and so on, it would be as acceptable to  users as is os x or windows.
i found ubuntu to work best on my particular laptop.
it is of course well-known that although he is a major pundit, tom never mentions mandriva in his articles for some reason.
next, using synaptic, i searched for "thinkpad" and found  thinkpad-base and thinkpad-source.
i've a light file from which i have extracted the following lines: > >
it takes a a thick hide to hang around this community.
so, i have the same damn laptop and it runs xp and pretty well.
as you read this article, keep this samuel clemens quote in mind.
---samuel clemens, also know as mark twain many variations of this "reports of my death" quote exist.
i wanted  performance
all your laptops special function keys, suspend to disk, wake-up, etc work "out-of-the-box" with mandrake 10?
right now i have both (a laptop and a beefy tower), but the tower is more of a server than a workstation.
hope this info helps somebody.
especially useful are things like the way it automatically switches from using wireless to ethernet for example.
i find that utterly useless to know.
he suggested going to /usr/src/ and runningtar -xzf thinkpad.tar.gz.
not to mention a number of "readers" available.
furthermore tpb supports a software mixer, as the r series thinkpads have no hardware mixer to change the volume.
i've always had one or the other.
for this, you need the thinkpad-modules package, which can be built from the thinkpad-source package.
that is very important for me.
david tansey, a ubuntu user and contributor who has written howtos for the  community, provided us with some commands through the thinkpad mailing list.
the problem is about the modem config with hardware class unknown and not associated with an appli !?
these lines are they enough to decide which package or customization >
you used the term "hide" when you obviously meant "hyde".
plug-in an ethernet cable
next, i searched, found and installed the tpb package through ubuntu's  synaptic application.
i'd say if they put one tenth the effort into a linux desktop they put into windows they'd produce a superior product, but then i'm somewhat biased.
then: cd modules/thinkpad/2.6/drivers make sudo make install this creates the /dev/think device needed to run tpctl.
but yes, i did read the article and yes, i can confirm that the volume and mute buttons and all the special key functions - i.e. reading light on/off, screen brightness, switch to external display, screen off - worked immediately 'out of the box' under mandriva 10.1 .
prices ranged  all over the place, but i found a one for less than $300.
the added commentary was also useful but it was presented in an adversarial fashion.
let's see i've run suse since 6.2, redhat first started about 4.2 (along with afterstep) heavily into mandrake since 6.0 came out.
after some false starts i learned to do this before doing the full installation (only needs to be done once, not every re-install etc).
once i installed ubuntu on the thinkpad, i had to add packages from  various repositories, including universe and multiverse.
to a newb, all the hype and promise of linux evaporates rapidly when faced with that.
your article is great, but it's bit thinkpad oriented.
the only "fast" distro is gentoo, but you have to get a little dirty piecing it together.
(more like super pda's)
in 2005le fn-f3 (screen off) does not work for me - possibly another x issue - and i have had bigger problems with power-saving but every other button and fn key again works (ahem) 'out of the box'.
i only can say: good work, and let those lamers who have nothing better to do then to flame, be what they are: lamers.
once the laptop arrived, i began searching around on google to see which  linux distributions people used on thinkpads.
on a slightly different but related issue, tv-out may not work, nor does 3d graphics.
none of these had batteries.
finally, i discovered configure-thinkpad, a gnome gui tool for tpctl.
gnumeric rocks with excel, and has for a long time.
afaik this is an xorg issue which is the same for all distros although there is a proprietary free-beer driver available which apparently gives 3d graphics and may support tv-out.
it turned out to have very little use and the price was fine.
move to that directory, and you will see it.
but, i did find nuggets of gold that allowed me to use my thinkpad the way i  wanted.
maybe you'll need some extensions for you dell.
i can answer that and if you don't know, you should kind out.
this gui application uses gnome 2 and is based on tpctl and ntpctl."
but reading them is needed.
modem" > vendor: pci 0x115d "xircom" > device: pci 0x000c
you flame it no matter what it says.
the report of my illness grew out of his illness, the report of my  death was an exaggeration".
included are the sources for drivers of the super i/o and rt/cmos ram chips, for an interface to the ibm thinkpad smapi bios, and for an interface to the thinkpad apm subsystem.
what about suspending your laptop?
seeing comments  referring to the battery as a ups gave it away.
"let's install linux!"
my choise was debian without bigger investigations.
and we didn't have no stinking desktop.
-------------- what performace did you get from ubuntu that you didn't from fedora?
to sum up, i suppose that i consider laptops necessary to consultants and sales people.
"hide" is proper (unless you're talking about mr. hyde).
maybe the reason tom's suse-using friend didn't know they were there was for the same reason (i.e. maybe the laptop works fine with the standard install).
before running around like crazy being leet and cool and grabbing software left and right ..... check out what is already there in your distro.
i find a useful article and it's all creeped out with your mouthy comments.
ubuntu calls their kernel packages linux-images instead  of kernel-image.
then, i found a tutorial that  convinced me to go with fedora core 3.
i also doubt that you've used computers or unix before me.
[created at pci.273] > unique id: ... > sysfs id: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:03.0 > sysfs busid: 0000:00:03.0 > hardware class: network > model: "intel etherexpress pro/100+ minipci" > vendor:
that doesn't mean the laptop isn't a great tool for traveling or for heading over to a starbucks and working wirelessly.
reading through the archives of the mailing lists, i started to conclude  that most people used linux on laptops as portable computers.
thanks for taking the time and making the effort.
(not dual boot either uless you count having more than one oss os)
linux is (should be) perfect to utilize older hardware because it isn't as bloated as new oss in order to get more modern functionality.
but, i prefer running linux on it and now i'm dual booting with ubuntu
you can download the tarball from the tpctl site, though, and  configure it using these steps, once you satisfy all the dependencies.
furthermore, many of the items i did find seemed less than useful.
can't speak for the parent
i hate you linux people.
suspend-to-ram is easily enabled by clicking through a few menus although editing one config file may be necessary.
then, i started asking some  hard questions and the answers convinced me that an information void exists.
in a way, it helps prove up my argument that if linux were bundled on hp, lenovo, dell, gateway and so on, it would be as acceptable to users as is os x or windows.
so, if you have a problem with using proper english on a "blog" (linux journal's web site uses blogging software) then please don't comment.
in fact,he said, "during  my service in the united states congress, i took the initiative in creating the  internet".
have you already meet a similar issue or matter, or did you know what to do in that case !?
he  suggested going to /usr/src/ and runningtar -xzf thinkpad.tar.gz.
in some ways, i understand the confusion and the various conclusions people draw.
first, you need to  provide the linux kernel source.
recently, i had the opportunity to install linux on an ibm thinkpad, and both ingenuity and a commitment to complete the job were required.
btw 256mb is more than enough.
if you plan to write comments, you could at least use proper english and correct your typos.
"clemens!" http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&c2coff=1&rls=ggld%2cggld%3a2004-3...
very handy sometimes.
i felt like i was using a memory-starved  microsoft windows machine.
i found linux useful immediately.
with tpb it is possible to bind a program to the thinkpad, mail, home and  search button.
in my view, a laptop is a battery powered computer that i can take with me when i board a plane and use it to do work or watch a dvd.
either to disk or to ram, i don't care, it's the one single thing i couldn't get working with gentoo on my laptop (a dell lattitude d800) it does longer on batteries in linux than in windows, but not being able to suspend it really is a pain...
just have a look here: http://www.ubuntu.com/support/custom/hplaptops you see, it is possible.....
i chose a barely used model t21 with a pentium iii 800, a 20gb hard drive, 256mb of ram and a dvd-rom.
so it is possible to trigger several actions on different events.
included  are the sources for drivers of the super i/o and rt/cmos ram chips, for an  interface to the ibm thinkpad smapi bios, and for an interface to the thinkpad  apm subsystem.
hopefully tom will post a follow-up that gives some more detail about exactly what works and what doesn't including installing and configuring the wireless networking which hopefully is as trivial a non-issue in ubuntu as it was in mandriva.
hardware failure beyond repair.)
before people start writing comments about how much better their distributions run than the one i chose, let me say i played no favorites.
well - as long you have an internet-connection, the driver-installation is extremely painless (in windows-xp), as the latest drivers are downloaded from the ms-database.
contrary to what some of you might  believe, it's not my favorite linux distro.
the purpose of this tool is  to make configuring thinkpad easier.
recently, i had the  opportunity to install linux on an ibm thinkpad, and both ingenuity and a  commitment to complete the job were required.
however, it is absolutely maddening to get an ibm t20 (once one of the most popular laptops) under linux to do something windows 95 can do!!
tpb can also run a callback program on each state change with the changed state and the new state as options.
i use the acpitool -s option, and my ibm thinkpad t21 suspends without problems.
desktop  linux on a laptop recently, i bought a laptop.
that's not what i expected at the  start.
the author was ignorant of these inclusions (he was running gnome afterall and many of the "included" configurators were in kde) and it would have been great to say, "hey, good info, but did you know that blah, blah, blah....?
the majority of us have a tendency to avoid details and jump on the first generalization that comes around.
he wrote, "james  ross clemens, a cousin of mine was seriously ill two or three weeks ago in  london.
i/o ports: ......... (rw) > memory range: 0xe8100000-0xe811ffff (rw,non-prefetchable) > memory range: 0x00000000-0x000fffff
the purpose of this tool is to make configuring thinkpad easier.
i believe a manufacturer should do the things i did to get ubuntu working  on the thinkpad.
i consulted several friends to get a  consensus as to which one would work best with linux.
i consulted several friends to get a consensus as to which one would work best with linux.
i marked those for installation and clicked  apply.
the package is set up so that  make-kpkg compiles the correct driver sources for the kernel you are running.
if you know what bootstraping is.
and that one guy is right about having to be thick skinned to dare posting to a linux board.
> > could you advice me on the right way ?
for this, you need the  thinkpad-modules package, which can be built from the thinkpad-source package.
the usage output and the readme file should give a rough idea of what the program can do... packages included in tpctl include: - tpctl -- command line thinkpad control program - ntpctl -- ncurses thinkpad control program - tpctlir -- a utility that enables or disables the infrared subsystem on thinkpads with programmable option select - apmiser -- a daemon that automatically controls power expenditure mode (using tpctl) according to cpu usage
as i continued to research linux on the laptop, i found a scarcity of new  material.
but for doing it work, i prefer working on a fast and more powerful pc.
everything else is perfect and overall it suits my needs but as always, it all depends what you want and what trade-offs you are willing to make.
similarly, depending on the writer, many variations exist about the  usefulness of linux on desktops and laptops.
next, using synaptic, i searched for "thinkpad" and found thinkpad-base and thinkpad-source.
so here are some links i found very helpfull.
ignoring the joky 'fan-boy' subject-line, i do use other distros and now there is a new version of ubuntu i'll try it again when i have time and see if it now meets my needs, especially regarding the easy networking configuration and use.
the centerpiece of the package is tpctl, a program that does some of what ps2.exe does under dos and the thinkpad configuration program does under windows...
having said that, i am using linux on every computer in my house and still believe in it.
and i just yesterday took it back to daily use.
when did that happen?
i have also had toshibas and compaqs.
as a developer, i made a conscious choice to do my development on my laptop, as opposed to a desktop, so that i could do it "anywhere."
so, preserving battery life and connecting wirelessly seem important.
according to the tpctl web site at sourceforge: tpctl is a package of configuration tools for linux.
in some ways, i understand the  confusion and the various conclusions people draw.
in other words, everything except power-saving.
more on that a little later.
and i just started to recearch different powersaving methods...
it's nice to know that that are reasonable non-windows, non-mac mobile solutions for professionals; thanks for putting another stone on the path that paves the way.
all this material helped me and i'm obviously not as brillant and charismatic as you.
if the major manufacturers put as much engineering into the linux desktop as they put into windows, they would produce a superior product for their customers.
they  also thought that the battery life seemed short.
and you weren't reading too carefully either mate .. not to mention that you appear to have missed the punctuation and spelling lessons in school .. and why so angry?
"you certainly can use a laptop as a portable computer, but that's not how i intended to use it."
we should find out and have them banned for life from linux.
the first packages i  added include linux-image- 2.6.10-5-686, linux-source-2.10.10 and  linux-headers-2.6.10-5.
you really did manage to take something as simple as installing linux and turn it into a problem.
thanks a lot for any help and advices ...
i have typically used thinkpads in the past and so i am familiar with them.
next, i searched, found and installed the tpb package through ubuntu's synaptic application.
btw, i've run linux long before you
according to theweb site: "configure-thinkpad is a gnome thinkpad  configuration tool written by cheuksan edward wang.
i did have an ibook a couple of years ago and it was ok but didn't work that well with linux.
i checked around and other friends were using thinkpads.
i even found a thinkpad mailing  list and some distribution-oriented laptop ones.
when you really need to be fast and light.
desktop linux on a laptop recently, i bought a laptop.
similarly, depending on the writer, many variations exist about the usefulness of linux on desktops and laptops.
the first leg of my journey will  take 24 hours, and i have a speaking engagement about 12 hours after i arrive.
now launching it under linux, it's not the same thing.
this gui application uses gnome 2 and is  based on tpctl and ntpctl."
no free linux distro will suspend/resume out of the box on a t20 except for possibly suse, which is almost too big for it.
when i got home, i copied my files to this desktop and now i'm set to work again in the us.
tallying the results, i  decided to go with an ibm thinkpad.
the first one i used was an osbourne.
i believe a manufacturer should do the things i did to get ubuntu working on the thinkpad.
syd hancock norfolk uk ------------- finally, for the online record, here is an outline of what i had to do to enable power-saving in mandrake 10.1 .
the first laptops were actually portable computers.
the usage output  and the readme file should give a rough idea of what the program can do... packages included in tpctl include: tpctl -- command line thinkpad control program ntpctl -- ncurses thinkpad control program tpctlir -- a utility that enables or disables the infrared subsystem on  thinkpads with programmable option select apmiser -- a daemon that automatically controls power expenditure mode  (using tpctl) according to cpu usage
later, i found the software i needed  to make it work the way one would expect from a manufacturer.
perhaps if i upgraded to a higher level of memory, i could use fedora.
(i just replaced my armada 500mhz ....
"intel corporation" > subdevice: pci 0x2408
i noticed the ability to change the volume and use other keys immediately.
new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown > > ... > -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- > >
on laptops for the last 4, exculsively.
it simply performed the best in this case.
according to thetpb web site: tpb is a little program that enables you to use the ibm thinkpad(tm) special keys.
he didn't say anything about a piece of junk that wouldn't run xp so let's try linux.
that's not what i expected at the start.
i don't think i could have survived another hour if i didn't know that.
i decided to stay with 256mb of ram, primarily so i could help  linux users who could not afford to add the memory needed to get to 512mb.
he said, the linux desktop works.
as i continued to research linux on the laptop, i found a scarcity of new material.
at 256mb  of ram, however, fedora creeped.
contrary to what some of you might believe, it's not my favorite linux distro.
david tansey, a ubuntu user and contributor who has written howtos for the community, provided us with some commands through the thinkpad mailing list.
once i added the packages, i rebooted into the linux 686 environment.
and i like it - what is that some kind of sacred sin?
most of the times you don't even need the driver-cd.
last week, i took my recently acquired laptop to the middle east with me and it worked fine.
the  original note was written may 1897 in the author's hand.
according to the maintainer's web site: this package contains the source code for the loadable driver modules used  by the tpctl utility for configuring ibm thinkpad laptop computers.
i don't use the internal modem and have a pcmcia wi-fi card i.e. it is not a model with built-in wireless card.
the renown stability of linux implies being able to go for weeks on a desktop without a reboot by simply doing a quick s3 suspend and resume as we've done with the older windows oss.
i agree with the article if time was spent in configuring a linux laptop instead of a windows one it would be superior in all aspects.
i spent the better part of two days trying a variety of distributions.
again, hopfully this is not something unusual otherwise i'll start to understand why some people think desktop linux is so difficult.
when you installed linux-source, it downloaded linux-source-2.6.10.tar.bz2 into the directory /usr/src.
i did the same thing with windows to figure out a problem to help a friend
once i added the packages, i rebooted into the linux 686  environment.
the poster had a legitimate comment.
oh well, moving on... i have been using mandrake and now mandriva on a standard thinkpad t23 for two years.
and, if you look at his history, he did take the initiative and  helped create the internet.
i marked those for installation and clicked apply.
the person who created this page did do this with the intent to share information.
oh, wait...you didn't read the article.
if you've been running a linux desktop since 1999, what were you running?
so, i just went to ebay and bought one.
move to that  directory, and you will see it.
in fact,he said, "during my service in the united states congress, i took the initiative in creating the internet".
later, i found the software i needed to make it work the way one would expect from a manufacturer.
once i installed ubuntu on the thinkpad, i had to add packages from various repositories, including universe and multiverse.
to unpack it, use the command sudo tar jxvf linux-source-2.6.10.tar.bz2 now, your sources are available.
> > -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- > ... > > 14: pci 03.0: 0200 ethernet controller >
it simply performed the best in  this case.
i also want to use the time to work.
but xp does seem to need a minimum of about 10gigs space), exited the install, created the suspend partition then installed mandriva.
at 256mb of ram, however, fedora creeped.
tpb has a on-screen display (osd) to show  volume, mute, brightness and some other informations.
[created at pci.273] > unique id: ... > sysfs id: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:03.1 >
oh, you didn't read the article.
who cares about kde in the first place and whose running around crazy other than you?
8-) hello dear ibm, linux and suse, users or experts, this article seems very interesting and perhaps around it, you could give me some helpfull advices about linux t21 modem software customization.
i need that there was a running modem or linmodem to surf above internet and retrieve informations or mails outside !
as the web page refers to tpctl, i searched for that package in synaptic  and also installed it.
i think you added enormous value to the experience by pointing that out.
when you installed linux-source, it downloaded  linux-source-2.6.10.tar.bz2 into the directory /usr/src.
if you want a snappy window manager on a low powered system, the easy trick is to use a lightweight window manager like blackbox.
the next one was a compaq and finally i bought an ibm portable.
a little extra work is needed pre-install if suspend-to-disk is required.
i'm reminded of statement attributed to al  gore that he "invented the internet".
star office has supplied that for ages.
hey troll, you didn't read the article.
hw address: 00:10:a4:84:8e:68 > link detected: no > driver info #0: > driver status: e100 is active > driver activation cmd: "modprobe e100" > driver info #1: > driver status: eepro100 is not active > driver activation cmd: "modprobe eepro100" > config status: cfg=no, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown > > 15: pci 03.1: 0700 serial controller (16550) >
my next adventure will include installing freenx on the laptop to see if i can sync my directories while on the road.
i was pretty sure they kept the laptop biz.
it's gnome based and easy to sync directories when i return.
as you might guess, they didn't use them.
best regards that's not what he meant, that's support from the distro out, not support from the vendor itself.
i know i'm not the only one who has written this, but i'll do it again.
i went back to my friends and began asking how they used the function keys and buttons on their thinkpads.
according to the maintainer's web site: this package contains the source code for the loadable driver modules used by the tpctl utility for configuring ibm thinkpad laptop computers.
the report of my illness grew out of his illness, the report of my death was an exaggeration".
the centerpiece of the package is tpctl, a program that does some of what  ps2.exe does under dos and the thinkpad configuration program does under  windows...
if you have who cares.
you certainly can use a laptop as a portable computer, but that's not how i  intended to use it.
i think it would be interesting to hear your take on the function of both, and how you "... intended to use it [the laptop]." thanks, martin martin, i'm glad to expand on the concept.
the trackpoint works too as does a usb mouse and external keyboard.
i have had no problem, well thats maybe an understatement, sometimes after suspending the laptop xwindow is kind of schrewed up, but this is how i do it.
sysfs busid: 0000:00:03.1 > hardware class: unknown > model: "intel mini-pci v.90 56k
i have an ibm thinkpad t21 on which i have installed linux 2.6 within suse 9.3, and unlucky, there was a winmodem installed on, combined with an ethernet connection.
it creates a bad experience for the rest of us.
"intel corporation" > subdevice:
they also thought that the battery life seemed short.
i wanted performance and i got it with ubuntu.
i only used those for presentation purposes.
nice article, but the gentleman's name was spelled "clemens."
i chose a barely used model t21 with a  pentium iii 800, a 20gb hard drive, 256mb of ram and a dvd-rom.
i went back to my friends and began asking how they used the function keys  and buttons on their thinkpads.
but i guess the vendors would rather download all these anti-programs and give the customer crap software with otherwise outstanding hardware.
ever hear the term b l o a t w a r e? >
(ro,prefetchable,disabled) > irq: 11 (9824 events) >
tom; could you expand on this a little more?
keep up the good work buddie.
my os background has been mainly linux bsd xenix unix amiga, os/2 and some dos (very little pre 3.0)
" making people feel like a twit in order to appear superior is a small-minded tactic and does the community no favors.
then, i found a tutorial that convinced me to go with fedora core 3.laptop or portable computer?
you certainly can use a laptop as a portable computer, but that's not how i intended to use it.
reading through the archives of the mailing lists, i started to conclude that most people used linux on laptops as portable computers.
what he means is that manufacturers should use components with native linux drivers available and give the option of obtaining the laptop with a linux distro preloaded, or withno os, but with the guarantee that every single feature works with linux, and state that clearly on their sites.
i even found a thinkpad mailing list and some distribution-oriented laptop ones.
and i have ethernet, unplug it and insert wi-fi card
unfortunately, i didn't find configure-thinkpad in the ubuntu  repositories.
then, i started asking some hard questions and the answers convinced me that an information void exists.
but, i did find nuggets of gold that allowed me to use my thinkpad the way i wanted.
if you need to run ndiswrapper for something as common (we're talking laptops here) as a wireless card then your system isnot well supported.
with tpb it is possible to bind a program to the thinkpad, mail, home and search button.
let's take them one at a time.
modem" > subvendor: pci 0x8086
the reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated.
i also know how to multi-boot.... ooooooooooooo.....
thinkpad-source  contains the source code for the drivers.
to an american, it doesn't seem so unrealistic simply to upgrade.
lenovo http://www.lenovo.com/
they didn't have batteries.
netscape since 3.1 konqueror...
the original note was written may 1897 in the author's hand.
never needed either of these so never tried it.
furthermore tpb supports  a software mixer, as the r series thinkpads have no hardware mixer to change  the volume.
tpctl gives the user access to all the functions of the smapi bios that  are documented in the various thinkpad technical reference manuals.
"etherexpress pro/100+ minipci" > revision: 0x09 > driver: "e100" > device file: eth0 > memory range: 0xe8120000-0xe8120fff (rw,non-prefetchable) >
next, run ./autogen.sh.
i've been running desktop linux for over 6 years.
laptop or portable computer?
have you been grounded by your parents perhaps?
tpb can also run a callback program on each state change with  the changed state and the new state as options.
it doubles as the computer i use to make presentations.
(for example tpctl is part of the ubunto distro!)
to friends in hungary, the costs seem high.
i used the partitioning tool in the mandriva installer to shrink the xp ntfs partition first (works very well and no data loss btw
call it a challenge, but many postings exist on the mailing lists i follow  from international users who simply can't afford to upgrade their memory.
screenshot of configure-thinkpad here, you need to do some command-line work to get ubuntu to work with the  packages you downloaded.
tom's article is ok as far as it goes but doesn't really say much except to advise you to install a few well-known thinkpad utilities.
this involved making sure that acpi was off and apm on (lilo and services sections in the control center), using the laptop control in the configuration menu (i use kde) to enable and configure the battery monitoring/power-saving and making a couple of changes to the config file /etc/sysconfig/suspend to fix screen corruption, avoid being asked for a password after resuming and choose services to stop/start.
maybe the copy editor?
you need to install the following dependencies so you can build configure-thinkpad: libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev libgconf2-dev libglade2-dev libglib2.0-dev libglade2-dev libgnome2-dev libgnomeui2-dev libgtk2.0-dev this installation report is included in the tuxmobil linux laptop and notebook installation survey.
of course, having all laptop  functions fully operational at all times reduces the battery life.
i may have two trips and three presentations between now and early september and i'll take the laptop with me and use it for both presentation purposes and to work while i'm away.
ps : i have made some investigations resumed below > > "hwinfo --modem"
i don't think ubuuntu is particularly faster, it's just that it installs a lot less by default so you don't have a pile of daemons using up your lovely memory and then making everything go v e r y s
making the thinkpad act like a laptop later this month, i will cross the globe.
did the above config steps and fn-f12 suspend-to-disk was functioning.
thinkpad-source contains the source code for the drivers.
and i got it with ubuntu.
could have been the webmaster?
i have a lab with a number of different computers i use for testing and i have many different distributions of linux running in the lab.
it had two floppies and a small screen plus free software and sold for less than $2000.
you should write the editor and find out who screwed up the article - was it the author?
i also  want to use the time to work.
i had very old gentoo release with outdated packages, so i didn't want't to recompile allmost every package i have.
you can download the tarball from the tpctl site, though, and configure it using these steps, once you satisfy all the dependencies.
seeing comments referring to the battery as a ups gave it away.
prices ranged all over the place, but i found a one for less than $300.
and i found it very frustrating - download this driver download this anti-something program.
first distro i tried was ygdrassil... but slackware was the first one i was comfortable with.)
in fact i've got a couple of old 233mhz thinkpads running as semi-thin clients.
most of the time (as in 99.9%) i don't need to create non ascii documents.
as the web page refers to tpctl, i searched for that package in synaptic and also installed it.
according to theweb site: "configure-thinkpad is a gnome thinkpad configuration tool written by cheuksan edward wang.
first, you need to provide the linux kernel source.
martin with all do honesty i began to worry when i saw the all to popular "i've got this old piece of junk that won't run xp right .....
[ethernet pro 100]" > subvendor: pci 0x8086
the  majority of us have a tendency to avoid details and jump on the first  generalization that comes around.
i hope these things are not some kind of big deal.
although the fedora tutorial gave me many of hints on how to configure tools to take advantage of the thinkpad's built-in functionality, fedora did not work for me.
you need to install the following dependencies so  you can build configure-thinkpad: libbonobo2-dev libbonoboui2-dev libgconf2-dev libglade2-dev  libglib2.0-dev libglade2-dev libgnome2-dev libgnomeui2-dev libgtk2.0-dev 1
uncompress the tar.gz file cd into the uncompressed file directory run the ./configure command as user run sudo make run sudo make install figure 1.
once configured there.. the configs hold for gnome.
abiword has always been a better reader than writer up until they finally got it to 1.0.
congrats on not having a desktop.
once the laptop arrived, i began searching around on google to see which linux distributions people used on thinkpads.
according to thetpb web site: tpb is a little program that enables you to use the ibm thinkpad(tm)  special keys.
- suspend and resume.
now there's a load of bs if i ever heard one.