it is the actively  developed strain of rpy.
i’ve recently embarked upon a bit of complex networks  research with a former colleague of mine and i am currently surveying the tools  available so this article is particularly timely for me.
if you’ve got the time to  reply, i’d love to read some of your thoughts on why you think networkx
numpy, short for numeric python, is the cornerstone of python’s mathematics and statistics operations.
i need the statistical functions of r but unfortunately r is a pain to learn and work with.
many of the packages proceeding this rely on some  combination of numpy and scipy.
highly extensible, and will display your results  just the way you like ‘em.
june  18th, 2008 | tags:list, python |
rpy2 is a simple python interface for r, able to execute any r function from within a python script.
you can find the links to rpy2 from the rpy page.
[reply] drew conway is a phd student in political science at new york university.
really, can’t work without it
json is also what  is returned by google’ssocialgraph api, so cjson allows researchers to  feed this social network data directly into python data types.
this module also supports the beautifulsoup tree type, as well as many others, making it incredibly useful across a wide range of tasks.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway oliver, i totally agree.
[reply] http://christopherroach.com christopher great article.
a question: i like both r and python a lot but would love to “standardize” on one for my modeling/number-crunching needs.
download cjson a complete pure python genetic algorithm framework.
[reply] http://www.cumberlandgenetic.com
download pycluster this module implements a very fast json encoder/decoder for python.
numpy numpy, short for numeric python, is the cornerstone of python’s  mathematics and statistics operations.
contact drew by email research and working papers download vitae copyright © 2012 zero intelligence agents - all rights reserved powered bywordpress & the atahualpa theme by bytesforall.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for  software writing.
data collected by social scientist, however, is often of a higher dimension–enter pycluster.
for novice social network  analysts/graph theorist, the learning curve will be steep, but taking the time  to learn nx will preclude you from having to waste your time withother inferior  tools.
[reply] it is my pleasure to read this page,i look forward to reading more.
[reply] i would also add sage which integrates most of those tools.
download html5lib pycluster there are many clustering algorithms available for python, but many of  these packages are designed to cluster one-dimensional data.
and also thanks for networkx, i initially worked on  graphviz but this baby fits right into my programming environment.
highly extensible, and will display your results just the way you like ‘em.
[reply] dear drew, thanks for this compilation of python tools.
for novice social network analysts/graph theorist, the learning curve will be steep, but taking the time to learn nx will preclude you from having to waste your time withother inferior tools.
[reply] http://frikk.tk blaine thanks for the pyevolve link – i’ve been looking for something  like this for quite awhile.
download pyevolve a pure python binding for mysql, allowing the user to integrate mysql execution into any python script.
this package is what motivated me to learn python.
still waiting  for a clever binding to matplotlib to draw the dendrogram, but in the meantime,  you can use their java programtreeview to display result.
in my next update i am going to add a great python package for symbolic mathematics that incorporates much of the functionality of sage.
oliver suggested i add sage to the list, which is an excellent tool, but sympy contains nearly all of the same functionality (algebraic evaluation, differentiation, expansion, complex numbers, etc.), but is contained in a pure python distribution.
download sympy update: how to use python and sympy to solve optimization  problems.
this package is great for researchers who want symbolic mathematics support, but have no access to mega-expensive computer algebra systems, likemathematica.
my personal goal would be to bring pythons statistical capabilities  to that of spss or systat.
it is the actively developed strain of rpy.
i should also note that most (maybe all by now) of these packages come  standard with theenthought distribution of python.
[reply] perone, thanks, and i just updated my pyevolve to the new version–looks great!
the hassle of remembering two sets of details is getting to me.
if you’ve got the time to reply, i’d love to read some of your thoughts on why you think networkx is superior to some of the tools you listed above with a specific emphasis on the network workbench since that is one of the tools that i am considering as well.
the  hassle of remembering two sets of details is getting to me.
download mysql for python updated 4/6/2009>: i have been negligent, as itpointed out in the comments, rpy has functionally been replaced by rpy2.
been relying heavily on python and r for years in and out  of school in the field of quantatative/molecular genetics of livestock.
download pymc short for “simulation in python”, simpy is an object-oriented, process-based discrete-event simulation language, making it a wholesale agent-based modeling environment written entirely in python.
download mysql for python updated 4/6/2009>: i  have been negligent, as itpointed out in the comments, rpy has functionally  been replaced by rpy2.
i with there was a pygeneticprogramming  counterpart to pyevolve so models could be built that blended gp’s  sophisticated agent evolution; but alas, no one has done the heavy lifting for  me yet.
[reply] i am glad the list was helpful.
i have a question:  do you have any experience building/executing agent-based models in python?
recently python has become more and more of a core component of my workflow with rpy for the plotting/graphing and modeling components.
this package contains efficient implementations of hierarchical and  k-means clustering, with several options for measuring distance.
[reply] http://brunomlopes.blogspot.com bruno i’d add ipython: http://ipython.scipy.org/moin/ it’s an  amazing replacement for the vanilla shell, with auto-completion, pdb  integration to drop you on the stack of a previous exception, pretty printing,  session history, and many more.
if you are a new researcher looking to get started,  or experienced and willing to walk away from your [:,:] lifestyle in  matlab—and licensing and training fees—then equip yourself with  these 10 packages and get to it!
rpy has practically been replaced by rpy2,  which uses slightly different syntax but feels more robust.
there are very few statistical calculations that the combination of numpy  and scipy cannot handle, but there are no statistical operations r cannot do.
in my next update i am going to add a great python  package for symbolic mathematics that incorporates much of the functionality of  sage.
[reply] abhijit one small update to your list.
[reply] thanks for the addition bruno.
download pyevolve mysql for python a pure python binding for mysql, allowing the user to integrate mysql  execution into any python script.
download pymc simpy short for “simulation in python”, simpy is an object-oriented,  process-based discrete-event simulation language, making it a wholesale  agent-based modeling environment written entirely in python.
all scientific computing in python starts and ends with numpy!
i still  dont understand its data structures, also its script is archaic.
if you are find that there is something you can’t do in python, and  there is an easy solution in r, just run it through rpy.
[reply] thanks for this.
pymc  implements the metropolis-hastings algorithm as a python class, providing  flexibility when building your model.
download sympy update: how to use python and sympy to solve optimization problems.
i need the statistical  functions of r but unfortunately r is a pain to learn and work with.
all scientific computing in python  starts and ends with numpy!
my personal goal would be to bring pythons statistical capabilities to that of spss or systat.
this one is for all of you bayesian/mcmc modelers out there.
i should mention that it is important to contribute as well to python libraries.
« markov mad libs (using  garfield) 4th uk social networks conference » updated: must-have python packages for social scientists by drew  conway, on june 18th, 2008 python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing  machine!
been relying heavily on python and r for years in and out of school in the field of quantatative/molecular genetics of livestock.
to take advantage of its power,  you will need a little background in html (or xml, if that happens to be what  you are parsing), but there aremany tutorials available online to get you up to  speed quickly.
still waiting for a clever binding to matplotlib to draw the dendrogram, but in the meantime, you can use their java programtreeview to display result.
i’ve been always afraid that the easiness of programming in python will  not be compensate the execution speed (as usual with interpreters).
i with there was a pygeneticprogramming counterpart to pyevolve so models could be built that blended gp’s sophisticated agent evolution; but alas, no one has done the heavy lifting for me yet.
if you are find that there is something you can’t do in python, and there is an easy solution in r, just run it through rpy.
this package contains efficient implementations of hierarchical and k-means clustering, with several options for measuring distance.
download matplotlib networkx this package is what motivated me to learn python.
python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing machine!
[reply] about the author drew conway is a phd student in political science at new york university.
i am wearing my  computer science background on my sleeve with this one, but for people serious  about designing pure pythonagent-based models, pyevolve provides the tools to  create intricate experimental environments.
if i had to switch though, and since i am a macpython user, it would be totextmate.
the third tine on python’s scientific trident, matplotlib (pylab) is  the standard for 2d plotting.
[reply] thanks for the pyevolve link – i’ve been looking for something like this for quite awhile.
[reply] http://www.ua.ac.be/cesar.garcia-diaz cesar garcia diaz dear drew, thanks for this compilation of python tools.
if there is enough interest, i will post another update in the near future with a few additional packages i have run across since the last update.
that said, python is an extremely versatile  and easy to learn language, so i would recommend focusing and building you  skills there.
i will definitely look into rpy2.
[reply] i do plenty of genomic data mining with python.
a question: i like both r and python a lot but would love to  “standardize” on one for my modeling/number-crunching needs.
there are very few statistical calculations that the combination of numpy and scipy cannot handle, but there are no statistical operations r cannot do.
any words of wisdom on making this choice?
agent based simulations are very interesting  indeed.
[reply] perone, thanks, and i just updated my pyevolve to the new  version–looks great!
this module also  supports the beautifulsoup tree type, as well as many others, making it  incredibly useful across a wide range of tasks.
very straightforward and simple to use, and since many social science data sets are stored on mysql databases, a necessity.
pymc is also highly extensible, and well  supported by the community.
i was looking into using the network workbench and gephi for most of my analysis, but i would love to have something like networkx that i could use from python just for the ability to automate much of the drudgery.
oliver suggested i add sage to the  list, which is an excellent tool, but sympy contains nearly all of the same  functionality (algebraic evaluation, differentiation, expansion, complex  numbers, etc.), but is contained in a pure python distribution.
i should also note that most (maybe all by now) of these packages come standard with theenthought distribution of python.
i’ve been always afraid that the easiness of programming in python will not be compensate the execution speed (as usual with interpreters).
if you are interested in  using python as a platform for scientific research, i highly recommend  installing this distribution,which is free for academics.
drew studies terrorism and armed conflict; using tools from mathematics and  computer science to gain a deeper understanding of these phenomena.
[reply] hello conway, i’m author of pyevolve, thank you for indicating the framework.
to take advantage of its power, you will need a little background in html (or xml, if that happens to be what you are parsing), but there aremany tutorials available online to get you up to speed quickly.
that said, python is an extremely versatile and easy to learn language, so i would recommend focusing and building you skills there.
if you are interested in using python as a platform for scientific research, i highly recommend installing this distribution,which is free for academics.
i should mention that it is important to contribute as well to python  libraries.
to distinguish itself, scipy adds several of its own sophisticated data types, and integration and optimization techniques.
i will  definitely look into rpy2.
download simpy sympy not to be confused with the previous entry, sympy is an full-featured  python library for symbolic mathematics.
while not as robust asrepast or netlogo, simpy provides an excellent tool set for designing experiments, and because it is pure python, the data can be fed to other analytical packages.
download networkx pymc
oh, and for those of you with accreditation concerns, its subversion is maintained by los alamos national laboratory.
download  cjson pyevolve a complete pure python genetic algorithm framework.
rpy2 is a simple python interface for r, able to execute any r function from  within a python script.
any words of wisdom  on making this choice?
recently python has become more and more of a core component of my workflow  with rpy for the plotting/graphing and modeling components.
[reply] rr very helpful list, thanks for posting!
json ( javascript object notation) is useful for many things, but most notably for social scientist is how many social networking sites use json to encode public data about their users and their users’ relationships.
download numpy scipy, short for scientific python, is the little brother of numpy, as it relies on numpy data types for its operations.
json is also what is returned by google’ssocialgraph api, so cjson allows researchers to feed this social network data directly into python data types.
this package is  great for researchers who want symbolic mathematics support, but have no access  to mega-expensive computer algebra systems, likemathematica.
i still dont understand its data structures, also its script is archaic.
data collected by  social scientist, however, is often of a higher dimension–enter  pycluster.
if i had to switch though, and since i am a macpython user, it  would be totextmate.
[reply] rr, i am very biased here, since python pretty much brought me back from the brink of giving up software coding.
while not as  robust asrepast or netlogo, simpy provides an excellent tool set for designing  experiments, and because it is pure python, the data can be fed to other  analytical packages.
is superior to some of the tools you listed above with a specific emphasis on  the network workbench since that is one of the tools that i am considering as  well.
[reply] great article.
download scipy the third tine on python’s scientific trident, matplotlib (pylab) is the standard for 2d plotting.
[reply] oliver, i totally agree.
i have tried others, and people harp on how many better options there are, but i can’t seem to shake it.
[reply] very helpful list, thanks for posting!
i agree, ipython is a good tool, but in terms of ide i have a hard time getting away from idle.
very straightforward and simple to use, and  since many social science data sets are stored on mysql databases, a necessity.
[reply] vamsee thanks for the packages, i used to think numpy is only for high level  scientific calculations.
category: networks, tools | 20 comments http://whynoti.org din0bot
pymc is also highly extensible, and well supported by the community.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway thanks for the addition bruno.
download simpy not to be confused with the previous entry, sympy is an full-featured python library for symbolic mathematics.
if there is enough interest, i will post another update in the  near future with a few additional packages i have run across since the last  update.
download pycluster cjson this module implements a very fast json encoder/decoder for python.
although visualizations are one of networkx’s weaknesses, it does  have a very nice graphviz binding if you want to display your analysis.
many of the packages proceeding this rely on some combination of numpy and scipy.
[reply] vman i do plenty of genomic data mining with python.
oh, and for those of you with accreditation concerns, its subversion is  maintained by los alamos national laboratory.
i’ve recently embarked upon a bit of complex networks research with a former colleague of mine and i am currently surveying the tools available so this article is particularly timely for me.
i agree, ipython is a good tool, but in  terms of ide i have a hard time getting away from idle.
if you need  to download and organize large amounts of data from the internet in a quick and  easy way, then html5lib is the only package you will need.
to distinguish itself, scipy  adds several of its own sophisticated data types, and integration and  optimization techniques.
this is the best tool  for analyzing network data–period.
mark thanks for this.
download scipy matplotlib
this is the best tool for analyzing network data–period.
html5lib after the fall of beautifulsoup, i was desperate for a web data parser that  equaled soup’s flexibility and easy of use.
[reply] thanks for the quick response, drew.
if you need to download and organize large amounts of data from the internet in a quick and easy way, then html5lib is the only package you will need.
good luck on your social studies; any help you needs, just mail.
[reply] i’d add ipython: http://ipython.scipy.org/moin/ it’s an amazing replacement for the vanilla shell, with auto-completion, pdb integration to drop you on the stack of a previous exception, pretty printing, session history, and many more.
discuss on our wp forum
contact drew by email
[reply] http://code.google.com/p/pyevolve/ perone hello conway, i’m author of pyevolve, thank you for indicating the  framework.
pymc implements the metropolis-hastings algorithm as a python class, providing flexibility when building your model.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway
[reply] although visualizations are one of networkx’s weaknesses, it does have a very nice graphviz binding if you want to display your analysis.
[reply] http://www.drewconway.com/ drew conway rr, i am very biased here, since python pretty much brought me back from the  brink of giving up software coding.
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social science researchers.
i am wearing my computer science background on my sleeve with this one, but for people serious about designing pure pythonagent-based models, pyevolve provides the tools to create intricate experimental environments.
i was looking into  using the network workbench and gephi for most of my analysis, but i would love  to have something like networkx that i could use from python just for the  ability to automate much of the drudgery.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway i am glad the list was helpful.
there are many clustering algorithms available for python, but many of these packages are designed to cluster one-dimensional data.
agent based simulations are very interesting indeed.
i have a question: do you have any experience building/executing agent-based models in python?
[reply] one small update to your list.
after the fall of beautifulsoup, i was desperate for a web data parser that equaled soup’s flexibility and easy of use.
json ( javascript object notation) is useful for many things, but most notably for  social scientist is how many social networking sites use json to encode public  data about their users and their users’ relationships.
drew studies terrorism and armed conflict; using tools from mathematics and computer science to gain a deeper understanding of these phenomena.
if you are a new researcher looking to get started, or experienced and willing to walk away from your [:,:] lifestyle in matlab—and licensing and training fees—then equip yourself with these 10 packages and get to it!
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging  of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social  science researchers.
rpy has practically been replaced by rpy2, which uses slightly different syntax but feels more robust.
[reply] thanks for the packages, i used to think numpy is only for high level scientific calculations.
and also thanks for networkx, i initially worked on graphviz but this baby fits right into my programming environment.
download numpy scipy scipy, short for scientific python, is the little brother of numpy, as it  relies on numpy data types for its operations.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for software writing.
download matplotlib
i have tried others,  and people harp on how many better options there are, but i can’t seem to  shake it.