as soon as the system would  "wake up" and realize that a month has gone by without running those  jobs, it should start them.
as soon as the system would "wake up" and realize that a month has gone by without running those jobs, it should start them.
it may be safe to disable scrollkeeper-update entirely (delete the symlink from /etc/cron.monthly) but i am not sure.
- qgis plugin for r (http://www.ftools.ca/manager.html) - pretty easy to install.
rsaga doesnt work in linux !!!!!
i just installed mysql because it is my favourite database and it is commonly used for "light" projects, so r has the rmysql package but also the rodbc for any db access.
adding the public key: gpg --keyserver wwwkeys.eu.pgp.net --recv
the qgis doesnt have the r connection plugin, i will update the vm with this plugin in the following days.
not a big deal but this might turn some people away if they  don't know why this is happening.
april 17, 2012, 04:11:15 am welcome, guest.
i will try to prevent that stuff from the first startup.
« last edit: october 18, 2008,  10:05:03 pm by jnylen »  logged admin administrator re: r, saga, other minor things « reply #1 on: october 22,  2008, 03:46:32 am » thanks jnylen for your feedback.
thanks for remind this!
i could release a suspended vm.
gisvm forum april 17, 2012, 04:11:15 am welcome, guest.
grass is installed and can be used inside qgis or outside with grass command line.
logged jnylen newbie posts: 2 re: r, saga, other minor things «reply #2 on: october 23, 2008, 08:59:57 am » i was not aware that r required mysql?
i would like to second the idea of an gisvm geostatistical special edition.
but it is apparently pretty popular for analysis - also has good integration with r).
1 hour 1 day 1 week 1 month forever login with username, password and session length news: due to spam this forum registration has been disabled!
[1] «  previous next » print author   topic: r, saga, other minor things  (read 3587 times) jnylen newbie r, saga, other minor things « on: october 18, 2008, 09:56:36 pm » first of  all, thanks for providing this service.
paulo logged admin administrator jr. member posts: 72 re: r, saga, other minor things «reply #5 on: november 18, 2008, 01:25:46 pm » hi paulo, quote from: pvb on november 17, 2008, 04:50:37 am just open a terminal and type 'grass' (without the quotes obviously).
i already received a gisvm-r version from a user that installed r and several other tools over the current gisvm.
as far as the cron  jobs go, i am not sure that releasing a suspended vm would help - the monthly  cron jobs are executed when you release the product one month and a user runs  it for the first time the next month.
and what about a standalone version of grass for use with  people who have more advanced skills?
portuguese -----------------------------
first a minor gripe: the monthly cron jobs (especially scrollkeeper-update) ran on the first startup.
here's a nice repository for r and several of its core packages: deb http://cran.cnr.berkeley.edu/bin/linux/ubuntu hardy/
this program could still be run manually prior to each release.
qgis plugin for r (http://www.ftools.ca/manager.html) - pretty easy to  install.
i am considering it, … what do you think about  a gisvm geostatistical special edition?
this means that is capable of raster, vector, table data analysis, interpolation, linear regressions,modelling etc etc the gisvm-r has python installed (and the eric ide) with rpy 1.0.1, so python can access the r libraries and run calculations.
probably the only way to access r should be thru the python prompt of saga and then using rpy.
there are packages to work with the existing postgresql database system, and i have found that any odbc data source is very easy to work with on windows.
i would definitely be most interested in a geostatistical edition.
logged jorge.de.jesus newbie posts: 2 re: r, saga, other minor things « reply #3 on: october 24, 2008, 12:51:57 am » hi to all the gisvm-r is just the standard givsm with r, basically it has 95% of the packages necessary to run all the geospatial/geostatistical analysis from the book "applied spatial data analysis with r".
not a big deal but this might turn some people away if they don't know why this is happening.
is there anywhere i can download the gisvm-r edition?
but i am not exactly sure what that entails, or if grass can be used on its own  in its current form.
it does seem like that job is the main culprit of the slowdown.
i am considering it, what do you think about a gisvm geostatistical special edition?
(i don't know much about  this
as far as the cron jobs go, i am not sure that releasing a suspended vm would help - the monthly cron jobs are executed when you release the product one month and a user runs it for the first time the next month.
second, some software that i think would be really useful to have on there: - r for statistical analysis (http://www.r-project.org/)
second, some software that i think  would be really useful to have on there: r for statistical analysis (http://www.r-project.org/)
(i don't know much about this
in case you couldn't tell, i really like r also, can you recommend any tutorials for getting started with some of this software?
i appreciate all suggestions about this...
i found your vm through the "r-sig-geo -- r special interest group on using geographical data and mapping" mailing list: https://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/r-sig-geo .
r doesnt need mysql to run !!!!!
i have set postgresql up to work  with odbc before on linux, so the same is probably true there.
and yes, r is a must!!!
i know it is installed with qgis
please, just go to the gisvm download page: www.gisvm.com/download.html enjoy, ricardo pinho logged pages: [1] print « previous next » jump to: please select a destination: ----------------------------- international ----------------------------- =>
i am not sure how you might prevent this (release on  the 2nd of the month) but it made the system very sluggish for about 20-30  minutes.
this program could still be run manually prior to each  release.
« last edit: october 18, 2008, 10:05:03 pm by jnylen »
that would speed-up the first run for sure, but...
it does seem like that job is the main culprit of the  slowdown.
rsaga will be installed in the next release i will keep the forum updated jorge logged pvb newbie posts: 1 re: r, saga, other minor things « reply #4 on: november 17, 2008, 04:50:37 am » hi, just a short reply on the question on the use of grass; that should be possible (at least when using linux as guest), just open a terminal and type 'grass' (without the quotes obviously).
thanks, ricardo pinho « last edit: october 22, 2008, 10:55:43 am by admin »
pleaselogin or register.
but i am not exactly sure what that entails, or if grass can be used on its own in its current form.
e2a11821 gpg  --export --armor e2a11821 | sudo apt-key add - saga (http://www.saga-gis.org/en/index.html)
i would  definitely be most interested in a geostatistical edition.
i already  received a gisvm-r version from a user that installed r and several other tools  over the current gisvm.
or if it turns out to be a bad idea to remove it, /etc/crontab  would be easily modified to run it every 3 months or something similar.
logged admin administrator jr. member posts: 72 re: r, saga, other minor things « reply #1 on: october 22, 2008, 03:46:32 am » thanks jnylen for your feedback.
i am not sure how you might prevent this (release on the 2nd of the month) but it made the system very sluggish for about 20-30 minutes.
but it is apparently pretty popular for analysis - also has good  integration with r).
it may be safe to disable  scrollkeeper-update entirely (delete the symlink from /etc/cron.monthly) but i  am not sure.
i  will try to prevent that stuff from the first startup.
i appreciate  all suggestions about this...
gisvm server -----------------------------
e2a11821 gpg --export --armor e2a11821 | sudo apt-key add - - saga (http://www.saga-gis.org/en/index.html)
it will be advantageous to my  career to learn how to do some basic gis stuff.
and doing this in a vm is great as it seems like something you could easily specialize your whole os for.
home   help search login register gisvm forum > international > wish list > r, saga, other minor things pages:
thanks, « last edit: october 22, 2008, 10:55:43 am by  admin »  logged jnylen newbie re: r, saga, other minor things «reply #2 on: october 23, 2008, 08:59:57 am » i  was not aware that r required mysql?  there are packages to work with the  existing postgresql database system, and i have found that any odbc data source  is very easy to work with on windows.
a couple of things that (i think) could improve your vm.
and doing this in a vm is  great as it seems like something you could easily specialize your whole os for.
home help search login register gisvm forum > international > wish list > r, saga, other minor things pages: [1] « previous next » print author topic: r, saga, other minor things (read 3587 times) jnylen newbie posts: 2 r, saga, other minor things « on: october 18, 2008, 09:56:36 pm » first of all, thanks for providing this service.
and what about a standalone version of grass for use with people who have more advanced skills?
i found your  vm through the "r-sig-geo -- r special interest group on using  geographical data and mapping" mailing list: https://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/r-sig-geo .
i have set postgresql up to work with odbc before on linux, so the same is probably true there.
there is a problem, r turns gisvm bigger and needs several other stuff, including mysql yes, grass, openjump, etc, are very needed!!!
or if it turns out to be a bad idea to remove it, /etc/crontab would be easily modified to run it every 3 months or something similar.
here's a nice  repository for r and several of its core packages: deb  http://cran.cnr.berkeley.edu/bin/linux/ubuntu hardy/ gpg --keyserver wwwkeys.eu.pgp.net --recv
in case you couldn't tell, i really like r also, can you recommend any tutorials for getting started with some of this  software?
it will be advantageous to my career to learn how to do some basic gis stuff.
first  a minor gripe: the monthly cron jobs (especially scrollkeeper-update) ran on  the first startup.
there is a problem, r turns gisvm  bigger and needs several other stuff, including mysql… yes,  grass, openjump, etc, are very needed!!!
i could release a  suspended vm.
quote from: pvb on november 17, 2008, 04:50:37 am is there anywhere i can download the gisvm-r edition?
1 hour 1 day 1 week 1 month forever login with  username, password and session length news: due  to spam this forum registration has been disabled!
pedidos e sugestões powered by smf 1.1.14 | smf © 2006-2011, simple machines llc loading...
here is the bad news !!!!!