you can ftp a demo version of idl, including the netcdf interface, by following the instructions in pub/idl/readme available via anonymous ftp from gateway.rsinc.com or boulder.colorado.edu.
support for accessing tiff image files from sds as  2d arrays will be available soon as a separate codeplex project.
for others interested in programming with  netcdf.dll from vb 6, see wieczorrek's web page onnetcdf and vb 6.0 and for  vb.net, seenetcdf and vb.net.
ive assumes the data to be  displayed are contained in one- two-, three- or four-dimensional arrays.
for  vector data, arrow plots, streamlines, streaklines, etc. are provided.
features include: ingrid, by m. benno blumenthal , is designed to manipulate large datasets and model input/output.
visual basic and vb.net interfaces carsten wieczorrek has developed code in vb 6 to export chromatographic  data into the netcdf/andi format.
ensight is general-purpose postprocessing software developed and supported by computational engineering international (cei).
cdfconvert (convert netcdf to rpn and gempak grids) cdfsync (network synchronization of netcdf files)
fully documented  graphics are produced with a single command.
non-gridded or scattered data may be interpolated to an arbitrary grid or triangulated, depending on the analysis requirements.
the user interface provides direct manipulation tools for specifying the  eye position, center of view, light sources, and color ramps.
for more information, check thehops home page.
numeric arrays are handled by the "narray" multi-dimensional array class, which is becoming the de facto standard multi-dimensional array for ruby.
ncl has many features common to modern programming languages, including  types, variables, operators, expressions, conditional statements, loops, and  functions and procedures.
also available are combination functions such as iterators (which offer abstract ways to scan files and variables).
this data server is designed to make data accessible to people using www clients (viewers) and to serve as a data resource for www documents.
functions have been added to support execution of arithmetic and logical  operations, bundling or splitting netcdf files, comparing the structure or  content of files, and so on.
installation of the software (including java) on the pc or mac is a process requiring one file to be downloaded and opened.
pupynere (pure python netcdf reader) roberto de almeida has developed  pupynere, a pure python netcdf reader that allows read-access to netcdf files  using the same syntax as the scientific.
zebra's primary use is for the superpositioning of observational data sets  (such as those collected by satellite, radar, mesonet and aircraft) and  analysis products (such as model results, dual-doppler synthesis or algorithm  output).
klavs m. sørensen, thomas skov and rasmus bro (faculty of life sciences, university of copenhagen) have developedicdf, a free and documented toolbox for importing chromatographic data in the netcdf-based format that most manufacturers of chromatographic software support.
the nj toolbox (njtbx) was developed by rich signell (usgs) and sachin bhate (mississippi state) to make it easier for matlab users to harness the power of the netcdf-java library from unidata.
support distributed computation models to process large data sets.
although mirone is written in matlab, a stand-alone version to run under  windows is also provided.
fully documented graphics are produced with a single command.
even though  it's written in python, the module is up to 40% faster than  scientific.
this interface is intended to cover all the  functionality of the c library for netcdf.
fan fan (file array notation) is harvey davies' package for  extracting and manipulating array data from netcdf files.
io.netcdf python module.
it is being actively developed and used in the aerospace and automotive fields for dynamics analysis and simulation of complex systems.
it includes the ability to ingest large climate datasets in netcdf, hdf,  drs, and grads/grib format; the visualization and computation system (vcs)  module, visually displays and animates ingested or created data; and the  library of amip data transmission standards (lats) module outputs data in the  machine-independent netcdf or grads/grib file formats.
the arm program has developed andx (arm netcdf data extract), a command-line utility designed for routine examination and extraction of data from netcdf files.
i/o library ( epslib, which is layered on top of the netcdf  library).
this toolkit uses the unidata netcdf-java  (version 4.0) implementation under the hood.
see also the information on ddi for another way to use netcdf data with pv-wave.
the netcdf data format is preferred, but  any other format can be read by providing an idl (or fortran or c or c++)
this application uses netcdf as a preferred format.
rather than call the mex-file directly users are advised to employ bothchuck  denham's netcdf toolbox and the csiro matlab/netcdf interface described here.
the netcdf file should loosely follow thecf metadata conventions.
thus njtbx complements and extends both the older ncmex-based toolkits as well as the newer matlab 2008b+ built-in toolbox for netcdf.
rather than call the mex-file directly users are advised to employ bothchuck denham's netcdf toolbox and the csiro matlab/netcdf interface described here.
avizo green edition includes an advanced set of features dedicated to climate, oceanography, environmental or earth-mapped data.
ufi makes a file look like a set of database tables, so "ufi managed tables" are actually virtual database tables.
also available are combination  functions such as iterators (which offer abstract ways to scan files and  variables).
also see thencdx tool for making netcdf files opendx compliant.
idv (integrated data viewer) unidata's integrated data viewer (idv) is a java application (for java 1.4  or later) that can be used to display a variety of netcdf files, particularly  well formatted, geolocated datasets.
this software was developed on sun/unix  and is also supported for dec/ultrix and vax/vms as a system for data  management, display and analysis system for observational oceanographic time  series and hydrographic data.
the  source code has also been compiled by users for the gnustep environment.
scientific dataset (or sds in short) is a .net class library for manipulating scientific data and their metadata.
polypaint+ is a joint effort of the university of colorado and ncar  (national center for atmospheric research) funded by the nasa aisrp program.
it allows one to feed the data contained in netcdf variables (or  hdf4 sds) to the tools designed to operate on either ascii (text) or raw  (binary) data.
data can be displayed graphically (line-plot, scatter-plot,  overlay, color-intensity, etc.) or extracted as ascii data.
the internal data structure is called a nao (n-dimensional array object)  and contains similar information to that of hdf sdss and netcdf variables.
it uses netcdf as its primary output format.
cdf2c: writes c code to read a netcdf file.
for each such couple of variables, the program computes the maximum of the  absolute value of the difference, and the maximum of the absolute value of the  relative difference.
(please continue reading even if you don't have informix running on your system, because ibm has just made available, at no charge, theinnovator-c edition of informix.)
ncvtk was designed from the ground up with the aim of offering a high degree of interactivity to scientists who have a need to explore structured, three-dimensional, time-dependent climate data on the sphere.
other software packages that use or interoperate with idl to access netcdf data includesargos, cids tools, ddi, hiphop, hyperslab operator suite (hops), andnoesys.
requirements ncbrowse will run on any unix or windows machine with a  java 2 (jdk1.2) virtual machine installed.
this tool allows a selected part of a netcdf variable or an hdf4  scientific data set (sds) to be extracted in either an ascii or binary form,  applying the transformation specified by the usual scale_factor and add_offset  attributes.
they offer an application and a set of  software tools and components, which include c, fortran, and .net libraries,  for developing scientific visualization applications and for creating  interactive graphs of array data in various formats, including hdf and netcdf.
the relatedogr library (which lives within the gdal  source tree) provides a similar capability for simple features vector data.
gri gri is an extensible plotting language for producing scientific  graphs, such as x-y plots, contour plots, and image plots.
dave brown of ncar's computational and information systems laboratory has developedpynio, a python package that allows read and/or write access to a variety of data formats using an interface modelled on netcdf.
interfaces to  other data formats (e.g. ascii and binary data) can be added easily.
browses file using the epic and coards conventions.
additional functions have special support for multi-dimensional data such as "slicing" cross sections from multi-dimensional variable data or joining lesser-dimensional fields to form multi-dimensional structures.
it is freely available and the source code is released under the (mit-style) netcdf c library license.
the goddard earth sciences data and information services center (ges disc) has developed an on-the-fly hdf-eos to netcdf/cf converter for the following products, making them easier to use in theunidata idv and mcidas-v: instructions are available for searching and converting these data.
unidata makes available a separate catalog to a directory of freely available, user-contributed software and documentation related to the netcdf library.
for  further information and installation, please e-mail to:  bresch@atmos.umnw.ethz.ch cdat
ezget reads files through thecdunif interface, but use of  ezget does not require familiarity with cdunif.
finally, the client can also access cross-sections  of variable data without paging large amounts of data across the network (as  you would have to do with nfs, for example).
for developers, the open-source (gpl v3 license) can be downloaded directly or checked out with mercurial.
mbdyn features the integrated multidisciplinary analysis of multibody,  multiphysics systems, including nonlinear mechanics of rigid and flexible  constrained bodies, smart materials, electric networks, active control,  hydraulic networks, essential fixed-wing and rotorcraft aerodynamics.
it converts between several data formats (currently netcdf,  ncml, grib1 or grib2, and felt).
it runs on unix platforms under x11, r4 or higher.
compound and variable  length (vlen) data types are supported, but the enum and opaque data types are  not.
you can read the getting started document at   http://sds.codeplex.com/project/download/filedownload.aspx?downloadid=127282  for a more detailed introduction to the scientific dataset software.
it is built on the open sourcersync  program, but contains a number of optimizations including: special handling of netcdf files for faster synchronization calculations much faster updates of large numbers of small netcdf files in-place updates of large netcdf files
it is released under the gnu general public license.
two of the modules, readdfg (to output grids), and readdf (to output lattices) are capable of reading from ncsa hdf files, mfhdf/3.3 files, and unidata netcdf files.
hiphop hiphop, developed by dominik brunner, is a widget based idl  application that largely facilitates the visualization and analysis of 2d, 3d,  and 4d atmospheric science data, in particular atmospheric tracer distributions  and meteorological fields.
the client can  see changes to the netcdf dataset, e.g. when new records are added (which would  not be possible with ftp).
the epic software is available via anonymous ftp from ftp.noaapmel.gov in the epic/ and /eps
it has some known bugs and limitations, but it's proved to be quite usable.
the data store accepts incoming data, stores it on disk, and makes it available to processes which need it.
this bcs product is called the universal file interface (ufi); it's a database extension based on the ibm informix virtual table interface (vti).
david pierce has contributed the ncdf4 package for reading netcdf data  into r and for creating new netcdf dimensions, variables, and files, or  manipulating existing netcdf files from r. pavel michna has contributed another package, rnetcdf, that also provides  access to netcdf data and to udunits calendar functions from r. ruby interface a group at the research institute for sustainable humanosphere (rish) of  kyoto university has developed anetcdf interface for ruby, an interpreted,  object-oriented scripting language.
for more information, please contact the author, david w. pierce atdpierce@ucsd.edu.
it allows the use of "wildcards" (*) or ranges (1-4) in the subscript notation, and use of name references instead of variable ids.
ability to read or write netcdf data.
the netcdf toolbox is in  bug-fix-only mode, and is maintained by john.g.evans.ne@gmail.com, on the  mexnc, snctools, and the netcdf toolbox web page.
the application writes netcdf files that can be read by chromeleon, for example.
ncregrid is freely available without any warranty under the gnu public license (gpl).
transparent contour shells or isosurfaces at varying levels volumetric or density plot contour ribbons topographic surface from 2d geographic data sets 3d data volumes may be sliced in the x, y, or z plane using an interactive  cutting plane.
this octave toolbox is written in c++ calling directly the netcdf library.
polypaint+ polypaint+ is an interactive scientific visualization tool  that displays complex structures within three-dimensional data fields.
ssesco has implemented a meta-file layer on top of the netcdf library, called meraf.
it was also included in the octave repositoryoctave-forge.
opendap can be used to make netcdf data files available over the internet and it can also be used to adapt existing software which use the netcdf api (by re-linking) to read data served by an opendap data server.
the software is under development by members of the gfd dennou club, including t. horinouchi (rish, kyoto u.), s. nishizawa (rims, kyoto u.), and colleagues.
a more detailed presentation of kst can be found on the web page at http://kst-plot.kde.org, including numerous screenshots and all the useful download links.
more complicated computations can be performed in user  supplied subroutines.
the high quality mapping and cartographic capabilities for  which gmt is renowned is guaranteed through mirone's ability to automatically  generate gmt cshell scripts and dos batch files.
dan kelley of  dalhousie university is the author of gri, which can read data from netcdf  files as well as ascii and native binary data.
fimex supports a growing list of otherfeatures, including support for most ncml features and for netcdf-4 compression.
noesys can be used to: noesys has an interface to idl®, allowing data to move back and forth between noesys and idl with the click of a mouse.
the source code has also been compiled by users for the gnustep environment.
since any analysis operation can be set to automatically recalculate, you can reuse your projects as templates for future work, thereby simplifying your daily routine.
the arm program has developed andx (arm netcdf data extract), a  command-line utility designed for routine examination and extraction of data  from netcdf files.
ncl can  generate contours, xy plots, vectors, streamlines, and can overlay these plots  on many different map projections.
other useful guides to utilities that can handle netcdf data include arm's list ofarm-tested netcdf data tools, which includes some downloadable binaries and the noaa geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory guide to netcdf utilities.
field/vector operations such as divergence, gradient and curl, dot and cross products, etc. are provided.
as an example, here is how to read data from a netcdf variable named gp in a file named "data/aprin.nc" into an idl variable named gp using the idl language: id = ncdf_open('data/april.nc')
lon-lat data may be plotted as global maps (using any of over 75 map  projections) or as zonal average plots.
r interface the r project for statistical computing has developed  r, a language and  environment for statistical computing and graphics.
map outlines can be used as a background for 2d cross section plots of geographic data.
the library is a prototype for the  netcdf-4 project, which provides a c language api for the "data access  layer" of the cdm, on top of the hdf5 file format.
more details are available on the netcdf4excel web site .
support for  distributed computing is integrated at the lowest levels of the system using  java rmi distributed objects.
for more information, see the paper skov t and bro r. (2008)
in principle, any program written using netcdf can be adapted to read data from an opendap server - in other words any program which uses netcdf can become a client in the opendap client-server system.
you are welcome to join discussions or report issues at the codeplex site:http://sds.codeplex.com.
the software, which runs as a standalone process or within pcmdi's visualization and computation system (vcs), provides climate scientists with an easy and fast method to read different file formats, and to analyze and graphically display climate data in an integrated fashion.
the original functions from nctools were intended mainly for the creation, definition, and copying of fundamental netcdf elements.
ncl also has features that are not found in other  programming languages, including those that handle the manipulation of  metadata, the configuration of visualizations, the import of data from a  variety of data formats, and an algebra that supports array operations.
netcdfstep is framework for using the netcdf library in object-oriented  programming with objective-c. it now supports the full functionality of netcdf  3.6.2.
alan iwi, of rutherford appleton laboratory, offers this command line ensemble statistics utility.
the features that make ferret distinctive among these packages are mathematica-like flexibility, geophysical formatting (latitude/longitude/date), "intelligent" connection to its data base, special memory management for very large calculations, and symmetrical processing in 4 dimensions.
unlike most netcdf toolboxes for matlab, it does not  depend on the ncmex wrapper around the netcdf interface.
you may use, copy, and reproduce this software for any non-commercial purpose.
under the hood, paraview uses the  visualization toolkit as the data processing and rendering engine and has a  user interface written using a unique blend of tcl/tk and c++.
for installation instructions, see the readme file inside the .tar file.
hops is not a monolithic program, but a suite of operators that act on data  units called "hyperslabs".
it can display content of netcdf files in tree style control and permits editing its parameters in a standard windows interface environment.
it supports opening netcdf classic format data with excel for read or write access.
for read-only access to existing netcdf data, the csiro interface has a simpler syntax than the netcdf toolbox, but the latter may also be used to create and manipulate netcdf variables and datasets.
a user-friendly interface provides control and information about the contents of the files.
avizo software is a powerful tool for 3d data visualization and analysis.
ferret offers a mathematica-like approach to analysis; new variables may be  defined interactively as mathematical expressions involving data set variables.
many excellent software packages have been developed recently for  scientific visualization.
dx supports a number of realization techniques for generating renderable  geometry from data.
it also allows mathematical operations on the existing fields to generate new fields for further analysis, and it can be run as a batch application.
for simple usage, fimex also comes with the command line program fimex.
kst (2d plotting tool) kst is an open-source, cross-platform 2d plotting tool focused on  performance and ease of use.
grads provides an integrated environment  for access, manipulation, and display of earth science data in several forms,  including grib and netcdf.
this data model supports a number of different classes of  scientific data, which can be described by their shape (size and number of  dimensions), rank (e.g., scalar, vector, tensor), type (float, integer, byte,  etc. or real, complex, quaternion), where the data are located in space  (positions), how the locations are related to each other (connections),  aggregates or groups (e.g., hierarchies, series, composites, multizone grids,  etc.).
data probing, picking, arbitrary surface and volume sampling, and arbitrary cutting/mapping planes are supported.
it is released  under the gnu general public license.
in addition, the command line interface (cli) module allows cdat to receive argument and function input via the command line, and the graphical user interface (gui) allows cdat to receive argument and function input via a point-and-click environment.
java library for reading and  manipulating netcdf files.
data in conventional netcdfs are  directly imported.
the package includes  the three utilities nc2text, text2nc, and ncrob for printing selected data from  netcdf arrays, copying ascii data into netcdf arrays, and performing various  operations (sum, mean, max, min, product, ...) on netcdf arrays.
it is, however, limited to retrieving data from, and information about, existing netcdf files.
it allows users to examine data set schema, copy  data sets, modify their metadata.
visit unidata software for manipulating or displaying netcdf data this document provides references to software packages that may be used  for manipulating or displayingnetcdf data.
ufi is a bcs database extension for delivering the contents of external data files as though they were rows in a database table.
pplus is supported for most unix systems and for vax/vms, and is in use at many oceanographic institutes in the us (e.g., (pmel, harvard, whoi, scripps, ncar, nasa, university of rhode island, university of oregon, texas a&m...) and also internationally (japan, germany, australia, korea...).
it can be foundhere the key features of vtkcscsnetcdf are currently supported 3d visualizations are the following: 3d data volumes may be sliced in the x, y, or z plane using an interactive cutting plane.
the input/output data  format is netcdf.
a complete mac os x distribution including pre-built static library and online documentation are available.
a demo that uses ufi to access wind speeds can be seenhere.
it is available fromhttp://pysclint.sourceforge.net/pycdf/,  where you will find the install files, installation instructions, extensive  documentation in text and html format, and examples.
mark tracy's objective-c api mark tracy has written netcdfstep, an objective-c api for netcdf that uses
the source code is freely available from the nco home page, as is the nco  user's guide.
new storage types can be added to sds  infractructure as plugins.
it is available by anonymous ftp  from abyss.pmel.noaa.gov for a number of computer systems: sun (solaris and  sunos), decstation (ultrix and osf/1), sgi, vax/vms and macintosh (limited  support), and ibm rs-6000 (soon to be released).
the main functions are packed in the meteoinfo class  library, which could be used to conveniently develop the software.
ants is based on nctools written by chuck denham.
this version of the package is the first one to be announced to the public.
the length, area or volume of various geometries may also be computed.
kst is an open-source, cross-platform 2d plotting tool focused on performance and ease of use.
with readdfg, user selected variables from the file are output in up to five pathfinder grids.
currently  supported formats include netcdf, hdf4, grib1 and grib2 (read only), and  hdf-eos 2 grid and swath data (read only).
visage (visualization, animation, and graphics environment) is a turnkey 3d visualization system developed at general electric corporate research and development, (schroeder, wj et al, "visage: an object-oriented scientific visualization system", proceedings of visualization `92 conference).
its main purpose is to provide users with an easy-to-use graphical interface to manipulategmt grids.
the high quality mapping and cartographic capabilities for which gmt is renowned is guaranteed through mirone's ability to automatically generate gmt cshell scripts and dos batch files.
a group of researchers at northwestern university and argonne national laboratory (jianwei li, wei-keng liao, alok choudhary, robert ross, rajeev thakur, william gropp, and rob latham) have designed and implemented a new parallel interface for writing and reading netcdf data, tailored for use on high performance platforms with parallel i/o. the implementation builds on the mpi-io interface, providing portability to most platforms in use and allowing users to leverage the many optimizations built into mpi-io implementations.
there are more than 350  operators available.
gmt gmt_grid.nc gdl (gnu data language) gdl is a free implementation of most of the programming language supported  byidl (interactive data language).
opendap enables network transparent data access to any opendap server.
it allows users to simulate the behavior of heterogeneous mechanical, aero-servo-elastic systems based on first principles equations.
if you have any questions or comments, please contact the author, willa zhu (willa@pmel.noaa.gov) or nancy soreide (nns@pmel.noaa.gov).
ive also can perform algebraic computations on the gridded data and can  calculate derivatives.
ncl has many features common to modern programming languages, including types, variables, operators, expressions, conditional statements, loops, and functions and procedures.
supported  meteorological data formats: grads binary grid and station data netcdf grid data grib edition 1 and 2 data arl packed meteorological data hysplit model output data: concentration, particle and trajectory metar data micaps 1, 3, 4, 7, 11 and 13 format data ascii grid data supported map and image data: esri shape file with point, polyline or polygon shape type.
tcl-nap was developed as part of the csiro caps project, but can be loaded and used without the (satellite oriented) caps extension.
version 2 of the framework will provide classes for accessing multiple netcdf  files, working with in-memory data slabs using standard notation, and some  support for multithreading.
webwinds is `point and click' rather than language driven and it runs well  on unix, windows (95/98/nt) and mac platforms.
save plots to disk in gif, pdf, png or ps form.
hops is implemented inidl, the widely-used  commercial interpreted language, and also inyorick, a public-domain interpreted  language that is freely available from the lawrence livermore national  laboratory.
it allows  users to simulate the behavior of heterogeneous mechanical, aero-servo-elastic  systems based on first principles equations.
a file conversion utility which converts from raw binary data to netcdf is a part of the application.
ive (interactive visualization environment) is a software package designed to interactively display and analyze gridded data.
hdf explorer is a data visualization program that reads the hdf, hdf5 and netcdf data file formats (including netcdf classic format data).
a few features of grace are: eventually, it will be possible to integrate netcdf objects with the rest of the hdf tool suite.
ncl can generate contours, xy plots, vectors, streamlines, and can overlay these plots on many different map projections.
support for two distinct communities: developers who create domain-  specific systems based on visad, and users of those domain-specific systems.
its  main purpose is to provide users with an easy-to-use graphical interface to  manipulategmt grids.
njtbx uses only java and m-files, thus should work on any version of  matlab that supports java (matlab 6.5 and later) and on any platform.
scientific dataset (or sds in short) is a .net class library for  manipulating scientific data and their metadata.
carsten wieczorrek has developed code in vb 6 to export chromatographic data into the netcdf/andi format.
several sample script files are included with the distribution.
these include color and opacity mapping (e.g., for surface and volume rendering), contours and isosurfaces, histograms, two-dimensional and three-dimensional plotting, surface deformation, etc. for scalar data.
the  bindings also use theudunits library to do unit conversions.
nco nco (netcdf operators) is a package of command line operators  that work on generic netcdf or hdf4 files: ncap2 - arithmetic processor ncks - kitchen sink (extract, cut, paste, print data) ncpdq - permute dimensions quickly ncrename - renamer ncwa - weighted averager
this document provides references to software packages that may be used for manipulating or displayingnetcdf data.
the csiro matlab/netcdf interface is run from within matlab and has a  simple syntax.
for example, a raster image can exist in  the same file as a netcdf object, but you have to use the raster image  interface to read the image and the netcdf interface to read the netcdf object.
ingrid is currently running as a www daemon that can be accessed through http://rainbow.ldgo.columbia.edu/datacatalog.html to see some of its capabilities on a climate data catalog maintained by theclimate group of the lamont-doherty earth observatory of columbia university.
the sds project is in beta phase and keeps evolving.
more  information on airs products is available at http://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/airs/index.html.
as a result dx  operations or modules are polymorphic and appear typeless.
there are interfaces  to the hdf and netcdf file formats commonly used for such data, especially in  earth sciences such as oceanography and meteorology.
the package includes several step-by-step examples.
for shaded surface rendering, the polypaint+  routines first compute the polygon set that describes a desired surface within  the 3d data volume.
additional data sets can be overlaid on shaded surfaces by  color coding the data according to a specified color ramp.
netcdf is supported both as an input and an output format.
currently supported formats include netcdf, hdf4, grib1 and grib2 (read only), and hdf-eos 2 grid and swath data (read only).
icdf (imports chromatographic netcdf data into matlab)
although a few interfaces are not implemented yet, the current implementation is complete enough to provide significant i/o performance improvements on parallel platforms, as described in atechnical report.
finally, the client can also access cross-sections of variable data without paging large amounts of data across the network (as you would have to do with nfs, for example).
these  tools includegphys software to handle grib, grads, and netcdf data uniformly.
a general mathematical data model that can be adapted to virtually any  numerical data, that supports data sharing among different users, different  data sources and different scientific disciplines, and that provides  transparent access to data independent of storage format and location (i.e.,  memory, disk or remote).
anax (arm netcdf ascii extract) is a scaled-down version of andx -- it is designed to only extract ascii data.
as with earlier versions, data in several different formats, including  netcdf, can be read in easily from your local machine or from the web.
currently supported 3d visualizations are the following: shaded isosurface
ive uses netcdf for the data input format, and uses the ncar graphics  library to produce graphical output.
cvs  access to the current source can be arranged.
it has options for automatically handling missing values, scale factors, and permutation of hyperslabs.
in addition to several new analysis tools, the current fourth version does  automatic scripting.
the utilities within nctools were modified to compile with version 3.5 of the netcdf library, the command syntax was modified for consistency with other tools, and changes were made to accommodate arm standard netcdf.
the relatedogr library (which lives within the gdal source tree) provides a similar capability for simple features vector data.
multi-sheet workbooks, publication-quality graphics, and standardized analysis tools provide a tightly integrated workspace for you to import data, create and annotate graphs, explore and analyze data, and publish your work.
more information is available on the web-page: http://www.mpch-mainz.mpg.de/~joeckel/ncregrid/index.html.
in principle, any  program written using netcdf can be adapted to read data from an opendap server  - in other words any program which uses netcdf can become a client in the  opendap client-server system.
the software includes a graphical user interface for editing netcdf data and conversion to other data formats.
a multi-purpose tool for exploring grid  data.
usa e-mail : margi@aries.colorado.edu pomegranate the p9e team at nasa jpl has developed pomegranate, a python application  that "webifies" science data files.
gmt (generic mapping tools) is an open source collection of about 60 tools for manipulating geographic and cartesian data sets (including filtering, trend fitting, gridding, projecting, etc.) and producing encapsulated postscript file (eps) illustrations ranging from simple x-y plots via contour maps to artificially illuminated surfaces and 3-d perspective views.
ncregrid is freely available without any warranty under the  gnu public license (gpl).
libraries, for developing scientific visualization applications and for creating interactive graphs of array data in various formats, including hdf and netcdf.
in addition it offers a wide range of tools dedicated to  topics in the earth sciences, including tools for multibeam mission planning,  elastic deformation studies, tsunami propagation modeling, earth magnetic field  computations and magnetic parker inversions, euler rotations and poles  computations, plate tectonic reconstructions, and seismicity and focal  mechanism plotting.
netcdf data that conforms to zebra conventions is supported by this interface.
by implementing the common data model (a generalization of the netcdf, opendap and hdf5 data models) it can read both local and remote netcdf-3 and netcdf-4 files, data from opendap and adde servers, as well as grib, grib2, hdf4, hdf5, bufr, urf and tdwr files.
the icdf software is currently for xc-ms data (x: gc, lc, hplc), but soon it will be able to import data using other detectors as well.
a windows installation package for sds binaries along with dataset viewer and dataset editor are available also.
graphics styles included line plots, scatter plots, contour plots, color-filled contour plots, vector plots, wire frame plots, etc.
pycdf requires the numeric python package, and installs through the simple "python setyp.py install" command.
opendap is based  on existing data access tools; rather than developing a self contained system,  it makes extensive use of existing data access apis.
it allows  the use of "wildcards" (*) or ranges (1-4) in the subscript notation,  and use of name references instead of variable ids.
csiro matlab/netcdf interface the csiro matlab/netcdf interface is  now available from thecsiro marine laboratories.
gmt is developed and maintained  by paul wessel and walter h. f. smith with help from a global set of  volunteers, and is supported by the national science foundation.
gases omi uv-b at the surface toms ozone and aerosols instructions are available for searching and converting these data.
each grid can consist of scalar data from one variable or vector data from multiple variables.
functions have been added to support execution of arithmetic and logical operations, bundling or splitting netcdf files, comparing the structure or content of files, and so on.
contact epic@pmel.noaa.gov, or nancy soreide, nns@noaapmel.gov, for more information.
panoply is developed at the nasa goddard institute for space studies.
this data server is designed to make data accessible to people using www  clients (viewers) and to serve as a data resource for www documents.
the tools are very similar to konrad hinsen's netcdf package to python but can read and write in a parallel way.
in this way then, this open-source collection of tools also represents a library of coding examples for fundamental netcdf tasks.
in this way then, this open-source collection of tools also represents a  library of coding examples for fundamental netcdf tasks.
non-gridded or scattered data may be interpolated to an arbitrary grid or  triangulated, depending on the analysis requirements.
for vector data, arrow plots, streamlines, streaklines, etc. are provided.
highly  recommended for regression testing with large datasets.
ncl doesn't place any restrictions or conventions on the organization of input netcdf files.
a more detailed presentation of kst can be found on the web page at http://kst-plot.kde.org, including numerous screenshots and all the useful  download links.
the octcdf toolbox can also be used to download data from an opendap server.
meteoinfo can also be run automatically using meteoinfo scripting with the ironpython language.
gfdnavi uses a metadata database for managing and analyzing data and visualizations.
for more information on gri, see  the urlhttp://gri.sourceforge.net/. gxsm
gfdnavi (geophysical fluid data navigator) gfdnavi is a web-based tool to archive, share, distribute, analyze, and  visualize geophysical fluid data and knowledge.
data in conventional netcdfs are directly imported.
as well, it has been successfully ported to  vms, os/2 and win9*/nt (some functionality may be missing, though).
we include information about both  freely-available and licensed (commercial) software that can be used with  netcdf data.
arm added others which focus on manipulation of data within existing netcdf files.
polypaint+ is a joint effort of the university of colorado and ncar (national center for atmospheric research) funded by the nasa aisrp program.
email requests to rdp-support@atd.ucar.edu.
cdo (climate data operators) fimex (file interpolation, manipulation, and extraction) gdal (geospatial data abstraction library) gdl (gnu data language) gfdnavi (geophysical fluid data navigator) gmt (generic mapping tools) grads (grid analysis and display system) gri gxsm - gnome x scanning microscopy project hdf (hierarchical data format) interface hdf-eos to netcdf converter hiphop (handy idl-program for hdf-output plotting) hops (hyperslab operator suite)
the arm program has developed ants (arm netcdf tool suite), a collection  of netcdf tools and utilities providing various means of creating and modifying  netcdf files.
for more information about ezget, including instructions for downloading  the documentation or software, see the ezget home page at http://www-pcmdi.llnl.gov/ktaylor/ezget/ezget.html.
the epic software includes over 50 programs for  oceanographic display and analysis, as well as utilities for putting in-situ or  observational data on-line (with on-the-fly graphics and data download) on the  www.
john evans of rutgers university maintains mexnc and developed snctools.
features include: slice specific latitude-longitude, latitude-vertical, or time-latitude  arrays from multidimensional variables.
there is currently no support for the  mixing of hdf and netcdf structures.
more information is available on the web-page: http://home.badc.rl.ac.uk/iwi/ncensemble/. the source may be downloaded from ftp://cirrus.ucsd.edu/pub/ncview/.
note that hops is not a general purpose netcdf utility and works only for the ncar csm netcdf formats.
see also the ruby-basedgphys software and  gfdnavi tool for accessing grib, grads, and netcdf data uniformly.
paraview runs on distributed and shared memory parallel as well as single  processor systems and has been successfully tested on windows, linux and  various unix workstations and clusters.
web service apis are now under development.
sds uses native netcdf library built from version 4.0.1 both for 32 and 64-bit windows platforms.
epic noaa's pacific marine environmental laboratory ( pmel) has  developed theepic software package for oceanographic data.
dx supports a number of realization techniques for generating renderable geometry from data.
for more information please send email to: pathfinder@redrock.ncsa.uiuc.edu see also the information on ddi for another way to use netcdf data with iris explorer.
argos (interactive three-dimensional graphics observatory) is a new idl-based interactive 3d visualization tool, developed bydavid n. bresch and mark a. liniger at the institute for atmospheric science at the swiss federal institute of technology, eth, zürich.
only the required data (e.g., the variable or hyperslab  specified) are transferred.
the currently packaged tools are: the ncget tool implements functionalilty that is similar to hdp dumpsds (for netcdf, which lacks such a tool), or complements it in the case of hdf4.
an implementation is now available that  provides the netcdf interface to hdf.
opendap is based on existing data access tools; rather than developing a self contained system, it makes extensive use of existing data access apis.
for further details see license at http://sds.codeplex.com/license.
mirone (windows matlab-based display) joaquim luis of universidade do algarve has developed mirone, a windows  matlab-based framework tool that allows the display and manipulation of a large  number of grid/images formats through its interface with thegdal library.
it  provides both color shaded-surface display and simple volumetric rendering in  either index or true color.
on-line contextual help provides easy access to more detail about the software.
installanywhere installers for easy download and installation save display state to a bundle for easy recreation of views support for non-gridded data through the common data model (cdm)
one of ive's primary capabilities involves dimension reduction or "data slicing."
njtbx uses only java and m-files, thus should work on any version of matlab that supports java (matlab 6.5 and later) and on any platform.
it is freely available and  the source code is released under the (mit-style) netcdf c library license.
user-contributed software unidata makes available a separate catalog to a directory of freely  available, user-contributed software and documentation related to the netcdf  library.
excel use several packages are available for accessing netcdf data from microsoft  excel, including thenetcdf4excel add-in for excel, and a scientific dataset  (sds) library that supports a dataseteditor add-in for excel to view and modify  various forms of data, including netcdf.
it supports opening netcdf classic format data with excel for  read or write access.
where practical, we would like to include www links to information about these packages in the html version of this document.
noesys also includes an hdf-eos grid editor.
ezget reads files through thecdunif interface, but use of ezget does not require familiarity with cdunif.
many excellent software packages have been developed recently for scientific visualization.
intel array visualizer the intel® array visualizer and intel® array viewer are available  asfree downloads for windows platforms.
epslib allows transparent access to multiple data file formats a matlab mexeps interface for using any supported epic file with matlab suite of epic programs for graphics and analysis of hydrographic profile  data and time series data.
for each such couple of variables, the program computes the maximum of the absolute value of the difference, and the maximum of the absolute value of the relative difference.
dx runs on 7 major unix platforms as well as windows 95/nt and is designed to take full advantage of multi-processor systems from ibm, sgi and sun.
cids tools the center for clouds chemistry and climate ( c4)  integrated data systems (cids) group has developed several useful netcdf  utilities: cdf2idl: writes an idl script to read a netcdf file.
the netcdf framework is an open source (argonne  open source license) macosx application framework that provides an objective-c  interface to the ncar netcdf library version 3.
meteoinfo may be run in windows with .netframework 3.5, or in unix  like systems withmono, an open source implementation of the .net framework.
gfdnavi is a web-based tool to archive, share, distribute, analyze, and visualize geophysical fluid data and knowledge.
it handles multiple netcdf files as well as automatic max-min calculations, time-varying gridded, particle, and discrete data, logical groupings for discrete data, and an overall simplified and flexible interface for storing scientific data.
regular and irregular, deformed or curvilinear, structured and unstructured data as well as "missing" or invalid data are supported.
mixtures of compound and vlen data types (compound types containing vlens,  and vlens containing compound types) are not supported.
if you need help getting started, a remote tutorial is  available once you've downloaded the package.
the package from konrad hinsen has been integrated into his scientificpython  package.
aproject page on freshmeat.net.
python information and sources  can be obtained fromhttp://www.python.org/.
develop an extensible architecture based on open standards.
by implementing the common data model (a generalization of the netcdf,  opendap and hdf5 data models) it can read both local and remote netcdf-3 and  netcdf-4 files, data from opendap and adde servers, as well as grib, grib2,  hdf4, hdf5, bufr, urf and tdwr files.
the icdf software is currently for xc-ms data (x: gc, lc, hplc), but soon  it will be able to import data using other detectors as well.
installanywhere scripts for unix, win32, and macos.
two arrays may be combined in one plot by differencing, summing, or  averaging.
variables with the same  id in the two files are assumed to be of the same type and have the same shape.
currently uses java 2 and swing.
in addition, most data can be subset or subsampled on load, making it possible to visualize very large multidimensional and/or multispectral datasets.
a  beta version of polypaint+ is currently available free of charge using ftp or  for a nominal fee which would cover tape distribution.
the main functions are packed in the meteoinfo class library, which could be used to conveniently develop the software.
in order to build ncmex, a  compiled c netcdf library must already be installed.
more information about ncvtk is available  athttp://ncvtk.sourceforge.net.
the program handles data in netcdf, hdf and grib format.
support for accessing tiff image files from sds as 2d arrays will be available soon as a separate codeplex project.
joaquim luis of universidade do algarve has developed mirone, a windows matlab-based framework tool that allows the display and manipulation of a large number of grid/images formats through its interface with thegdal library.
it can read data  from its data catalog, a netcdf file, or a directly attached model, and output  the data, either by feeding it to a model, creating a netcdf file, or creating  plots and other representations of the data.
netcdf dimensions, attributes  and variables are octave objects and can be accessed, sliced and changed just  as regular variables.
with this software, it is possible to use  the netcdf calling interface to place data into an hdf file.
this python's package called "pypnetcdf" allows  access to netcdf files using mpi and the library pnetcdf developed by  http://www.mcs.anl.gov/parallel-netcdf/.
visage is used at ge corporate r & d, ge aircraft engine, ge canada, ge power generation, as well as eth zurich, switzerland, mqs in chieti, italy, and rensselaer polytechnic institute in troy, new york.
the length, area or  volume of various geometries may also be computed.
stretched rectangular grids (which occur when the stretching along a given coordinate is a function only of the value of that coordinate) can be accommodated by specifying one-dimensional arrays containing the grid-point locations along the stretched coordinate as part of the ive input data.
by default, the numbers within these arrays are assumed to represent grid point values of some field variable (such as pressure) on a rectangular evenly spaced grid.
regrettably this version is not as efficient as the native matlab code but provides a solution for users that don't have matlab.
opendap software is freely available in both source form or binary form for selected platforms.
the following table provides a brief overview of the main  categories.
opendap software is freely available in both source form or binary form for  selected platforms.
a  presentationintroducing gfdnavi describes the architecture and shows examples  of use.
the csiro matlab/netcdf interface is run from within matlab and has a simple syntax.
cdfsync joe sirott of noaa's pacific marine environmental laboratory has developed  cdfsync, a program that allows users to rapidly synchronize a set of netcdf  files over a network.
contact dan@computer.org  for more information.
the mrg cdfconvert package provided by the mesoscale research group, mcgill university/suny albany, is designed to address data conversion issues for gridded datasets stored under thecoards convention.
detailed controls over plot characteristics, page layout  and overlays are provided.
(can be created by "output map data" function in  meteoinfo) normal image data: bmp, jpg, gif, tiff,
one or more variables may be selected as well as step(s) of a time series.
datasetviewer has support for interactive  slicing of multidimensional data along any dimension.
the software, which runs as a standalone process or within pcmdi's  visualization and computation system (vcs), provides climate scientists with an  easy and fast method to read different file formats, and to analyze and  graphically display climate data in an integrated fashion.
provides a "tree" view of the netcdf file.
the visualization and enabling technologies section of ncar's scientific  computing division has developed the ncar command language (ncl), an intepreted  programming language for scientific data analysis and visualization.
if you know of corrections or additions, pleasesend them to us.
it is built on the open sourcersync program, but contains a number of optimizations including: the latest version should run on linux variants and solaris.
previous versions use the gnu lesser general public license (lgpl).
pomegranate can be installed on web servers as either a wsgi or cgi  application to provide webification (w10n) services.
panoply pupynere (pure python netcdf reader) pyngl and pynio freely available software andx and anax
for more information, see www.avizo3d.com.
the epic software  is available via anonymous ftp from ftp.noaapmel.gov in the epic/ and /eps  directories.
a  complete mac os x distribution including pre-built static library and  online documentation are available.
zebra was developed by jonathan corbet and others in  ncar'sresearch data program.
plus is now available at no charge.
the bindings also use theudunits library to do unit conversions.
it is based on  unidata's ncdump utility, and it keeps the original ncdump functionality,  unless the "-j" option is used to specify json output.
matlab help and example scripts using mexeps ascii2mat mexfunction, which reads a formatted file into matlab as  a matrix the mexeps package is freely available in pmel's anonymous ftp directory  ftp://ftp.pmel.noaa.gov/eps/mexeps/
pomegranate is open source software and can be downloaded from   http://www.openchannelsoftware.com/projects/pomegranate/. pyngl and pynio ncar's computational and information systems laboratory has developed pyngl , a python package for scientific visualization and data analysis andpynio, a  python package supporting access to a variety of data formats using an  interface modelled on netcdf.
several packages are available for accessing netcdf data from microsoft excel, including thenetcdf4excel add-in for excel, and a scientific dataset (sds) library that supports a dataseteditor add-in for excel to view and modify various forms of data, including netcdf.
three applications are built on top of sds: sds command line utility.
file contains other octave extension functions besides ncmex.)
noesys includes the visual data analysis tools, transform, t3d and plot, for menu driven plotting, rendering, and image analysis.
freely available software andx (arm netcdf data extract) and anax (arm netcdf ascii extract) ants (arm netcdf tool suite) argos (interactive three-dimensional graphics observatory) cdat (climate data analysis tool)
netcdf dimensions, attributes and variables are octave objects and can be accessed, sliced and changed just as regular variables.
the user interface provides direct manipulation tools for specifying the eye position, center of view, light sources, and color ramps.
it is being actively developed and  used in the aerospace and automotive fields for dynamics analysis and  simulation of complex systems.
ive currently has the capability to display ive lets you overlay plots, loop plots, and control a wide variety of display parameters.
the data viewer in particular demonstrates the power of the ingrid daemon.
you can specify how the data should be structured and whether it should undergo  a grid transformation before you receive it, even when you know little about  the original structure of the stored data (e.g., its original dimension order,  grid, and domain).
in addition to the base netcdf library interface, this package includes a simple toolbox to automate the reading and writing of netcdf files within octave using ncmex.
the client can see changes to the netcdf dataset, e.g. when new records are added (which would not be possible with ftp).
webwinds is a free java-based science visualization and analysis package.
the basis of the interface is a machine-dependent mex-file called mexcdf53.
hdf explorer offers a simple yet powerful interface for the visualization of hdf and netcdf data.
visad was  written by programmers at thessec visualization project at the university of  wisconsin-madisonspace science and engineering center, and the unidata program  center.
meteoinfo is freely available software designed to view and analyze meteorological and spatial data interactively.
more information is available on the web-page:   http://www.mpch-mainz.mpg.de/~joeckel/ncregrid/index.html. nctoolbox (a matlab common data model interface)
this add-in simplifies the use of netcdf data in excel, providing
the utilities  within nctools were modified to compile with version 3.5 of the netcdf library,  the command syntax was modified for consistency with other tools, and changes  were made to accommodate arm standard netcdf.
to obtain the epic software, please see web pages at http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/epic/download/index.html.
as an example of the use of gdal, converting an arcinfo ascii grid to  netcdf (gmt conventions) as easy as: gdal_translate arc_ascii.grd -of
for more information, seehttp://gxsm.sourceforge.net/. hdf interface the national center for supercomputing applications  (ncsa) has added the netcdf interface to theirhierarchical data format (hdf)  software.
a file conversion utility which converts from raw binary data to netcdf is a  part of the application.
a full list is available insupported formats.
mbdyn is an open-source multibody dynamics analysis system developed at the dipartimento di ingegneria aerospaziale of the university "politecnico di milano", italy.
sds uses native netcdf library built from version 4.0.1  both for 32 and 64-bit windows platforms.
frank warmerdam's gdal is a translator library for raster geospatial data formats that is released under an x/mit style open source license.
questions and suggestions should be directed to .
the netcdf framework is an open source (argonne open source license) macosx application framework that provides an objective-c interface to the ncar netcdf library version 3.
ingrid is currently running as a www daemon that can be accessed through  http://rainbow.ldgo.columbia.edu/datacatalog.html to see some of its  capabilities on a climate data catalog maintained by theclimate group of the  lamont-doherty earth observatory of columbia university.
a source-code only  distribution synced up to version 0.6.1 is available for gnustep for use on  linux and other unix platforms.
ferret offers a mathematica-like approach to analysis; new variables may be defined interactively as mathematical expressions involving data set variables.
ability to map data to a new grid at the time it is retrieved by ezget automatic creation of ``weights'' for use in subsequent averaging or  masking of data increased control in specifying the domain of the data to be retrieved.
other useful guides to utilities that can handle netcdf data include arm's  list ofarm-tested netcdf data tools, which includes some downloadable binaries  and the noaa geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory guide to netcdf utilities.
time range statistics (timavg, yearavg, monavg, dayavg, ...) field interpolation (remapbil, remapcon, remapdis, ...)
cdfconvert converts regular cylindrical equidistant (lat/long) and gaussian (spherical) netcdf grids into either the canadianrpn standard file or gempak file formats.
for questions or comments  on ezget, contact karl taylor (taylor13@llnl.gov).
applications linked to this framework have  no external dependencies (other than mac os x itself).
the calling syntax is identical, so scripts using ncmex  in matlab should in theory be portable to octave.
alexander bruhns has developed a netcdf add-in written in visual basic for ms excel.
nc copy file.grb file.ncor using ecmwf reanalysis on a reduced grid cdo -r -f
for readdf, the format translation is handled transparently.
features include: access to local and remote netcdf files and a variety of other data formats slicing and probing of multidimensional data support for netcdf conventions (cf, coards, nuwg, awips)
the other hdf interfaces are currently being modified to allow multi-file  access, closer integration with the netcdf interface will probably be delayed  until the end of that project.
it can be seen as a complement to the ncdump tool (included in both the netcdf and hdf4 distributions) as well.
graphical output of (atmospheric model) data can be quickly generated in a large number of different ways, including horizontal maps at selected model or pressure levels, vertical north-south, east-west, or slant cross-sections (including zonal averages), time slices, animations, etc.
the arm program has developed ants (arm netcdf tool suite), a collection of netcdf tools and utilities providing various means of creating and modifying netcdf files.
bill noon (noon@snow.cit.cornell.edu) has implemented another netcdf python  module that allows easy creation, access, and browsing of netcdf data.
webwinds webwinds is a free java-based science visualization and analysis package.
whether displayed graphically or extracted as ascii, results can be saved to disk or viewed on screen.
this interface is intended to cover all the functionality of the c library for netcdf.
the features that make ferret distinctive among these  packages are mathematica-like flexibility, geophysical formatting  (latitude/longitude/date), "intelligent" connection to its data base,  special memory management for very large calculations, and symmetrical  processing in 4 dimensions.
it runs under the x window system and osf  motif (recent versions of lesstif are, by and large, fine, too).
packages for windows, various linux distributions  and mac os x are available, as well as the complete source code and cmake-based  build files.
it has been designed to provide an array-processing facility with much of the functionality of languages such asapl , fortran-90,idl, j, matlab, and octave.
there are interfaces to the hdf and netcdf file formats commonly used for such data, especially in earth sciences such as oceanography and meteorology.
the key features of vtkcscsnetcdf are reads most netcdf files supports parallel read of data when used in conjunction with paraview creates vtkunstructuredgrid for data with boundary cell geometry creates vtkrectilineargrid for data with no boundary cell geometry but  with dimension arrays creates vtkuniformgrid for data with sizes but no dimension variables  (i.e. regular in all dimensions)
this greatly simplifies the retrieval of metadata and data from files in supported formats.
for more information, see:http://www.pyacts.org/pypnetcdf.
more information is available on the  web-page: http://www.mpch-mainz.mpg.de/~joeckel/ncdx/index.html.
although a few interfaces are not implemented yet, the current implementation  is complete enough to provide significant i/o performance improvements on  parallel platforms, as described in atechnical report.
you can also build core class libraries and the sds utility under mono.
solving fundamental problems in  chromatographic analysis analytical and bioanalytical chemistry, 390 (1):  281-285.
a license agreement must  be signed in order to use it.
gfdnavi is dependent on two technologies: as an example of this technology, takuji kubota has established a gfdnavi server for the global satellite mapping of precipitation (gsmap) project.
more information is available on the web-page: http://www.mpch-mainz.mpg.de/~joeckel/ncdx/index.html.
more information and source for noon's python netcdf module are available from http://snow.cit.cornell.edu/noon/ncmodule.html.
to download a copy of this release, go to http://www.sci-conservices.com/rel4/webpage/wwhome.html zebra's primary use is for the superpositioning of observational data sets (such as those collected by satellite, radar, mesonet and aircraft) and analysis products (such as model results, dual-doppler synthesis or algorithm output).
ingrid currently runs on linux, for which binaries are available.
compound and variable length (vlen) data types are supported, but the enum and opaque data types are not.
the developers are interested in coordinating with others who may be  developing oceanographic software for use with netcdf files.
polypaint+ contains a wide variety of options that control lighting,  viewing, and shading.
ncl has robust file input and output capabilities.
testing so far has been on linux platforms with romio and ibm sp machines using  ibm's mpi.
tools for data manipulation such as removal of data points, subsetting by position, sub/supersampling, grid construction, mapping, interpolation, regridding, transposition, etc. are available.
the climate data analysis tool (cdat), developed by the program  for climate model diagnosis and intercomparison (pcmdi) at lawrence livermore  national laboratory, provides the capabilities needed to analyze model data,  perform complex mathematical calculations, and graphically display the results.
heiko klein (norwegian meteorological institute) has developed the fimex (file interpolation, manipulation, and extraction) c++ library for gridded geospatial data.
mark tracy has written netcdfstep, an objective-c api for netcdf that uses objective-c foundation classes.
regular and irregular, deformed  or curvilinear, structured and unstructured data as well as "missing"  or invalid data are supported.
all three explorer coordinate systems are supported.
currently polypaint+ accepts only data which is in the netcdf file format.
handles dimensions without an associated variable.
gfdnavi uses a  metadata database for managing and analyzing data and visualizations.
it has options for automatically handling missing values, scale  factors, and permutation of hyperslabs.
hyperslab operator suite (hops)
it has some known bugs and limitations, but it's proved to be quite  usable.
a graphical user interface allows users to interact with their data via color/transparency/contour/vector plots, apply vertical slices, probe data, apply an external sun light, overlay hydrographic and geopolitical data, rotate, zoom, etc. with minimal fuss.
regressions, splines, running averages, dft/fft, cross/auto-correlation,  ... support for dynamic module loading.
see also the ruby-basedgphys software and gfdnavi tool for accessing grib, grads, and netcdf data uniformly.
numeric arrays are handled by the "narray"  multi-dimensional array class, which is becoming the de facto standard  multi-dimensional array for ruby.
the data model has been adapted to netcdf, fits,  hdf-eos, mcidas, vis5d, gif and jpeg file formats.
note that hops is not a general purpose netcdf utility and works only for  the ncar csm netcdf formats.
essentially every type of netcdf library function call is exercised in  ants.
the structure of more complicated curvilinear grids must be  communicated to ive via user supplied "transforms," which define the  mapping between physical space and the array indices.
the program and source are available from https://github.com/jllodra/ncdump-json .
also new is the ability to output data in numerical form (e.g. netcdf) and a context sensitive, integrated help system.
for another similar package, see nctoolbox.
as a result dx operations or modules are polymorphic and appear typeless.
jeff whitaker of the noaa earth system research lab has developed a  netcdf-4 module for python: http://code.google.com/p/netcdf4-python/. most new  features of netcdf-4 are implemented, such as multiple unlimited dimensions,  groups and zlib data compression.
at present, they have: a data file
contact steve hankin, hankin@noaapmel.gov, for more  information.
ncl is available under an open source license or in binary form for several popular unix platforms, including (but not limited to) linux, macosx, and windows/cygwin.
it converts between several data formats (currently netcdf, ncml, grib1 or grib2, and felt).
compared to the  unidata-provided fortran 90 netcdf interface, the netcdf95 interface is meant  to be easier to use and more secure.
create an open, flexible, and intuitive user interface.
questions and suggestions should be directed todr.
for more information or to obtain a trial copy, see the cei web site.
margi klemp university of colorado / lasp 1234
included in the source and binary distributions  are two freely available programs that have already been modified (re-linked).
there are now several netcdf  interfaces for python.
one of ive's primary capabilities involves dimension reduction or  "data slicing."
see thewebsite for more information.
ncregrid patrick jöckel of the max planck institute for chemistry has developed ncregrid, a tool (written in fortran-90) for data transfer of  gridded 2- and 3-dimensional (spatial) geophysical/geochemical scalar fields  between grids of different resolutions.
the library is freely available and the source code is released under an mit-style library license.
subsetting of data can be done easily by selecting the data by index or geographic coordinate.
the goals of the paraview project include the following: paraview runs on distributed and shared memory parallel as well as single processor systems and has been successfully tested on windows, linux and various unix workstations and clusters.
mrg cdfconvert has the flexibility to handle netcdf files generated by a number of sources, including ncep and ecmwf.
unlike most netcdf toolboxes for matlab, it does not depend on the ncmex wrapper around the netcdf interface.
the  package is available via anonymous ftp from ftp://ftp.unidata.ucar.edu/pub/netcdf/contrib/fan.tar.z. questions and comments  may be sent to harvey davies, harvey.davies@csiro.au. ferret ferret is an interactive computer visualization and analysis  environment designed to meet the needs of oceanographers and meteorologists  analyzing large and complex gridded data sets.
this greatly simplifies the retrieval of metadata and data from  files in supported formats.
io.netcdf and pynetcdf.
for information about epic,  please see the web pages athttp://www.pmel.noaa.gov/epic/index.html.
graphical output of (atmospheric model) data can be quickly generated in a  large number of different ways, including horizontal maps at selected model or  pressure levels, vertical north-south, east-west, or slant cross-sections  (including zonal averages), time slices, animations, etc.
anax (arm netcdf ascii extract) is a scaled-down version of andx -- it is  designed to only extract ascii data.
meteoinfo is freely available software designed to view and analyze  meteorological and spatial data interactively.
it has been tested with matlab versions 2008a, 2008b, 2009a, and 2009b.
ewb system features include: systems currently supported include win95, winnt, os/2, ibm rs/6000, silicon graphics, hp and sun workstations.
3d visualizations  can be viewed in stereo for added depth perspective.
field/vector operations such as  divergence, gradient and curl, dot and cross products, etc. are provided.
support is provided for data based on n-dimensional grids, where the dimensions correspond to continuous spatial coordinates.
andré gosselin of the institut maurice-lamontagne, péches  & océans canada, has implemented pycdf, a new python interface to  the netcdf library.
thus opendap-enabled nco can  operate on remote files accessible through any opendap server without  transferring the files.
decimate is currently licensed to cyberware, inc., makers of 3d laser digitizing hardware.
more information is available at thecdfsync website.
data probing, picking,  arbitrary surface and volume sampling, and arbitrary cutting/mapping planes are  supported.
for more information and to download the source code, see thenetcdflabview web site.
pomegranate can also be used as a standalone library or command line application.
for more details about the formats handled, program features, and pricing, see the radio-logic web site at.
the readdf module may be downloaded either via the www server or anonymous ftp at redrock.ncsa.uiuc.edu in the /pub/pathfinder directory.
as a library, it presents a single abstract data model to the calling application for all supported formats.
more information is available on the web-page:  http://home.badc.rl.ac.uk/iwi/ncensemble/. ncview ncview is a visual browser for netcdf files.
python is an interpreted, object-oriented language that is supported on a wide range of hardware and operating systems.
as with earlier versions, data in several different formats, including netcdf, can be read in easily from your local machine or from the web.
cdat includes a set  of pre-defined functions to allow the user to manipulate the data and send the  output to a file which can be viewed as an image, or as a collection of images  in an animation.
one or more variables may be  selected as well as step(s) of a time series.
the netcdf tools is a free software package consisting of a few tools operating on netcdf and, by utilizing the compatibility api, hdf4 files, which are intended to be usable from shell scripts.
as an example of the use of gdal, converting an arcinfo ascii grid to netcdf (gmt conventions) as easy as: gdal_translate arc_ascii.grd -of
the octcdf source code is available at http://modb.oce.ulg.ac.be/mediawiki/index.php/netcdf_toolbox_for_octave.
you may use, copy, and reproduce this software for any  non-commercial purpose.
more information about ruby is available from the ruby web site.
ive currently has the capability to display scalar fields as vector fields as 2d vector plots ive lets you overlay plots, loop plots, and control a wide variety of  display parameters.
there are more than 350 operators available.
josep llodrà has developed a program to output the contents of a netcdf-3 or netcdf-4 file in json (javascript object notation).
user-definable conversion tables make the  extension of the package to different datasets possible.
all features of andx pertaining to non-graphic data extraction are included in anax.
the yorick version too runs on most common unix platforms, such as sun,  sgi, cray, and linux computers.
it can be used to open netcdf files from many different instruments (e.g. agilent, bruker) and many chromatographic software packages (e.g. chemstation).
included in the source and binary distributions are two freely available programs that have already been modified (re-linked).
the currently packaged tools are: a couple of simple shell wrappers over the respective netcdf functions  (ncattget and ncattput); a more sophisticated ncget tool.
all interactive activities are tracked in a script, allowing quick reconstruction of anything done as well as running argos in batch script mode.
ive is, nevertheless, capable of displaying data on arbitrary curvilinear grids.
data handling capabilities permit external analysis programs to be easily  linked with display and data storage processes.
gmt supports 30 map projections and transformations and comes with support data such as coastlines, rivers, and political boundaries.
ncl (ncar command language) nctoolbox (a matlab common data model interface) ncview netcdf4excel (add-in for ms excel) netcdf95 alternative fortran api opendx (formerly ibm data explorer)
fimex also enables you to change the  projection and interpolation of scalar and vector grids, to subset the gridded  data, and to extract only parts of the files.
the netcdf-java library  is a 100% java framework forreading netcdf and other file formats into  the cdm, as well aswriting to the netcdf-3 file format.
by  default, the numbers within these arrays are assumed to represent grid point  values of some field variable (such as pressure) on a rectangular evenly spaced  grid.
the dx import  module, which reads data for use within data explorer directly utilizes data in  netcdf as well as other formats (e.g., hdf, cdf).
dx is built upon an internal data model, which describes and provides  uniform access services for any data brought into, generated by, or exported  from the software.
netcdfstep is framework for using the netcdf library in object-oriented programming with objective-c. it now supports the full functionality of netcdf 3.6.2.
the details of the data model are hidden at the user level.
gdal frank warmerdam's gdal is a translator library for raster geospatial data  formats that is released under an x/mit style open source license.
documentation and additional information on ncl are available from the ncl website, which contains hundreds of application examples for one to download.
these polygons are then rendered as continuously shaded  surfaces.
this highly flexible system allows scientific investigators to  interactively superimpose and highlight diverse data sets; thus aiding data  interpretation.
in addition to netcdf, it also reads hdf, cdf, vogl, and sgi gl.
the  package includes several step-by-step examples.
the latest version should run on linux variants and solaris.
all the new numeric data types (such as  64-bit and unsigned integer types) are implemented.
gmt supports 30  map projections and transformations and comes with support data such as  coastlines, rivers, and political boundaries.
such an integration will then allow tools written for netcdf and tools written for hdf to both interact intelligently with the new data files.
the r project for statistical computing has developed r, a language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.
included with the software are two command line tools:  "ncl_convert2nc" for converting grib-1/2 or hdf files to netcdf  files, and "ncl_filedump" which will dump the contents of a file  format that ncl recognizes (netcdf, grib-1/2, hdf, etc).
if you  know of corrections or additions, pleasesend them to us.
more information  and source for noon's python netcdf module are available from http://snow.cit.cornell.edu/noon/ncmodule.html.
included with the software are two command line tools: "ncl_convert2nc" for converting grib-1/2 or hdf files to netcdf files, and "ncl_filedump" which will dump the contents of a file format that ncl recognizes (netcdf, grib-1/2, hdf, etc).
there are also specialized functions for generating histograms, wind roses, meteograms, skew-t plots, weather maps.
the package from konrad hinsen has been integrated into his scientificpython package.
ncvtk is a program for exploring planetary data stored in a netcdf file.
the idv uses thevisad java library for interactive and collaborative  visualization and analysis and thenetcdf
argos argos (interactive three-dimensional graphics observatory) is a new  idl-based interactive 3d visualization tool, developed bydavid n. bresch and  mark a. liniger at the institute for atmospheric science at the swiss federal  institute of technology, eth, zürich.
mixtures of compound and vlen data types (compound types containing vlens, and vlens containing compound types) are not supported.
for more information, check  out thereadme file; you can also see a representative screen image (gif, 66k)  of ncview in action.
mathematica is a technical computing environment that provides advanced numerical and symbolic computation and visualization.
on-line contextual help provides easy access to more detail about  the software.
netcdf toolbox for matlab-5
meraf is being used by the doe at the hanford-meteorological site for observational data and will be used for their weather-modeling.
noesys can import hdf, hdf-eos, netcdf, ascii, binary, dted, geotiff, sdts, tiff, pict, and bmp files, create annotations, macros, images, projections and color palettes specific to the data and save it the result as an hdf file.
in addition, this version contains a capability to geo-reference some data  and to read ascii data in tabular format.
with a client program accessing data from a netcdf server, it is possible  to access a small subset of a large dataset over the internet without copying  the entire dataset (as you would have to do with ftp or afs).
pomegranate can also be used as a standalone library or command line  application.
this is a program which compares two netcdf files.
dan schmitt has developed cdftcl, a tcl/tk interface for netcdf.
hdf-eos to netcdf converter the goddard earth sciences data and information services center (ges disc)  has developed an on-the-fly hdf-eos to netcdf/cf converter for the following  products, making them easier to use in theunidata idv and mcidas-v: airs level 2 (scene) profiles of moisture, air temperature and trace gases airs level 3 (global grid) profiles of moisture, air temperature and trace
you can also build core class libraries and the sds  utility under mono.
the source may be downloaded from ftp://cirrus.ucsd.edu/pub/ncview/. for  more information, please contact the author, david w. pierce atdpierce@ucsd.edu.
it can be seen as a complement to the ncdump tool (included in both the netcdf  and hdf4 distributions) as well.
features designed to work with arbitrary netcdf files.
it has been designed to provide an  array-processing facility with much of the functionality of languages such asapl , fortran-90,idl, j, matlab, and octave.
cdfconvert the mrg cdfconvert package provided by the mesoscale research group,  mcgill university/suny albany, is designed to address data conversion issues  for gridded datasets stored under thecoards convention.
it allows different  datasets of different formats (netcdf, netcdf4 classic, hdf4, hdf4-eos, grib-1,  and grib-2) to be imported into one uniform and consistent data manipulation  environment, which internally is the netcdf data format.
ncvtk ncvtk is a program for exploring planetary data stored in a netcdf file.
grads is implemented on all commonly  available unix workstations, apple macintosh, and dos or linux based pcs, and  is freely available via anonymous ftp.
if you have problems reading a netcdf file with ncbrowse, please send him a  copy of the file and he'll get ncbrowse to read it!
all data is projected according to the  coordinates specified by the user for the cross section window.
for further information and installation, please e-mail to: bresch@atmos.umnw.ethz.ch it includes the ability to ingest large climate datasets in netcdf, hdf, drs, and grads/grib format; the visualization and computation system (vcs) module, visually displays and animates ingested or created data; and the library of amip data transmission standards (lats) module outputs data in the machine-independent netcdf or grads/grib file formats.
for others interested in programming with netcdf.dll from vb 6, see wieczorrek's web page onnetcdf and vb 6.0 and for vb.net, seenetcdf and vb.net.
it can read data from its data catalog, a netcdf file, or a directly attached model, and output the data, either by feeding it to a model, creating a netcdf file, or creating plots and other representations of the data.
it is, however, limited to retrieving  data from, and information about, existing netcdf files.
such an integration will then allow tools written for  netcdf and tools written for hdf to both interact intelligently with the new  data files.
cvs access to the current source can be arranged.
user-definable conversion tables make the extension of the package to different datasets possible.
testing so far has been on linux platforms with romio and ibm sp machines using ibm's mpi.
it currently requires jdk 1.1.
essentially every type of netcdf library function call is exercised in ants.
see also the information on ddi for another way to use netcdf data with avs.
it was developed with c# in the microsoft .net
coordinate information from the file is also included in the grids.
save to file single variable as a "cdl" text file.
these tools as well as the source for ncmex are available  from http://engineering.arm.gov/~sbeus/octavex/octavex.tar (note:
panoply panoply is an application that plots longitude-latitude and  latitude-vertical gridded data from netcdf and hdf data.
supported meteorological data formats: the mexeps package is freely available in pmel's anonymous ftp directory ftp://ftp.pmel.noaa.gov/eps/mexeps/
to quote the  introduction: the data catalog is both a catalog and a library of datasets,  i.e. it both helps you figure out which data you want, and helps you work with  the data.
all interactive activities are tracked in a script,  allowing quick reconstruction of anything done as well as running argos in  batch script mode.
this highly flexible system allows scientific investigators to interactively superimpose and highlight diverse data sets; thus aiding data interpretation.
this python's package called "pypnetcdf" allows access to netcdf files using mpi and the library pnetcdf developed by http://www.mcs.anl.gov/parallel-netcdf/.
the algorithm handles data on rectangular latitude/longitude grids (not necessarily evenly spaced) and vertical pressure hybrid grids of arbitrary resolution.
the add-in is written in vba 6.0 (so it won't work with office 2010 64  bits) and is designed for excel 2007 running with the microsoft windows  operating system.
the goals of the paraview project include the following: develop an open-source, multi-platform visualization application.
datasetviewer is  both a standalone application and windows presentation foundation control that  can be built into your applications.
applications linked to this framework have no external dependencies (other than mac os x itself).
it also allows exporting your data either as an ascii text file or a bitmap image.
for questions or comments on ezget, contact karl taylor (taylor13@llnl.gov).
there are also specialized functions for  generating histograms, wind roses, meteograms, skew-t plots, weather maps.
visage is designed to interface with a wide variety of data, and uses netcdf as the preferred format.
panoply requires that your computer have a java 5 runtime environment, or  better, installed.
the design of hops is object-oriented, rather than procedure-oriented; the operators treat the numeric data and the associated meta-data (like coordinate information) as a single object.
an application library is available for data handling.
the program also tells you at what location (the subscript  list of the array)
supports files with multiple time steps perl interfaces there are two netcdf interfaces for perl: pdl::netcdf, doug hunt's perl interface which uses the pdl (perl data  language) extension.
three types of storages are  supported by the first release: netcdf files, csv text files and volatile  in-memory datasets.
the program also tells you at what location (the subscript list of the array)
this allows a user to rapidly and automatically create and store a session, either  for his own use, or for use by a collaborator on another machine; a data provider to automatically create a specialized analysis  environment which can be downloaded (as a small script file) along with a  dataset from a website; and realtime collaboration or sharing of sessions over (even low-bandwidth)  networks, including the internet.
it can use mpi, include/exclude specific variables or metadata and operates quickly.
geographic map data of micaps.
dx is built upon an internal data model, which describes and provides uniform access services for any data brought into, generated by, or exported from the software.
the add-in is written in vba 6.0 (so it won't work with office 2010 64 bits) and is designed for excel 2007 running with the microsoft windows operating system.
hdf explorer features include fast access to data, grid, scalar and vector views.
all the new numeric data types (such as 64-bit and unsigned integer types) are implemented.
up to five unique lattices may be generated from the file (as these files can contain multiple data fields) using a single module.
the gxsm is the gnome x scanning microscopy project, it is a bit  more than just a piece of software (the gxsm itself), there is full hardware  support for dsp cards including open source dsp software and a growing set of  spm related electronics.
we include information about both freely-available and licensed (commercial) software that can be used with netcdf data.
cdo (climate data operators) uwe schulzweida at the max planck institute for meteorology has developed  cdo, a collection of operators to manipulate and analyze climate data files.
contact  epic@pmel.noaa.gov, or nancy soreide, nns@noaapmel.gov, for more information.
tcl/tk interfaces dan schmitt has developed cdftcl, a tcl/tk interface for netcdf.
meteoinfo may be run in windows with .netframework 3.5, or in unix like systems withmono, an open source implementation of the .net framework.
subsetting of  data can be done easily by selecting the data by index or geographic  coordinate.
the original functions from nctools were intended mainly for the creation,  definition, and copying of fundamental netcdf elements.
it offers a comprehensive feature set that addresses visualization, processing, analysis, communication and presentation.
some gis functions were developed from ground level.
it can be used to  open netcdf files from many different instruments (e.g. agilent, bruker) and  many chromatographic software packages (e.g. chemstation).
information about copyright and licensing conditions are available.
ive allows the user to display lower-dimensional  subsets of the data by fixing a coordinate or by averaging over the coordinate.
there are now several netcdf interfaces for python.
the octcdf toolbox can also  be used to download data from an opendap server.
viewncdap is a windows application that includes temporal/time step functionality for viewing animations of data that include temporal information.
lionel guez has developed and made feely available netcdf95, a new alternative fortran interface to the netcdf library.
all features of andx pertaining to  non-graphic data extraction are included in anax.
the application writes netcdf files that can  be read by chromeleon, for example.
python information and sources can be obtained fromhttp://www.python.org/.
it also allows  mathematical operations on the existing fields to generate new fields for  further analysis, and it can be run as a batch application.
patrick jöckel of the max planck institute for chemistry has developed ncregrid, a tool (written in fortran-90) for data transfer of gridded 2- and 3-dimensional (spatial) geophysical/geochemical scalar fields between grids of different resolutions.
vertical interpolation (ml2pl, ml2hl) time interpolation (inttime, intyear)
automated installation scripts are  available for windows and unix.
it can be  foundhere
the software has a gradual learning curve, allowing the novice  user to quickly obtain useful results.
the general  philosophy behind snctools is providing the ability to read and write data  without trying to invent a new syntax.
a  substantial set of applications and utilities based on hdf is available; these  support raster-image manipulation and display and browsing through  multidimensional scientific data.
leonetcdf is a windows application (windows96/nt and higher) for editing netcdf files.
a general display model that supports interactive 3-d, data fusion,  multiple data views, direct manipulation, collaboration, and virtual reality.
since the dx data model is more comprehensive than the netcdf data model, a methodology to extend netcdf via attribute conventions (e.g., for unstructured meshes, non-scalar data and hierarchies) for use with data explorer is available.
also see j. f. luis.
a ready to use solution for manipulating this type of data.
fimex also enables you to change the projection and interpolation of scalar and vector grids, to subset the gridded data, and to extract only parts of the files.
it can use mpi,  include/exclude specific variables or metadata and operates quickly.
tcl-nap (n-dimensional array processor) is a loadable extension of tcl which provides a powerful and efficient facility for processing data in the form of n-dimensional arrays.
mbdyn features the integrated multidisciplinary analysis of multibody, multiphysics systems, including nonlinear mechanics of rigid and flexible constrained bodies, smart materials, electric networks, active control, hydraulic networks, essential fixed-wing and rotorcraft aerodynamics.
panoply is an application that plots longitude-latitude and latitude-vertical gridded data from netcdf and hdf data.
remik ziemlinski of the noaa geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory has developednccmp, a tool to compare two netcdf files.
vgeo (virtual global explorer and observatory) is an end-user product from vrco designed to import and visualize multiple disparate data sets, including computer simulations, observed measurements, images, model objects, and more.
it combines: the use of pure java for platform independence and to support data sharing  and real-time collaboration among geographically distributed users.
mrg  cdfconvert has the flexibility to handle netcdf files generated by a number of  sources, including ncep and ecmwf.
these include color and opacity mapping (e.g., for surface  and volume rendering), contours and isosurfaces, histograms, two-dimensional  and three-dimensional plotting, surface deformation, etc. for scalar data.
png plot options of  grid data: contour plot options of station data: station point plot options of line data (trajectory, typhoon,  etc): trajline trajpoint mexeps pmel has developed a matlab interface, mexeps, which supports  several netcdf file conventions, including those adopted by pmel.
gmt is developed and maintained by paul wessel and walter h. f. smith with help from a global set of volunteers, and is supported by the national science foundation.
it includes support for reading netcdf grid data.
pupynere (pure python netcdf reader) roberto de almeida has developed pupynere, a pure python netcdf reader that allows read-access to netcdf files using the same syntax as the scientific.
it should not be considered a gis system, but is used to quickly preview a variety of data on a simple map.
hdf explorer runs in the microsoft windows operating systems.
in  addition, most data can be subset or subsampled on load, making it possible to  visualize very large multidimensional and/or multispectral datasets.
overlay continent outlines or masks on lon-lat plots.
the netcdf data format is preferred, but any other format can be read by providing an idl (or fortran or c or c++) interface.
ive ive (interactive visualization environment) is a software package designed  to interactively display and analyze gridded data.
cdfconvert converts  regular cylindrical equidistant (lat/long) and gaussian (spherical) netcdf  grids into either the canadianrpn standard file or gempak file formats.
dx runs on 7 major unix platforms as well as windows 95/nt and is designed  to take full advantage of multi-processor systems from ibm, sgi and sun.
hardcopy support for postscript, pdf, gif, and pnm formats.
vicente galiano of miguel hernandez university has developed a python interface to pnetcdf.
the package was developed and is maintained by l. f. hwang of sun yat-sen university in china.
mirone (windows matlab-based display) ncensemble (command line utility to do ensemble statistics)
ncensemble alan iwi, of rutherford appleton laboratory, offers this command line  ensemble statistics utility.
like python and vtk, ncvtk is highly portable and known to run on windows and  linux (i386, ia64, emt64) platforms.
data analysis and computation integrated with visualization to support  computational steering and other complex interaction modes.
objective-c api tom moore has an objective-c api, available here:  www.paleoterra.com/software.
additional  functions have special support for multi-dimensional data such as  "slicing" cross sections from multi-dimensional variable data or  joining lesser-dimensional fields to form multi-dimensional structures.
netcdf-java toolbox for matlab the nj toolbox (njtbx) was developed by rich signell (usgs) and sachin  bhate (mississippi state) to make it easier for matlab users to harness the  power of the netcdf-java library from unidata.
geographic map data of grads.
the design of hops is object-oriented,  rather than procedure-oriented; the operators treat the numeric data and the  associated meta-data (like coordinate information) as a single object.
users are invited to  test parallel-netcdf in their applications.
max_diff_nc this is a program which compares two netcdf files.
this add-in simplifies the use of netcdf data in excel, providing a ready to use solution for manipulating this type of data.
a license agreement must be signed in order to use it.
for developers, the open-source (gpl v3 license) can be downloaded  directly or checked out with mercurial.
documentation and downloads are available from the fimex web site.
labeled raw (read/write), dted (read), sdts dem (read), ceos (read), jpeg (read/write), png (read/write), geosoft gxf (read) and arc/info binary grid (read).
opendap enables network  transparent data access to any opendap server.
octave interface the arm program has contributed ncmex for octave, a port of chuck denham's  matlab ncmex tooctave.
telephone : 303-492-7289 (margi klemp) : 303-497-8159 (bill boyd)
the structure of more complicated curvilinear grids must be communicated to ive via user supplied "transforms," which define the mapping between physical space and the array indices.
pomegranate is open source software and can be downloaded from http://www.openchannelsoftware.com/projects/pomegranate/. ncar's computational and information systems laboratory has developed pyngl , a python package for scientific visualization and data analysis andpynio, a python package supporting access to a variety of data formats using an interface modelled on netcdf.
to learn more about w10n  of science data files, please visithttp://webification.org/. a brief help  document describes how to use thedemo directory to browse or download metadata  or data in netcdf, json, or other formats by clicking on data folder and  document icons.
dave brown of ncar's computational and information systems laboratory has  developedpynio, a python package that allows read and/or write access to a  variety of data formats using an interface modelled on netcdf.
graphics styles included line  plots, scatter plots, contour plots, color-filled contour plots, vector plots,  wire frame plots, etc.
in addition to several new analysis tools, the current fourth version does automatic scripting.
interfaces to other data formats (e.g. ascii and binary data) can be added easily.
the framework is available both  as source code and universal compiles (works on both ppc and intel macs).
grace runs on  practically any version of unix.
a source-code only distribution synced up to version 0.6.1 is available for gnustep for use on linux and other unix platforms.
andré gosselin of the institut maurice-lamontagne, péches & océans canada, has implemented pycdf, a new python interface to the netcdf library.
a windows  installation package for sds binaries along with dataset viewer and dataset
the dx import module, which reads data for use within data explorer directly utilizes data in netcdf as well as other formats (e.g., hdf, cdf).
also see thencdx tool for making netcdf files opendx  compliant.
pycdf requires the numeric  python package, and installs through the simple "python setyp.py  install" command.
the library is a prototype for the netcdf-4 project, which provides a c language api for the "data access layer" of the cdm, on top of the hdf5 file format.
ncl is available under an open source license or in binary form for  several popular unix platforms, including (but not limited to) linux, macosx,  and windows/cygwin.
the visualizations are publication-quality and highly customizable, with hundreds of options available for tweaking the looks of your graphics.
you can also drag a netcdf file from windows explorer and drop it in an esri application such as arcmap.
jeff whitaker of the noaa earth system research lab has developed a netcdf-4 module for python: http://code.google.com/p/netcdf4-python/. most new features of netcdf-4 are implemented, such as multiple unlimited dimensions, groups and zlib data compression.
see thewebsite for  more information.
with a client program accessing data from a netcdf server, it is possible to access a small subset of a large dataset over the internet without copying the entire dataset (as you would have to do with ftp or afs).
the source code is freely available from the nco home page, as is the nco user's guide.
ncdx is freely available without any warranty  under the gnu public license (gpl).
in addition it offers a wide range of tools dedicated to topics in the earth sciences, including tools for multibeam mission planning, elastic deformation studies, tsunami propagation modeling, earth magnetic field computations and magnetic parker inversions, euler rotations and poles computations, plate tectonic reconstructions, and seismicity and focal mechanism plotting.
vti is a technology that supports making external datasets appear as tables to sql queries and statements.
meteoinfo dr. ya-qiang wang, chinese academy of meteorological sciences, has  developed themeteoinfo application to view and analyze meteorological and  spatial data.
nc copy file.grb file.nc more information is available on the cdo homepage.
multiple variables may be combined in a single lattice to generate vector data.
the netcdf-java library is a 100% java framework forreading netcdf and other file formats into the cdm, as well aswriting to the netcdf-3 file format.
for  more information, see:http://www.pyacts.org/pypnetcdf.
highly recommended for regression testing with large datasets.
innovation dr. boulder, co 80303
the fields for display, color tables, contour intervals and various other display options are defined using an icon based user-interface.
opendx opendx (formerly ibm data explorer, also known as simply dx)  is a general-purpose software package for data visualization and analysis.
some toolboxes (for atmospheric model output, trajectory display,  radar data) have already been written, others might easily be added (in idl,  fortran or c code).
the input/output data format is netcdf.
it also supports those entities required for graphics and imaging operations within the context of data explorer.
since most documents cannot use raw data, the server is able to deliver the data in a variety of ways: as data files (netcdf and hdf), as tables (html), and in a variety of plots (line, contour, color, vector) and plot formats (postscript and gif).
see the web site http://nccmp.sourceforge.net/ for more information.
java interface the netcdf-java 4.2 library is a java interface to netcdf files, as well  as to many other types of scientific data formats.
as an example of this technology, takuji kubota has established a gfdnavi  server for the global satellite mapping of precipitation (gsmap) project.
scientific dataset (sds) library the scientific dataset library and tools project, developed jointly by  microsoft research cambridge and moscow state university, is aimed at  manipulation and visualization of multidimensional data sets.
fimex heiko klein (norwegian meteorological institute) has developed the fimex  (file interpolation, manipulation, and extraction) c++ library for gridded  geospatial data.
netcdf data that conforms to  zebra conventions is supported by this interface.
data may be overlaid on a variety of display types, including constant  altitude planes, vertical cross-sections, x-y graphs, skew-t plots and  time-height profiles.
usa the p9e team at nasa jpl has developed pomegranate, a python application that "webifies" science data files.
ge has another application called "decimate" that does polygon reduction/decimation (schroeder,wj et al, "decimation of triangle meshes", proceedings of siggraph `92).
paraview and vtkcscsnetcdf http://www.paraview.org/ paraview is an application designed with the need to visualize large data  sets in mind.
version 2 of the framework will provide classes for accessing multiple netcdf files, working with in-memory data slabs using standard notation, and some support for multithreading.
visad is designed to support a wide variety of user interfaces, ranging from  simple data browser applets to complex applications that allow groups of  scientists to collaboratively develop data analysis algorithms.
http://www.paraview.org/ paraview is an application designed with the need to visualize large data sets in mind.
ncvtk was designed from the ground up with the aim of offering a high  degree of interactivity to scientists who have a need to explore structured,  three-dimensional, time-dependent climate data on the sphere.
only the required data (e.g., the variable or hyperslab specified) are transferred.
the internal data structure is called a nao (n-dimensional array object) and contains similar information to that of hdf sdss and netcdf variables.
the atmospheric and oceanic sciences group at the national center for supercomputing applications (ncsa) and the mesoscale dynamics and precipitation branch at nasa-goddard space flight center have developed the ncsa pathfinder module set foriris explorer.
it provides a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linear and nonlinear modelling, statistical tests, time series analysis, classification, and clustering.
ive also can perform algebraic computations on the gridded data and can calculate derivatives.
variables with the same id in the two files are assumed to be of the same type and have the same shape.
the calling syntax is identical, so scripts using ncmex in matlab should in theory be portable to octave.
data handling capabilities permit external analysis programs to be easily linked with display and data storage processes.
like python and vtk, ncvtk is highly portable and known to run on windows and linux (i386, ia64, emt64) platforms.
dataseteditor add-in for microsoft office excel.
tutorials which range from very simple visualizations to complex combinations of data sets provide the user with a quick learning tool.
pomegranate can be installed on web servers as either a wsgi or cgi application to provide webification (w10n) services.
if the data points are not evenly spaced on a rectangular grid, ive must be  informed of the grid structure, either by specifying "attributes" in  the data input or by specifying the coordinate transform in a user supplied  subroutine.
for earlier versions, several freely-available software packages that implement a matlab/netcdf interface are available:netcdf toolbox for matlab-5, mexeps, the csiro matlab/netcdf interface, netcdf reader, and fanmat.
gmt gmt (generic mapping tools) is an open source collection of about 60 tools  for manipulating geographic and cartesian data sets (including filtering, trend  fitting, gridding, projecting, etc.) and producing encapsulated postscript file  (eps) illustrations ranging from simple x-y plots via contour maps to  artificially illuminated surfaces and 3-d perspective views.
auser guide is also available with examples.
auser guide is  also available with examples.
visad visad is a java class library for interactive and collaborative  visualization and analysis of numerical data.
dr. ya-qiang wang, chinese academy of meteorological sciences, has developed themeteoinfo application to view and analyze meteorological and spatial data.
staggered meshes can also be accommodated by setting "attributes" in the input data.
it handles cf conventions and includes some aliasing features that could permit additional formats to be read.
features include: panoply requires that your computer have a java 5 runtime environment, or better, installed.
ive is available as source via anonymous ftp; and as binary on request for licensees of ncar graphics.
consequently, users of ufi can perform sql queries on their files without having to first load them into a database.
batch mode for unattended plotting.
staggered meshes can also be accommodated by setting "attributes" in  the input data.
the developers are interested in coordinating with others who may be developing oceanographic software for use with netcdf files.
solving fundamental problems in chromatographic analysis analytical and bioanalytical chemistry, 390 (1): 281-285.
although mirone is written in matlab, a stand-alone version to run under windows is also provided.
the maximum difference is reached.
it also supports those entities required for graphics and imaging  operations within the context of data explorer.
gdl supports the netcdf-3 api.
the framework is available both as source code and universal compiles (works on both ppc and intel macs).
compared to the unidata-provided fortran 90 netcdf interface, the netcdf95 interface is meant to be easier to use and more secure.
installation of the software  (including java) on the pc or mac is a process requiring one file to be  downloaded and opened.
the interface allows you to make plots, tables, and files from any  dataset, its subsets, or processed versions thereof.
a highly optimized graphical user interface allows quick and elegant  creation of even complex 3d graphics (volume rendering, isosurfaces,...),  including z-buffered overlays (with hidden lines), light and data shading, xray  images, 3d trajectories, animations and virtual flights around your data, all  documented in a full on-linehtml-help.
the package can access coards-compliant netcdf grids as well as ascii,  native binary, or user-defined formats.
gdal is in active use in several projects, and includes roughly 40 format drivers, including a translator for netcdf (read/write).
to quote the introduction: the data catalog is both a catalog and a library of datasets, i.e. it both helps you figure out which data you want, and helps you work with the data.
since four-dimensional data cannot be directly displayed on a flat computer screen, it is necessary to reduced the dimensionality of the data before it is displayed.
the library functions allow data storage, retrieval and queries using a single applications interface, regardless of the data's source and organization.
comparision (eq, ne, le, lt, ge, gt, ...) conditions (ifthen, ifnotthen, ifthenc, ifnotthenc) field statistics (fldsum, fldavg, fldstd, fldmin, fldmax, ...) vertical statistics (vertsum, vertavg, vertstd, vertmin, ...)
the library functions allow  data storage, retrieval and queries using a single applications interface,  regardless of the data's source and organization.
stretched rectangular grids (which occur when the stretching along  a given coordinate is a function only of the value of that coordinate) can be  accommodated by specifying one-dimensional arrays containing the grid-point  locations along the stretched coordinate as part of the ive input data.
for read-only access to existing netcdf data, the csiro interface has a simpler  syntax than the netcdf toolbox, but the latter may also be used to create and  manipulate netcdf variables and datasets.
the  library is freely available and the source code is released under an mit-style  library license.
unidata's integrated data viewer (idv) is a java application (for java 1.4 or later) that can be used to display a variety of netcdf files, particularly well formatted, geolocated datasets.
data may also be filtered and saved to a local netcdf file.
mbdyn (multibody dynamics) mbdyn is an open-source multibody dynamics analysis system developed at  the dipartimento di ingegneria aerospaziale of the university "politecnico  di milano", italy.
more complicated computations can be performed in user supplied subroutines.
documentation and code for parallel-netcdf is now available for testing.
file information (info, sinfo, diff, ...) file operations (copy, cat, merge, split*, ...)
it does require licensing on a per computer basis, but the license is at no cost.
more information on airs products is available at http://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/airs/index.html.
a general description of originlab corporation: "originlab corporation produces professional data analysis and graphing software for scientists and engineers.
it allows one to feed the data contained in netcdf variables (or hdf4 sds) to the tools designed to operate on either ascii (text) or raw (binary) data.
if you have any questions or comments, please contact the author, willa zhu  (willa@pmel.noaa.gov) or nancy soreide (nns@pmel.noaa.gov).
dx supports a number of non-graphical functions such as point-wise mathematical expressions (e.g., arithmetic, transcendental, boolean, type conversion, etc.), univariate statistics and image processing (e.g., transformation, filter, warp, edge detection, convolution, equalization, blending, morphological operations, etc.).
gdal is in active use in several projects, and includes roughly 40 format  drivers, including a translator for netcdf (read/write).
pmel has been using this software on unix and vms  several years.
it has been tested with matlab  versions 2008a, 2008b, 2009a, and 2009b.
a cross section of the data volume can be viewed in a 2d window as a 2d contour plot, a vector plot, a raster image or a combination of these options superimposed.
the library also implementsncml, which allows you to add metadata to cdm datasets, as well as to create virtual datasets through aggregation.
data can be displayed graphically (line-plot, scatter-plot, overlay, color-intensity, etc.) or extracted as ascii data.
it is based on unidata's ncdump utility, and it keeps the original ncdump functionality, unless the "-j" option is used to specify json output.
there are over 600 functions and procedures that include routines for use specifically with climate and model data computing, empirical orthogonal functions, fourier coefficients, wavelets, singular value decomposition, 1-, 2-, and 3-dimensional interpolation, approximation, and regridding, and computer analysis of scalar and vector global geophysical quantities.
more information is on the web page http://www.atd.ucar.edu/rdp/zebra.html.
tools for data manipulation  such as removal of data points, subsetting by position, sub/supersampling, grid  construction, mapping, interpolation, regridding, transposition, etc. are  available.
the latest version of pv-wave supports data access in numerous formats, including netcdf.
ncl also has features that are not found in other programming languages, including those that handle the manipulation of metadata, the configuration of visualizations, the import of data from a variety of data formats, and an algebra that supports array operations.
a library  (fanlib) is also included that supports the use of fan from c programs.
ive is available as source via anonymous  ftp; and as binary on request for licensees of ncar graphics.
opendap (formerly dods) the opendap (formerly known as dods) is an open-source project for a  network data access protocol that makes local data and subsets of local data  accessible to remote locations independent of the local storage format.
fimex supports a growing list of  otherfeatures, including support for most ncml features and for netcdf-4  compression.
for more information on the ncsa pathfinder project and other available modules, visit the www/mosaic pathfinder home page at http://redrock.ncsa.uiuc.edu/pathfinder/pathrel2/top/top.html
it provides high-level support for the netcdf format, a dedicated earth visualization module, and a set of advanced geographical projections applicable to a wide range of fast 2d and 3d data representations.
computers & geosciences, 33, 31-41, 2007.
hyperslab operator suite ( hops),  developed by r. saravanan at ncar, is a bilingual, multi-platform software  package for processing data in netcdf files conforming to the ncar-ccm format  or the ncar ocean model format.
zebra is currently available to the university research community through the ncar/atd research data program.
gmt gmt_grid.nc gdl is a free implementation of most of the programming language supported byidl (interactive data language).
the library implements a common data model (cdm), a generalization of the netcdf, opendap and hdf5 data models.
sds provides a unified api for convenient access to various data storages.
processing of the data, particularly averaging, can be requested as well.
the netcdf toolbox for matlab-5,  originally developed by charles r. denham, combined netcdf-3 withmatlab to form  an interface that used matlab operator-syntax for arithmetic, logical, and  subscripting operations on netcdf entities.
more information about ncvtk is available athttp://ncvtk.sourceforge.net.
handles character variables.
the criteria for inclusion in the netcdf/contrib/ directory of  user-contributed software are: general usefulness to a significant part of the netcdf community small size
octave interface (barth) alexander barth has contributed the following: octcdf is a netcdf toolbox for octave which uses the same operator syntax  as thematlab netcdf toolbox of charles r. denham.
epic provides  graphical display and data field manipulation for multi-dimensional netcdf  files (up to 4 dimensions).
opendap  also provides tools for transforming existing applications into opendap  clients, enabling them to remotely access opendap served data.
a variety of dimensionalities and data types are supported also.
the arm program has contributed ncmex for octave, a port of chuck denham's matlab ncmex tooctave.
the mexeps package supports the following data formats: reading, writing and editing netcdf files; reading and writing classic epic files reading formatted ascii files variable, axis, attribute manipulation routines time manipulation time enters matlab as yymmddhhmmss.fff can be converted to netcdf udunits time convention (e.g. days since 1990-01-01 00:00:00)
the ezget library comprises a set of subroutines that can be linked to any fortran program.
the web page for this program is: http://web.lmd.jussieu.fr/~lglmd/max_diff_nc this is a freely available tool.
it accepts data in a variety of formats, including netcdf, and allows the user to specify how multiple files and variables are mapped into a data source.
even though it's written in python, the module is up to 40% faster than scientific.
dx supports a number of non-graphical functions such as point-wise  mathematical expressions (e.g., arithmetic, transcendental, boolean, type  conversion, etc.), univariate statistics and image processing (e.g.,  transformation, filter, warp, edge detection, convolution, equalization,  blending, morphological operations, etc.).
alexander barth has contributed the following: octcdf is a netcdf toolbox for octave which uses the same operator syntax as thematlab netcdf toolbox of charles r. denham.
this data model supports a number of different classes of scientific data, which can be described by their shape (size and number of dimensions), rank (e.g., scalar, vector, tensor), type (float, integer, byte, etc. or real, complex, quaternion), where the data are located in space (positions), how the locations are related to each other (connections), aggregates or groups (e.g., hierarchies, series, composites, multizone grids, etc.).
david pierce has contributed the ncdf4 package for reading netcdf data into r and for creating new netcdf dimensions, variables, and files, or manipulating existing netcdf files from r. pavel michna has contributed another package, rnetcdf, that also provides access to netcdf data and to udunits calendar functions from r. a group at the research institute for sustainable humanosphere (rish) of kyoto university has developed anetcdf interface for ruby, an interpreted, object-oriented scripting language.
a few features of grace are: user defined scaling, tick marks, labels, symbols, line styles, colors.
the library  also implementsncml, which allows you to add metadata to cdm datasets, as well  as to create virtual datasets through aggregation.
ncdx patrick jöckel of the max planck institute for chemistry has developed ncdx, a tool (written in fortran-90) that scans a netcdf file  and makes itopendx compliant.
since most  documents cannot use raw data, the server is able to deliver the data in a  variety of ways: as data files (netcdf and hdf), as tables (html), and in a  variety of plots (line, contour, color, vector) and plot formats (postscript  and gif).
also see octcdf, a netcdf toolbox for octave.
where practical, we  would like to include www links to information about these packages in the html  version of this document.
netcdfperl, steve emmerson's extension module, based on version 2 of the  netcdf package.
it  employs a data-flow driven client-server execution model and provides a  graphical program editor that allows the user to create a visualization using a  point and click interface.
joe sirott of noaa's pacific marine environmental laboratory has developed cdfsync, a program that allows users to rapidly synchronize a set of netcdf files over a network.
this .tar file contains other octave extension functions besides ncmex.)
ive uses netcdf for the data input format, and uses the ncar graphics library to produce graphical output.
the application may be used to visualize a variety of time-varying geospatial scientific data in a simple map framework.
it was developed with c# in the microsoft .net environment.
supported formats include netcdf, hdf4, hdf5, grib and fits.
esri arcgis version 9.2 and later support accessing netcdf time-based and multidimensional data that follows cf or coards conventions for associating spatial locations with data.
three applications are built on top of sds: you can read the getting started document at http://sds.codeplex.com/project/download/filedownload.aspx?downloadid=127282 for a more detailed introduction to the scientific dataset software.
nccmp remik ziemlinski of the noaa geophysical fluid dynamics laboratory has  developednccmp, a tool to compare two netcdf files.
it also  permits publishing data for web access and will soon support access to data on  other gfdnavi servers.
ncdx is freely available without any warranty under the gnu public license (gpl).
innovation dr. boulder,  co 80303
dataseteditor provides  ability to view and modify the contents of any data set as excel worksheets.
netcdf4excel (add-in for ms excel) alexander bruhns  has developed a netcdf add-in written in visual basic  for ms excel.
in addition, this version contains a capability to geo-reference some data and to read ascii data in tabular format.
the source for  these utilities can be downloaded fromcids netcdf visualization tools site.
viewncdap is a stand-alone research-based tool (with included demonstration data) that allows a user to visualize four dimensional netcdf and opendap data.
parallel-netcdf a group of researchers at northwestern university and argonne national  laboratory (jianwei li, wei-keng liao, alok choudhary, robert ross, rajeev  thakur, william gropp, and rob latham) have designed and implemented a new  parallel interface for writing and reading netcdf data, tailored for use on  high performance platforms with parallel i/o. the implementation builds on the  mpi-io interface, providing portability to most platforms in use and allowing  users to leverage the many optimizations built into mpi-io implementations.
klavs m. sørensen, thomas skov and rasmus bro (faculty of life  sciences, university of copenhagen) have developedicdf, a free and documented  toolbox for importing chromatographic data in the netcdf-based format that most  manufacturers of chromatographic software support.
the netcdf calling  interface has not changed and netcdf files stored in xdr format are readable,  so existing programs and data will still be usable (although programs will need  to be relinked to the new library).
the algorithm handles data on  rectangular latitude/longitude grids (not necessarily evenly spaced) and  vertical pressure hybrid grids of arbitrary resolution.
grace grace is a tool to make two-dimensional plots of scientific  data, including 1d netcdf variables.
the general philosophy behind snctools is providing the ability to read and write data without trying to invent a new syntax.
uses sgt graphics to perform 1 and 2 dimensional cuts through data.
cdf2fortran: writes fortran source code to read a netcdf file.
the opendap (formerly known as dods) is an open-source project for a network data access protocol that makes local data and subsets of local data accessible to remote locations independent of the local storage format.
noesys runs on windows 95/98 & nt and power macintosh os.
ive allows the user to display lower-dimensional subsets of the data by fixing a coordinate or by averaging over the coordinate.
pv-wave includes integrated graphics, numerics, data i/o, and data management.
they offer an application and a set of software tools and components, which include c, fortran, and .net
barrodale computing services ltd. (bcs) has developed a product that addresses one of the main objections heard from "technologists" (e.g., scientists, engineers, and other researchers) who avoid using databases to manage their data: "my very large data files are too cumbersome/difficult/slow/costly to load into a database".
contact steve hankin, hankin@noaapmel.gov, for more information.
the package can access coards-compliant netcdf grids as well as ascii, native binary, or user-defined formats.
realizations may be annotated with ribbons, tubes, axes, glyphs, text and display of data locations, meshes and boundaries.
as an example of use of cdo, converting from grib to netcdf can be as simple as cdo -f nc copy file.grb file.ncor with relative time axis (for usage with grads)
data is first viewed in a tree-like interface, and then optionally loaded and visualized in a variety of ways.
webwinds is `point and click' rather than language driven and it runs well on unix, windows (95/98/nt) and mac platforms.
mexnc and snctools john evans of rutgers university maintains mexnc and developed snctools.
for more information about licensing, seehttp://dwd6.home.mindspring.com/pplus_license.html/; source and documentation are available via anonymous ftp from ftp://ftp.halcyon.com/pub/users/dwd/pplus1_3_2.tar.gz and ftp://ftp.pmel.noaa.gov/epic/manual-dir/pplus.pdf.
it is available fromhttp://pysclint.sourceforge.net/pycdf/, where you will find the install files, installation instructions, extensive documentation in text and html format, and examples.
missing values (setctomiss, setmisstoc, setrtomiss) arithmetic (add, sub, mul, div, ...) mathematical functions (sqrt, exp, log, sin, cos, ...)
dynamic linking of user-defined modules is  heavily exploited to let users extend the feature library.
ncvtk is written in python and is based on the visualization toolkit (vtk) .
it can also read "virtual datasets" constructed using the netcdf markup language.
a general description of originpro: originpro offers all of the features of origin plus extended analysis tools for statistics, 3d fitting, image processing and signal processing.
fast synchronization times are achieved by only transmitting the differences between files.
mexnc is a mexfile interface to netcdf files for matlab that has roughly a one-to-one equivalence with the c api for netcdf.snctools is a set of higher-level m-files that sit atop mexnc, shielding the user from such low level netcdf details as file ids, variable ids, and dimension ids.
patrick jöckel of the max planck institute for chemistry has developed ncdx, a tool (written in fortran-90) that scans a netcdf file and makes itopendx compliant.
objects rendered volumetrically may be viewed along with  shaded surfaces.
the library implements a common data model (cdm), a generalization of the  netcdf, opendap and hdf5 data models.
bill noon (noon@snow.cit.cornell.edu) has implemented another netcdf python module that allows easy creation, access, and browsing of netcdf data.
a netcdf labview interface, implemented in the labview programming language is available.
both gui and command language interfaces are provided, and netcdf access is supported.
brian schlining (mbari) has developed nctoolbox, a read-only matlab  interface forcommon data model datasets, allowing access to netcdf, opendap,  and hdf5 datasets using the same api.
many styles  of time axes are supported and time manipulation routines ease the use of the  time axis in matlab.
regrettably this version is not as efficient as the  native matlab code but provides a solution for users that don't have matlab.
thus njtbx  complements and extends both the older ncmex-based toolkits as well as the  newer matlab 2008b+ built-in toolbox for netcdf.
netcdf95 alternative fortran api lionel guez has developed and made feely available netcdf95, a new  alternative fortran interface to the netcdf library.
additional information on ncbrowse and download  instructions are available athttp://www.epic.noaa.gov/java/ncbrowse.
the module source code and documentation is available from the international avs center, in the ftp://testavs.ncsc.org/avs/avs5/module_src/data_input/read_netcdf/ directory.
mexnc is a mexfile interface to netcdf files for matlab that has roughly a  one-to-one equivalence with the c api for netcdf.snctools is a set of  higher-level m-files that sit atop mexnc, shielding the user from such low  level netcdf details as file ids, variable ids, and dimension ids.
these tools as well as the source for ncmex are available from http://engineering.arm.gov/~sbeus/octavex/octavex.tar (note:
decimate is currently bundled with the scanners, and will soon be available as a commercial product.
you are welcome to  join discussions or report issues at the codeplex site:http://sds.codeplex.com.
it also permits publishing data for web access and will soon support access to data on other gfdnavi servers.
labview interface a netcdf labview interface, implemented in the labview programming  language is available.
an  application library is available for data handling.
since the dx data model is more comprehensive than the  netcdf data model, a methodology to extend netcdf via attribute conventions  (e.g., for unstructured meshes, non-scalar data and hierarchies) for use with  data explorer is available.
ncl comes with many useful built-in functions and procedures for  processing and manipulating data.
json format with the ncdump-json utility josep llodrà has developed a program to output the contents of a  netcdf-3 or netcdf-4 file in json (javascript object notation).
the source is also available.
other translators include geotiff (read/write), erdas imagine (read/write), esri .bil
editor are available also.
typically you  would use ncview to get a quick and easy, push-button look at your netcdf  files.
dumps netcdf data to an ascii file.
all operators may now be opendap clients.
some gis functions were  developed from ground level.
objective-c foundation classes.
ingrid ingrid, by m. benno blumenthal , is  designed to manipulate large datasets and model input/output.
our products are designed to be easy-to-use, yet have the power and versatility to provide for the most demanding user."
ncdf_varget,id, ncdf_varid( id, 'gp'), gpnow you can visualize the data in the gp variable in a large variety of ways and use it in other computations in idl.
map outlines can be used as a background for 2d cross  section plots of geographic data.
tcl-nap was developed as part of the csiro caps project, but can be loaded  and used without the (satellite oriented) caps extension.
to learn more about w10n of science data files, please visithttp://webification.org/. a brief help document describes how to use thedemo directory to browse or download metadata or data in netcdf, json, or other formats by clicking on data folder and document icons.
packages for windows, various linux distributions and mac os x are available, as well as the complete source code and cmake-based build files.
tutorials which range from very simple visualizations to complex  combinations of data sets provide the user with a quick learning tool.
the program and source are available from  https://github.com/jllodra/ncdump-json .
we haven't  necessarily used or tested this software; we make it available "as  is".
whether displayed  graphically or extracted as ascii, results can be saved to disk or viewed on  screen.
as a  library, it presents a single abstract data model to the calling application  for all supported formats.
we haven't necessarily used or tested this software; we make it available "as is".
sds provides a unified api for  convenient access to various data storages.
u.s. mail : margi klemp university of colorado / lasp 1234
under the hood, paraview uses the visualization toolkit as the data processing and rendering engine and has a user interface written using a unique blend of tcl/tk and c++.
the data is just a click of the mouse away.
datasetviewer application for visualization of data sets.
a highly optimized graphical user interface allows quick and elegant creation of even complex 3d graphics (volume rendering, isosurfaces,...), including z-buffered overlays (with hidden lines), light and data shading, xray images, 3d trajectories, animations and virtual flights around your data, all documented in a full on-linehtml-help.
some toolboxes (for atmospheric model output, trajectory display, radar data) have already been written, others might easily be added (in idl, fortran or c code).
a multi-purpose tool for exploring grid data.
the idl version of hops should run on any platform supported by  idl.
uses perl lists for representing netcdf variables.
grace is a  descendant of ace/gr.
the interface allows you to make plots, tables, and files from any dataset, its subsets, or processed versions thereof.
the ezget library comprises a set of subroutines that can be linked to any  fortran program.
this scripting requires no knowledge of the scripting language syntax.
there are over 600 functions and procedures  that include routines for use specifically with climate and model data  computing, empirical orthogonal functions, fourier coefficients, wavelets,  singular value decomposition, 1-, 2-, and 3-dimensional interpolation,  approximation, and regridding, and computer analysis of scalar and vector  global geophysical quantities.
the software has a gradual learning curve, allowing the novice user to quickly obtain useful results.
grads grads (grid analysis and display system) is an interactive  desktop tool fromcola/iges that is currently in use worldwide for the analysis  and display of earth science data.
contact dan@computer.org for more information.
zebra is currently available to the university research community through  the ncar/atd research data program.
the web page for this program is:  http://web.lmd.jussieu.fr/~lglmd/max_diff_nc this is a freely available tool.
the display model has been adapted to java3d and java2d and used in an  immersadesk virtual reality display.
the software includes a graphical user interface for  editing netcdf data and conversion to other data formats.
fast synchronization times are achieved by only  transmitting the differences between files.
opendap also provides tools for transforming existing applications into opendap clients, enabling them to remotely access opendap served data.
the software is under  development by members of the gfd dennou club, including t. horinouchi (rish,  kyoto u.), s. nishizawa (rims, kyoto u.), and colleagues.
the data store accepts incoming  data, stores it on disk, and makes it available to processes which need it.
processing of the data, particularly averaging, can be requested as  well.
arm added others which  focus on manipulation of data within existing netcdf files.
ive is, nevertheless, capable of displaying data on arbitrary curvilinear  grids.
vtkcscsnetcdf is a vtk/paraview reader class for netcdf files.
selection (selcode, selvar, sellevel, seltimestep, ...)
for more information, see thegrads user's guide.
tools for doing cartographic projections and registration as well as earth,  space and environmental sciences examples are available at cornell university  via info.tc.cornell.edu.
detailed controls over plot characteristics, page layout and overlays are provided.
idv (integrated data viewer) json format with the ncdump-json utility java interface mexnc and snctools (a matlab interface)
more details are available on the netcdf4excel web site.
python interfaces python is an interpreted, object-oriented language that is supported on a  wide range of hardware and operating systems.
uwe schulzweida at the max planck institute for meteorology has developed cdo, a collection of operators to manipulate and analyze climate data files.
email: plot_plus@halcyon.com postal mail: c/o donald denbo 2138 n 186th st shoreline, wa 98133 fax and voice: (206) 366-0624 pv-wave uses a fourth generation language (4gl) that analyzes and displays data as you enter commands.
ezget a fortran library called ezget has been developed at pcmdi to  facilitate retrieval of modeled and observed climate data stored in popular  formats includingdrs, netcdf, grads, and, if a control file is supplied, grib.
more details and information about ordering noesys are available from .
ivan shmakov's netcdf tools the netcdf tools is a free software package consisting of a few tools  operating on netcdf and, by utilizing the compatibility api, hdf4 files, which  are intended to be usable from shell scripts.
ncl comes with many useful built-in functions and procedures for processing and manipulating data.
users are invited to test parallel-netcdf in their applications.
new storage types can be added to sds infractructure as plugins.
this allows this scripting requires no knowledge of the scripting language syntax.
netcdf is supported both as an input and an output  format.
the intel® array visualizer and intel® array viewer are available asfree downloads for windows platforms.
as of version 6, mathematica adds classicnetcdf data to the many forms of data it can import, export, and visualize.
developer extensibility in as many ways as possible.
three types of storages are supported by the first release: netcdf files, csv text files and volatile in-memory datasets.
realizations may be annotated with ribbons, tubes, axes, glyphs, text and  display of data locations, meshes and boundaries.
all data is projected according to the coordinates specified by the user for the cross section window.
any number of dimensions in any of the explorer coordinate types are supported.
a beta version of polypaint+ is currently available free of charge using ftp or for a nominal fee which would cover tape distribution.
if you have problems reading a netcdf file with ncbrowse, please send him a copy of the file and he'll get ncbrowse to read it!
esri .bil (read),  .aux labeled raw (read/write), dted (read), sdts dem (read), ceos (read), jpeg  (read/write), png (read/write), geosoft gxf (read) and arc/info binary grid  (read).
a presentationintroducing gfdnavi describes the architecture and shows examples of use.
more  information is available at thecdfsync website.
ive assumes the data to be displayed are contained in one- two-, three- or four-dimensional arrays.
visualization features include contours, isosurfaces, particle tracing, vector arrows, elevated surfaces, profile plots, and animation.
device-independent type1 font rastering.
if you need help getting started, a remote tutorial is available once you've downloaded the package.
thus opendap-enabled nco can operate on remote files accessible through any opendap server without transferring the files.
since four-dimensional data cannot be directly displayed on a flat computer  screen, it is necessary to reduced the dimensionality of the data before it is  displayed.
in order to build ncmex, a compiled c netcdf library must already be installed.
this tool allows a selected part of a netcdf variable or an hdf4 scientific data set (sds) to be extracted in either an ascii or binary form, applying the transformation specified by the usual scale_factor and add_offset attributes.
hdf is an extensible data format for self-describing files.
in addition to netcdf, these files come in a variety of formats (hdf5, grib, nitfs, fits, etc.).
the fields for display, color tables, contour intervals  and various other display options are defined using an icon based  user-interface.
you can also contact mary haley, athaley@ucar.edu for more information.
if the data points are not evenly spaced on a rectangular grid, ive must be informed of the grid structure, either by specifying "attributes" in the data input or by specifying the coordinate transform in a user supplied subroutine.
ingrid has a number of filters which allow simple data manipulations, such as adding two datasets together, smoothing, averaging, and regridding to a new coordinate.
the netcdf-java 4.2 library is a java interface to netcdf files, as well as to many other types of scientific data formats.
opendap can be used to make netcdf data files available over the internet  and it can also be used to adapt existing software which use the netcdf api (by  re-linking) to read data served by an opendap data server.
ingrid has a number of filters which allow simple data manipulations, such  as adding two datasets together, smoothing, averaging, and regridding to a new  coordinate.
the main advantages of using ezget instead of the lower level cdunif library include: for more information about ezget, including instructions for downloading the documentation or software, see the ezget home page at http://www-pcmdi.llnl.gov/ktaylor/ezget/ezget.html.
for more information and to download the source code, see thenetcdflabview web  site.
this octave toolbox is  written in c++ calling directly the netcdf library.
the visualizations are publication-quality and highly customizable, with  hundreds of options available for tweaking the looks of your graphics.
the visualization and enabling technologies section of ncar's scientific computing division has developed the ncar command language (ncl), an intepreted programming language for scientific data analysis and visualization.
it provides a wide variety  of statistical and graphical techniques, including linear and nonlinear  modelling, statistical tests, time series analysis, classification, and  clustering.
calculations may be applied over arbitrarily shaped regions.
it was  also included in the octave repositoryoctave-forge.
a cross section of the data volume can be viewed in a 2d window  as a 2d contour plot, a vector plot, a raster image or a combination of these  options superimposed.
tom moore has an objective-c api, available here: www.paleoterra.com/software.
use your favorite cpt, ggr, pal, or act color table for scale colorbar.
the tools are very similar to konrad  hinsen's netcdf package to python but can read and write in a parallel way.
support is provided for data based on n-dimensional grids, where the  dimensions correspond to continuous spatial coordinates.
to ensure that origin meets your data analysis requirements, intuitive tools for advanced statistics, regression, nonlinear curve fitting, signal processing, image processing and peak analysis are built-in.
data may be overlaid on a variety of display types, including constant altitude planes, vertical cross-sections, x-y graphs, skew-t plots and time-height profiles.
the gmt package is available via  anonymous ftp from several servers; seegmt.soest.hawaii.edu for installation  information.
the main advantages of using  ezget instead of the lower level cdunif library include: substantial error trapping capabilities and detailed error messages versatile capability of conveniently selecting data from specified regions  (e.g., oceans, north america, all land areas north of 45 degrees latitude, etc.)
for more information, contact the author, charlie zender.
the following table provides a brief overview of the main categories.
for information about epic, please see the web pages athttp://www.pmel.noaa.gov/epic/index.html.
documentation and additional information on ncl are available from the ncl  website, which contains hundreds of application examples for one to download.
read and write parameters used during a session.
dynamic linking of user-defined modules is heavily exploited to let users extend the feature library.
a graphical user  interface allows users to interact with their data via  color/transparency/contour/vector plots, apply vertical slices, probe data,  apply an external sun light, overlay hydrographic and geopolitical data,  rotate, zoom, etc. with minimal fuss.
in addition to the base netcdf library interface, this package includes a  simple toolbox to automate the reading and writing of netcdf files within  octave using ncmex.
tcl-nap tcl-nap (n-dimensional array processor) is a loadable extension of tcl  which provides a powerful and efficient facility for processing data in the  form of n-dimensional arrays.
ncregrid can be used as a "stand-alone"  program, and/or linked as an interface to a model, in order to re-grid  automatically the input from an arbitrary grid space onto the required grid  resolution.
the scientific dataset library and tools project, developed jointly by microsoft research cambridge and moscow state university, is aimed at manipulation and visualization of multidimensional data sets.
it allows different datasets of different formats (netcdf, netcdf4 classic, hdf4, hdf4-eos, grib-1, and grib-2) to be imported into one uniform and consistent data manipulation environment, which internally is the netcdf data format.
we rely on developers to help keep this list up-to-date.
vicente galiano of miguel hernandez university has developed a python  interface to pnetcdf.
hops is not a monolithic program, but a suite of operators that act on data units called "hyperslabs".
as an example of use of cdo, converting from grib to netcdf can be as  simple as cdo -f nc copy file.grb file.nc or with relative time axis (for  usage with grads)
tools for doing cartographic projections and registration as well as earth, space and environmental sciences examples are available at cornell university via info.tc.cornell.edu.
eventually, it will be possible to integrate netcdf objects with the rest  of the hdf tool suite.
meteoinfo can also be run automatically using meteoinfo scripting with the  ironpython language.
ryan toomey reports: our website is http://www.originlab.com/ a general description of origin: origin includes a suite of features that cater to the needs of scientists and engineers alike.
a selected slice of netcdf data may be displayed in arcgis as a raster layer, feature layer, or table.
ncregrid can be used as a "stand-alone" program, and/or linked as an interface to a model, in order to re-grid automatically the input from an arbitrary grid space onto the required grid resolution.
to download a copy of this release, go to http://www.sci-conservices.com/rel4/webpage/wwhome.html zebra zebra (formerly named zeb) is a system for data ingest,  storage, integration and display, designed to operate in both real time and  postprocessing modes.
it can also read "virtual  datasets" constructed using the netcdf markup language.
nc copy file.grb file.nc or using ecmwf reanalysis on a  reduced grid cdo -r -f
this software may be retrieved by anonymous ftp.
this version of the package is the first one to be announced to the  public.
it provides the necessary tools to diagnose, validate, and intercompare large  observational and global climate model data sets.
cdat includes a set of pre-defined functions to allow the user to manipulate the data and send the output to a file which can be viewed as an image, or as a collection of images in an animation.
the gmt package is available via anonymous ftp from several servers; seegmt.soest.hawaii.edu for installation information.
also new is the ability to output  data in numerical form (e.g. netcdf) and a context sensitive, integrated help  system.
gfdnavi is dependent on two technologies: ruby on rails, a framework for web applications, and the dennou ruby project, a collection of tools for geophysical data.
the criteria for inclusion in the netcdf/contrib/ directory of user-contributed software are: applied science associates, inc. has made the asa view nc/dap application freely available fordownload.
brian schlining (mbari) has developed nctoolbox, a read-only matlab interface forcommon data model datasets, allowing access to netcdf, opendap, and hdf5 datasets using the same api.
beginning with version 4.0, it also supports the ability to overlay meteorological fields on a number of different satellite images, and to draw air parcel trajectories.
other translators  include geotiff (read/write), erdas imagine (read/write),
supported formats include netcdf,  hdf4, hdf5, grib and fits.
the octcdf source code is  available at  http://modb.oce.ulg.ac.be/mediawiki/index.php/netcdf_toolbox_for_octave.
supported file formats include netcdf and grib.
the package was  developed and is maintained by l. f. hwang of sun yat-sen university in china.
vgeo is available for irix, linux and windows platforms and supports displays ranging from desktop monitors to multi-walled projection systems.
beginning with version 4.0, it also supports the ability to overlay  meteorological fields on a number of different satellite images, and to draw  air parcel trajectories.
ncbrowse donald denbo of noaa's pacific marine environmental  laboratory has developed and made availablencbrowse, a java application  (jdk1.2) that provides flexible, interactive graphical displays of data and  attributes from a wide range of netcdf data file conventions.
the ncget tool implements functionalilty that is similar to hdp dumpsds  (for netcdf, which lacks such a tool), or complements it in the case of hdf4.
3d graphics are built from the underlying data in real-time, and the user has interactive control of graphics, navigation, animation, and more.
ncl doesn't place any  restrictions or conventions on the organization of input netcdf files.
this toolkit uses the unidata netcdf-java (version 4.0) implementation under the hood.
in addition, the command line interface (cli) module allows cdat to  receive argument and function input via the command line, and the graphical  user interface (gui) allows cdat to receive argument and function input via a  point-and-click environment.
you can view simple movies of the data, view along various dimensions,  take a look at the actual data values, change color maps, invert the data, etc.