r is free software that offers add-on packages  authored by world leading authorities in longitudinal data analysis and  graphing.
the integrated components allow a program file to have both r and latex syntax interweaved.
floss events rss feed interview with jeffrey d. long, author of longitudinal data analysis for  the behavioral sciences using r by edwood – march 28, 2012 posted in: books, featured, interviews, statistics this is an interview with jeffrey d. long, professor in the department  of psychiatry, carver college of medicine at the university of iowa (usa) and
predict-hd has several scientific sections that concentrate on different aspects of hd, including brain imaging, cognitive functioning, motor impairment, and psychiatric problems.
two former students (a. zieffler and j. harring) and i have published another book focusing on the application of r for the statistical comparison of groups:“comparing groups: randomization and bootstrap methods using r”.
f4s: which projects, books, blogs or sites related to open source software for science can you recommend?
there are relatively few people who use r in the behavioral sciences and i wanted to emphasize that it is a good option for researchers and students.
the software and the data sets can be freely downloaded and all the examples can be reproduced on the reader’s own computer.
such data is correlated within an individual and this should be considered in statistical modeling.
r: latex: emacs: ess: f4s: where people can contact you?
i needed an integrated process that will handle both aspects.
how did you get involved with open source software?
thanks for agreeing to the interview, jeffrey.
f4s: have you published other floss related books?
there are many websites i regularly consult for help with r, latex, emacs,  and ess.
mark currently works at pentaho corporation ...
this time we have for you an interview with heino prinz, a biochemist and author of the book numerical methods for the life scientist: binding and enzyme kinetics calculated ...
there are relatively few people who use r in the  behavioral sciences and i wanted to emphasize that it is a good option for  researchers and students.
i taught applied statistics courses for many years to students with diverse backgrounds working in various setting.
to the best of my knowledge, this cannot be performed in commercial software packages, as there is little or no cooperation.
this is an interview with jeffrey d. long, professor in the department of psychiatry, carver college of medicine at the university of iowa (usa) and author of the book “longitudinal data analysis for the behavioral sciences using r“.
my biostatistics team analyzes data from the scientific sections to answer substantive research questions.
f4s: why is free/libre open source scientific software important for your field?
there are many websites i regularly consult for help with r, latex, emacs, and ess.
dr. long answers questions about his book and how he  uses r in his work in behavioral sciences.
read more today's interview is with mark hall one of the original core developers of the weka (waikato environment for knowledge analysis) data mining software.
predict-hd is a longitudinal  observational study of individuals at-risk for huntington’s disease (hd),  which is an inherited neurodegenerative disease.
the book is a culmination of teaching an applied longitudinal data analysis course for many years.
r code and data sets are available on the “supplements” tab.
dr. long answers questions about his book and how he uses r in his work in behavioral sciences.
to the  best of my knowledge, this cannot be performed in commercial software packages,  as there is little or no cooperation.
predict-hd has several  scientific sections that concentrate on different aspects of hd, including  brain imaging, cognitive functioning, motor impairment, and psychiatric  problems.
the result is that new and useful tools can be used immediately for researchers who need them.
read more this is an interview with mark galassi, one of the core developers of the highly revered gsl (gnu scientific library) project.
i am the head statistician for neurobiological predictors of huntington’s disease (predict-hd), funded by the national institutes of health and the chdi foundation, inc.
read more about arras wordpress theme copyright nuvelbits, llc.
i became involved with open source software through two routes: teaching and my daily professional activities.
commercial software was a concern because of its cost and availability, and i turned to the open source r system for statistical computing and graphics ( http://www.r-project.org/).
for professionals  in my field, open source means that software can be made available  simultaneously with new methods that are introduced in professional  publications.
how will you describe your experience writing the book?
the book is specifically written for those who want  a hands-on approach to using r for lmer modeling.
i am a professor in the department of psychiatry, carver college of medicine, university of iowa (usa).
my professional activities involve statistical analysis and writing reports.
author of the book “longitudinal data analysis for the behavioral  sciences using r“.
i became involved with open source software through two routes: teaching  and my daily professional activities.
the book focuses on the application of linear mixed effects regression (lmer).
mark took out time of his very ...
the beneficiaries are researchers and students who want a practical introduction to the analysis of longitudinal behavioral data.
such  data is correlated within an individual and this should be considered in  statistical modeling.
the book focuses on the application of linear mixed  effects regression (lmer).
email: jeffrey-long@uiowa.edu the book website is http://www.sagepub.com/books/book234770?siteid=sage-us&prodtypes=any&q=longitudinal .
i needed an integrated process that will handle  both aspects.
this is provided through r, and the other open source packages,  emacs (http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/), emacs speaks statistics (ess;  http://ess.r-project.org/), and sweave ( http://www.stat.uni-muenchen.de/~leisch/sweave/).
the method is highly desirable in my work, as databases are updated continually requiring the updating of reports.
the statistical analysis is performed in a pre-compilation step, and the results are embedded in the tex file, which is compiled to produce the final pdf report.
the book is specifically written for those who want a hands-on approach to using r for lmer modeling.
who will benefit from reading it?
the beneficiaries are researchers and students who want a practical  introduction to the analysis of longitudinal behavioral data.
how will you describe your experience writing the  book?
do you have plans for other books?
f4s: which projects, books, blogs or sites related to open  source software for science can you recommend?
commercial software was a concern because of its cost and availability, and i  turned to the open source r system for statistical computing and graphics ( http://www.r-project.org/).
my professional activities involve statistical  analysis and writing reports.
i taught applied statistics courses for  many years to students with diverse backgrounds working in various setting.
the statistical analysis is performed in a pre-compilation  step, and the results are embedded in the tex file, which is compiled to  produce the final pdf report.
the book is a culmination of teaching an applied longitudinal data analysis  course for many years.
my biostatistics team analyzes data from the scientific sections to  answer substantive research questions.
i am a professor in the department of psychiatry, carver college of  medicine, university of iowa (usa).
all content on this site is licensed under a creative commons attribution-noncommercial-noderivs 3.0 unported license.
r is free software that offers add-on packages authored by world leading authorities in longitudinal data analysis and graphing.
the integrated components allow a program file to have both r and latex  syntax interweaved.
i will list the website by topic.
related posts: comments are closed.
f4s: why is free/libre open source scientific software  important for your field?
you'll not only learn how to program in r, but also how to find the right user-contributed r packages for statistical modeling, visualization, and bioinformatics.
for students, open source is important because it makes world-class statistical software available regardless of one’s personal or institutional resources (except for an internet connection).
the entire book was written using the integrated components that i previously mentioned.
my expertise is applied statistics in the  behavioral and medical sciences.
the joy of the book was digging deeper into the open source software.
two former students (a. zieffler and j. harring) and i have published  another book focusing on the application of r for the statistical comparison of  groups:“comparing groups: randomization and bootstrap methods using  r”.
this is provided through r, and the other open source packages, emacs (http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/), emacs speaks statistics (ess; http://ess.r-project.org/), and sweave ( http://www.stat.uni-muenchen.de/~leisch/sweave/).
f4s: tell us the story behind your book “ longitudinal data analysis for the behavioral sciences using r“.
please, give us a brief introduction about yourself.
my expertise is applied statistics in the behavioral and medical sciences.
i learned many tips and tricks along the way that have increased  efficiency in my daily professional work.
predict-hd is a longitudinal observational study of individuals at-risk for huntington’s disease (hd), which is an inherited neurodegenerative disease.
the method is highly desirable in my work, as  databases are updated continually requiring the updating of reports.
not in the near-future.
the  entire book was written using the integrated components that i previously  mentioned.
please, give us a brief introduction  about yourself.
for students, open source is important because it makes world-class  statistical software available regardless of one’s personal or  institutional resources (except for an internet connection).
the result is that new and useful tools can be used immediately  for researchers who need them.
r in a nutshell provides a quick and practical way to learn this increasingly popular open source language and environment.
the software and the data  sets can be freely downloaded and all the examples can be reproduced on the  reader’s own computer.
i am the head statistician for neurobiological  predictors of huntington’s disease (predict-hd), funded by the national  institutes of health and the chdi foundation, inc.
for professionals in my field, open source means that software can be made available simultaneously with new methods that are introduced in professional publications.
longitudinal data  is defined as repeated measurements taken on the same subjects over time.
you will not be able to post a comment in this post. scientific gifts
note: if you liked this interview you can flattr it at the top of the post!
i learned many tips and tricks along the way that have increased efficiency in my daily professional work.
longitudinal data is defined as repeated measurements taken on the same subjects over time.