his talk on  text analysis was very good as well -slides
i also really enjoyed the talk on genetic algorithms by eric floehr, a fellow who seems to do weather prediction consulting.
some talks were nice surprises, too, kind of the point of going to conferences!
i was there as a data-oriented geek, but i saw ux opportunity  everywhere, for the right kinds of ux folks.
my linguistics degrees got grouchy  during one on the linguistics of twitter -- or maybe it was my geeky side  asking "what can i do with this?"
based on lunch table  happenstance, i ended up going to ablender api talk by chris allan webber, a  subject about which i knew zilch.
not all talks were excellent, of course.
my sad female nerd note: i was one of 3 women in the machine learning tutorial.
pypes is a quasi-visual toolkit for doing data processing inspired by yahoo pipes.
(the gist being that since a lot of data handling involves discrete steps to clean and transform, you can put these steps into little modules that allow you to view the big picture of what's going on with your data munging.)
(i loved her "wtf?" comment on her multithreading code example.)
olivier grisel's tutorialapplied machine learning in python with scikit-learn was a definite high point of the conference for me.
i aimed for cloud data and machine  learning.
i loved  hilary's talk, but was a bit bummed out by the dropbox keynote that featured  the social network of "friends of arash" who started that company --  yeah, all men.
this spring i went to pycon in atlanta, since i've  been using python more and more for data analysis problems.
here, and video here.
there were a lot of companies presenting: dropbox did their "we use python" talk; evite apparently has rewritten their entire java backend in python; threadless, a sponsor, is all python...
i later heard via twitter a guess that there were only 8% women at the conference as a whole, based on t-shirt orders.
posted by lynn at 5:12 pm post a comment
one of the reasons for its  growth at these companies is the ease of writing things fast in python; the  "prototype and iterate" philosophy showed up over and over in various  presentations as a real strength of python.
hilary mason's excellent keynote made a lot of us data geeks happy; she called for programming language evolution to get closer to the data problems, and to be less cryptic when it comes to support for multi-threading and map-reduce strategies needed these days.
other examples: a talk onpypes by eric  gaumer included a good reminder that big data problems existed in the search  engine space long before other kinds of big data became "hot" to work  on.
based on lunch table happenstance, i ended up going to ablender api talk by chris allan webber, a subject about which i knew zilch.
a final comment for any ux folks reading this: this would've been a great  audience for a talk on ui design in open source, or ui design for python ui's.
posted by  lynn  at 5:12 pm labels: infovis, tech
his talk on text analysis was very good as well -slides
his french accent was very nice, but i kept mishearing "scikit-learn" as "psychic learn." :-)
his french  accent was very nice, but i kept mishearing "scikit-learn" as  "psychic learn." :-)
hilary mason's excellent keynote made a lot of us data geeks happy; she  called for programming language evolution to get closer to the data problems,  and to be less cryptic when it comes to support for multi-threading and  map-reduce strategies needed these days.
his slides and a bunch of other interesting supporting material  (including code) are upon his site.
i later heard via twitter a guess that there were  only 8% women at the conference as a whole, based on t-shirt orders.
olivier grisel's tutorialapplied machine learning in python with  scikit-learn was a definite high point of the conference for me.
i have big hopes for the evolution ofprocessing.py and nodebox2, two pythonic visualization options, but i am not sure they're there yet for me as a data vis person.
there were a lot of companies presenting: dropbox did their "we use  python" talk; evite apparently has rewritten their entire java backend in  python; threadless, a sponsor, is all python...
there were a lot of talks on data, big data, cloud data, and scaling python  (to handle big data and data problems).
by lynn cherny, ph.d. the initial draw was the tutorials.
there were a lot of talks on data, big data, cloud data, and scaling python (to handle big data and data problems).
another talk on big data that was well-tweeted was c. titus brown's "handling ridiculous amounts of data with probabilistic data structures.
in the past couple years, i've  switched from sending myself to research conferences (like chi) to more  down-and-dirty developery conferences.
other examples: a talk onpypes by eric gaumer included a good reminder that big data problems existed in the search engine space long before other kinds of big data became "hot" to work on.
blender is apparently beefing up its api for  external calls and automation; as a visualization person, i'm interested in  tools that i can "drive" with data as input.
"slides here - probably requires the video to fully interpret this, at least it does for me (yes, i missed this one too).
blender is apparently beefing up its api for external calls and automation; as a visualization person, i'm interested in tools that i can "drive" with data as input.
one of the reasons for its growth at these companies is the ease of writing things fast in python; the "prototype and iterate" philosophy showed up over and over in various presentations as a real strength of python.
my linguistics degrees got grouchy during one on the linguistics of twitter -- or maybe it was my geeky side asking "what can i do with this?"
i was there as a data-oriented geek, but i saw ux opportunity everywhere, for the right kinds of ux folks.
i also really enjoyed the talk on genetic  algorithms by eric floehr, a fellow who seems to do weather prediction  consulting.
i have big hopes for the  evolution ofprocessing.py and nodebox2, two pythonic visualization options, but  i am not sure they're there yet for me as a data vis person.
the initial draw was the  tutorials.
yelp's"mrjob" library for the cloud might answer some of her issues, but i missed that talk for some reason!
another talk on big data that was well-tweeted was c. titus brown's  "handling ridiculous amounts of data with probabilistic data  structures.
i aimed for cloud data and machine learning.
i loved hilary's talk, but was a bit bummed out by the dropbox keynote that featured the social network of "friends of arash" who started that company --
as a light coder myself, i can't agree more.
pypes is a quasi-visual toolkit for doing data processing inspired by yahoo  pipes.
my sad female nerd note: i was one of 3 women in the machine learning  tutorial.
some talks were nice surprises,  too, kind of the point of going to conferences!
i'm looking for skills development and  tools i can use day-to-day.
(complete talk  videos arehere on blip.tv.)
as a light coder myself, i can't  agree more.
(i loved her "wtf?" comment  on her multithreading code example.)
"slides here - probably requires the video to fully interpret  this, at least it does for me (yes, i missed this one too).
interaction design and data consulting.
(the gist being that since a lot of data handling involves discrete  steps to clean and transform, you can put these steps into little modules that  allow you to view the big picture of what's going on with your data munging.)
yelp's"mrjob" library for the  cloud might answer some of her issues, but i missed that talk for some reason!
sunday, march 20, 2011 pycon 2011 - data, men, and me
his slides and a bunch of other interesting supporting material (including code) are upon his site.
a final comment for any ux folks reading this: this would've been a great audience for a talk on ui design in open source, or ui design for python ui's.