python programming leipzig, germany, 14-15 february 2011 this intense two day course covers the basics of how to use python.
the presentations are a  mixture of lecture and hands-on exercises in a similar style to mynbn courses.
i am a member of the python  software foundation, which is the non-profit that holds the copyright to python.
for those just starting off in python, the python beginner's guide  contains links to many resources including online tutorials and a list of  books.
web application development with django leipzig, germany, 16-18 february 2011
if you change code, how do you figure out if the change broke something?
r and python have different ways of doing things.
this intense two day course covers the basics of how to use python.
i'll shows some examples of  creating a database schema, loading compound data into the database, and  searching the data set.
i'll show a few examples you can build off of and provide pointers of where to get more in-depth information.
most working scientists have little training in programming and end up  spending a lot of time figuring out how to parse a file format or work with a  software library, rather than figuring out the science.
corporate compound databases are often stored in a relational database like oracle.
contact me if  there's something special you to know more about.
one example i can cover is how to get data from a pubchem web page.
if you have any questions.
rpy is an interface module which lets python call r functions directly, including plotting.
after all, the library is freely available so anyone can install it without needing a special license.
contact me if  there's something you specifically want me to discuss, and see the bottom of  this page for apartial list of topics i can cover.
the course will be hosted by and invoices sent by the python academy,  located at zur schule 20, leipzig.
you must know how to write programs* and should have some experience with python.
it contains an extensivepython programming interface which can be used for structure analysis, movie making, and more.
we still use sd and smiles files.
attendees must have some programming experience (know how to use variables, for-loops, if-statements, and know how to use text editors and command-line tools.
my courses are meant for computational chemists who are not programmers  but have some programming experience.
ipython enhances the normal interactive python interpreter to make it better for exploratory programming.
most of my work over the last 10 years has been in python, which is the  most popular high-level language in computational chemistry.
i am a professional software developer with years  of experience creating tools for cheminformatics, molecular modeling,  bioinformatics, and related fields.
it's full-featured, fast, and powerful, but a bit on  the hard side to use.
many chemistry programs are only available through the command line.
xml despite the best efforts of some, there's still very little direct  influence of xml in computational chemistry.
i'll show some examples of usingelementtree to read and extract fields from an xml file.
what are some of the common development traps that people can get stuck in?
you must already know the basic science, like smiles,  molecular graph representation, smarts and substructure searches.
matplotlib matplotlib is a python 2d plotting library which produces  publication quality figures for hard-copy and interactive use.
there are certain nuances of every  library, which i don't know for openbabel.
seethe gallery for some examples of what  it can do.
this three day course walks through two real-world examples based on the  django web application framework: an interactive descriptor calculator and a  pubchem database search system.
registration for the django course is €1,300 and is limited to 8 people.
my courses are meant for computational chemists who are not programmers but have some programming experience.
up-to-date information can always be found at  http://dalkescientific.com/training/. why programming courses for chemists?
this three day course walks through two real-world examples based on the django web application framework: an interactive descriptor calculator and a pubchem database search system.
i'll specifically talk about version control, project builds, testing withnose and development practices like code reviews,yagni and agile development.
it's not a general purpose language like python and it doesn't include the diversity of modules that python has.
if you attend both  courses you will get a discount.
working with a relational database corporate compound databases are often stored in a relational database  like oracle.
new features include easier access to  normal shell commands, improved history, support for matplotlib, and better  help.
python is also one of the most popular computer languages in the  world, with mature software libraries for everything from image manipulation  and sql databases to gui and web development.
but there is sometimes a need, especially when getting data from it-oriented  software developers.
i am a member of the python software foundation, which is the non-profit that holds the copyright to python.
you might be interested in thetutor mailing list "for folks who want to ask questions regarding how to learn computer programming with the python language."
trainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com python training for cheminformatics i teach training courses in python programming for computational  chemistry, with an emphasis on cheminformatics.
it is not an introduction to programming course.
computational chemists in this case means  small-molecule chemistry with an emphasis on cheminformatics and a bit of  molecular modeling.
i'll describe some of the basic r data type, how to create them from python, how to call the r functions through rpy, and how to understand the r documentation enough to be able to call it from python.
rpy is an interface module which lets python call r functions directly,  including plotting.
pymol is a very popular structure visualization program from delano scientific.
the specific topics will vary based on the needs of the audience.
i've developed a set of python tools to work with molecular fingerprints.
you must also be  comfortable working on the command-line and using a text editor or ide to write  programs.
openbabel and rdkit are two open source cheminformatics toolkits with python interfaces.
not hard for experienced programmers that is.
no public courses are currently scheduled.
this course is meant for computational chemists  who want to set up an in-house cheminformatics server for specific analysis  tasks.
how to multiple people work together on the same code base?
many of these are covered in greg wilson's software carpentry.
some background about python, how it got to where it is, and where it's going.
developing web applications django is a popular web development framework for python which makes  developing web applications much simpler than traditional cgi programming.
beautifulsoup makes it easier to get access to that data in your programs.
python is also one of the most popular computer languages in the world, with mature software libraries for everything from image manipulation and sql databases to gui and web development.
attendees must have some existing python experience.
special discount: attend this course plus the django course for €2,000 instead of €2,200.
how to multiple people work together  on the same code base?
i've used openbabel a bit, mostly through the high-levelpybel  library.
numpy numpy is a collection of numeric tools for python, with an emphasis on  arrays and linear algebra.
i'll describe how to use them to generate fingerprints and do tanimoto searches.
despite the best efforts of some, there's still very little direct influence of xml in computational chemistry.
i have more experience with the oechem way and can explain it  better.
it is not an  introduction to programming course.
as an example of a difference, openbabel follows the daylight model and  assumes that the right behavior is to convert everything into the same  chemistry model.
i'll show how to use python'ssubprocess module to call them from python.
the presentations are a mixture of lecture and hands-on exercises in a similar style to mynbn courses.
it's not hard to write a python program which opens excel, creates a new spreadsheet, loads data into the spreadsheet, and creates a plot of the results.
computational chemists are not programmers, but programming is an  essential skill for developing new algorithms, generating data, and analyzing  results.
the second day covers essential libraries for calling out tocommand-line programs, handling csv files, making plots, and more.
python for windows has excellent support for com, which is how windows programs can embed or control other windows programs.
you can see mylecture notes under the header "introduction to programming  for bioinformatics in python.
special discount: attend this course plus the python course for  €2,000 instead of €2,200.
my name is andrew dalke.
contact me if there's something you specifically want me to discuss, and see the bottom of this page for apartial list of topics i can cover.
register for the python course or ontact me at trainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com if you have any questions.
if you are interested in on-site training during those  trips, let me know!
course fees include coffe breaks, lunch, and all presentation materials.
i'll shows some examples of creating a database schema, loading compound data into the database, and searching the data set.
software development best practices software development is more than sitting down and programming.
i will be in ireland for openeye's cup conference in september and  in england in october.
but there is sometimes a need, especially when getting data from it-oriented software developers.
generating and searching fingerprints
a lot of data is available through web pages designed for people, not software.
i will be teaching a two day python course immediately before the django course.
it's not hard to write a python program which opens excel, creates a new  spreadsheet, loads data into the spreadsheet, and creates a plot of the  results.
the  first day is anoverview the core python language and oechem.
if you are interested in on-site training during those trips, let me know!
if you are interested in me teaching specifically openbabel or rdkit then contact me.
to apply or ask questions, send email to trainingdiscard @dalkescientific.com.
you might find jeff rush'sipython videos helpful.
the first day is anoverview the core python language and oechem.
pymol pymol is a very popular structure visualization program from delano  scientific.
new features include easier access to normal shell commands, improved history, support for matplotlib, and better help.
this causes small differences in how the libraries treat conditions like aromaticity.
as an example of a difference, openbabel follows the daylight model and assumes that the right behavior is to convert everything into the same chemistry model.
some the more public projects i've been part of are vmd, namd, biopython, pydaylight, and the open bioinformatics foundation.
register for the python course or contact me attrainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com if you have any questions.
you do not need to know object oriented programming.
computational chemists in this case means small-molecule chemistry with an emphasis on cheminformatics and a bit of molecular modeling.
i'll show you some of the things you can do with it.
i'll describe some of the basic r data type, how  to create them from python, how to call the r functions through rpy, and how to  understand the r documentation enough to be able to call it from python.
registration will be €900 including vat and is limited to 8 people.
i will not cover all of these in a single course.
you  must know how to write programs* and should have some experience with python.
the topics i'll cover are: setting up a django server, working with a sql database, structure depictions and entry, plotting, introduction to javascript and jquery.
if you are building models or doing data mining then you should know  about this project.
up-to-date information can always be found at http://dalkescientific.com/training/. computational chemists are not programmers, but programming is an essential skill for developing new algorithms, generating data, and analyzing results.
the  following are some of the topics i can cover, so you can get an idea of what to  expect.
the following courses are meant for computational chemists with some programming background.
you don't need to be corporate is to set up a relational database.
overview of python some background about python, how it got to where it is, and where it's  going.
thoughout my career i have worked closely with chemists to help  them be more effective, by developing software, providing one-on-one advice,  training, and writingessays about software side of this field.
i'll show you some of the  things you can do with it.
it contains an extensivepython programming interface which can be  used for structure analysis, movie making, and more.
attendees must have some programming experience (know how to use  variables, for-loops, if-statements, and know how to use text editors and  command-line tools.
this causes small differences in how the libraries treat conditions  like aromaticity.
subprocess many chemistry programs are only available through the command line.
i'll teach the python-specific features as i work through my examples.
most working scientists have little training in programming and end up spending a lot of time figuring out how to parse a file format or work with a software library, rather than figuring out the science.
how do you keep track of changes to the code over time?
r is a great software environment for statistical computing and generating plots.
special discount: attend this course plus the django course for  €2,000 instead of €2,200.
i have more experience with the oechem way and can explain it better.
parsing csv files a lot of chemistry data is passed around as comma-, space-, or tab-  separated files.
oechem doesn't make that assumption and instead has functions to convert between different chemistry models; you have to call those functions.
django is a popular web development framework for python which makes developing web applications much simpler than traditional cgi programming.
scheduled courses the following courses are meant for computational chemists with some  programming background.
many tools, especially in molecular visualization and chemical informatics, have python interfaces.
many tools,  especially in molecular visualization and chemical informatics, have python  interfaces.
some the more public projects i've been  part of are vmd, namd, biopython, pydaylight, and the open bioinformatics  foundation.
i've used openbabel a bit, mostly through the high-levelpybel library.
what are some of the common development traps that  people can get stuck in?
this will be about how python fits into the world.
what experience do you need?
most of my work over the last 10 years has been in python, which is the most popular high-level language in computational chemistry.
numpy is a collection of numeric tools for python, with an emphasis on arrays and linear algebra.
i've used it in a model calculation system using oechem and other tools to compute descriptor values then passing the code over r to evalute the model.
why do you need to care about security?
ipython ipython enhances the normal interactive python interpreter to make it  better for exploratory programming.
i am a professional software developer with years of experience creating tools for cheminformatics, molecular modeling, bioinformatics, and related fields.
i teach both corporate courses and public ones.
i'll work through how to use python to parse these sorts of  files, with a focus on smiles files.
and it doesn't include the diversity of modules that python has.
rpy minimize the  difference, it's still there.
i also think that oechem is a better  library for most use, if you have the money and consider proprietary software  acceptable.
i'll  show how to use python'ssubprocess module to call them from python.
the second day  covers essential libraries for calling out tocommand-line programs, handling  csv files, making plots, and more.
for each course i list the topics i will cover and i may also  cover some additional topics depending on the time and class expertise.
each day starts at 9.00 and ends around 17.30.
most of the code will look similar in other languages so it should be easy to follow.
i will be teaching a  two day python course immediately before the django course.
r includes its own programming language and a number of  high-quality analysis packages.
if you are from an academic or non-profit group then you  may qualify for a discount.
i could teach it, but i don't have as  much experience as i do with oechem.
i teach training courses in python programming for computational chemistry, with an emphasis on cheminformatics.
how do you  keep track of changes to the code over time?
registration for the django course is €1,300 and is limited to 8  people.
if you are interested in me teaching specifically openbabel or rdkit  then contact me.
no public courses are currently  scheduled.
you might be thinking "why not teach openbabel instead of oechem"?
there are certain nuances of every library, which i don't know for openbabel.
special discount: attend this course plus the python course for €2,000 instead of €2,200.
register for the python course or contact me  attrainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com
rpy minimize the difference, it's still there.
r includes its own programming language and a number of high-quality analysis packages.
i've used it in a model calculation system using oechem and  other tools to compute descriptor values then passing the code over r to  evalute the model.
i also think that oechem is a better library for most use, if you have the money and consider proprietary software acceptable.
using com to control excel python for windows has excellent support for com, which is how windows  programs can embed or control other windows programs.
you must also be comfortable working on the command-line and using a text editor or ide to write programs.
most of  the code will look similar in other languages so it should be easy to follow.
i'll show a few examples  you can build off of and provide pointers of where to get more in-depth  information.
the phrase "some programming experience" means people who are comfortable with strings, integers, floats, variables, if-statements, for-loops, variables, lists/arrays, and defining functions.
i've developed a set of chemistry extensions to mysql so you can get some experience in doing chemically-aware queries, like substructure searches and similarity ranking.
after all, the library is freely available so anyone can install  it without needing a special license.
it's not a general purpose language like python
you might be thinking "why not teach openbabel instead of  oechem"?
you can see mylecture notes under the header "introduction to programming for bioinformatics in python."
i'll  specifically talk about version control, project builds, testing withnose and  development practices like code reviews,yagni and agile development.
if you are from an academic or non-profit group then you may qualify for a discount.
if you are building models or doing data mining then you should know about this project.
some of the topics i can cover are: parsing smiles and working with the molecule object parsing smarts and substructure searches working with smiles and sd files maximum common substructure translation between chemistry models openbabel and rdkit openbabel and rdkit are two open source cheminformatics toolkits with  python interfaces.
these lectures will be based around developing a web application for  substructure searches and will cover how to work with the database, generate  templates, structure the urls, using css, and javascript interactivity with jquery.
beautifulsoup a lot of data is available through web pages designed for people, not  software.
i have taught beginning programming to bioinformatics graduate students.
these lectures will be based around developing a web application for substructure searches and will cover how to work with the database, generate templates, structure the urls, using css, and javascript interactivity with jquery.
if you change code, how do you  figure out if the change broke something?
you might be interested in thetutor mailing list "for folks who  want to ask questions regarding how to learn computer programming with the  python language."
i will be in ireland for openeye's cup conference in september and in england in october.
i could teach it, but i don't have as much experience as i do with oechem.
r and python r is a great software environment for statistical computing and generating
if you attend both courses you will get a discount.
if you have any questions, send me an email at trainingdiscard @dalkescientific.com.
the phrase "some programming experience" means people who are  comfortable with strings, integers, floats, variables, if-statements,  for-loops, variables, lists/arrays, and defining functions.
i'll work through how to use python to parse these sorts of files, with a focus on smiles files.
i'll work  through several examples based on chemistry data sets, such as producing a  scatter plot and exporting the result.
oechem oechem is a commercial programming library from openeye for  small molecule chemistry.
the topics i'll cover are: attendees must have some existing python experience.
a lot of chemistry data is passed around as comma-, space-, or tab- separated files.
" possible topics i cover different topics in my courses, depending on  the length of the course, background of the participants, and what they want me  to focus on.
i'll show some examples of usingelementtree to read and  extract fields from an xml file.
for those just starting off in python, the python beginner's guide contains links to many resources including online tutorials and a list of books.
you must already know the basic science, like smiles, molecular graph representation, smarts and substructure searches.
this course is meant for computational chemists who want to set up an in-house cheminformatics server for specific analysis tasks.
thoughout my career i have worked closely with chemists to help them be more effective, by developing software, providing one-on-one advice, training, and writingessays about software side of this field.
the course will be hosted by and invoices sent by the python academy, located at zur schule 20, leipzig.
you should have some experience with python but that is not essential.
beautifulsoup makes it easier to get access to that data in your  programs.
chemists use excel a lot.
mysql is a widely used free database server.
software development is more than sitting down and programming.
my training course is designed for just these people.
i've developed a set of chemistry extensions to mysql  so you can get some experience in doing chemically-aware queries, like  substructure searches and similarity ranking.
oechem doesn't make that assumption and instead has functions  to convert between different chemistry models; you have to call those  functions.