learn how your organization can discover valuable insights about customers, predict their behavior and their future value, and optimize marketing budgets using a sophisticated and powerful marketing analytics platform designed for business users.
if you're interested in learning more about lityxiq, there will be a free  webinar this thursday, presented by lityx.
if you got this far, why not subscribe for  updates from the site?
lityxiq was developed by phd statisticians and marketing analytic experts  working with some of the largest companies and non-profits in the world.
lityxiq was developed by phd statisticians and marketing analytic experts working with some of the largest companies and non-profits in the world.
to get such powerful insights into the hands of  marketers, dc-area company lityxiq provides a cloud-based solution:lityxiq,  "an integrated hosted analytics platform for marketing insights,  predictive models, and marketing optimization".
"we used r in developing the platform in order to take advantage of the flexibility of the language and wealth of supported algorithm", he said.
"in addition, it allows us to fully integrate model building and scoring easily using its object-oriented architecture."
its  cloud-based delivery allows every organization to leverage their data through  an affordable subscription model without internal it investment.
i asked lityx ceo paul maiste why he chose r to implement these models instead of other statistical software packages.
"in addition, it allows us to fully  integrate model building and scoring easily using its object-oriented  architecture."
(for example, how target used statistical  modeling to predict demographic attribues of customers, like pregnancy,  toâ target coupons.)
lityx:â marketing analytics, modeling & optimization with  lityxiq to leave a comment for the author, please follow the  link and comment on his blog:
lityxiq allows marketers to automate the loading and managing multiple data  sources, automatically build and manage predictive models, and optimize  marketing budget and media decisions.
i've included the webinar abstract  and the registration link below.
revolutions. r-bloggers.com  offersdaily e-mail updates about r news and tutorials on  topics such as: visualization (ggplot2, boxplots, maps, animation), programming  (rstudio, sweave, latex, sql, eclipse, git, hadoop, web scraping) statistics (  regression, pca, time series, ecdf, trading) and more...
i asked lityx ceo paul  maiste why he chose r to implement these models instead of other statistical  software packages.
(for example, how target used statistical modeling to predict demographic attribues of customers, like pregnancy, toâ target coupons.)
lityx:â marketing analytics, modeling & optimization with lityxiqto leave a comment for the author, please follow the link and comment on his blog: revolutions. r-bloggers.com offersdaily e-mail updates about r news and tutorials on topics such as: visualization (ggplot2, boxplots, maps, animation), programming (rstudio, sweave, latex, sql, eclipse, git, hadoop, web scraping) statistics ( regression, pca, time series, ecdf, trading) and more... tags: applications, predictive analytics, r comments are closed.
to get such powerful insights into the hands of marketers, dc-area company lityxiq provides a cloud-based solution:lityxiq, "an integrated hosted analytics platform for marketing insights, predictive models, and marketing optimization".
marketing is one of the pioneering domains when it comes to applications of predictive analytics to big data.
now, any size organization can develop the same marketing insights enjoying the same efficiency benefits with lityxiq.
marketing analytics, modeling & optimization with lityxiq fortune 1000 organizations make big investments in predictive analytics to optimize their marketing budgets.
now, any size organization can develop the  same marketing insights enjoying the same efficiency benefits with lityxiq.
by david smith (this article was first published on revolutions,  and kindly contributed tor-bloggers)
marketing analytics, modeling & optimization with lityxiq fortune 1000 organizations make big investments in predictive analytics to  optimize their marketing budgets.
if you're interested in learning more about lityxiq, there will be a free webinar this thursday, presented by lityx.
â "we used r in developing the platform in  order to take advantage of the flexibility of the language and wealth of  supported algorithm", he said.
learn how your organization can discover valuable insights about customers,  predict their behavior and their future value, and optimize marketing budgets  using a sophisticated and powerful marketing analytics platform designed for  business users.
i've included the webinar abstract and the registration link below.
ther language is used to implement those  models behind the scenes, making use of itsâ predictive algorithms  and for its powerful variable selection capabilities.
choose your flavor: e-mail, twitter, rss, or  facebook...
its cloud-based delivery allows every organization to leverage their data through an affordable subscription model without internal it investment.
lityxiq allows marketers to automate the loading and managing multiple data sources, automatically build and manage predictive models, and optimize marketing budget and media decisions.
some of the r functions and packages used  includeâ glmâ (for generalized linear modeling), mass,  rpart (decision trees), nnet (neural netwoks), and rjson (for data exchange).
tags: applications, predictive analytics, r
some of the r functions and packages used includeâ glmâ (for generalized linear modeling), mass, rpart (decision trees), nnet (neural netwoks), and rjson (for data exchange).
marketing is one of the pioneering domains when it comes to applications of  predictive analytics to big data.
ther language is used to implement those models behind the scenes, making use of itsâ predictive algorithms and for its powerful variable selection capabilities.