tarballs with daily snapshots of the r-devel and r-patched development versions of r can be found atftp://ftp.stat.math.ethz.ch/software/r. next: are there unix binaries for r?,
- why do lattice/trellis graphics not work?
you can compute your favorite sums of squares quite easily.
once downloaded and executed, the  installer will install the current non-developer release of r. raqua is a  native mac os x darwin version of r with a r.app mac os xgui.
see http://www.r-project.org/mail.html for more information on the r mailing lists.
* x although this behavior may initially seem to be rather strange, is perfectly logical.
how can r be obtained?
if you define the general function wrapper <- function(x, y, my.fun, ...) { sapply(seq(along = x), fun =  function(i) my.fun(x[i], y[i], ...)) } then you can use outer() by writing, e.g., outer(1:4, 1:2, fun = wrapper, my.fun = foo, happy = 10) next:  how do i produce png graphics in batch mode?,  previous: why does outer() behave strangely with my function?, up:  r  miscellanea 7.18
- why does the help.start() search engine not work?
bug reports on contributed packages should be sent first to the package maintainer, and only submitted to the r-bugs repository by package maintainers, mentioning the package in the subject line.
- how can i debug s4 methods?
you can find out the parent environment for an invocation of a function by using parent.frame() or sys.frame(sys.parent())
previous: r basics, up: r basics - what is r?
there is no need to be agitated about the particular sums of squares that r  reports.
these backports should also be suitable for other debian derivatives.
one can also subscribe (or unsubscribe) via email, e.g. to r-help by sending ` subscribe' (or `unsubscribe') in the body of the message (not in the subject!)
it is always easier to report the facts, but people seem to prefer to strain to posit explanations and report them instead.
of course, in the case of bug reports it would be very helpful to have code  which reliably reproduces the problem.
next: models, previous: what are the differences between r and s?, up: what are the differences between r and s?
- are gams implemented in r?
parent environments are important because things like model formulas need  to be evaluated in the environment the function was called from, since that's  where all the variables will be available.
to install dvi, info and pdf versions of the manuals, use make install-dvi, make install-info and make install-pdf, respectively.
also, make sure that you include information on the system and version of r being used.
in versions of r up to 2.4.1 an unknown escape sequence like `\p' was quietly interpreted as just `p'.
previous: notation, up: introduction 1.5 feedback feedback via email to kurt.hornik@r-project.org is of course most welcome.
= 0.3, are not a bug.
- how can r be installed (unix) - how can r be installed (windows)
`r>' is used for the r prompt, and a `$' for the shell prompt (where applicable).
- what are the differences between r and s?
from r 2.7.0png() by default uses the quartz device on mac  os x, and that too works in batch mode.
what documentation exists for r?
notice that `"\n"' is a one-character string, not two; the backslash is not actually in the string, it is just generated in the printed representation.
to install dvi, info and pdf versions of the manuals, use make install-dvi,  make install-info and make install-pdf, respectively.
the bin/macos directory of a cran site contains bin-hexed (hqx) and stuffit  (sit) archives for a base distribution and a large number of add-on packages of  r 1.7.1 to run under mac os 8.6 to mac os 9.2.2.
next:  r and s, previous:  introduction, up:  top 2 r basics what machines does r run on?
next:  how can r be obtained?, previous:  what machines  does r run on?, up:  r basics 2.3 what is the current version of r?
(the argumentcheck.names to these functions controls whether variable names are checked and adjusted by make.names() if needed.)
previous: what is the current version of r?, up: r basics 2.4 how can r be obtained?
previous: what is a bug?, up: r bugs 9.2 how to report a bug when you decide that there is a bug, it is important to report it and to report it in a way which is useful.
this port of r for macintosh is no longer supported.
this book is often called the “blue book”, and introduced what is now known as s version 2.
s-plus is a value-added version of s sold by insightful corporation.
consider the following function: cube  cube(2) error in sq(): object "n" not found dumped s>  n  cube(2)
to “submit” to cran, simply upload to ftp://cran.r-project.org/incoming/ and send an email to cran@r-project.org.
otherwise, you can compile and install r yourself, which can be done very easily under a number of common unix platforms (seewhat machines does r run on? ).
if you have a function that cannot handle two vectors but can handle two scalars, then you can still use outer() but you will need to wrap your function up first, to simulate vectorized behavior.
this is a very important sort of problem, but it is also a matter of judgment.
see http://www.r-project.org/foundation/ for more information.
- why does plotting give a color allocation error?
(the argumentcheck.names to these functions controls  whether variable names are checked and adjusted bymake.names() if  needed.)
[1] 8 as a more “interesting” real-world problem, suppose you want to  write a function which returns the density function of the r-th order statistic  from a sample of size n from a (continuous) distribution.
the bin/solaris directory of a cran site contains binary packages for  solaris on the sparc and x64 platforms, provided by mithun sridharan.
introductory books include p. spector (1994), “an introduction to s and s-plus”,  duxbury press.
consider  for instance the semantics in cases like d2  test1() 3 3.14 r> test2() 3 3.141593 what is really used is the global value of .options,  and usingoptions(opt = val) correctly updates it.
before you actually submit a bug report, you should check whether the bug has already been reported and/or fixed.
this document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
otherwise, you can compile and install r yourself, which can be done very  easily under a number of common unix platforms (seewhat machines does r run on? ).
i installed a package but the functions are not there why doesn't r think these numbers are equal?
in the first case the sum of squares for a is comparing ~1 and ~a, in the second  case it is comparing~b and ~b+a. in a non-orthogonal  design (i.e., most unbalanced designs) these comparisons are (conceptually and  numerically) different.
introduction - legalese - obtaining this document - citing this document - notation - feedback 1.1 legalese
version r-patched is for bug fixes mostly.
previous: how can i change compilation flags?, up: r programming 8.5 how can i debug s4 methods?
next:  are gams implemented in r?,
of theopen source definition: the license must not restrict anyone from making use of the program in a specific field of endeavor.
the design of r has been heavily influenced by two existing languages: becker, chambers & wilks' s (seewhat is s?) and sussman's scheme.
perhaps it fails when a variable name is a day of the week.
by default, this will install to the following directories: ${prefix}/bin the man page ${prefix}/lib/r all the rest (libraries, on-line help system, ...).
an annotated bibliography (bibtex format) of r-related publications which  includes most of the above references can be found at http://www.r-project.org/doc/bib/r.bib next:  what mailing lists exist for r?, previous:  what  documentation exists for r?, up:  r basics 2.8 citing r to cite r in publications, use @manual{, title = {
- how can i substitute into a plot label?
you can also obtain it by writing to the free software foundation, inc., 51  franklin street, fifth floor, boston, ma 02110-1301, u.s.a. next:  citing this document, previous:  legalese, up:   introduction 1.2 obtaining this document the latest version of this document is always available from http://cran.r-project.org/doc/faq/ from there, you can obtain versions converted to plain ascii text, dvi, gnu  info, html, pdf, postscript as well as the texinfo source used for creating all  these formats using thegnu texinfo system.
can i use r for commercial purposes?
if you have any questions regarding the legality of using r in any particular situation you should bring it up with your legal counsel.
this is an x problem, and only indirectly related to r.
s is an elegant, widely accepted, and enduring software system, with  conceptual integrity, thanks to the insight, taste, and effort of john chambers.
for example, it may not restrict the program from being used in a business, or from being used for genetic research.
as in > cat("\\n", "\n") \n some functions, particularly those involving regular expression matching, themselves use metacharacters, which may need to be escaped by the backslash mechanism.
“the r language definition” (r-lang), a first version of the  “kernighan & ritchie of r”, explains evaluation, parsing,  object oriented programming, computing on the language, and so forth.
the s-plus documentation for call() basically suggests the following: dorder  0 && any(names(env) ==
any two  models can be compared withanova(model1, model2) , and drop1(model1) will show the sums of  squares resulting from dropping single terms.
it occurs when applications started prior to r have used all the available colors.
if  you also want to build r packages from source, also runapt-get install  r-base-dev to obtain the additional tools required for this.
for most installations the windows installer program will be the easiest tool to use.
how can i turn a string into a variable?
package gam from cran implements all the generalized additive models (gam) functionality as described in the gam chapter of the white book.
argument names are also usually syntactic names, but again can be  anything if they are quoted.
earlier versions of the png() device uses the x11 driver,  which is a problem in batch mode or for remote operation.
the windows version of r was created by robert gentleman and guido masarotto,  and is now being developed and maintained byduncan murdoch and brian d. ripley.
under a unix-alike, if your installation supports the type="cairo" option to the png() device there  should be no problems, and the default settings should just work.
next:  what are the differences between r and s?,
{r foundation for statistical computing}, address = {vienna, austria}, year = 2008, note = {{isbn} 3-900051-07-0}, url = {http://www.r-project.org} } citation strings (or bibtex entries) for r and r packages can also be obtained by next: what is cran?
next: what is the r foundation?,
why does the output from anova() depend on the order of factors in  the model?
enclosing environments are important because a function can use variables in the enclosing environment to share information with other functions or with other invocations of itself (see the section on lexical scoping).
for example, suppose that on a data set which you know to be quite large the command r> data.frame(x, y, z, monday, tuesday) never returns.
instead, or use next: why does the output from anova() depend on the order of factors in the model?,
this document is based on the “notes ons-plus” by bill venables and david smith.
previous: how can r be obtained?, up: r basics 2.5 how can r be installed?
this approach is preferred over having summary.foo() print summary information and return something useful, as sometimes you need to grab something computed by summary() inside a function or similar.
if the problem occurs when netscape is running, try (re)starting it with either the-no-install (to use the default colormap) or the -install (to install a private colormap) option.
(in c this would be done with static variables.)
to quote from “the elements of programming style” by kernighan and plauger: 10.0 times 0.1 is hardly ever 1.0.
next: how can r be installed (windows),
the windows version of r was created by robert gentleman and guido masarotto, and is now being developed and maintained byduncan murdoch and brian d. ripley.
by default, this will install to the following directories: - ${prefix}/bin - the front-end shell script - ${prefix}/man/man1 - the man page - ${prefix}/lib/r - all the rest (libraries, on-line help system, ...).
this documentation can also be made available as one reference manual for on-line reading inhtml and pdf formats, and as hardcopy via latex, see how can r be installed?.
if you don't know whether the command should take a long time, find out by looking in the manual or by asking for assistance.
most add-on packages, including all recommended ones, also explicitly allow commercial use in this way.
for the  available mailing lists, andhttp://www.gmane.org/rss.php for details on rss  feeds.
note that the r-announce and r-packages lists are gatewayed into r-help.
the r distribution contains functionality for a large number of statistical procedures.
if the problem occurs when netscape is running, try (re)starting it  with either the-no-install (to use the default colormap) or the -install (to  install a private colormap) option.
suppose you have c code file for dynloading into r, but you want to use r cmd shlib with compilation flags other than the default ones (which were determined when r was built).
if you have a function that cannot handle two vectors but can handle two  scalars, then you can still useouter() but you will need to wrap  your function up first, to simulate vectorized behavior.
local copies of .options , either in .globalenv or in a function environment (frame), are just silently disregarded.
[1] "\n" so how do you put a backslash in a string?
why does backslash behave strangely inside strings?
seer bugs for more details.
in such cases you don't want anything printed.
(if this is not available on your system, you can obtain a pdf version of the object reference manual viacran.)
printing text strings, using print() or by typing the name at the prompt will use the escape sequences too, but the cat() function will display the string as-is.
you should still report the facts as well as any explanations or solutions.
otherwise, element names can  be any strings.
these files can be previewed and printed using standard programs such asxdvi and dvips.
the book j. c. pinheiro and d. m. bates (2000), “mixed-effects models in s ands-plus”, springer, isbn 0-387-98957-0 provides a comprehensive guide to the use of the nlme package for linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models.
- how can i debug dynamically loaded code?
note also that the r version of pairs() is fairly general and provides most of the functionality of splom(), and that r's default plot method has an argument asp allowing to specify (and fix against device resizing)
questions likely to prompt discussion unintelligible to non-programmers (e.g., questions involving c or c++) should go to r-devel.
for example beta[i,]  -2^2
next:  how can i get command line editing to work?,  previous: why does the output from anova() depend on the order of factors  in the model?, up:  r miscellanea 7.19
the unix command-line interface to r can only provide the inbuilt command  line editor which allows recall, editing and re-submission of prior commands  provided that thegnu readline library is available at the time r is configured  for compilation.
next: how can i change compilation flags?, previous: how can i debug dynamically loaded code?, up: r programming 8.3 how can i inspect r objects when debugging?
in the above, prefix is determined during configuration (typically/usr/local) and can be set by running configure with the option $ ./configure --prefix=/where/you/want/r/to/go (e.g., the r executable will then be installed into /where/you/want/r/to/go/bin.)
this is the “r home directory” (r_home) of the installed system.
next: what is the current version of r?, previous: what is r?, up: r basics 2.2 what machines does r run on?
previous: what are valid names?, up: r miscellanea - a syntactic name is a string the parser interprets as this type of expression.
and if you can accept regression splines you can use glm().
(if this is not available on your system, you can obtain a pdf  version of the object reference manual viacran.)
- how to report a bug 9.1
the r core team does not provide legal advice under any circumstances.
so-called “backports” of the current r packages for thestable distribution of debian are provided by johannes ranke, and available from cran.
so-called  “backports” of the current r packages for thestable distribution of  debian are provided by johannes ranke, and available from cran.
this ensures that the site profile and saved data files are not read.
the name is partly based on the (first) names of the first two r authors (robert gentleman and ross ihaka), and partly a play on the name of the bell labs language `s' (seewhat is s?).
this relies on the enclosing environment being the same each time the function is invoked.
special thanks go to doug bates, peter dalgaard, paul gilbert, stefano iacus, fritz leisch, jim lindsey, thomas lumley, martin maechler, brian d. ripley, anthony rossini, and andreas weingessel for their comments which helped me improve thisfaq.
the aspect ratio of the plot.
see the insightful s-plus page for further information.
for the remainder of this section, “s” refers to the s engines and not the s language.
in addition, a large group of individuals has contributed to r by sending code and bug reports.
a third option is to start an inferior r process via ess (m-x r) and
support for mac os classic ended with r 1.7.1.
next: what are valid names?,
it consists of a  language plus a run-time environment with graphics, a debugger, access to  certain system functions, and the ability to run programs stored in script  files.
an element name is a string that identifies a piece of an object  (a component of a list, for example.)
the r core team can be reached at r-core@lists.r-project.org for comments and reports.
if you also want to build r packages from source, also run apt-get install r-base-dev to obtain the additional tools required for this.
richard a. becker, john m. chambers and allan r. wilks (1988), “the  new s language,” london: chapman & hall.
in addition, plain text help pages as well ashtml and latex versions of the documentation are built.
next: why are powers of negative numbers wrong?, previous: why doesn't r think these numbers are equal?, up: r miscellanea 7.32
in particular, note that i do not have access to windows or macintosh systems.
are gams implemented in r?
for simplicity, we shall use both the cdf and pdf of the distribution as explicit arguments.
this relies  on the enclosing environment being the same each time the function is invoked.
the current released version is 2.7.2.
the bin/solaris directory of a cran site contains binary packages for solaris on the sparc and x64 platforms, provided by mithun sridharan.
the most convenient way is to call r_pv from the symbolic debugger.
if a command you are familiar with causes an r error message in a case where its usual definition ought to be reasonable, it is probably a bug.
to get the square of -2.
send email to r-help@lists.r-project.org to send a message to everyone on  the r-help mailing list.
it only restricts  distribution of r or of other programs containing code from r.
use make dvi to create dvi versions of the r manuals, such as refman.dvi (an r object reference index) andr-exts.dvi, the “r extension writers guide”, in thedoc/manual subdirectory.
the manual's job is to make everything clear.
if the explanations are based on guesses about how r is implemented, they will be useless; others will have to try to figure out what the facts must have been to lead to such speculations.
it is the opinion of the r core team that one can use r for commercial purposes (e.g., in business or in consulting).
from cran, you can obtain the latest official release of r, daily snapshots  of r (copies of the current source trees), as gzipped and bzipped tar files, a  wealth of additional contributed code, as well as prebuilt binaries for various  operating systems (linux, mac os classic, mac os x, and ms windows).cran also  provides access to documentation on r, existing mailing lists and the r bug  tracking system.
“an introduction to r” (r-intro) includes information on data  types, programming elements, statistical modeling and graphics.
it was founded by the members of the r core team in order to provide support for the r project and other innovations in statistical computing, provide a reference point for individuals, institutions or commercial enterprises that want to support or interact with the r development community, and to hold and administer the copyright of r software and documentation.
books on r include p. dalgaard (2002), “introductory statistics with r”, springer: new york, isbn 0-387-95475-9,http://www.biostat.ku.dk/~pd/iswr.html.
why are powers of negative numbers wrong?
for simplicity, we  shall use both the cdf and pdf of the distribution as explicit arguments.
inside bin/macosx/powerpc/contrib/x.y there are prebuilt binary packages (for powerpc version of mac os x) to be used with raqua corresponding to the “x.y ” release of r. the installation of these packages is available through the “package” menu of the r.appgui.
the book w. n. venables and b. d. ripley (2002), “modern applied statistics with s” (4th edition).
some commands simply take a long time.
- richard a. becker, john m. chambers and allan r. wilks (1988), “the new s language,” london: chapman & hall.
why does the output from anova() depend on the order of factors in the  model?
one way to describe the scoping differences between r and s is  to say that in s the enclosing environment isalways the global  workspace, but in r the enclosing environment is wherever the function was  created.
“writing r extensions” (r-exts) currently describes the  process of creating r add-on packages, writing r documentation, r's system and  foreign language interfaces, and the rapi.
how can r be installed (windows) the bin/windows directory of a cran site contains binaries for a base  distribution and a large number of add-on packages fromcran to run on windows  2000 and later (including 64-bit versions of windows) on ix86 and x86_64 chips.
note that the r-announce and r-packages lists are gatewayed  into r-help.
if you are not sure what the command is supposed to do after a careful reading of the manual this indicates a bug in the manual.
what is most useful is an exact description of what commands you type, starting with the shell command to run r, until the problem happens.
next: how can r be installed?,
corrections to and comments on message translation should be sent to the last translator (listed at the top of the appropriate `.po' file) or to the translation team as listed at http://developer.r-project.org/translationteams.html.
for earlier versions of r, you could change the file r_home/etc/makeconf to reflect your preferences, or (at least for systems usinggnu make) override them by the environment variablemakeflags.
one  can also subscribe (or unsubscribe) via email, e.g. to r-help by sending ` subscribe' (or `unsubscribe') in the body of the message (not in the  subject!)
7.15 are gams implemented in r?
this option  is not available for versions of r prior to 2.7.0, or without support for  cairo.
subscription and posting to the other lists is done analogously, with `r-help' replaced by `r-announce', `r-packages', and `r-devel ', respectively.
inside a function you may want to access variables in two additional  environments: the one that the function was defined in  (“enclosing”), and the one it was invoked in (“parent”).
as an example of how r can be used in teaching an advanced introductory statistics course, see d. nolan and t. speed (2000), “stat labs: mathematical statistics through applications”, springer texts in statistics, isbn 0-387-98974-9 this integrates theory of statistics with the practice of statistics through a collection of case studies (“labs”), and uses r to analyze the data.
i.e., you have to double the backslash.
then summary.foo() should not print anything, but return an object of class "summary.foo", and you should write a method print.summary.foo() which nicely prints the summary information and invisibly returns its object.
john m. chambers and trevor j. hastie (1992), “statistical models in  s,” london: chapman & hall.
(in the case of unary  and binary operators and control-flow special forms, the name may need to be be  quoted.)
the {r} {faq}}, year = {2008},  note = {{isbn} 3-900051-08-9}, url =  {http://cran.r-project.org/doc/faq/r-faq.html} } next:  feedback, previous:  citing this document, up:   introduction 1.4 notation
see the help page for x11() for more  information.
dotchart() which might do at least some of what you want.
r-packages a moderated list for announcements on the availability of new or enhanced  contributed packages.
what are the enclosing and parent environments?
comments on and suggestions for the windows port of r should be sent to r-windows@r-project.org.
see thegnu general public license for more details.
the design of r has been heavily influenced by two existing languages:  becker, chambers & wilks' s (seewhat is s?) and sussman's scheme.
["() that had a bug causing r's internal data structures to be corrupted and making the data.frame() command fail from then on.
whereas  the resulting language is very similar in appearance to s, the underlying  implementation and semantics are derived from scheme.
this is easily accomplished usingpaste()
sources are also available via https://svn.r-project.org/r/, the r  subversion repository, but currently not via anonymous rsync (nor cvs).
next:  what is s-plus?,
in s, the values of free  variables are determined by a set of global variables (similar to c, there is  only local and global scope).
it really has nothing much to do  with names in the language, but it is traditional to call these strings file  “names”.
- how can i inspect r objects when debugging?
[1] -4 and misunderstanding the precedence rules for expressions in r. write r> (-2)^2 [1] 4
so for most user-visible functions the enclosing environment will be the global workspace, since that is where most functions are defined.
this is made  clear in clause 6 (“no discrimination against fields of endeavor”)
note thatcran generally does not accept submissions of precompiled binaries due  to security reasons.
in particular, binary packages for windows and mac os x  are provided by the respective binary package maintainers.
how can i sort the rows of a data frame?
often, it is desired to use the value of an r object in a plot label, e.g.,  a title.
this relies on the parent  environment being potentially different with each invocation.
for example, if ahat is an estimator of  your parameter a of interest, use title(substitute(hat(a)
this is also referred to as the “brown book”, and of historical interest only.
it is free software distributed under agnu-style copyleft, and an official part of the gnu project (“gnu s”).
it was founded by the members of the r core team in order to provide  support for the r project and other innovations in statistical computing,  provide a reference point for individuals, institutions or commercial  enterprises that want to support or interact with the r development community,  and to hold and administer the copyright of r software and documentation.
if f is such a factor object, you can use as.numeric(as.character(f))
see http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/ms/departments/sia/s/history.html for further information on “stages in the evolution of s”.
use e.g.apt-get install r-base  r-recommended to install the r environment and recommended packages.
what is the difference between package and library?
[1] 8 as a more “interesting” real-world problem, suppose you want to write a function which returns the density function of the r-th order statistic from a sample of size n from a (continuous) distribution.
seer bugs for more  details.
what machines does r run on?
- how can i turn a string into a variable?
how can r be installed (unix) how can r be installed (windows) how can r be installed (macintosh) next:  how can r be installed (windows), previous:  how can  r be installed?, up:  how can r be installed?
the fileinstall that comes with the r distribution contains a brief  introduction, and the “r installation and administration” guide (see what documentation exists for r?) has full details.
the enclosing environment for a  function is fixed when the function is created.
this is easily accomplished using paste() if the label is a simple character string, but not always obvious in case the label is an expression (for refined mathematical annotation).
an up-to-date html version is always available for web  browsing athttp://stat.ethz.ch/r-manual/. printed copies of the r reference manual for some version(s) are available
there is a next: why does outer() behave strangely with my function?, previous: are gams implemented in r?, up: r miscellanea gam() function for gams in packagemgcv, but it is not an exact clone of what is described in the white book (no lo() for example).
, previous: citing r, up: r basics citation().
- how can i sort the rows of a data frame?
the act of running the  program is not restricted, and the output from the program is covered only if  its contents constitute a work based on the program.
springer, isbn 0-387-95457-0 has a home page at http://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/pub/mass4/ providing additional material.
ahat, list(ahat = ahat)))
next:  r web interfaces, previous:  r basics, up:  top 3 r and s what are the differences between r and s? is there anything r can do that s-plus cannot?
send email to r-help@lists.r-project.org to send a message to everyone on the r-help mailing list.
its companion is w. n. venables and b. d. ripley (2000), “s  programming”.
- how can i get command line editing to work?
note in particular that r-help is intended to be comprehensible to people  who want to use r to solve problems but who are not necessarily interested in  or knowledgeable about programming.
this “green book” describes version 4 of s, a major revision of s designed by john chambers to improve its usefulness at every stage of the programming process.
none of the discussion in this section constitutes legal advice.
your function probably cannot handle two large vectors as parameters.
the escape sequences `\"' and `\n' represent a double quote and the newline character respectively.
native backports for ubuntu are  provided by vincent goulet and michael rutter.
why is read.table() so inefficient?
subscription and posting to the other lists is done  analogously, with `r-help' replaced by `r-announce', `r-packages', and `r-devel ', respectively.
http://cran.ch.r-project.org/ (eth zürich, switzerland) http://cran.es.r-project.org/ (spanish national research network, madrid, spain)
how can i create rotated axis labels?
are trellis displays implemented in r?
if you have information on macintosh or windows systems that you think should be added to this document, please let me know.
to “submit” to cran, simply upload to  ftp://cran.r-project.org/incoming/ and send an email to cran@r-project.org.
the core of r is an interpreted computer language which allows branching and looping as well as modular programming using functions.
- how does autoloading work?
thequantian  website athttp://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/quantian/ contains more details as well  download information.
in publications, please refer to this faq as hornik (2008), “the r faq ”, and give the above,official url and the isbn 3-900051-08-9: @misc{, author = {kurt hornik}, title = {
next:  how can i turn a string into a variable?, previous:   how do i produce png graphics in batch mode?, up:  r miscellanea 7.20
previous: are trellis displays implemented in r?, up: r miscellanea 7.12
roughly speaking, you need to start r inside the debugger, load the code, send an interrupt, and then set the required breakpoints.
- why do my matrices lose dimensions?
see the “r for windows faq” for more details.
this “green book” describes version 4 of s, a major  revision of s designed by john chambers to improve its usefulness at every  stage of the programming process.
this may save  them precious time they can use for constantly improving r, and will typically  also result in much quicker feedback for yourself.
previous:  notation, up:  introduction 1.5 feedback feedback via email to kurt.hornik@r-project.org is of course most welcome.
athttp://bugs.r-project.org/. second, consulthttps://svn.r-project.org/r/trunk/news, which records changes that will appear in thenext release of r, including some bug fixes that do not appear in bug tracking.
r was initially written by ross ihaka and robert gentleman at the  department of statistics of the university of auckland in auckland, new  zealand.
- an element name is a string that identifies a piece of an object (a component of a list, for example.)
next: is there anything r can do that s-plus cannot?, previous: what is s-plus?, up: r and s 3.3 what are the differences between r and s?
rather than jumping to conclusions, show the problem to someone who knows for certain.
see http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/ms/departments/sia/s/history.html for  further information on “stages in the evolution of s”.
most of the user-visible functions in r are written in r. it is possible for the user to interface to procedures written in the c, c++, or fortran languages for efficiency.
most of the  user-visible functions in r are written in r. it is possible for the user to  interface to procedures written in the c, c++, or fortran languages for  efficiency.
in particular, it implements backfitting with both local regression and smoothing splines, and is extendable.
- what are valid names?
the “parent” environment, on the other hand, is defined when you invoke a function.
alternatively the bug report can be emailed tor-bugs@r-project.org or submitted to the web page at http://bugs.r-project.org/. please try including results of sessioninfo() in your bug report.
if these commands execute successfully, the r binary and a shell script front-end calledr are created and copied to the bin directory.
why does the help.start() search engine not work?
we are in no position to offer  legal advice.
if you have any  questions regarding the legality of using r in any particular situation you  should bring it up with your legal counsel.
cpu versions provider debian i386/amd64 stable/oldstable  johannes ranke red hat i386/x86_64 fedora7/fedora8 martyn plummer i386
(because the word “trellis” has been claimed as a trademark we  do not use it in r. the name “lattice” has been chosen for the r  equivalent.)
- what are the enclosing and parent environments?
as r uses c-style string handling, `\' is treated as an escape character,  so that for example one can enter a newline as `\n'.
this port of r for mac os x is maintained bystefano iacus.
(windows users should additionally consult https://svn.r-project.org/r/trunk/src/gnuwin32/changes.)
why do lattice/trellis graphics not work?
next:  what is the r foundation?, previous:  can i use r  for commercial purposes?, up:  r basics 2.12 why is r named r?
if a command does the wrong thing, that is a bug.
this document is copyright © 1998–2008 by kurt hornik.
how should i write summary methods?
to print the value use print(1+1) print(summary(glm(y~x+z, family=binomial))) instead, or use source(file, echo=true).
the aspect ratio  of the plot.
- why does the output from anova() depend on the order of factors in the model?
within the *r* window  you have all theess facilities, such as object-name completion, that we know  and love.
an annotated bibliography (bibtex format) of r-related publications which includes most of the above references can be found at http://www.r-project.org/doc/bib/r.bib next: what mailing lists exist for r?, previous: what documentation exists for r?, up: r basics 2.8 citing r to cite r in publications, use @manual{, title =
previous: how can r be installed?, up: how can r be installed?
on an x11 device, plotting sometimes, e.g., when running demo("image"), results in “error: color allocation  error”.
where subexpressions enclosed in `.()' are replaced by their values.
- can i use r for commercial purposes?
in s, the values of free variables are determined by a set of global variables (similar to c, there is only local and global scope).
the most important principle in reporting a bug is to report facts , not hypotheses or categorizations.
we are in no position to offer legal advice.
you can also obtain the r faq from the doc/faq subdirectory of a cran site  (seewhat is cran?).
s is a very high level language and an environment for data analysis and graphics.
previous:  how can i  substitute into a plot label?, up:  r miscellanea 7.14 what are valid names?
third, if possible try the current r-patched or r-devel version of r. if a bug has already been reported or fixed, please do not submit further bug reports on it.
in 1998, the association for computing machinery (acm) presented its software system award to john m. chambers, the principal designer of s, for the s system, which has forever altered the way people analyze, visualize, and manipulate data...
you can also perform a “system-wide” installation using make  install.
the “parent” environment, on the other hand, is defined when  you invoke a function.
- why are there unwanted lines between polygons in pdf output viewed in adobe reader?
in particular, note that i do not have access to windows or macintosh  systems.
so for most user-visible functions the enclosing environment will be the  global workspace, since that is where most functions are defined.
if r is already installed, it can be started by typing r at the shell prompt (of course, provided that the executable is in your path).
edu/users/statlabs/. last, but not least, ross' and robert's experience in designing and implementing r is described in ihaka & gentleman (1996), “r: a language for data analysis and graphics”,journal of computational and graphical statistics, 5, 299–314.
in particular, it implements backfitting with both local regression  and smoothing splines, and is extendable.
software.opensuse.org directory: /download/home:/dsteuer/opensuse_10.2/ with this setting, online updates will check for new versions of r.
if a  functionf() is defined inside another function g() it  will probably be used insideg() as well, so its parent environment  and enclosing environment will probably be the same.
this is also referred to as the “brown book”, and of  historical interest only.
how should i set options?
this is made clear in clause 6 (“no discrimination against fields of endeavor”)
how can i debug dynamically loaded code?
it is the opinion of the r core team that one can use r for commercial  purposes (e.g., in business or in consulting).
note: it is very important that you indicate the copyright  (license) information (gpl-2, gpl-3, bsd, artistic, ...) in your submission.
there are more worked examples in the mailing list achives.
in those cases you may need aquadruple backslash to represent a single literal one.
or perhaps the command fails because the last command you used was a method for "
, previous:  citing r, up:  r  basics 2.9
- how should i set options?
thanks to martin maechler, there are four mailing lists devoted to r. - r-announce - a moderated list for major announcements about the development of r and the availability of new code.
syntax, and to see how r interprets an expression you can look at the parse tree r> as.list(quote(-2^2))
if the input was such that youknow it should have been processed quickly, report a bug.
in the simplest case, untar the r source code, change to the directory thus created, and issue the following commands (at the shell prompt): $ ./configure $ make
if the label is  a simple character string, but not always obvious in case the label is an  expression (for refined mathematical annotation).
if you type `1+1' or `summary(glm(y~x+z, family=binomial))' at the command line the returned value is automatically printed (unless it is invisible() ), but in other circumstances, such as in a source()d file or inside a function it isn't printed unless you specifically print it.
if you define a function f() inside another function g() its enclosing environment is the environment inside g().
for example, people sometimes think there is a bug in r's mathematics because they don't understand how finite-precision arithmetic works.
consider the following function: cube  cube(2) error in sq(): object "n" not found dumped s> n  cube(2)
- how do i convert factors to numeric?
the current version of r will configure and build under a number of common unix platforms includingcpu-linux-gnu for the i386, alpha, arm, hppa, ia64, m68k, mips/mipsel, powerpc, s390, sparc (e.g., http://buildd.debian.org/build.php?&pkg=r-base), and x86_64 cpus, powerpc-apple-darwin, mips-sgi-irix, rs6000-ibm-aix, and sparc-sun-solaris.
this automatically includes the version information and sends the bug to the correct address.
- what is the current version of r?
from network theory ltd, athttp://www.network-theory.co.uk/r/base/. for each  set of manuals sold, the publisher donates usd 10 to the r foundation (seewhat  is the r foundation?).
next:  what are valid names?, previous:  what are the  enclosing and parent environments?, up:  r miscellanea 7.13
consider for instance the semantics in cases like d2  test1() 3 3.14 r> test2() 3 3.141593 what is really used is the global value of next: why does plotting give a color allocation error?, previous: how should i set options?, up: r miscellanea .options, and usingoptions(opt = val) correctly updates it.
previous: why is the output not printed when i source() a file?, up: r miscellanea source(file , echo=true).
taking forever to complete a command can be a bug, but you must make certain that it was really r's fault.
there is a huge amount of user-contributed code for s, available at the s  repository at cmu.
next: what are the differences between r and s?, previous: what is s?, up: r and s 3.2 what is s-plus?
more efficient, but harder to remember, is as.numeric(levels(f))[as.integer(f)] in any case, do not call as.numeric() or their likes directly  for the task at hand (asas.numeric() or unclass() give the internal codes).
“r installation and administration” (r-admin).
using r, announcements (not covered by `r-announce' and `r-packages') about the  development of r and the availability of new code.
questions likely to prompt discussion  unintelligible to non-programmers (e.g., questions involving c or c++) should  go to r-devel.
seehttp://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/pub/mass3/sprog/ for more information.
this list is for questions and discussion about code development in r. please read the posting guide before sending anything to any mailing list.
the parent environment will be wherever the function happens to be called from.
as an example of how r can be used in teaching an advanced introductory  statistics course, see d. nolan and t. speed (2000), “stat labs: mathematical  statistics through applications”, springer texts in statistics, isbn  0-387-98974-9 this integrates theory of statistics with the practice of statistics  through a collection of case studies (“labs”), and uses r to  analyze the data.
the r foundation is a not for profit organization working in the public  interest.
- finally, a file name is a string identifying a file in the operating system for reading, writing, etc.
fedora8 martyn plummer i386
next: notation, previous: obtaining this document, up: introduction 1.3 citing this document
(in the case of unary and binary operators and control-flow special forms, the name may need to be be quoted.)
you can find out the enclosing environment for a function f() using environment(f).
what mailing lists exist for r?
what documentation exists for r? - citing r - what mailing lists exist for r?
inside a function you may want to access variables in two additional environments: the one that the function was defined in (“enclosing”), and the one it was invoked in (“parent”).
- an object name is a string associated with an object that is assigned in an expression either by having the object name on the left of an assignment operation or as an argument to the assign() function.
next:  why is r named r?, previous:  what is cran?,  up: r basics 2.11 can i use r for commercial purposes?
thus, in filenames use something like "c:\\data\\money.dat" .
this may save them precious time they can use for constantly improving r, and will typically also result in much quicker feedback for yourself.
- what is the r foundation?
- why does outer() behave strangely with my function?
- how can i get eval() and d() to work?
springer, isbn 0-387-95457-0 has a home page at http://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/pub/mass4/ providing  additional material.
since mid-1997 there has been a core group (the “r core team”) who can modify the r source code archive.
for most installations the windows installer program will be the easiest  tool to use.
native backports for ubuntu are provided by vincent goulet and michael rutter.
detlef steuer ubuntu i386 dapper/feisty/gutsy/hardy vincent goulet amd64 dapper/feisty/gutsy/hardy michael rutter debian packages, maintained by dirk eddelbuettel and doug bates, have long been part of the debian distribution, and can be accessed through apt, the debian package maintenance tool.
one advantage of this method is that you have separate *r* and *gud-gdb* windows.
the s-plus documentation for call() basically suggests the  following: dorder  0 && any(names(env) ==
otherwise, element names can be any strings.
see http://www.r-project.org/mail.html for more information on the r  mailing lists.
when using gud mode for debugging from within emacs, you may find it most  convenient to use the directory with your code in it as the current working  directory and then make a symbolic link from that directory to the r binary.
there is no way in the world that others could guess that they should try a day of the week variable name.
finally, check carefully whether the bug is with r, or a contributed package.
you can also replace `\' by `/' ( "c:/data/money.dat" ).
it is very useful to try and find simple examples that produce apparently the same bug, and somewhat useful to find simple examples that might be expected to produce the bug but actually do not.
next:  why does outer() behave strangely with my function?,  previous: are gams implemented in r?, up:  r miscellanea 7.16 why is the output not printed when i source() a file?
s is an elegant, widely accepted, and enduring software system, with conceptual integrity, thanks to the insight, taste, and effort of john chambers.
7.8 how do file names work in windows?
for example, to save results into files result1.rda ,..., result100.rda in the subdirectory results of the current working directory, one can use for(i in 1:100) { ## calculations constructing "some_object" ... fp  str  str [1] "this \"text\" is quoted" > cat(str, "\n")
next:  how do i convert factors to numeric?, previous:  how  do file names work in windows?, up:  r miscellanea 7.9
among these are: linear and generalized linear models,  nonlinear regression models, time series analysis, classical parametric and  nonparametric tests, clustering and smoothing.
if you create a function at the command line or load it in a package its  enclosing environment is the global workspace.
but be sure you know for certain what it ought to have done.
in addition to material written specifically or explicitly for r,  documentation for s/s-plus (see r and s) can be used in combination with this  faq (see what are the differences between r and s?).
/x86_64 el4/el5 bob kinney suse i586/x86_64 10.0/10.1/10.2/10.3
introductory books include p. spector (1994), “an introduction to s and s-plus”, duxbury press.
in  addition, plain text help pages as well ashtml and latex versions of the  documentation are built.
- john m. chambers and trevor j. hastie (1992), “statistical models in s,” london: chapman & hall.
since mid-1997 there has been a core group (the “r core team”)
- how can i create rotated axis labels?
seewhy doesn't r think these numbers are equal?, for more details.
(how  many colors are available depends on the x configuration; sometimes only 256  colors can be used.)
parent environments are important because things like model formulas need to be evaluated in the environment the function was called from, since that's where all the variables will be available.
the r core team can be reached at r-core@lists.r-project.org for comments  and reports.
additional modules (“add-on packages”) are available for a variety of specific purposes (seer add-on packages).
next:  how can i substitute into a plot label?, previous:   are trellis displays implemented in r?, up:  r miscellanea 7.12
previous: r miscellanea, up: r miscellanea - how can i set components of a list to null?
if you call .c() , .fortran(), .external() or .call() (or .internal()) yourself (or in a function you wrote), you can always crash r by using wrong argument types (modes).
first, try the “search existing reports” facility in the bug tracking page
see thegnu general public license for more  details.
this is why others need to know what other commands you have typed (or read from your startup file).
sometimes bquote() gives a  more compact form, e.g., title(bquote(hat(a) = .(ahat)))
see inspecting r objects when debugging.
previous: r bugs, up: top 10 acknowledgments of course, many many thanks to robert and ross for the r system, and to the package writers and porters for adding to it.
for this, you have to escape the escape character.
it is recommended that you send mail to r-help rather than only to the r core developers (who are also subscribed to the list, of course).
who can modify the r source code archive.
if the online argument list of a function disagrees with the manual, one of them must be wrong, so report the bug.
see http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html for a complete list of mirrors.
previous: why is r named r?, up: r basics 2.13
features specific to the windows and mac os x ports of r are described in the“r for windows faq” and the “r for mac os x faq.
as you can see by  looking at the code,outer(x, y, fun) creates two large vectors  containing every possible combination of elements ofx and y and then passes this to fun all at once.
next:  what is the current version of r?, previous:  what  is r?, up:  r basics 2.2
you can also use make pdf to build pdf (portable document format) version of the manuals, and view these using e.g. acrobat.
how can i capture or ignore errors in a long simulation?
for example, it may not restrict the  program from being used in a business, or from being used for genetic research.
more details on installing and administering r on debian linux can be found at http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian/readme.
{r: a language and environment for statistical computing}, author = {{r development core team}}, organization =
based  on the s language,s-plus provides functionality in a wide variety of areas,  including robust regression, modern non-parametric regression, time series,  survival analysis, multivariate analysis, classical statistical tests, quality  control, and graphics drivers.
an object name is a string associated with an object that is  assigned in an expression either by having the object name on the left of an  assignment operation or as an argument to theassign() function.
within the *r* window you have all theess facilities, such as object-name completion, that we know and love.
the act of running the program is not restricted, and the output from the program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the program.
this documentation can also be made available as one reference manual for  on-line reading inhtml and pdf formats, and as hardcopy via latex, see how can  r be installed?.
also, it is easy to come to such a conclusion out of ignorance of some of the existing features.
you could also look at coplot() and
use e.g. apt-get install r-base r-recommended to install the r environment and recommended packages.
previous: how can i inspect r objects when debugging?, up: r programming 8.4 how can i change compilation flags?
this relies on the parent environment being potentially different with each invocation.
why does plotting give a color allocation error?
if you want much greater accuracy than this you will need to consider error propagation carefully.
previous:  how can r be installed (windows), up:  how can r  be installed?
[1] false r> a * a - 2
- how can i save the result of each iteration in a loop into a separate file?
it may happen that when reading numeric data into r (usually, when reading in a file), they come in as factors.
next: how can r be obtained?,
there is a section of the bug repository for suggestions for enhancements for r labelled `wishlist'.
books on r include p. dalgaard (2002), “introductory statistics with r”,  springer: new york, isbn 0-387-95475-9,http://www.biostat.ku.dk/~pd/iswr.html.
the recommended package lattice (which is based on another  recommended package,grid) provides graphical functionality  that is compatible with most trellis commands.
r is released under the gnu general public license (gpl).
r is a system for statistical computation and graphics.
see ?trace for details.
free variables are those which are neither formal parameters (occurring in the argument list of the function) nor local variables (created by assigning to them in the body of the function).
p. murrell (2005), “r graphics”, chapman & hall/crc, isbn: 1-584-88486-x,http://www.stat.auckland.ac.nz/~paul/rgraphics/rgraphics.html.
- “r internals” (r-ints) is a guide to r's internal structures.
fits a logistic regression model, computes some summary information and returns an object of class "summary.glm" (see how should i write summary methods?).
if r executes an illegal instruction, or dies with an operating system error message that indicates a problem in the program (as opposed to something like “disk full”), then it is certainly a bug.
as the help for outer() indicates, it does not work on arbitrary functions the way the apply() family does.
you can also obtain the r faq from the doc/faq subdirectory of a cran site (seewhat is cran?).
how can i set components of a list to null?
these files can be previewed and  printed using standard programs such asxdvi and dvips.
also, make sure that you include  information on the system and version of r being used.
the {r} {faq}}, year = {2008}, note = {{isbn} 3-900051-08-9}, url = {http://cran.r-project.org/doc/faq/r-faq.html} } next: feedback, previous: citing this document, up: introduction 1.4 notation
how do i produce png graphics in batch mode?
if a function f() is defined inside another function g() it will probably be used inside g() as well, so its parent environment and enclosing environment will probably be the same.
{{isbn} 3-900051-07-0}, url = {http://www.r-project.org} } citation strings (or bibtex entries) for r and r packages can also be  obtained bycitation().
an up-to-date html version is always available for web browsing athttp://stat.ethz.ch/r-manual/. printed copies of the r reference manual for some version(s) are available from network theory ltd, athttp://www.network-theory.co.uk/r/base/. for each set of manuals sold, the publisher donates usd 10 to the r foundation (seewhat is the r foundation?).
if you type `1+1' or `summary(glm(y~x+z, family=binomial))' at the command  line the returned value is automatically printed (unless it isinvisible() ), but in other circumstances, such as in a source()d file  or inside a function it isn't printed unless you specifically print it.
previous:  what is s?, up:  r and s 3.2 what is s-plus?
next:  how can i save my workspace?, previous:  r  miscellanea, up:  r miscellanea 7.1 how can i set components of a list to null?
these do not depend on the  order of factors in the model.
once downloaded and executed, the installer will install the current non-developer release of r. raqua is a native mac os x darwin version of r with a r.app mac os xgui.
it is also explicitly stated in clause 0 of the gpl, which says in part activities other than copying, distribution and modification are  not covered by this license; they are outside its scope.
next:  notation, previous:  obtaining this document,  up: introduction 1.3 citing this document in publications, please refer to this faq as hornik (2008), “the r faq ”, and give the above,official url and the isbn 3-900051-08-9: @misc{, author = {kurt hornik}, title = {
please always use the url of the master site when referring to cran.
previous: can i use r for commercial purposes?, up: r basics 2.12 why is r named r?
next: are gams implemented in r?,
7.11 are trellis displays implemented in r?
sources are also available via https://svn.r-project.org/r/, the r subversion repository, but currently not via anonymous rsync (nor cvs).
(possibly as an  optional install), which is an x11 server that does not require a screen; and  there is thegdd package from cran, which produces png, jpeg  and gif bitmaps without x11.
current versions of r emit a warning.
- how can i save my workspace?
inside  bin/macosx/powerpc/contrib/x.y there are prebuilt binary packages (for powerpc  version of mac os x) to be used with raqua corresponding to the “x.y ” release of r. the installation of these packages is available through  the “package” menu of the r.appgui.
you can also obtain it by writing to the free software foundation, inc., 51 franklin street, fifth floor, boston, ma 02110-1301, u.s.a. next: citing this document, previous: legalese, up: introduction 1.2 obtaining this document the latest version of this document is always available from http://cran.r-project.org/doc/faq/ from there, you can obtain versions converted to plain ascii text, dvi, gnu info, html, pdf, postscript as well as the texinfo source used for creating all these formats using thegnu texinfo system.
http://cran.fr.r-project.org/ (inra, toulouse, france) http://cran.pt.r-project.org/ (universidade do porto, portugal) http://cran.uk.r-project.org/ (u of bristol, united kingdom) http://cran.za.r-project.org/ (rhodes u, south africa)
for more information, see e.g. david goldberg (1991), “what every computer scientist should know about floating-point arithmetic”,acm computing surveys, 23/1, 5–48, also available via http://docs.sun.com/source/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html.
these backports should also  be suitable for other debian derivatives.
you can find out the enclosing  environment for a functionf() using environment(f).
- r-packages - a moderated list for announcements on the availability of new or enhanced contributed packages.
p. murrell (2005), “r graphics”, chapman & hall/crc, isbn:  1-584-88486-x,http://www.stat.auckland.ac.nz/~paul/rgraphics/rgraphics.html.
as the help for outer() indicates, it does not work on  arbitrary functions the way theapply() family does.
it is particularly instructive to look at examples that work differently in r and s and try to see why they differ.
how can i save my workspace?
on suse, you can set up an installation source for r within yast by setting  (e.g.) protocol: http server name:
next:  how can r be installed?, previous:  what is the  current version of r?, up:  r basics 2.4 how can r be obtained?
next:  what machines does r run on?, previous:  r basics,  up: r basics 2.1
when you really need a `\ ', you have to escape it with another `\'.
finally, use make check to find out whether your r system works correctly.
in the simplest case, untar the r source code, change to the directory thus  created, and issue the following commands (at the shell prompt): $ ./configure $ make
- how can i change compilation flags?
- how can r be obtained?
springer, isbn 0-387-98966-8 and provides an in-depth guide to writing software in the s language which  forms the basis of both the commercials-plus and the open source r data  analysis software systems.
the fileinstall that comes with the r distribution contains a brief introduction, and the “r installation and administration” guide (see what documentation exists for r?) has full details.
previous:  r and s, up:  r and  s 3.1 what is s?
new features are  typically introduced in r-devel.
more information can be found at http://www.stat.
how can i get eval() and d() to work?
this document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but  without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or  fitness for a particular purpose.
the bin/linux directory of a cran site contains the following packages.
how can i get command line editing to work?
it consists of a language plus a run-time environment with graphics, a debugger, access to certain system functions, and the ability to run programs stored in script files.
how can r be installed (macintosh) the bin/macosx directory of a cran site contains a standard apple installer package inside a disk image namedr.dmg.
j. fox (2002), “an r and s-plus companion to applied regression”, sage publications, isbn 0-761-92280-6 (softcover) or 0-761-92279-2 (hardcover), http://socserv.socsci.mcmaster.ca/jfox/books/companion/. j. maindonald and j. braun (2003), “data analysis and graphics using r: an example-based approach”, cambridge university press, isbn 0-521-81336-0,http://wwwmaths.anu.edu.au/~johnm/. s. m. iacus and g. masarotto (2002), “laboratorio di statistica con r”, mcgraw-hill, isbn 88-386-6084-0 (in italian), http://www.ateneonline.it/libroateneo.asp?item_id=1436.
many of the r project's mailing lists are also available via gmane, from  which they can be read with a web browser, using an nntp news reader, or via  rss feeds.
sometimes this is impossible.
the “intuitive” behavior could easily be  implemented, but problems would arise whenever the expression is contained in a  variable, passed as a parameter, or is the result of a function call.
on unix systems a bug report can be generated using the function bug.report().
iff is such a factor object,  you can use as.numeric(as.character(f))
this port of r for macintosh  is no longer supported.
add-on modules add additional capabilities.
you could also set the next: are trellis displays implemented in r?, previous: why does plotting give a color allocation error?, up: r miscellanea colortype of x11() to "pseudo.cube" rather than the default "pseudo".
you could also look at coplot() and dotchart() which might do at least some of what you want.
package gam from cran implements all the generalized  additive models (gam) functionality as described in the gam chapter of the  white book.
this difference becomes manifest when free variables occur in a  function.
the book w. n. venables and b. d. ripley (2002), “modern applied  statistics with s” (4th edition).
a few packages are restricted to  “non-commercial use”; you should contact the author to clarify  whether these may be used or seek the advice of your legal counsel.
how do file names work in windows?
where have all the methods gone?
fargs  1) f[1:(length(f) - 1)] else null fargs  - d  g d b  to start an inferior r process with arguments -d gdb.
based on this  `major.minor.patchlevel' numbering scheme, there are two development versions  of r, a patched version of the current release (`r-patched') and one working  towards the next minor or eventually major (`r-devel') releases of r,  respectively.
[[1]] `-` [[2]] 2^2 next: why are p-values not displayed when using lmer()?, previous: why are powers of negative numbers wrong?, up: r miscellanea 7.34 how can i save the result of each iteration in a loop into a separate file?
- i installed a package but the functions are not there - why doesn't r think these numbers are equal?
next:  is there anything r can do that s-plus cannot?,  previous: what is s-plus?, up:  r and s 3.3 what are the differences between r and s?
in addition to material written specifically or explicitly for r, documentation for s/s-plus (see r and s) can be used in combination with this faq (see what are the differences between r and s?).
in a model such as ~a+b+a:b, r will report the difference in  sums of squares between the models~1, ~a, ~a+b and ~a+b+a:b. if the model were ~b+a+a:b, r  would report differences between~1, ~b, ~a+b , and ~a+b+a:b .
http://cran.au.r-project.org/ (planetmirror, australia) http://cran.br.r-project.org/ (universidade federal do paraná, brazil) http://cran.ch.r-project.org/ (eth zürich, switzerland) http://cran.dk.r-project.org/ (sunsite, denmark) http://cran.es.r-project.org/ (spanish national research network, madrid, spain)
convenient access to information on these lists, subscription, and archives is provided by the web interface athttp://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/.
seehttp://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/pub/mass3/sprog/ for  more information.
the question of which set of sums of squares is  the right thing provokes low-level holy wars on r-help from time to time.
this is the “r  home directory” (r_home) of the installed system.
if binaries are available for your platform (see are there unix binaries  for r?), you can use these, following the instructions that come with them.
springer, isbn 0-387-98966-8 and provides an in-depth guide to writing software in the s language which forms the basis of both the commercials-plus and the open source r data analysis software systems.
what is the current version of r?
do not report that data.frame() fails for large data sets.
/x86_64 el4/el5 bob kinney suse i586/x86_64  10.0/10.1/10.2/10.3
this document is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it  under the terms of thegnu general public license as published by the free  software foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
next: can i use r for commercial purposes?, previous: what mailing lists exist for r?, up: r basics 2.10 what is cran?
previous: how can r be installed (windows), up: how can r be installed?
if this is so then when others got your report they would try out the data.frame() command on a large data set, probably with no day of the week variable name, and not see any problem.
more efficient, but harder to remember, is as.numeric(levels(f))[as.integer(f)] in any case, do not call next: what are the enclosing and parent environments?, previous: how do i convert factors to numeric?, up: r miscellanea as.numeric() or their likes directly for the task at hand (as as.numeric() or unclass() give the internal codes).
this is also called the “white book”, and introduced s version 3, which added structures to facilitate statistical modeling in s. - john m. chambers (1998), “programming with data,” new york: springer, isbn 0-387-98503-4 ( http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/ms/departments/sia/sbook/).
it only restricts distribution of r or of other programs containing code from r.
next:  are trellis displays implemented in r?, previous:   why does plotting give a color allocation error?, up:  r miscellanea 7.10 how do i convert factors to numeric?
3.3.1 lexical scoping contrary to other implementations of the s language, r has adopted an  evaluation model in which nested function definitions are lexically scoped.
(example compiled from various postings by luke tierney.)
in such a case, either use parse() on your pasted character string or use substitute() on an expression.
but in any case, it is unnecessary work for the ones trying to fix the problem.
seewhat are the differences between r and s?, for further details.
the r distribution contains functionality for a large number of  statistical procedures.
the “comprehensive r archive network” (cran) is a collection of  sites which carry identical material, consisting of the r distribution(s), the  contributed extensions, documentation for r, and binaries.
next:  can i use r for commercial purposes?, previous:   what mailing lists exist for r?, up:  r basics 2.10 what is cran?
you can copy the script to a place where users can invoke it, for example to/usr/local/bin.
tarballs with daily snapshots of the r-devel and r-patched development  versions of r can be found atftp://ftp.stat.math.ethz.ch/software/r. next:  are there unix binaries for r?, previous:  how can r  be obtained?, up:  r basics 2.5 how can r be installed?
note in particular that r-help is intended to be comprehensible to people who want to use r to solve problems but who are not necessarily interested in or knowledgeable about programming.
(because the word “trellis” has been claimed as a trademark we do not use it in r. the name “lattice” has been chosen for the r equivalent.)
no other binary distributions are currently publically available via cran.
springer, isbn 0-387-26109-5.
it is just as important to report documentation bugs as program bugs.
on an x11 device, plotting sometimes, e.g., when running demo("image"), results in “error: color allocation error”.
online documentation for most of the functions and variables in r exists, and can be printed on-screen by typinghelp(name) (or ?name) at the r prompt, wherename is the name of the topic help is sought for.
for gaussian gams you can use bruto() from package mda.
the evolution of the s language is characterized by four books by john  chambers and coauthors, which are also the primary references for s. richard a. becker and john m. chambers (1984), “s. an interactive  environment for data analysis and graphics,” monterey: wadsworth and  brooks/cole.
this document is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of thegnu general public license as published by the free software foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
previous: how can i substitute into a plot label?, up: r miscellanea 7.14 what are valid names?
how can i substitute into a plot label?
the enclosing environment for a function is fixed when the function is created.
- “r data import/export” (r-data) is a guide to importing and exporting data to and from r. - “the r language definition” (r-lang), a first version of the “kernighan & ritchie of r”, explains evaluation, parsing, object oriented programming, computing on the language, and so forth.
if you  have information on macintosh or windows systems that you think should be added  to this document, please let me know.
please include an example that reproduces the problem, preferably the simplest one you have found.
`r>' is used for the r prompt, and  a `$' for the shell prompt (where applicable).
starting with r 2.1.0, users can provide personal makevars configuration files in$home/.r to override the default flags.
in r, they are determined by the environment in  which the function was created.
what is the r foundation?
this document  is based on the “notes ons-plus” by bill venables and david smith.
most add-on packages, including all recommended ones, also explicitly allow  commercial use in this way.
next: r web interfaces, previous: r basics, up: top 3 r and s next: what is s-plus?,
detlef steuer ubuntu i386  dapper/feisty/gutsy/hardy vincent goulet amd64  dapper/feisty/gutsy/hardy michael rutter debian packages, maintained by dirk eddelbuettel and doug bates, have long  been part of the debian distribution, and can be accessed through apt, the  debian package maintenance tool.
""))  stop(paste("not all arguments are named:", env))
- “r installation and administration” (r-admin).
use try(), which returns an object of class "try-error" instead of an error, or preferably trycatch() , where the return value can be configured more flexibly.
it is free software  distributed under agnu-style copyleft, and an official part of the gnu project  (“gnu s”).
manuals written in thegnu texinfo system can also be  converted to info files suitable for reading online with emacs or stand-alonegnu  info; usemake info to create these versions (note that this requires makeinfo  version 4.5).
in the above, prefix is determined during configuration  (typically/usr/local) and can be set by running configure with the option $ ./configure --prefix=/where/you/want/r/to/go (e.g., the r executable will then be installed into  /where/you/want/r/to/go/bin.)
looking at examples helps.
next: what documentation exists for r?, previous: how can r be installed?, up: r basics 2.6 are there unix binaries for r?
it is usually a syntactic name as well, but can be any non-empty string if it is quoted (and it is always quoted in the call to assign()).
how can i clean up my workspace?
2.5.1 how can r be installed (unix)
- are there unix binaries for r?
next: how can i debug s4 methods?,
it may happen that when reading numeric data into r (usually, when reading  in a file), they come in as factors.
suppose your function  is foo <- function(x, y, happy) { stopifnot(length(x)
as you can see by looking at the code, outer(x, y, fun) creates two large vectors containing every possible combination of elements of x and y and then passes this to fun all at once.
next: r bugs, previous: r miscellanea, up: top 8 r programming next: how can i debug dynamically loaded code?,
why do my matrices lose dimensions?
to get the numbers back.
the precedence rules are documented in ?
it is probably best not to complain about such a problem until you have checked the documentation in the usual ways, feel confident that you understand it, and know for certain that what you want is not available.
previous:  why is r named r?, up:  r basics 2.13
note that you need a fortran compiler or perhaps f2c in addition to a c  compiler to build r. also, you need perl version 5 to build the r object  documentations.
previous: r programming, up: r programming - how should i write summary methods?
springer, isbn 0-387-98503-4 ( http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/ms/departments/sia/sbook/).
- are trellis displays implemented in r?
if you create a function at the command line or load it in a package its enclosing environment is the global workspace.
this is analogous to the evalutation model in scheme.
thanks to martin maechler, there are four mailing lists devoted to r. r-announce a moderated list for major announcements about the development of r and  the availability of new code.
one application which is notorious for “eating” colors is  netscape.
if you aren't familiar with the command, or don't know for certain how the command is supposed to work, then it might actually be working right.
if these commands execute successfully, the r binary and a shell script  front-end calledr are created and copied to the bin directory.
enclosing environments are important because a function can use variables  in the enclosing environment to share information with other functions or with  other invocations of itself (see the section on lexical scoping).
[1] 18 in r, the “environment” created when cube() was invoked is also looked in: r> cube(2)
you can also perform a “system-wide” installation using make install.
- an argument name is what appears to the left of the equals sign when supplying an argument in a function call (for example, f(trim=.5) ).
how does autoloading work?
hence, you should subscribe to either of them only in case you are not subscribed to r-help.
if you invoke lm() at the command line its parent environment is the global workspace, if you invoke it inside a function f() then its parent environment is the environment inside f() .
when it is used on the right of the `$'  operator, it must be a syntactic name, or quoted.
finally, a file name is a string identifying a file in the  operating system for reading, writing, etc.
(when an object is used as a database, as in a call to eval() or attach(), the element names become object names.)
r: a language and environment for statistical  computing}, author = {{r development core team}}, organization =
there is a huge amount of user-contributed code for s, available at the s repository at cmu.
previous:  why is the output not printed when i  source() a file?, up:  r miscellanea 7.17 why does outer() behave strangely with my function?
how can i save the result of each iteration in a loop into a separate file?
you can find out the parent environment for an invocation of a  function by usingparent.frame() or sys.frame(sys.parent()) .
we can regard s as a language with three current implementations or “engines”, the “old s engine” (s version 3;s-plus 3.x and 4.x), the “new s engine” (s version 4;s-plus 5.x and above), and r. given this understanding, asking for “the differences between r and s” really amounts to asking for the specifics of the r implementation of the s language, i.e., the difference between the r and sengines.
tor-help-request@lists.r-project.org.
seehttp://dir.gmane.org/index.php?prefix=gmane.comp.lang.r.
- why does backslash behave strangely inside strings?
the bin/macos directory of a cran site contains bin-hexed (hqx) and stuffit (sit) archives for a base distribution and a large number of add-on packages of r 1.7.1 to run under mac os 8.6 to mac os 9.2.2.
note thatcran generally does not accept submissions of precompiled binaries due to security reasons.
on suse, you can set up an installation source for r within yast by setting (e.g.) protocol: http server name:
for the available mailing lists, andhttp://www.gmane.org/rss.php for details on rss feeds.
the gpl, like all open source licenses, permits all and any use of the package.
local copies of .options , either in .globalenv or in a function environment  (frame), are just silently disregarded.
a “live” linux distribution with a particular focus on r is  quantian, which provides a directly bootable and self-configuring “live  dvd” containing numerous applications of interests to scientists and  researchers, including several hundredcran and bioconductor packages, the  “ess” extensions for emacs, the “jgr” javagui for r,  the ggobi visualization tool as well as several other r interfaces.
use make dvi to create dvi versions of the r manuals, such as refman.dvi  (an r object reference index) andr-exts.dvi, the “r extension writers  guide”, in thedoc/manual subdirectory.
seewhat are the  differences between r and s?, for further details.
next:  why does plotting give a color allocation error?,  previous: how should i set options?, up:  r miscellanea 7.8 how do file names work in windows?
how can r be installed (macintosh) the bin/macosx directory of a cran site contains a standard apple installer  package inside a disk image namedr.dmg.
however, we know that the introductory documentation is seriously inadequate, so you don't need to report this.
in addition, a large group of individuals has contributed to r by  sending code and bug reports.
when creating data frames using data.frame() or read.table(), r by default ensures that the variable names are  syntactically valid.
fargs  1) f[1:(length(f) - 1)] else null fargs  - d  g d b   to start an inferior r process with arguments -d gdb.
for example, if ahat is an estimator of your parameter a of interest, use title(substitute(hat(a)
to print the value use print(1+1) or print(summary(glm(y~x+z, family=binomial)))
in particular, binary packages for windows and mac os x are provided by the respective binary package maintainers.
next: how can r be installed (macintosh), previous: how can r be installed (unix), up: how can r be installed?
the gpl, like all open source  licenses, permits all and any use of the package.
hence, you should subscribe to either of them only in case you are  not subscribed to r-help.
when using gud mode for debugging from within emacs, you may find it most convenient to use the directory with your code in it as the current working directory and then make a symbolic link from that directory to the r binary.
r-help the `main' r mailing list, for discussion about problems and solutions
the “r for mac os x faq has more details.
the cran master site at wirtschaftsuniversität wien, austria, can be  found at theurl http://cran.r-project.org/ daily mirrors are available at urls including http://cran.at.r-project.org/ (wu wien, austria) http://cran.br.r-project.org/ (universidade federal do paraná, brazil)
free variables are those which are neither formal parameters  (occurring in the argument list of the function) nor local variables (created  by assigning to them in the body of the function).
additional modules (“add-on packages”)  are available for a variety of specific purposes (seer add-on packages).
based on this `major.minor.patchlevel' numbering scheme, there are two development versions of r, a patched version of the current release (`r-patched') and one working towards the next minor or eventually major (`r-devel') releases of r, respectively.
thequantian website athttp://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/quantian/ contains more details as well download information.
most r commands do not generate any output.
many systems now come with xvfb fromx.org
next: citing r, previous: are there unix binaries for r?, up: r basics 2.7 what documentation exists for r?
finally, a command's intended definition may not be best for statistical analysis.
if you invokelm() at the command line its  parent environment is the global workspace, if you invoke it inside a function f() then its parent environment is the environment inside f() .
this is an x problem, and only indirectly related to r. it occurs  when applications started prior to r have used all the available colors.
the r core  team does not provide legal advice under any circumstances.
- how can r be installed (macintosh)
the group currently consists of doug bates, john chambers, peter dalgaard, robert gentleman, kurt hornik, stefano iacus, ross ihaka, friedrich leisch, thomas lumley, martin maechler, duncan murdoch, paul murrell, martyn plummer, brian ripley, duncan temple lang, luke tierney, and simon urbanek.
more to come soon ...
top 2 r basics next: what machines does r run on?,
“r data import/export” (r-data) is a guide to importing and  exporting data to and from r.
next: how can i substitute into a plot label?,
features specific to the windows and mac os x ports of r are described  in the“r for windows faq” and the “r for mac os x faq.
it really has nothing much to do with names in the language, but it is traditional to call these strings file “names”.
next:  citing r, previous:  are there unix binaries for r?,  up: r basics 2.7
suppose you want to provide a summary method for class next: how can i inspect r objects when debugging?, previous: how should i write summary methods?, up: r programming "foo" .
the function all.equal() compares two objects using a numeric tolerance of .machine$double.eps ^ 0.5.
there is agam() function  for gams in packagemgcv, but it is not an exact clone of what  is described in the white book (nolo() for example).
(note that it is `==' and not `=').
for the remainder of this section, “s” refers to the s engines  and not the s language.
if you define a functionf() inside another function g() its enclosing environment is  the environment insideg().
a copy of the gnu general public license is available via www at http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html.
r has a home page at http://www.r-project.org/.
suggestions can be submitted in the same ways as bugs, but please ensure that the subject line makes clear that this is for the wishlist and not a bug report, for example by starting with `wishlist:'.
next:  why is the output not printed when i source() a file?,  previous: what are valid names?, up:  r miscellanea 7.15 are gams implemented in r?
the “comprehensive r archive network” (cran) is a collection of sites which carry identical material, consisting of the r distribution(s), the contributed extensions, documentation for r, and binaries.
the r foundation is a not for profit organization working in the public interest.
in 1998, the association for computing machinery (acm) presented its  software system award to john m. chambers, the principal designer of s, for the s system, which has forever altered the way people analyze,  visualize, and manipulate data...
some packages report instead the sums of squares based on comparing the  full model to the models with each factor removed one at a time (the famous  `type iii sums of squares' from sas, for example).
you can also replace `\' by `/' ("c:/data/money.dat" ).
how can r be installed?
are there unix binaries for r?
- r-help - the `main' r mailing list, for discussion about problems and solutions using r, announcements (not covered by `r-announce' and `r-packages') about the development of r and the availability of new code.
r/src/nmath dir /opt/r/src/unix next:  r programming, previous:  r and emacs, up:  top 7 r miscellanea how can i set components of a list to null?
an argument name is what appears to the left of the equals sign  when supplying an argument in a function call (for example,f(trim=.5) ).
why are p-values not displayed when using lmer()?
new features are typically introduced in r-devel.
r was initially written by ross ihaka and robert gentleman at the department of statistics of the university of auckland in auckland, new zealand.
r is being developed for the unix, windows and mac families of operating  systems.
if you know about other platforms, please drop us a note.
a. krause and m. olsen (2005), “the basics of s-plus” (4th  edition).
sources, binaries and documentation for r can be obtained via cran, the “comprehensive r archive network” (seewhat is cran?).
the cran master site at wirtschaftsuniversität wien, austria, can be found at theurl http://cran.r-project.org/ daily mirrors are available at urls including http://cran.at.r-project.org/ (wu wien, austria)
- how can i clean up my workspace?
- why is read.table() so inefficient?
this "text" is quoted
why are there unwanted lines between polygons in pdf output viewed in  adobe reader?
(how many colors are available depends on the x configuration; sometimes only 256 colors can be used.)
it is particularly  instructive to look at examples that work differently in r and s and try to see  why they differ.
why is the output not printed when i source() a file?
- how can r be installed?
{r foundation  for statistical computing}, address = {vienna, austria}, year = 2008, note =
note that the `development' version of readline including the  appropriate headers is needed: users of linux binary distributions will need to  install packages such aslibreadline-dev (debian) or readline-devel (red hat).
unexpected results of comparison of decimal numbers, for example 0.28
the recommended package lattice (which is based on another recommended package,grid) provides graphical functionality that is compatible with most trellis commands.
[1] 18 in r, the “environment” created when cube() was  invoked is also looked in: r> cube(2)
previous: r and s, up: r and s - what is s?
suppose your function is foo  a  a * a == 2
this port of r for mac os x is  maintained bystefano iacus.
thus, in filenames use something like next: how do i convert factors to numeric?, previous: how do file names work in windows?, up: r miscellanea "c:\\data\\money.dat" .
a third option is to start an inferior r process via ess (m-x r) and then  start gud (m-x gdb) giving the r binary (using its full path name) as the  program to debug.
if you have  ghostscript you can usebitmap(), which produces a postscript or  pdf file then converts it to any bitmap format supported by ghostscript.
- how do file names work in windows?
the evolution of the s language is characterized by four books by john chambers and coauthors, which are also the primary references for s. - richard a. becker and john m. chambers (1984), “s. an interactive environment for data analysis and graphics,” monterey: wadsworth and brooks/cole.
one application which is notorious for “eating” colors is netscape.
next:  what documentation exists for r?, previous:  how can  r be installed?, up:  r basics 2.6 are there unix binaries for r?
previous: what are the enclosing and parent environments?, up: r miscellanea 7.13 how can i substitute into a plot label?
its companion is w. n. venables and b. d. ripley (2000), “s programming”.
“r internals” (r-ints) is a guide to r's internal structures.
next:  what are the enclosing and parent environments?,  previous: how do i convert factors to numeric?, up:  r miscellanea 7.11 are trellis displays implemented in r?
this list is for questions and discussion about code development in r. please read the posting guide before sending anything to any  mailing list.
note that you need a fortran compiler or perhaps f2c in addition to a c compiler to build r. also, you need perl version 5 to build the r object documentations.
reserved words are not syntactic names.
see finding entry points in dynamically loaded code.
invoking r with the --vanilla option may help in isolating a bug.
[1] 1 > substring("\n", 1, 1)
this is also called the “white book”, and introduced s  version 3, which added structures to facilitate statistical modeling in s. john m. chambers (1998), “programming with data,” new york:
what are valid names?
package gss can fit spline-based gams too.
- what machines does r run on?
to understand what names are “valid”, one needs to take into  account that the term “name” is used in several different (but  related) ways in the language: a syntactic name is a string the parser interprets as this type  of expression.
based on the s language,s-plus provides functionality in a wide variety of areas, including robust regression, modern non-parametric regression, time series, survival analysis, multivariate analysis, classical statistical tests, quality control, and graphics drivers.
manuals written in thegnu texinfo system can also be converted to info files suitable for reading online with emacs or stand-alonegnu info; usemake info to create these versions (note that this requires makeinfo version 4.5).
of course, in the case of bug reports it would be very helpful to have code which reliably reproduces the problem.
to understand what names are “valid”, one needs to take into account that the term “name” is used in several different (but related) ways in the language: next: why is the output not printed when i source() a file?,
one way is to use paste() (or sprintf()) to concatenate a stem filename and the iteration number while file.path() constructs the path.
software.opensuse.org directory:  /download/home:/dsteuer/opensuse_10.2/ with this setting, online updates will check for new versions of r.
one advantage of this method is that you have separate*r* and *gud-gdb* windows.
- is there anything r can do that s-plus cannot?
that way.gdbinit can stay in the directory with the code and be used to set up  the environment and the search paths for the source, e.g. as follows: set env r_home /opt/r set env r_papersize letter set env r_printcmd lpr  dir /opt/r/src/appl dir /opt/r/src/main dir /opt/
when it is used on the right of the `$' operator, it must be a syntactic name, or quoted.
- how do i produce png graphics in batch mode?
fits a logistic regression model, computes some summary information and  returns an object of class"summary.glm" (see how should  i write summary methods?).
online documentation for most of the functions and variables in r exists,  and can be printed on-screen by typinghelp(name) (or ?name) at the r prompt,  wherename is the name of the topic help is sought for.
j. fox (2002), “an r and s-plus companion to applied  regression”, sage publications, isbn 0-761-92280-6 (softcover) or  0-761-92279-2 (hardcover), http://socserv.socsci.mcmaster.ca/jfox/books/companion/. j. maindonald and j. braun (2003), “data analysis and graphics using  r: an example-based approach”, cambridge university press, isbn  0-521-81336-0,http://wwwmaths.anu.edu.au/~johnm/. s. m. iacus and g. masarotto (2002), “laboratorio di statistica con  r”, mcgraw-hill, isbn 88-386-6084-0 (in italian), http://www.ateneonline.it/libroateneo.asp?item_id=1436.
"")) stop(paste("not all arguments are named:", env))
the book j. c. pinheiro and d. m. bates (2000), “mixed-effects  models in s ands-plus”, springer, isbn 0-387-98957-0 provides a comprehensive guide to the use of the nlme package for linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models.
the parent  environment will be wherever the function happens to be called from.
note: it is very important that you indicate the copyright (license) information (gpl-2, gpl-3, bsd, artistic, ...) in your submission.
many of the r project's mailing lists are also available via gmane, from which they can be read with a web browser, using an nntp news reader, or via rss feeds.
next:  why does the output from anova() depend on the order of  factors in the model?,
it consists of letters, numbers, and the dot and (for version of  r at least 1.9.0) underscore characters, and starts with either a letter or a  dot not followed by a number.
how can r be installed (windows) the bin/windows directory of a cran site contains binaries for a base distribution and a large number of add-on packages fromcran to run on windows 2000 and later (including 64-bit versions of windows) on ix86 and x86_64 chips.
the group currently consists of doug  bates, john chambers, peter dalgaard, robert gentleman, kurt hornik, stefano  iacus, ross ihaka, friedrich leisch, thomas lumley, martin maechler, duncan  murdoch, paul murrell, martyn plummer, brian ripley, duncan temple lang, luke  tierney, and simon urbanek.
this difference becomes manifest when free variables occur in a function.
then start gud (m-x gdb) giving the r binary (using its full path name) as the program to debug.
a. krause and m. olsen (2005), “the basics of s-plus” (4th edition).
the name is partly based on the (first) names of the first two r authors  (robert gentleman and ross ihaka), and partly a play on the name of the bell  labs language `s' (seewhat is s?).
r is being developed for the unix, windows and mac families of operating systems.
- where have all the methods gone?
it requires  functions that are vectorized to work elementwise on arrays.
lexical scoping models others next:  models, previous:  what are the differences between  r and s?, up:  what are the differences between r and s?
that way.gdbinit can stay in the directory with the code and be used to set up the environment and the search paths for the source, e.g. as follows: set env r_home /opt/r set env r_papersize letter set env r_printcmd lpr dir /opt/r/src/appl dir /opt/r/src/main dir /opt/r/src/nmath dir /opt/r/src/unix next: r programming, previous: r and emacs, up: top 7 r miscellanea next: how can i save my workspace?,
- why did my .rprofile stop working when i updated r?
the command 1+1 computes the value 2 and returns it; the command summary(glm(y~x+z, family=binomial))
the core of r is an interpreted computer language which allows branching  and looping as well as modular programming using functions.
- how can i capture or ignore errors in a long simulation?
often, it is desired to use the value of an r object in a plot label, e.g., a title.
9 r bugs next: how to report a bug, previous: r bugs, up: r bugs - what is a bug?
there is also a large set of  functions which provide a flexible graphical environment for creating various  kinds of data presentations.
next:  why do lattice/trellis graphics not work?, previous:  how can i get command line editing to work?, up:  r miscellanea 7.21 how can i turn a string into a variable?
on  some installations this produces ugly output, on others it is perfectly  satisfactory.
you can copy the  script to a place where users can invoke it, for example to/usr/local/bin.
simply add the  line deb http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian stable/ (feel free to use a cran mirror instead of the master) to the file  /etc/apt/sources.list, and install as usual.
we can regard s as a language with three current implementations or  “engines”, the “old s engine” (s version 3;s-plus 3.x  and 4.x), the “new s engine” (s version 4;s-plus 5.x and above),  and r. given this understanding, asking for “the differences between r  and s” really amounts to asking for the specifics of the r implementation  of the s language, i.e., the difference between the r and sengines.
when creating data frames using data.frame() or read.table(), r by default ensures that the variable names are syntactically valid.
and if you can accept  regression splines you can useglm().
* x although this behavior may initially seem to be rather strange, is  perfectly logical.
- “writing r extensions” (r-exts) currently describes the process of creating r add-on packages, writing r documentation, r's system and foreign language interfaces, and the rapi.
why does outer() behave strangely with my function?
- “an introduction to r” (r-intro) includes information on data types, programming elements, statistical modeling and graphics.
as r uses c-style string handling, `\' is treated as an escape character, so that for example one can enter a newline as `\n'.
how do i convert factors to numeric?
of theopen source definition: the license must not restrict anyone from making use of the  program in a specific field of endeavor.
r faq next: introduction, previous: (dir), up: (dir) r faq frequently asked questions on r version 2.7.2008-09-17 isbn 3-900051-08-9 kurt hornik next: r basics, previous: top, up: top - introduction - r basics - r and s - r web interfaces - r add-on packages - r and emacs - r miscellanea - r programming - r bugs - acknowledgments 1 introduction this document contains answers to some of the most frequently asked questions about r. next: obtaining this document, previous: introduction, up:
use the programps to find the process number of the currently running r process then use the attach command in gdb to attach it to that process.
cpu versions provider debian i386/amd64 stable/oldstable johannes ranke red hat i386/x86_64 fedora7/
simply add the line deb http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian stable/ (feel free to use a cran mirror instead of the master) to the file /etc/apt/sources.list, and install as usual.
see creating shared objects.
- why are powers of negative numbers wrong?
- why are p-values not displayed when using lmer()?
see the help page for x11() for more information.
next:  what is cran?
please use thecran site closest to you to reduce network load.
next: why is r named r?, previous: what is cran?, up: r basics 2.11 can i use r for commercial purposes?
among these are: linear and generalized linear models, nonlinear regression models, time series analysis, classical parametric and nonparametric tests, clustering and smoothing.
it is recommended that you send mail to r-help rather than only to the r  core developers (who are also subscribed to the list, of course).
this book is often called the “blue book”, and  introduced what is now known as s version 2.
- lexical scoping - models - others 3.3.1 lexical scoping contrary to other implementations of the s language, r has adopted an evaluation model in which nested function definitions are lexically scoped.
if you want to debug the problem and find exactly what caused it, that is wonderful.
convenient access to information on these lists, subscription, and archives  is provided by the web interface athttp://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/.
you could also set the colortype of x11() to "pseudo.cube" rather than the default "pseudo".
the “intuitive” behavior could easily be implemented, but problems would arise whenever the expression is contained in a variable, passed as a parameter, or is the result of a function call.
next:  how can r be installed (macintosh), previous:  how  can r be installed (unix), up:  how can r be installed?
it  is usually a syntactic name as well, but can be any non-empty string if it is  quoted (and it is always quoted in the call toassign()).
you can use x[i]  d(expression(x^2), "x") 2
if binaries are available for your platform (see are there unix binaries for r?), you can use these, following the instructions that come with them.
from cran, you can obtain the latest official release of r, daily snapshots of r (copies of the current source trees), as gzipped and bzipped tar files, a wealth of additional contributed code, as well as prebuilt binaries for various operating systems (linux, mac os classic, mac os x, and ms windows).cran also provides access to documentation on r, existing mailing lists and the r bug tracking system.
a few packages are restricted to “non-commercial use”; you should contact the author to clarify whether these may be used or seek the advice of your legal counsel.
argument names are also usually syntactic names, but again can be anything if they are quoted.
you can also use make pdf  to build pdf (portable document format) version of the manuals, and view these  using e.g. acrobat.
the current version of r will configure and build under a number of common  unix platforms includingcpu-linux-gnu for the i386, alpha, arm, hppa, ia64,  m68k, mips/mipsel, powerpc, s390, sparc (e.g., http://buildd.debian.org/build.php?&pkg=r-base), and x86_64 cpus,  powerpc-apple-darwin, mips-sgi-irix,  rs6000-ibm-aix, and sparc-sun-solaris.
use the programps to find the process number of the currently  running r process then use theattach command in gdb to attach it  to that process.
a “live” linux distribution with a particular focus on r is quantian, which provides a directly bootable and self-configuring “live dvd” containing numerous applications of interests to scientists and researchers, including several hundredcran and bioconductor packages, the “ess” extensions for emacs, the “jgr” javagui for r, the ggobi visualization tool as well as several other r interfaces.
next:  introduction, previous:  (dir), up:  (dir) r faq frequently asked questions on r version 2.7.2008-09-17 next:  r basics, previous:  top, up:  top 1 introduction this document contains answers to some of the most frequently asked  questions about r. legalese next:  obtaining this document, previous:  introduction,  up: introduction 1.1 legalese this document is copyright © 1998–2008 by kurt hornik.
use the next: acknowledgments, previous: r programming, up: top trace() function with argument signature= to add calls to the browser or any other code to the method that will be dispatched for the corresponding signature.
one way to describe the scoping differences between r and s is to say that in s the enclosing environment isalways the global workspace, but in r the enclosing environment is wherever the function was created.
- why is the output not printed when i source() a file?
the r distribution also comes with the following manuals.
s is a very high level language and an environment for data analysis and  graphics.
whereas the resulting language is very similar in appearance to s, the underlying implementation and semantics are derived from scheme.
it is also explicitly stated in clause 0 of the gpl, which says in part activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this license; they are outside its scope.
it requires functions that are vectorized to work elementwise on arrays.
sources, binaries and documentation for r can be obtained via cran, the  “comprehensive r archive network” (seewhat is cran?).
in r, they are determined by the environment in which the function was created.
if r is already installed, it can be started by typing r at the shell  prompt (of course, provided that the executable is in your path).
previous: what machines does r run on?, up: r basics 2.3 what is the current version of r?
it consists of letters, numbers, and the dot and (for version of r at least 1.9.0) underscore characters, and starts with either a letter or a dot not followed by a number.
sometimes bquote() gives a more compact form, e.g., title(bquote(hat(a) = .(ahat)))
your function  probably cannot handle two large vectors as parameters.
- what is the difference between package and library?
next: r and s, previous: introduction, up:
edu/users/statlabs/. last, but not least, ross' and robert's experience in designing and  implementing r is described in ihaka & gentleman (1996), “r: a  language for data analysis and graphics”,journal of computational and  graphical statistics, 5, 299–314.
more details on installing and  administering r on debian linux can be found at http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian/readme.
why did my .rprofile stop working when i updated r?
everything should be pretty standard.
always include the version of r, machine, and operating system that you are using; typeversion in r to print this.
there is also a large set of functions which provide a flexible graphical environment for creating various kinds of data presentations.