summarize,  visually inspect entire data - what does the data look like?
here you will find daily news and tutorials about r , contributed by over 300 bloggers.
summarize, visually inspect entire data - what does the data look like?
purpose of this discussion is to get you started) e) where to go from here?
here's how i'm running the class.
- learn adv techniques: sampling, predictions.
why i started learning data science and picked r curriculum for intro to r (r has steep learning curve.
visualize data interact with data (not covered here): bi tools, custom dashboards, other  tools (ggobi etc.)
- familiarity with unix os class topics a) intro to data science - explain data science and its importance.
slice/dice  it, answer questions related to dataset)
data-driven business functions  e.g. mroi, mix optimization, ipl teams / fantasy teams, predictions big data - definition: data sets that no longer fit on a disk,  requiring compute clusters and respective software and algorithms (map/reduce  running on hadoop).
summaries,  cross-tabulation - what does knowing one thing tell me about another?
- visualize data - interact with data (not covered here): bi tools, custom dashboards, other tools (ggobi etc.)
- contact us - rss welcome!
exports, surveys, web scraping etc.
- explore a new dataset with ease (visualize it, summarize it, slice/dice it, answer questions related to dataset) - plot charts on a dataset class prerequisites - good knowledge of basic statistics (min, max, avg, sd, variance, factors, quantiles/deciles, etc.)
reference tutorials - r intro - r fundamentals - r data methods - r-bloggers - web app integration - tbd books to leave a comment for the author, please follow the link and comment on his blog: enterprise software doesn't have to suck .
is powered by wordpress using a bavotasan.com design.
archive data (not covered here) c) skills needed  for data science statistics: concepts, approach, techniques
choose your flavor: e-mail, twitter, rss, or facebook...
tags: data analysis, r comments are closed.
familiarity with unix os class topics a) intro to data science explain data science and its importance.
would love your ideas to make it better.
r-bloggers.com offers daily e-mail updates about r news andtutorials on topics such as: visualization ( ggplot2, boxplots, maps, animation), programming ( rstudio, sweave, latex, sql, eclipse, git, hadoop, web scraping) statistics ( regression, pca, time series, ecdf, trading) and more...
verify data cleanse and transform data: outliers, missing values, dedupe, merge explore data: the first step when dealing with a new data set needs  to be exploratory in nature: what actually is in the data set?
data analysis training march 20, 2012 by prasoonsharma (this article was first published on enterprise software  doesn't have to suck, and kindly contributed to r-bloggers)
business apps often deal with datasets that fit in excel/access - products: desktop tools (excel (solver, what if), access, sql, spss, stata, r, sas, programming languages (ruby, python, java) -- stats libs in these languages, bi tools, etc. b) steps in data science - acquire data: "obtaining the data"... databases, log files... exports, surveys, web scraping etc. - verify data - cleanse and transform data: outliers, missing values, dedupe, merge - explore data:
r-bloggers was founded by tal galili, with gratitude to the r community.
after completion of the course, you will be able to: - understand concepts of data science, related processes, tools, techniques and path to building expertise - use unix command line tools for file processing (awk, sort, paste, join, gunzip, gzip) - use excel to do basic analysis - write and understand r code (data structures, functions, packages, etc.)
explore a new dataset with ease (visualize it, summarize it,
i'm training some of my colleagues on big'ish data analysis this  week.
after completion of the course, you will be able to: understand concepts of data science, related processes, tools, techniques  and path to building expertise use unix command line tools for file processing (awk, sort, paste, join,  gunzip, gzip)
use excel to do basic analysis write and understand r code (data structures, functions, packages, etc.)
- real big data problems: parallel computing, distributed computing, cloud, hadoop, casandra - most analysis isn't big data.
awk, gzip, gunzip, paste, sort etc. - office tools: excel (plugins like solver, what if) - statistical tools: r, sas, spss, stata, matlab, etc. - bi tools d) learning r we will pick a tool to learn the concepts of data science.
books, conferences - analyse your favorite dataset: e.g. cricket data analysis - compete (kaggle) - learn other tools (excel solver, sas etc.)
- real big data problems: parallel computing,  distributed computing, cloud, hadoop, casandra - most analysis isn't big  data.
business apps often deal with datasets that fit in excel/access products: desktop tools (excel (solver, what if), access, sql, spss,  stata, r, sas, programming languages (ruby, python, java) -- stats libs in  these languages, bi tools, etc. b) steps in data science acquire data: "obtaining the data"... databases, log files...
r-bloggers r news and tutorials contributed by (320) r bloggers - home - about - add your blog!
topics of interest ggplot2 r-project graphics programming rstats books r language visualization events data tutorial latex r-english finance sweave stocks software packages bioinformatics simulation bms extensions computing big data applications english random r programming plot python ggplot cran rmedia climate trends lattice stats rcpp sas linux announcements mcmc quant finance tutorials blog twitter abc global warming rblogs user groups r/splus technical sponsors - personalcashadvance.com - mr. kamal nath recent posts - using r for a salary negotiationâan extension of decision tree models - copy and paste small data sets into r - technical analysis of kansas voter registration data - data analysis training - new r user group in montréal - running openbugs on a mac running osx - applying savitzky-golay filters in “r” - r/finance 2012 registration open - r / finance 2012 open for registration - survey in r course taught by thomas lumley at statistics.com - revolution newsletter: march 2012 - review of “the origin of financial crises” by george cooper - mvabund – new r pkg for multivariate abundance data - backtesting asset allocation portfolios - a graphical overview of your mysql database other sites popular searches - ggplot - rstudio - ggplot2 - quantmod - pca - googlevis - heatmap - maps - finance - hadoop - trading - tutorial - boxplot - twitter - excel - plyr - latex - regression - time series - sweave - gis - animation - coplot - rcmdr - map - web scraping - ecdf - sql - time%20series - anova data analysis training march 20, 2012 by prasoonsharma (this article was first published on enterprise software doesn't have to suck, and kindly contributed to r-bloggers)
data-driven business functions e.g. mroi, mix optimization, ipl teams / fantasy teams, predictions - big data - definition: data sets that no longer fit on a disk, requiring compute clusters and respective software and algorithms (map/reduce running on hadoop).
- archive data (not covered here) c) skills needed for data science - statistics: concepts, approach, techniques - databasing: sql - scripting language: ruby, python - regex - visual design:
we will use r, a leading open source stats package.
summaries, cross-tabulation - what does knowing one thing tell me about another?
if you got this far, why not subscribe for updates from the site?
i'm training some of my colleagues on big'ish data analysis this week.
relationships between data elements - what the heck is going on?
story telling with charts - file handling: unix preferred.
copyright © 2012r-bloggers.
the first step when dealing with a new data set needs to be exploratory in nature: what actually is in the data set?
you can subscribe for e-mail updates: and get updates to your facebook: if you are an r blogger yourself you are invited to add your own r content feed to this site ( non-english r bloggers should add themselves- here)
top 7 articles of the week - solving easy problems the hard way - a graphical overview of your mysql database - how to read an excel file (dot xls and dot xlsx) into a data frame with r - visualising f1 telemetry data and plotting latitude and longitude with ggplot map projections in r - useful r snippets - select operations on r data frames - survey in r course taught by thomas lumley at statistics.com sponsors mango-solutions.com zero inflated models and generalized linear mixed models with r. zuur, saveliev, ieno (2012).
class objectives (learning outcomes)
plot charts on a dataset class prerequisites good knowledge of basic statistics (min, max, avg, sd, variance, factors,  quantiles/deciles, etc.)