i'll  specifically talk about version control, project builds, testing withnose and  development practices like code reviews,yagni and agile development.
it is not an introduction to programming course.
i will be in ireland for openeye's cup conference in september and  in england in october.
rpy minimize the  difference, it's still there.
the presentations are a  mixture of lecture and hands-on exercises in a similar style to mynbn courses.
special discount: attend this course plus the python course for €2,000 instead of €2,200.
i will not cover all of these in a single course.
some the more public projects i've been  part of are vmd, namd, biopython, pydaylight, and the open bioinformatics  foundation.
the specific topics will vary based on the needs of the audience.
a lot of chemistry data is passed around as comma-, space-, or tab- separated files.
i've used it in a model calculation system using oechem and other tools to compute descriptor values then passing the code over r to evalute the model.
rpy is an interface module which lets python call r functions directly, including plotting.
rpy minimize the difference, it's still there.
special discount: attend this course plus the python course for  €2,000 instead of €2,200.
this course is meant for computational chemists  who want to set up an in-house cheminformatics server for specific analysis  tasks.
for those just starting off in python, the python beginner's guide  contains links to many resources including online tutorials and a list of  books.
this will be about how python fits into the world.
i'll show a few examples  you can build off of and provide pointers of where to get more in-depth  information.
how do you  keep track of changes to the code over time?
but there is sometimes a need, especially when getting data from it-oriented  software developers.
special discount: attend this course plus the django course for  €2,000 instead of €2,200.
my courses are meant for computational chemists who are not programmers but have some programming experience.
python for windows has excellent support for com, which is how windows programs can embed or control other windows programs.
i could teach it, but i don't have as  much experience as i do with oechem.
i'll teach the python-specific features as i work through my examples.
the phrase "some programming experience" means people who are  comfortable with strings, integers, floats, variables, if-statements,  for-loops, variables, lists/arrays, and defining functions.
the topics i'll cover are: setting up a django server, working with a sql database, structure depictions and entry, plotting, introduction to javascript and jquery.
i also think that oechem is a better library for most use, if you have the money and consider proprietary software acceptable.
i've used it in a model calculation system using oechem and  other tools to compute descriptor values then passing the code over r to  evalute the model.
despite the best efforts of some, there's still very little direct influence of xml in computational chemistry.
why do you need to care about security?
register for the python course or contact me attrainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com if you have any questions.
python programming leipzig, germany, 14-15 february 2011 this intense two day course covers the basics of how to use python.
i am a member of the python software foundation, which is the non-profit that holds the copyright to python.
what experience do you need?
if you are from an academic or non-profit group then you  may qualify for a discount.
i teach both corporate courses and public ones.
the second day covers essential libraries for calling out tocommand-line programs, handling csv files, making plots, and more.
oechem doesn't make that assumption and instead has functions to convert between different chemistry models; you have to call those functions.
new features include easier access to normal shell commands, improved history, support for matplotlib, and better help.
no public courses are currently scheduled.
my name is andrew dalke.
it's full-featured, fast, and powerful, but a bit on  the hard side to use.
using com to control excel python for windows has excellent support for com, which is how windows  programs can embed or control other windows programs.
i teach training courses in python programming for computational chemistry, with an emphasis on cheminformatics.
ipython enhances the normal interactive python interpreter to make it better for exploratory programming.
i'll show how to use python'ssubprocess module to call them from python.
no public courses are currently  scheduled.
if you attend both courses you will get a discount.
the  first day is anoverview the core python language and oechem.
many chemistry programs are only available through the command line.
it is not an  introduction to programming course.
registration for the django course is €1,300 and is limited to 8  people.
it's not hard to write a python program which opens excel, creates a new spreadsheet, loads data into the spreadsheet, and creates a plot of the results.
i've developed a set of chemistry extensions to mysql  so you can get some experience in doing chemically-aware queries, like  substructure searches and similarity ranking.
what are some of the common development traps that  people can get stuck in?
if you are building models or doing data mining then you should know about this project.
it's not a general purpose language like python
i'll work through how to use python to parse these sorts of files, with a focus on smiles files.
how to multiple people work together on the same code base?
r includes its own programming language and a number of  high-quality analysis packages.
you  must know how to write programs* and should have some experience with python.
matplotlib matplotlib is a python 2d plotting library which produces  publication quality figures for hard-copy and interactive use.
python is also one of the most popular computer languages in the  world, with mature software libraries for everything from image manipulation  and sql databases to gui and web development.
pymol pymol is a very popular structure visualization program from delano  scientific.
web application development with django leipzig, germany, 16-18 february 2011
corporate compound databases are often stored in a relational database like oracle.
openbabel and rdkit are two open source cheminformatics toolkits with python interfaces.
i've developed a set of chemistry extensions to mysql so you can get some experience in doing chemically-aware queries, like substructure searches and similarity ranking.
i'll describe some of the basic r data type, how  to create them from python, how to call the r functions through rpy, and how to  understand the r documentation enough to be able to call it from python.
mysql is a widely used free database server.
as an example of a difference, openbabel follows the daylight model and assumes that the right behavior is to convert everything into the same chemistry model.
i'll shows some examples of  creating a database schema, loading compound data into the database, and  searching the data set.
software development best practices software development is more than sitting down and programming.
you can see mylecture notes under the header "introduction to programming  for bioinformatics in python.
this three day course walks through two real-world examples based on the django web application framework: an interactive descriptor calculator and a pubchem database search system.
attendees must have some programming experience (know how to use  variables, for-loops, if-statements, and know how to use text editors and  command-line tools.
pymol is a very popular structure visualization program from delano scientific.
up-to-date information can always be found at http://dalkescientific.com/training/. computational chemists are not programmers, but programming is an essential skill for developing new algorithms, generating data, and analyzing results.
i have taught beginning programming to bioinformatics graduate students.
i will be in ireland for openeye's cup conference in september and in england in october.
you might be interested in thetutor mailing list "for folks who  want to ask questions regarding how to learn computer programming with the  python language."
i'll show you some of the  things you can do with it.
if you are interested in on-site training during those trips, let me know!
i have more experience with the oechem way and can explain it  better.
i am a member of the python  software foundation, which is the non-profit that holds the copyright to python.
you don't need to be corporate is to set up a relational database.
beautifulsoup makes it easier to get access to that data in your programs.
the topics i'll cover are: attendees must have some existing python experience.
beautifulsoup a lot of data is available through web pages designed for people, not  software.
it contains an extensivepython programming interface which can be used for structure analysis, movie making, and more.
if you have any questions, send me an email at trainingdiscard @dalkescientific.com.
i'll show some examples of usingelementtree to read and extract fields from an xml file.
this three day course walks through two real-world examples based on the  django web application framework: an interactive descriptor calculator and a  pubchem database search system.
r and python r is a great software environment for statistical computing and generating
most working scientists have little training in programming and end up spending a lot of time figuring out how to parse a file format or work with a software library, rather than figuring out the science.
after all, the library is freely available so anyone can install  it without needing a special license.
django is a popular web development framework for python which makes developing web applications much simpler than traditional cgi programming.
parsing csv files a lot of chemistry data is passed around as comma-, space-, or tab-  separated files.
r is a great software environment for statistical computing and generating plots.
to apply or ask questions, send email to trainingdiscard @dalkescientific.com.
new features include easier access to  normal shell commands, improved history, support for matplotlib, and better  help.
this intense two day course covers the basics of how to use python.
attendees must have some programming experience (know how to use variables, for-loops, if-statements, and know how to use text editors and command-line tools.
what are some of the common development traps that people can get stuck in?
i've used openbabel a bit, mostly through the high-levelpybel  library.
and it doesn't include the diversity of modules that python has.
i'll describe some of the basic r data type, how to create them from python, how to call the r functions through rpy, and how to understand the r documentation enough to be able to call it from python.
my courses are meant for computational chemists who are not programmers  but have some programming experience.
thoughout my career i have worked closely with chemists to help  them be more effective, by developing software, providing one-on-one advice,  training, and writingessays about software side of this field.
register for the python course or ontact me at trainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com if you have any questions.
you might find jeff rush'sipython videos helpful.
i'll specifically talk about version control, project builds, testing withnose and development practices like code reviews,yagni and agile development.
beautifulsoup makes it easier to get access to that data in your  programs.
ipython ipython enhances the normal interactive python interpreter to make it  better for exploratory programming.
computational chemists are not programmers, but programming is an  essential skill for developing new algorithms, generating data, and analyzing  results.
r includes its own programming language and a number of high-quality analysis packages.
i am a professional software developer with years  of experience creating tools for cheminformatics, molecular modeling,  bioinformatics, and related fields.
if you have any questions.
but there is sometimes a need, especially when getting data from it-oriented software developers.
the  following are some of the topics i can cover, so you can get an idea of what to  expect.
oechem doesn't make that assumption and instead has functions  to convert between different chemistry models; you have to call those  functions.
numpy is a collection of numeric tools for python, with an emphasis on arrays and linear algebra.
the course will be hosted by and invoices sent by the python academy,  located at zur schule 20, leipzig.
most of  the code will look similar in other languages so it should be easy to follow.
i am a professional software developer with years of experience creating tools for cheminformatics, molecular modeling, bioinformatics, and related fields.
we still use sd and smiles files.
a lot of data is available through web pages designed for people, not software.
i'll shows some examples of creating a database schema, loading compound data into the database, and searching the data set.
it's not a general purpose language like python and it doesn't include the diversity of modules that python has.
this causes small differences in how the libraries treat conditions like aromaticity.
thoughout my career i have worked closely with chemists to help them be more effective, by developing software, providing one-on-one advice, training, and writingessays about software side of this field.
not hard for experienced programmers that is.
oechem oechem is a commercial programming library from openeye for  small molecule chemistry.
i'll work  through several examples based on chemistry data sets, such as producing a  scatter plot and exporting the result.
you might be interested in thetutor mailing list "for folks who want to ask questions regarding how to learn computer programming with the python language."
developing web applications django is a popular web development framework for python which makes  developing web applications much simpler than traditional cgi programming.
registration for the django course is €1,300 and is limited to 8 people.
i'll show you some of the things you can do with it.
the phrase "some programming experience" means people who are comfortable with strings, integers, floats, variables, if-statements, for-loops, variables, lists/arrays, and defining functions.
if you attend both  courses you will get a discount.
how to multiple people work together  on the same code base?
up-to-date information can always be found at  http://dalkescientific.com/training/. why programming courses for chemists?
if you are from an academic or non-profit group then you may qualify for a discount.
most working scientists have little training in programming and end up  spending a lot of time figuring out how to parse a file format or work with a  software library, rather than figuring out the science.
as an example of a difference, openbabel follows the daylight model and  assumes that the right behavior is to convert everything into the same  chemistry model.
you might be thinking "why not teach openbabel instead of  oechem"?
my training course is designed for just these people.
one example i can cover is how to get data from a pubchem web page.
these lectures will be based around developing a web application for  substructure searches and will cover how to work with the database, generate  templates, structure the urls, using css, and javascript interactivity with jquery.
seethe gallery for some examples of what  it can do.
if you change code, how do you figure out if the change broke something?
subprocess many chemistry programs are only available through the command line.
i've used openbabel a bit, mostly through the high-levelpybel library.
the second day  covers essential libraries for calling out tocommand-line programs, handling  csv files, making plots, and more.
i will be teaching a  two day python course immediately before the django course.
some of the topics i can cover are: parsing smiles and working with the molecule object parsing smarts and substructure searches working with smiles and sd files maximum common substructure translation between chemistry models openbabel and rdkit openbabel and rdkit are two open source cheminformatics toolkits with  python interfaces.
i could teach it, but i don't have as much experience as i do with oechem.
registration will be €900 including vat and is limited to 8 people.
contact me if  there's something special you to know more about.
course fees include coffe breaks, lunch, and all presentation materials.
rpy is an interface module which lets python call r functions directly,  including plotting.
i will be teaching a two day python course immediately before the django course.
you do not need to know object oriented programming.
this causes small differences in how the libraries treat conditions  like aromaticity.
if you are interested in on-site training during those  trips, let me know!
computational chemists in this case means small-molecule chemistry with an emphasis on cheminformatics and a bit of molecular modeling.
for each course i list the topics i will cover and i may also  cover some additional topics depending on the time and class expertise.
computational chemists in this case means  small-molecule chemistry with an emphasis on cheminformatics and a bit of  molecular modeling.
numpy numpy is a collection of numeric tools for python, with an emphasis on  arrays and linear algebra.
trainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com python training for cheminformatics i teach training courses in python programming for computational  chemistry, with an emphasis on cheminformatics.
many tools,  especially in molecular visualization and chemical informatics, have python  interfaces.
the following courses are meant for computational chemists with some programming background.
scheduled courses the following courses are meant for computational chemists with some  programming background.
you must also be  comfortable working on the command-line and using a text editor or ide to write  programs.
i'll show some examples of usingelementtree to read and  extract fields from an xml file.
i'll show a few examples you can build off of and provide pointers of where to get more in-depth information.
it's not hard to write a python program which opens excel, creates a new  spreadsheet, loads data into the spreadsheet, and creates a plot of the  results.
overview of python some background about python, how it got to where it is, and where it's  going.
each day starts at 9.00 and ends around 17.30.
you must know how to write programs* and should have some experience with python.
" possible topics i cover different topics in my courses, depending on  the length of the course, background of the participants, and what they want me  to focus on.
xml despite the best efforts of some, there's still very little direct  influence of xml in computational chemistry.
some background about python, how it got to where it is, and where it's going.
there are certain nuances of every  library, which i don't know for openbabel.
r and python have different ways of doing things.
after all, the library is freely available so anyone can install it without needing a special license.
special discount: attend this course plus the django course for €2,000 instead of €2,200.
contact me if there's something you specifically want me to discuss, and see the bottom of this page for apartial list of topics i can cover.
you should have some experience with python but that is not essential.
contact me if  there's something you specifically want me to discuss, and see the bottom of  this page for apartial list of topics i can cover.
it contains an extensivepython programming interface which can be  used for structure analysis, movie making, and more.
i have more experience with the oechem way and can explain it better.
attendees must have some existing python experience.
python is also one of the most popular computer languages in the world, with mature software libraries for everything from image manipulation and sql databases to gui and web development.
i'll  show how to use python'ssubprocess module to call them from python.
you must also be comfortable working on the command-line and using a text editor or ide to write programs.
these lectures will be based around developing a web application for substructure searches and will cover how to work with the database, generate templates, structure the urls, using css, and javascript interactivity with jquery.
many tools, especially in molecular visualization and chemical informatics, have python interfaces.
if you change code, how do you  figure out if the change broke something?
software development is more than sitting down and programming.
i've developed a set of python tools to work with molecular fingerprints.
the course will be hosted by and invoices sent by the python academy, located at zur schule 20, leipzig.
if you are interested in me teaching specifically openbabel or rdkit then contact me.
working with a relational database corporate compound databases are often stored in a relational database  like oracle.
the presentations are a mixture of lecture and hands-on exercises in a similar style to mynbn courses.
i also think that oechem is a better  library for most use, if you have the money and consider proprietary software  acceptable.
for those just starting off in python, the python beginner's guide contains links to many resources including online tutorials and a list of books.
this course is meant for computational chemists who want to set up an in-house cheminformatics server for specific analysis tasks.
most of my work over the last 10 years has been in python, which is the most popular high-level language in computational chemistry.
some the more public projects i've been part of are vmd, namd, biopython, pydaylight, and the open bioinformatics foundation.
chemists use excel a lot.
you must already know the basic science, like smiles, molecular graph representation, smarts and substructure searches.
there are certain nuances of every library, which i don't know for openbabel.
if you are interested in me teaching specifically openbabel or rdkit  then contact me.
you can see mylecture notes under the header "introduction to programming for bioinformatics in python."
i'll describe how to use them to generate fingerprints and do tanimoto searches.
register for the python course or contact me  attrainingdiscard@dalkescientific.com
how do you keep track of changes to the code over time?
i'll work through how to use python to parse these sorts of  files, with a focus on smiles files.
most of the code will look similar in other languages so it should be easy to follow.
generating and searching fingerprints
most of my work over the last 10 years has been in python, which is the  most popular high-level language in computational chemistry.
you might be thinking "why not teach openbabel instead of oechem"?
the first day is anoverview the core python language and oechem.
you must already know the basic science, like smiles,  molecular graph representation, smarts and substructure searches.
many of these are covered in greg wilson's software carpentry.
if you are building models or doing data mining then you should know  about this project.