the s language is often the vehicle of choice for research in statistical methodology, and r provides an open source route to participation in that activity.
- getty thesaurus of geographic names (getty research institute) learn about the purpose, scope and structure of the tgn.
it takes care of many of the fiddly details that make  plotting a hassle (like drawing legends) as well as providing a powerful model  of graphics that makes it easy to produce complex multi-layered graphics.
the most important of these exceptions are, that there are no “time bombs”; your copy of pspp will not “expire” or deliberately stop working in the future.
in addition to the classic “web of documents” w3c is helping to build a technology stack to support a “web of data,” the sort of data you find in databases.
creately online diagramming and design.
submit your own comments and/or work with  colleagues to submit comments on behalf of your institution.
challenges magnify when the trajectories of different life cycles, for research projects and for data sharing, are considered.
from next issue iassist will be saving trees and only publish the iq on the web.
- library of congress authorities (search for name, subject, title and name/title) using library of congress authorities, you can browse and view authority headings for subject, name, title and name/title combinations; and download authority records in marc format for use in a local library system.
the s language is often the vehicle of  choice for research in statistical methodology, and r provides an open source  route to participation in that activity.
of course, without detailed documentation, data reuse may indeed result in inaccurate interpretations.
google chart tools - google chart tools provide a perfect way to  visualize data on your website.
anyone can  write a screen scraper using the online editor.
- the www virtual library
- fathom fathom information design helps clients understand and express complex data through information graphics, interactive tools, and software for installations, the web, and mobile devices.
we have reviewed and evaluated thousands of resources to help you choose key websites in your subject.
two other papers tackle these challenges by emphasizing the needs of data producers.
you can use pspp with its graphical interface or the more traditional  syntax commands.
these applications place very different demands on bigtable, both in terms of data size (fromurls to web pages to satellite imagery) and latency requirements (from backend bulk processing to real-time data serving).
the project will gain experience in the complex balance between confidentiality and analysis, and the differences between national laws.
we should also give a special thanks to the editors of the issue.
- google public data explorer ?
- matlab - the language of technical computing matlab® is a high-level language and interactive environment that enables you to perform computationally intensive tasks faster than with traditional programming languages such as c, c++, and fortran.
revolution analytics - commercial software & support for the r  statistics language revolution analytics delivers advanced analytics software  at half the cost of existing solutions.
but most of the presentations are already online - a few are still missing either because we didn't have them or we are waiting for an updated version.
the vue project is focused on creating flexible tools for managing and  integrating digital resources in support of teaching, learning and research.
the community consists of members within and outside academia, as local history groups and genealogists are using the software to enhance and combine data from historical scottish post office directories with large-scale historical maps.
what we can strive for as data and information managers is to work together as fellow researchers and to be ever curious about how these partnerships and the sharing of information back and forth can be enhanced by thoughtful information and technology design.
similarly, research data & environmental sciences librarian, gail steinhart, writes about the development of datastar, a data staging repository hosted by cornell university’s albert r. mann library.
the onlinerda toolkit subscription is the most effective way to interact with the new standard.
weka contains tools for data pre-processing,  classification, regression, clustering, association rules, and visualization.
- sap - sap crystal solutions: simple, affordable, and open bi tools for everyday use - project voldemort - ggplot.
instead of juggling versions and overwriting files, use buzzdata and enjoy a social network designed for data.
a great and alarming majority (90%) said no.
in the article “mind the gap: global data sharing” they are looking into how today’s research on the important topics of climate change, economic crises, migration and health requires cross-national data sharing.
the hope is that these articles will carry involvement to the iassist community, so that the gained knowledge can be shared and practised widely.
22 free tools for data visualization and analysis the r journal - the r journal is the refereed journal of the r  project for statistical computing.
- ggplot2 ggplot2 is a plotting system for r, based on the grammar of graphics, which tries to take the good parts of base and lattice graphics and none of the bad parts.
the vue project is focused on creating flexible tools for managing and integrating digital resources in support of teaching, learning and research.
all address the challenge of scaling data exchange between systems and then between institutions.
datastax - software, support, and training for apache cassandra.
in the free version, the code  and data are shared with the world.
its backend is designed to perform its analyses as fast as possible, regardless of the size of the input data.
the paper is based on a presentation in a session on “sharing data: high rewards, formidable barriers” at the iassist 2009 conference.
the project developed as a “managed workspace” where researchers contribute datasets they are still actively using in direct response to questions that have to do with sharing in the active research environment, rather than an archival one.
topics include supervised learning, unsupervised learning, learning theory, reinforcement learning and adaptive control.
visualization: annotated time line - google chart tools - google code
the importance of aligning repository services with researcher needs is another common thread.
i hope most of you have made it safely back home by now - and are ready to refresh the memories by watching the conference webcasts and viewing presentations.
had.co.nz - weka -nweka is a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks.
it is a  free replacement for the proprietary program spss, and appears very similar to  it with a few exceptions.
advanced search allows you to perform more specific queries.
- semantic web - w3c
in its own way, each project described here moves data managers upstream, pre-publication, into the place where research is actively happening.
data tools google refine - a power tool for working with messy data (formerly  freebase gridworks) the overview project - overview is an open-source tool to help journalists  find stories in large amounts of data, by cleaning, visualizing and  interactively exploring large document and data sets.
bime - cloud business intelligence | analytics & dashboards bime is a  revolutionary approach to data analysis and dashboarding.
unlike commercial catalogues, it is run by a loose confederation of volunteers, who compile pages of key links for particular areas in which they are expert; even though it isn't the biggest index of the web, the vl pages are widely recognised as being amongst the highest-quality guides to particular sections of the web.
opengl - the industry standard for high performance graphics opengl.org is  a vendor-independent and organization-independent web site that acts as  one-stop hub for developers and consumers for all opengl news and development  resources.
data curation profiles - this website is an environment where academic  librarians of all kinds, special librarians at research facilities, archivists  involved in the preservation of digital data, and those who support digital  repositories can find help, support and camaraderie in exploring avenues to  learn more about working with research data and the use of the data curation  profiles tool.
ng, cs 229: machine learning provides a broad introduction to machine learning  and statistical pattern recognition.
the state of the art in finland.
protovis is free and open-source, provided under thebsd license.
the background and technical issues are presented in the paper, which also looks into issues and perspectives of user generated content.
- google research publication: bigtable - bigtable is a distributed storage system for managing structured data that is designed to scale to a very large size: petabytes of data across thousands of commodity servers.
the chart is  rendered within the browser using flash.
skip to navigation already a member?
we have had various and mixed reports on streaming successes.
- mondrian: pentaho analysis - pentaho open source analysis olap server written in java.
an interactive time series line chart with optional annotations.
- art & architecture thesaurus (getty research institute) learn about the purpose, scope and structure of the aat.
the tgn is an evolving vocabulary, growing and changing thanks to contributions from getty projects and other institutions.
with millions of resources available on the internet, it can be difficult to find useful material.
it uses javascript andsvg for web-native visualizations; no plugin required (though you will need a modern web browser)!
create, share, explore google fusion tables - google fusion tables is a modern data management  and publishing web application that makes it easy to host, manage, collaborate  on, visualize, and publish data tables online.
the paper highlights the development of e-learning materials that can raise awareness and ease access to international data.
topics include supervised learning,  unsupervised learning, learning theory, reinforcement learning and adaptive  control.
finnish social science data archive; 7.
plenary ii date: thursday, june 02 video andrea reimer - councillor, city of vancouver open data in vancouver: the inspiration and the vision andrea reimer is a councillor for the city of vancouver and is a passionate advocate for democracy and civic engagement.
from simple line charts to complex hierarchical  tree maps, the chart galley provides a large number of well-designed chart  types.
articles for the iq are always very welcome.
- rda: resource description & access | www.rdatoolkit.org designed for the digital world and an expanding universe of metadata users, rda:
organizations - data.gov - sdm group at lbnl - open archives initiative - code for america | a new kind of public service - the # dataviz daily - institute for advanced analytics | north carolina state university | professor michael rappa · msa curriculum - buzzdata | blog, 25 great links for data-lovin' journalists - metaoptimize - home - machine learning, natural language processing, predictive analytics, business intelligence, artificial intelligence, text analysis, information retrieval, search, data mining, statistical modeling, and data visualization - had.co.nz - measuring measures - measuring measures repositories - repositories | datacite - data | the world bank - infochimps data marketplace + commons: download sell or share databases, statistics, datasets for free | infochimps - factual home - factual - flowing media: your data has something to say - chartsbin - public data explorer - statplanet - manyeyes - 25+ more ways to bring data into r events - welcome | visweek 2011 - o'reilly strata:
data managers must ask, “how will the active researcher benefit from curation efforts”?
on the other hand, the professors saw many benefits in open access to research data.
covering useful tools, tutorials, tips and inspirational photos.
linked data are empowered by technologies such as rdf, sparql, owl, and skos.
for additional information about any mods elements (version 3.4 elements will be added soon), please see themods user guidelines.
- images google images.
you  don't have to be a data expert to navigate between different views, make your  own comparisons, and share your findings.
recent applications of machine learning, such as to robotic control, data mining, autonomous navigation, bioinformatics, speech recognition, and text and web data processing are also discussed.
- hal varian on how the web challenges managers -
- infoplease: encyclopedia, almanac, atlas, biographies, dictionary, thesaurus.
it  compiles and runs on a wide variety of unix platforms and similar systems  (including freebsd and linux), windows and macos.
there are visualization tools for search, music, networks, online communities, and almost anything else you can think of.
this issue will only be available on the web.
response date: january 2, 2012...." http://goo.gl/vtp18 - swright's blog - login to post comments 86 helpful tools for the data professional plus 45 bonus tools submitted by jkitlas on sat, 2011-10-29 16:04 topic: - data-related advocacy - data access & open data - tools, apps, technology - metadata & standards i have been working on this (mostly) annotated collection of tools and articles that i believe would be of help to both the data dabbler and professional.
we see plainly that as one moves up the continuum, more and more human effort and intervention is required to craft the discovery, access, analytic and preservation environment.
31 issue 3&4 is now available on the web: http://iassistdata.org/publications/iq/iqvol31.html
it is demonstrated how even international data produced by intergovernmental organizations like the international monetary fund, the international energy agency, oecd, the united nations and the world bank are often only available with an expensive subscription, presented in complex incomprehensible tables, through special interfaces; such barriers are making the international use of the data difficult.
we hope you agree with our decision.
also the iassist jobs repository for an archive of data-related position descriptions.
it is an "outline" of the schema.
great care has been taken over the defaults for the minor design choices in graphics, but the user retains full control.
among  the users are well-known companies as ford, honda, nokia, miele, philips, ibm,  hp, cisco, merrill lynch, bnp paribas, bank of america, mobilkom austria, akzo  nobel, aureus pharma, pharmadm, cyprotex, celera, revere, lexisnexis, mitre and  many medium-sized businesses benefitting from the open-source business model of  rapid-i. r project - r is a language and environment for statistical computing and  graphics.
google public data explorer ?
although programming experience is helpful, protovis is mostly declarative and designed to be learnedby example.
some call this the digital plumbing, but i like to think of it as e-gilding.
rice provides visual evidence in a compelling diagram of the data sharing continuum based on storage, discovery, and preservation conditions of the digital research materials at each level along the scale -- from the lowly thumb drive to the officious national archive.
gretchen gano is the assistant curator librarian for public administration & government information and coordinator, data service studio at new york university libraries.
this is a rich reuse experience, creating a real digital “laboratory.”
you don't have to be a data expert to navigate between different views, make your own comparisons, and share your findings.
there are also some invisible web resources (if you're looking for something data-related on google and not finding it) and metadata resources so you can appropriately curate your data.
attributes are not in a mandated sequence and not repeatable (per xml rules).
chairing a conference session with the purpose of aggregating and integrating papers for a special issue iq is much appreciated as the information in the form of an iq issue reaches many more people than the session participants and will be readily available on the iassist website at http://www.iassistdata.org.
a taxonomy of data science - the data science venn diagram « zero intelligence agents - revolutions: growth in data-related jobs - building data startups: fast, big, and focused - o'reilly radar bonus!
- google chart tools - google chart tools provide a perfect way to visualize data on your website.
google research publication: bigtable - bigtable is a distributed storage  system for managing structured data that is designed to scale to a very large  size: petabytes of data across thousands of commodity servers.
i included a list of tools, such as programming languages and web-based utilities,data mining resources, some prominent organizations in the field, repositories where you can play with data, events you may want to attend and important articles you should take a look at.
- pixlr editor a powerful online photo editor.
many things have changed since 1938, but not our dedication to providing reliable information, in a way that engages and entertains.
in order to preserve the confidentiality of single entities, access to complete datasets is often restricted to monitored on-site analysis.
clearly these topics are international (e.g. the weather or air pollution does not stop at national borders), but the article discusses how existing barriers prevent global data sharing.
- ionz ionz will help you craft an infographic about yourself.
the algorithms can either be applied directly to a dataset or called from your own java code.
mondrian: pentaho analysis - pentaho open source analysis olap server  written in java.
the authors of this article are susan noble, celia russell and richard wiseman, all affiliated with esds-international hosted by mimas at the university of manchester in the uk.
subelements are optional, although in some cases you may not have empty containers.
what then happens to research data?
as the charts and maps animate over time, the changes in the world become easier to understand.
- protovis protovis composes custom views of data with simple marks such as bars and dots.
rapid-i provides software, solutions, and services in the fields of predictive analytics, data mining, and text mining.
there are no additional packages to purchase in order to get “advanced” functions; all functionality that pspp currently supports is in the core package.
mckinsey quarterly - strategy - innovation - the three sexy skills of data geeks « dataspora - rise of the data scientist - dataists »
“the research-data-centre in research-data-centre approach: a first step towards decentralised international data sharing” is written by stefan bender and jörg heining from the institute for employment research (iab) in nuremberg, germany.
from simple line charts to complex hierarchical tree maps, the chart galley provides a large number of well-designed chart types.
plenaries submitted by walter on fri, 2011-06-24 08:21
- opengl - the industry standard for high performance graphics opengl.org is a vendor-independent and organization-independent web site that acts as one-stop hub for developers and consumers for all opengl news and development resources.
authors are very welcome to take a look at the instructions and layout: http://iassistdata.org/iq/instructions-authors authors can also contact me via e-mail: kbr@sam.sdu.dk.
among the users are well-known companies as ford, honda, nokia, miele, philips, ibm, hp, cisco, merrill lynch, bnp paribas, bank of america, mobilkom austria, akzo nobel, aureus pharma, pharmadm, cyprotex, celera, revere, lexisnexis, mitre and many medium-sized businesses benefitting from the open-source business model of rapid-i. - r project - r is a language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.
chuck humphrey is passionate about data and has been examining research data infrastructure with a global perspective.
weka contains tools for data pre-processing, classification, regression, clustering, association rules, and visualization.
- chart builder powerful tools for creating a variety of charts for online display.
pixlr editor a powerful online photo editor.
the most comprehensive image search on the web.
- wiki.dbpedia.org : about dbpedia is a community effort to extract structured information fromwikipedia and to make this information available on the web.
the report concludes that from the viewpoint of long-term preservation and reuse, it is definitely less recommendable to leave the responsibility for the preservation and dissemination of data to individual researchers.
"ordered" below means the subelements must occur in the order given.
dbpedia allows you to ask sophisticated queries against wikipedia, and to link other data sets on the web to wikipedia data.
more... - community find out what iassisters are doing in the field and explore other avenues of presentation, communication and discussion via social networking and related online social spaces.more...
refine, reuse and request data | scraperwiki - scraperwiki is an online  tool to make acquiring useful data simpler and more collaborative.
the answer may be that benefit is more than finding or accessing a particular resource (yep, i have downloaded the whole thing and all the bits are there), but instead being able to examine this resource in many ways (okay, lets run frequencies, now i want to see it on a map, and let’s include some other variables).
the comprehensive r archive network - r is `gnu s', a freely available  language and environment for statistical computing and graphics which provides  a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques: linear and nonlinear  modelling, statistical tests, time series analysis, classification, clustering,  etc.
neither are there any artificial limits on the number of cases or variables which you can use.
r can be considered as a different implementation of s. there are some important differences, but much code written for s runs unaltered under r. r provides a wide variety of statistical (linear and nonlinear modelling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, ...) and graphical techniques, and is highly extensible.
deeppeep helps you discover the entry points to content in deep web (aka hidden web) sites, including online databases and web services.
in other words, data curators matter.
22 useful online chart & graph generators the best tools for visualization visualization is a technique to  graphically represent sets of data.
the esds, standing for “economic and social data service”, are extending their reach beyond the uk.
- 22 free tools for data visualization and analysis - the r journal - the r journal is the refereed journal of the r project for statistical computing.
the white house office for science and technology policy (ostp) released two public consultations today, one on oa for data and one on oa for publications arising from publicly-funded research.
an  interactive time series line chart with optional annotations.
- tableau software - fast analytics and rapid-fire business intelligence from tableau software.
google correlate google correlate finds search patterns which correspond  with real-world trends.
resource description and access is the new, unified cataloging standard.
professors were concerned about inadvertent misuse of data and consequent mistakes.
it is agnu projectwhich is similar to the s language and environment which was developed at bell laboratories (formerly at&t, now lucent technologies) by john chambers and colleagues.
it is available as  a stand-alone application for data analysis and as a data mining engine which  can be integrated into own products.
the most important of these exceptions are, that  there are no “time bombs”; your copy of pspp will not  “expire” or deliberately stop working in the future.
topic: - iassist conferences - iassist 2011 - data access & open data - news and announcements hello - for those who were not able to attend iassist 2011 and for those asking to have access to video presentations, the two videos of the plenaries from iassist 2011 are now available for viewing: chuck humphrey - data library coordinator, university of alberta research data infrastructure: are the social sciences on main street or a side road?
(1) "[t]his request for information (rfi) offers the opportunity for interested individuals and organizations to provide recommendations on approaches for ensuring long-term stewardship and encouraging broad public access to unclassified digital data that result from federally funded scientific research....
however, an opportunity has been presented where research data centre sites are placed at statistical offices around germany, and also at a michigan centre for demography.
the home page for the american memory historical collections from the library of congress.
more... - resources
if you are a data scientist, data analyst or data dummy, chances  are there is something in here for you.
the  discovery and leverage of unused business intelligence from existing data  enables better informed decisions and allows for process optimization.
- photostats create gorgeous infographics about your iphone photos, with photostats.
vue provides a flexible visual environment for structuring, presenting, and sharing digital information.
- buzzdata buzzdata lets you share your data in a smarter, easier way.
naturally the three articles presented here are related to the iq subject area in general, as in: assisting research with data, acquiring data from research, and making good use of the user community.
this is in no way  a complete list so pleasecontact me here with any suggestions!
university of tampere.
when data is large or abstract,  visualization can help make the data easier to read or understand.
this raises the perennial question of standards: by what mechanisms will we set them, and how well will we be able to follow them and still accommodate local needs?
metadata - description schema: mods (library of congress) and outline of elements and attributes in mods version 3.4: metadataobject this document contains a listing of elements and their related attributes in mods version 3.4 with values or value sources where applicable.
create, share, explore - google fusion tables - google fusion tables is a modern data management and publishing web application that makes it easy to host, manage, collaborate on, visualize, and publish data tables online.
semantic web technologies enable people to create data stores on the web, build vocabularies, and write rules for handling data.
visual understanding environment the visual understanding  environment (vue)is an open source project based at tufts university.
great care has been taken over  the defaults for the minor design choices in graphics, but the user retains  full control.
the survey also charted barriers to open access.
gretchen gano collaborated on this issue from the start with former iassist president ann green.
in “interoperability between institutional and data repositories: a pilot project at mit”, katherine mcneill describes a pilot project to enhance study discovery between two repository systems housed in the same institution, dspace and the institute for quantitative social science dataverse network, by enabling the harvesting and replication of metadata and content across the two systems.
most common practise seems to be that the data remains in the hand of the original researcher(s).
in this paper we describe the simple data model provided by bigtable, which gives clients dynamic control over data layout and format, and we describe the design and implementation of bigtable.
it allows you to analyze your data through interactive data visualizations and create stunning dashboards from the web.
more... - robin's blog - login to post comments open access and reuse of research data in finland submitted by marik on fri, 2008-10-10 13:12 topic: - reports & studies - archiving, preservation, curation - data access & open data
robin rice echoes these sentiments in her article on the disc-uk datashare project, a collaboration between the universities of edinburgh, oxford and southampton and the london school of economics.
enjoy karsten boye rasmussen, iq editor, associate professor, kbr@sam.sdu.dk, marketing & management, sdu, university of southern denmark +45 6550 2115 guest editor's notes: the 2008 iassist conference, “technology of data: collection, communication, access and preservation” included a session entitled “moving research data into and out of institutional repositories” from which several papers emerged.
scientific data management - an introduction.
it has a very large and continually expanding developer and end-user  community that is very active and vested in the continued growth of opengl.
because it's a wiki, other programmers can  contribute to and improve the code.
it is available as a stand-alone application for data analysis and as a data mining engine which can be integrated into own products.
data science toolkit a collection of data tools and open apis curated by  our own pete warden.
gretchen gano is the writing guest editor of this iq as you can see below.
- trade literature - a set on flickr - compfight / a flickr search tool - morguefile free photos for creatives by creatives - stock.xchng - the leading free stock photography site - the ultimate collection of free vector packs -
it takes care of many of the fiddly details that make plotting a hassle (like drawing legends) as well as providing a powerful model of graphics that makes it easy to produce complex multi-layered graphics.
items highlighted in red indicate changes made to mods in version 3.4.all top-level elements and all attributes are optional, but you must have at least one element.
karsten boye rasmussen december 2011 - stuartm's blog - login to post comments open access to federally funded research submitted by swright on fri, 2011-11-04 10:22
you can use it to extract text from a document, learn the political leanings of a particular neighborhood, find all the names of people mentioned in a text and more.
- bime - cloud business intelligence | analytics & dashboards bime is a revolutionary approach to data analysis and dashboarding.
should you be interested in compiling a special issue for the iq as guest editor(s) i will also be delighted to hear from you.
enabling interactive analysis of very large datasets stored in sql databases without writing sql.
natural language toolkit - open source python modules, linguistic data and  documentation for research and development in natural language processing and  text analytics, with distributions for windows,mac osx and linux.
submitted by robin on thu, 2009-03-26 07:35
although off-site access is facilitated in other countries, germany has relied on on-site security.
all in all, the benefits were estimated to be more significant than the barriers.
scholarly internet resource collections infomine is a virtual library of internet resources relevant to faculty, students, and research staff at the university level.
the discovery and leverage of unused business intelligence from existing data enables better informed decisions and allows for process optimization.
response date: january 2, 2012...." http://goo.gl/vtp18 86 helpful tools for the data professional plus 45 bonus tools submitted by jkitlas on sat, 2011-10-29 16:04  topic: data-related advocacy tools, apps, technology metadata & standards i have been working on this (mostly) annotated collection of tools and  articles that i believe would be of help to both the data dabbler and  professional.
cran is a  network of ftp and web servers around the world that store identical,  up-to-date, versions of code and documentation for r. please use the cranmirror  nearest to you to minimize network load.
buzzdata buzzdata lets you share your data in a smarter, easier way.
- natural language toolkit - open source python modules, linguistic data and documentation for research and development in natural language processing and text analytics, with distributions for windows,mac osx and linux.
the chart is rendered within the  browser using flash.
- pspp- pspp is a program for statistical analysis of sampled data.
the “crowdsourcing” tool did successfully generate engagement and there are plans for further development, such as upload and attachment of photos of people, buildings, and landmarks to enrich the collection.
the paper by stuart macdonald from edina in scotland originated as a poster session at the iassist 2010 conference.
photostats create gorgeous infographics about your iphone photos, with  photostats.
- scirus - for scientific information the most comprehensive scientific research tool on the web.
- beautiful soup - beautiful soup is a python html/xml parser designed for quick turnaround projects like screen-scraping.
find out more about the tgn's contributors.
there are  visualization tools for search, music, networks, online communities, and almost  anything else you can think of.
- 22 useful online chart & graph generators - the best tools for visualization visualization is a technique to graphically represent sets of data.
it features short to medium length articles  covering topics that might be of interest to users or developers of r. cs 229: machine learning - a widely referenced course by professor andrew
protovis protovis composes custom views of data with simple marks such as  bars and dots.
with over 410 million scientific items indexed at last count, it allows researchers to search for not only journal content but also scientists' homepages, courseware, pre-print server material, patents and institutional repository and website information.
it uses javascript andsvg for web-native visualizations; no plugin required  (though you will need a modern web browser)!
the white house office for science and technology policy (ostp)  released two public consultations today, one on oa for data and one on oa for publications arising from publicly-funded research.
- deeppeep: discover the hidden web deeppeep is a search engine specialized in web forms.
american memory offers primary source materials that chronicle historical events, people, places, and ideas that continue to shape america.
study participants reflected on and, as a result, fine-tuned how they work with data, why they create these materials in the first place and were able to articulate reasons for managing these resources the way they do.
brightplanet initially developed the completeplanet compilation to identify and tap into many hundreds and thousands of search sources simultaneously to automatically deliver high-quality content to its corporate and enterprise customers.
while the study results reveal researchers’ needs and workflows.
pspp can perform descriptive statistics,  t-tests, linear regression and non-parametric tests.
- creately online diagramming and design.
luis martinez-uribe introduces the university of oxford’s scoping digital repository services for research data management project and the findings of a requirement gathering exercise.
topic: - community of data professionals - professional development - archiving, preservation, curation - data access & open data - data citation - news and announcements - other topics the iassist quarterly (iq vol.
ionz ionz will help you craft an infographic about yourself.
please send in any missing presentations or email me if there are mistakes that should be corrected!
the current beta version currently tracks 45,000 forms across 7 domains.
his talk will locate the social sciences in the broader e-science picture and give us a glimpse of the future.
neither are  there any artificial limits on the number of cases or variables which you can  use.
- techxtra: engineering, mathematics, and computing techxtra is a free service which can help you find articles, books, the best websites, the latest industry news, job announcements, technical reports, technical data, full text eprints, the latest research, thesis & dissertations, teaching and learning resources and more, in engineering, mathematics and computing.
there are no additional packages to purchase in order to get  “advanced” functions; all functionality that pspp currently  supports is in the core package.
whether from government transparency initiatives, leaks or freedom of information requests, journalists are drowning in more documents than they can ever hope to read.
conferences - ibm information on demand 2011 and business analytics forum - data scientist summit 2011 - ibm virtual performance 2011 - wolfram data summit 2011—conference on data repositories and ideas - big data analytics: mobile, social and web articles - data science: a literature review | (r news & tutorials) - what is "data science"
it compiles and runs on a wide variety of unix platforms and similar systems (including freebsd and linux), windows and macos.
rapid-i provides software, solutions, and services in the fields  of predictive analytics, data mining, and text mining.
- machine learning demos - visual.ly - infographics & visualizations.
by now, thousands of applications of  rapidminer in more than 30 countries give their users a competitive edge.
tuomas j. alaterä information network specialist tuomas.alatera@uta.fi finnish social science data archive (fsd) http://www.fsd.uta.fi fi-33014 university of tampere - robin's blog - login to post comments special iq:
the aat is an evolving vocabulary, growing and changing thanks to contributions from getty projects and other institutions.
- visualization: annotated time line - google chart tools - google code
populating your data is easy using the provided client- and server-side tools.
one of r's strengths is the ease with  which well-designed publication-quality plots can be produced, including  mathematical symbols and formulae where needed.
- refine, reuse and request data | scraperwiki - scraperwiki is an online tool to make acquiring useful data simpler and more collaborative.
there are also some invisible web resources (if  you're looking for something data-related on google and not finding it) and  metadata resources so you can appropriately curate your data.
smashing magazine - how to create animated gifs using photoshop cs3 - wikihow - ian symbol libraries (free vector symbols and icons) - integration and application network - usability.gov - best icons - iconspedia - iconfinder - iconseeker invisible web - 10 search engines to explore the invisible web like the header says...
martinez-uribe asserts that the study process itself made an impact on the participants.
the virtual training suite can also help you develop your internet research skills through tutorials written by lecturers and librarians from universities across the uk.
the  open-source data mining specialist rapid-i enables other companies to use  leading-edge technologies for data mining and business intelligence.
in a related project across the pond, libby bishop scales this discussion in her description of crossinstitutional collection sharing between the university of leeds and the uk data archive in the timescapes project.
chart builder powerful tools for creating a variety of charts for online  display.
you can use pspp with its graphical interface or the more traditional syntax commands.
gretchen gano, new york university libraries - robin's blog - login to post comments new iq!
responses are due in early january.
cran is a network of ftp and web servers around the world that store identical, up-to-date, versions of code and documentation for r. please use the cranmirror nearest to you to minimize network load.
while the authors in this issue describe projects going on in many different places and settings, taken together, these articles address common themes.
sign in - about - conferences - iassist quarterly - resources - community - iblog - contact topics - news and announcements - external events - new jobs - reports & studies - iassist conferences - iassist 2012 - iassist 2011 - iassist 2010 - iassist 2009 - iassist 2008 - iassist strategy - community of data professionals - data-related advocacy - professional development - other topics - analytical methods and software - archiving, preservation, curation - data access & open data - data archives and service providers - data citation - data deluge - digital repositories - metadata & standards - social science datasets - statistical literacy & training users - tools, apps, technology - iassist regions - africa - asia/pacific - canada - europe - united states data access & open data issues around access to data iassist quarterly (2011: fall) submitted by stuartm on tue, 2012-01-31 07:32 topic: - data access & open data - tools, apps, technology - news and announcements sharing data and building information with this issue (volume 35-3, 2011) of the iassist quarterly (iq) we return to the regular format of a collection of articles not within the same specialist subject area as we have seen in recent special issues of iq.
whether you want a desktop application or a web-based tool, there are many specific tools are available on the web that let you visualize all kinds of data.
submitted by robin on tue, 2009-06-09 11:40 topic: - community of data professionals - iassist 2009 - professional development - archiving, preservation, curation - data access & open data - data citation - other topics a week has passed since iassist 2009.
in this paper we  describe the simple data model provided by bigtable, which gives clients  dynamic control over data layout and format, and we describe the design and  implementation of bigtable.
even if the data are stored in the department or research insitute, no further processing nor documentation takes place.
download the report as a pdf file.
by building on open source r—the  world’s most powerful statistics software—with innovations in big  data analysis, integration and user experience, revolution analytics meets the  demands and requirements of modern data-driven businesses.
it features short to medium length articles covering topics that might be of interest to users or developers of r. - cs 229: machine learning - a widely referenced course by professor andrew ng, cs 229: machine learning provides a broad introduction to machine learning and statistical pattern recognition.
the chart is rendered within the browser using flash.
together with the authors a great issue has been made.
d3.js d3.js is a small, free javascript library for manipulating documents  based on data.
many projects at  google store data in bigtable, including web indexing, google earth, and google  finance.
changing this practice that still prevails in finnish universities and other finnish research organisations constitutes one of the key goals in the national implementation of the oecd recommendation.
if you don’t have anything to offer right now, then please prepare yourself for the next iassist conference and start planning for participation in a session there.
bishop asserts that coordination among multiple agents is likely to be challenging under any circumstances.
it is also well-suited for developing new machine learning schemes.
plenary iii date: friday, june 03 video the quicktime .mov files are available in a variety of viewing formats: via desktops, iphone, ipod, ipad, smartphones.
- wavemaker - wavemaker is a rapid application development environment for building, maintaining and modernizing business-critical web 2.0 applications.
there will be no printed version mailed out to the membership.
in 2006, motivated by the oecd open access guidelines, the finnish social science data archive (fsd) carried out an online survey targeting professors of human sciences, social sciences and behavioural sciences in finnish universities.
- healthymagination | ge data visualization visualizations that advance the conversation about issues that shape our lives, and so we encourage visitors to download, post and share these visualizations.
besides specifying keywords, you can also search for specific form element labels, i.e., the description of the form attributes.
the survey data is naturally available, too:fsd2268 open access to and reuse of research data 2006 mari kleemola finnish social science data archive iassist european regional secretary - marik's blog - login to post comments - home - topic - other-topics - data access & open data - iassist quarterly sharing data and building information with this issue (volume 35-3, 2011) of the iassist quarterly (iq) we return to the regular format of a collection of articles not within the same specialist subject area as we have seen in recent special issues of iq.
- google correlate google correlate finds search patterns which correspond with real-world trends.
the company concentrates  on automatic intelligent analyses on a large-scale base, i.e. for large amounts  of structured data like database systems and unstructured data like texts.
when data is large or abstract, visualization can help make the data easier to read or understand.
- welcome to infomine:
ms reimer has been heavily involved in this initiative and will share her passion with iassist.
the google public data explorer makes large  datasets easy to explore, visualize and communicate.
data tools data mining - google refine - a power tool for working with messy data (formerly freebase gridworks) - the overview project - overview is an open-source tool to help journalists find stories in large amounts of data, by cleaning, visualizing and interactively exploring large document and data sets.
american memory provides free access to historical images, maps, sound recordings, and motion pictures that document the american experience.
- visual understanding environment the visual understanding environment (vue)is an open source project based at tufts university.
though all of the articles focus on technological choices and architectures to support research data curation, it is striking to realize that each of these choices emerge from old-fashioned personal, social, and organizational relationships.
pspp can perform descriptive statistics, t-tests, linear regression and non-parametric tests.
elements are repeatable unless otherwise noted.
- data curation profiles - this website is an environment where academic librarians of all kinds, special librarians at research facilities, archivists involved in the preservation of digital data, and those who support digital repositories can find help, support and camaraderie in exploring avenues to learn more about working with research data and the use of the data curation profiles tool.
open access to federally funded research submitted by swright on  fri, 2011-11-04 10:22  topic: united states data access & open data got something to say about "ensuring long-term stewardship and  encouraging broad public access to unclassified digital data that result from  federally funded scientific research"?
visualization: motion chart - google chart tools - google code a dynamic  chart to explore several indicators over time.
we didn't have cameras available during the wednesday sessions, so no videos of these presentations, sorry!
by now, thousands of applications of rapidminer in more than 30 countries give their users a competitive edge.
these applications place very different demands on bigtable, both in  terms of data size (fromurls to web pages to satellite imagery) and latency  requirements (from backend bulk processing to real-time data serving).
this last topic could also be spelled “involvement”.
as the charts and maps  animate over time, the changes in the world become easier to understand.
- incywincy: the invisible web search engine incywincy is a showcase of net research server (nrs) 5.0, a software product that provides a complete search portal solution, developed byloopip llc.
weka is  open source software issued under thegnu general public license.
this service is offered free of charge.
information please has been providing authoritative answers to all kinds of factual questions since 1938—first as a popular radio quiz show, then starting in 1947 as an annual almanac, and since 1998 on the internet at www.infoplease.com.
a space for iassist members to share professional resources useful to them in their daily work.
the second segment (bonus!) of the list includes a number of art and design  resources the infographic designers might like including color palette  generators and image searches.
beautiful soup - beautiful soup is a python html/xml parser designed for  quick turnaround projects like screen-scraping.
"authority" attributes are either followed by codes for authority lists (e.g., iso639-2b) or "see" references that link to documents that contain codes for identifying authority lists.
open access to and reuse of research data -
31 issue 2 - 2007) is now available on the web: http://iassistdata.org/publications/iq/iqvol31.html this issue will be printed and mailed to the membership.
in this case the example is e-learning for the “united nations millennium development goals”.
the company concentrates on automatic intelligent analyses on a large-scale base, i.e. for large amounts of structured data like database systems and unstructured data like texts.
- search tools and databases (getty research institute) use these search tools to access library materials, specialized databases, and other digital resources.
fathom fathom information design helps clients understand and express  complex data through information graphics, interactive tools, and software for  installations, the web, and mobile devices.
the open-source data mining specialist rapid-i enables other companies to use leading-edge technologies for data mining and business intelligence.
"[t]his request for information (rfi)  offers the opportunity for interested individuals and organizations to provide  recommendations on approaches for ensuring long-term stewardship and broad  public access to the peer-reviewed scholarly publications that result from  federally funded scientific research....
this is in no way a complete list so pleasecontact me here with any suggestions!
despite  these varied demands, bigtable has successfully provided a flexible,  high-performance solution for all of these google products.
it then decided to make completeplanet available as a public service to the internet search public.
vue provides a flexible visual environment for structuring, presenting, and  sharing digital information.
find out more about the aat's contributors.
we are presenting an integrated double issue of high quality.
"[t]his request for information (rfi) offers the opportunity for interested individuals and organizations to provide recommendations on approaches for ensuring long-term stewardship and broad public access to the peer-reviewed scholarly publications that result from federally funded scientific research....
the city of vancouver has led the way with the adoption of a resolution in may [2009] that endorsed open and accessible data, open standards, and open source software.
kevin ashley, director of the digital curation centre (dcc), was the third.more... - chuck's blog - login to post comments us and uk governments embrace 'open data' submitted by robin on wed, 2009-12-23 12:17 topic: - data access & open data - news and announcements - other topics the us open government directive, released on december 8, 2009, instructs all federal agencies to provide high-value information to the public online in open, accessible, machine-readable formats.more... - robin's blog - login to post comments conference webcasts and presentations online!
the name of the paper is “addressinghistory: a web2.0 community engagement tool and api”.
submit your own comments and/or work with colleagues to submit comments on behalf of your institution.
weka is open source software issued under thegnu general public license.
it is a free replacement for the proprietary program spss, and appears very similar to it with a few exceptions.
response date: january 12, 2012...." http://goo.gl/l1jn3 (2)
enabling interactive analysis of very large datasets stored in  sql databases without writing sql.
- visualization: motion chart - google chart tools - google code a dynamic chart to explore several indicators over time.
unlike low-level graphics libraries that quickly become tedious  for visualization, protovis defines marks through dynamic properties that  encode data, allowinginheritance, scales and layoutsto simplify  construction.
lack of agreements regarding data ownership and ip rights were also mentioned as barriers, as well as loss of competitive advantage, it problems, and confidentiality issues.
- cataloging cultural objects cataloging cultural objects: a guide to describing cultural works and their images (cco)
cco also covers many other types of cultural works, including archaeological sites, artifacts, and functional objects from the realm of material culture.
matlab - the language of technical computing matlab® is a high-level  language and interactive environment that enables you to perform  computationally intensive tasks faster than with traditional programming  languages such as c, c++, and fortran.
- data science toolkit a collection of data tools and open apis curated by our own pete warden.
it allows you to  analyze your data through interactive data visualizations and create stunning  dashboards from the web.
r is available as free software under the terms of thefree software foundation's gnu general public license in source code form.
because it's a wiki, other programmers can contribute to and improve the code.
by tracing through completeplanet's subject structure or searching deep web sites, you can go to various topic areas, such as energy or agriculture or food or medicine, and find rich content sites not accessible using conventional search engines.
the term “semantic web” refers to w3c’s vision of the web of linked data.
unlike low-level graphics libraries that quickly become tedious for visualization, protovis defines marks through dynamic properties that encode data, allowinginheritance, scales and layoutsto simplify construction.
they can be papers from iassist conferences or other conferences and workshops, from local presentations or papers especially written for the iq.
the survey also charted what actually happens to research data and what are the barriers to and benefits of open access to research data.
webcasts of all three plenaries and thursday and friday's concurrent sessions in the small auditorium are now available.
the second paper is also related to the sharing of data with an introduction to the international level.
r is available as free software under the terms of thefree  software foundation's gnu general public license in source code form.
although programming experience is  helpful, protovis is mostly declarative and designed to be learnedby example.
its backend is designed to  perform its analyses as fast as possible, regardless of the size of the input  data.
you can use it to extract text from a document, learn the  political leanings of a particular neighborhood, find all the names of people  mentioned in a text and more.
is a manual for describing, documenting, and cataloging cultural works and their visual surrogates.
responses are due in early  january.
- the comprehensive r archive network - r is `gnu s', a freely available language and environment for statistical computing and graphics which provides a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques: linear and nonlinear modelling, statistical tests, time series analysis, classification, clustering, etc.
the google public data explorer makes large datasets easy to explore, visualize and communicate.
recent applications of machine learning, such as to robotic control,  data mining, autonomous navigation, bioinformatics, speech recognition, and  text and web data processing are also discussed.
anyone can write a screen scraper using the online editor.
whether from government  transparency initiatives, leaks or freedom of information requests, journalists  are drowning in more documents than they can ever hope to read.
it contains useful internet resources such as databases, electronic journals, electronic books, bulletin boards, mailing lists, online library card catalogs, articles, directories of researchers, and many other types of information.
by building on open source r—the world’s most powerful statistics software—with innovations in big data analysis, integration and user experience, revolution analytics meets the demands and requirements of modern data-driven businesses.
we hope this will make it easier for the amazing amount of information in wikipedia to be used in new and interesting ways, and that it might inspire new mechanisms for navigating, linking and improving the encyclopaedia itself.
sap - sap crystal solutions: simple, affordable, and open bi tools for  everyday use project voldemort ggplot.
had.co.nz data mining weka -nweka is a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining  tasks.
the ultimate goal of the web of data is to enable computers to do more useful work and to develop systems that can support trusted interactions over the network.
in the free version, the code and data are shared with the world.
the algorithms can either be applied directly to a dataset or called  from your own java code.
isbn: 978-951-44-7479-8.
completeplanet is the front door to these deep web databases on the web and to the thousands of regular search engines — it is the first step in trying to find highly topical information.
the second segment (bonus!) of the list includes a number of art and design resources the infographic designers might like including color palette generators and image searches.
the main  product of rapid-i, the data analysis solution rapidminer is the world-leading  open-source system for knowledge discovery and data mining.
the main product of rapid-i, the data analysis solution rapidminer is the world-leading open-source system for knowledge discovery and data mining.
topic: - united states - data access & open data got something to say about "ensuring long-term stewardship and encouraging broad public access to unclassified digital data that result from federally funded scientific research"?
one of r's strengths is the ease with which well-designed publication-quality plots can be produced, including mathematical symbols and formulae where needed.
these are large video files (each over an hour in length), so patience is required.
- scientific data management - an introduction.
wavemaker - wavemaker is a rapid application development environment for  building, maintaining and modernizing business-critical web 2.0 applications.
fsd's influence could be seen in social sciences, making archiving at a data archive a bit more frequent than in other sciences.
it is agnu projectwhich is similar to the s language and environment  which was developed at bell laboratories (formerly at&t, now lucent  technologies) by john chambers and colleagues.
professors were asked, for example, whether their department had any guidelines on the preservation of digital research data.
- datastax - software, support, and training for apache cassandra.
i included a list of tools, such as  programming languages and web-based utilities,data mining resources, some  prominent organizations in the field, repositories where you can play with  data, events you may want to attend and important articles you should take a  look at.
pspp- pspp is a program for statistical analysis of sampled data.
ggplot2 ggplot2 is a plotting system for r, based on the grammar of  graphics, which tries to take the good parts of base and lattice graphics and  none of the bad parts.
an abridged version of the report is available in english: arja kuula & sami borg (2008).
loopip licenses the nrs engine and provides consulting expertise in building search solutions.
- intute intute is a free online service that helps you to find web resources for your studies and research.
the most significant was enhancing the diversity of research designs with the use of archived data.
despite these varied demands, bigtable has successfully provided a flexible, high-performance solution for all of these google products.
machine learning demos visual.ly - infographics & visualizations.
please spread the word.
- dcmi metadata terms - the digital object identifier system - the federal geographic data committee — federal geographic data committee - jkitlas's blog - login to post comments videos from the iassist 2011
iassist members gail steinhart and chuck humphrey were two of the three members on this panel.
(1)  "[t]his request for information (rfi) offers the opportunity for  interested individuals and organizations to provide recommendations on  approaches for ensuring long-term stewardship and encouraging broad public  access to unclassified digital data that result from federally funded  scientific research....
please consult ther project homepage for further information.
- d3.js d3.js is a small, free javascript library for manipulating documents based on data.
the www virtual library (vl) is the oldest catalogue of the web, started by tim berners-lee, the creator of html and of the web itself, in 1991 at cern in geneva.
this double issue is the work of the authors and their articles are introduced below.
r can be considered as a  different implementation of s. there are some important differences, but much  code written for s runs unaltered under r. r provides a wide variety of  statistical (linear and nonlinear modelling, classical statistical tests,  time-series analysis, classification, clustering, ...) and graphical  techniques, and is highly extensible.
the article contains historical information on approaches and developments in other countries and has a special focus on the german solution.
- revolution analytics - commercial software & support for the r statistics language revolution analytics delivers advanced analytics software at half the cost of existing solutions.
the survey also showed - not surprisingly - that it is usual to a researcher to have a positive attitude towards open access in general but a less-than-enthusiastic one to open access to his/her own data.
moving research data into and out of institutional repositories submitted by robin on tue, 2009-05-12 13:42 topic: - community of data professionals - iassist 2008 - iassist conferences - reports & studies - digital repositories - professional development - archiving, preservation, curation - data access & open data - news and announcements - other topics the iassist quarterly iq vol.
- completeplanet - discover over 70,000+ databases and specially search engines there are hundreds of thousands of databases that contain deep web content.
tableau software - fast analytics and rapid-fire business intelligence  from tableau software.
many projects at google store data in bigtable, including web indexing, google earth, and google finance.
whether you want a desktop application or a  web-based tool, there are many specific tools are available on the web that let  you visualize all kinds of data.
the primary focus of cco is art and architecture, including but not limited to paintings, sculpture, prints, manuscripts, photographs, built works, installations, and other visual media.
finally, each contributor notes the expanding role of data manager.
healthymagination | ge data visualization visualizations that advance the  conversation about issues that shape our lives, and so we encourage visitors to  download, post and share these visualizations.
if you are a data scientist, data analyst or data dummy, chances are there is something in here for you.
- galaxy of images | smithsonian institution libraries - flickr search - 50 websites for free vector images download - design weblog for designers, bloggers and tech users.
“mind the gap” is a caveat to passengers on the london underground.
art design - periodic table of typefaces - color scheme designer 3 - color palette generator generate a color palette for any image - colourlovers - colorbrewer: color advice for maps image searches - american memory from the library of congress
it has a very large and continually expanding developer and end-user community that is very active and vested in the continued growth of opengl.
because of missing metadata standards it is difficult to evaluate the quality of the dataset and to search for and locate the data resources required.
- walter's blog - login to post comments sparc digital repositories meeting includes session on open data submitted by chuck on wed, 2010-11-10 05:41 topic: - asia/pacific - data-related advocacy - external events - canada - europe - united states - data access & open data kathleen shearer of the canadian association of research libraries organized and chaired a panel on open data was held at the sparc digital repositories meeting on november 8, 2010.
populating your data is easy using the provided client- and server-side  tools.