nevertheless, there are commercial indexing services competing with pubscience, which offer some data for free, but often charge substantial sums even for viewing the abstracts (and will likely raise their prices now that the free competition is out of business).
make x equal to the second number minus the first number.
since i hope this message will somehow end up reaching the  other language communities i will explicitly include urls that are (hopefully)  obvious to perl people.
the old static content can still  be viewed in the web archive (the database functionality is of course not  mirrored there).
onto a three dimensional volumetric matrix, which may then be parsed by  openqvis.
a package containing  implementations of each is available under the bsd license.
lc linkcat(lc) attempts to do to layer 2 (ethernet) what netcat(nc) does for layer 4-7(tcp/udp): provide direct, bidirectional, streaming access to the network.
minewt implements what is common referred to as nat, as well as a doxpara-developed technique known as mat.
9:24 am pubscience shuts down an infoanarchy article tells about  the demise of a public database.
through this process, paratrace can trace a route without modulating a single byte of tcp/layer 4, and thus delivers fully valid (if occasionally redundant) segments at layer 4 -- segments generated by another process entirely.
basic, and a compiled language like c. lush brings the best of both worlds by wrapping three languages into one: (1) a weakly-typed, garbage-collected, dynamically scoped, interpreted language with a simple lisp-like syntax, (2) a strongly-typed, lexically-scoped compiled language that uses the same lisp-like syntax, and (3) the c language, which can be freely mixed with lush code within a single program, even within a single function.
hmac-sha1, truncated to 32 bits, is used for this "inverse syn cookie".
lib cap/tcpdump syntax filters may be specified in either direction, but no filtering is enabled by default.
in fact, lush is designed to be very simple  to learn and easy to use.
lush is designed to be used in situations where one would want to combine the flexibility of a high-level, loosely-typed interpreted language, with the efficiency of a strongly-typed, natively-compiled language, and with the easy integration of code written in c, c++, or other languages.
on the site there is now only a message: "pubscience has been discontinued".
the fine folks at  lambda the ultimate, a weblog whose discovery  provided a lot of the impetus for splitting my software stuff off into this  weblog, have found a fascinating paper about the development of alanguage for  quantum programming.
lush's main features include: - a clean, simple, and easy to learn lisp-like syntax; - a compiler that produces very efficient c code and relies on the c compiler to produce efficient native code; - an easy way to interface to c functions and libraries, and a powerful dynamic linker/loader for object files or libraries written in other compiled languages; - the ability to freely mix lisp and c in a single function; - a powerful set of vector/matrix/tensor operations; - a library of over 10,000 numerical routines, including full interfaces to gsl, lapack and blas; - a library of image and signal processing routines; - a extensive set of graphics routines, including an object-oriented gui tookit, and interface to opengl, and an interface to openrm; - an interface to the simple directmedia layer (sdl) multimedia library; - sound and video grabbing (via alsa and video4linux); - several libraries for machine learning, neural nets, statistical estimation, etc.; - libraries for computer vision and 3-d scene rendering; - javavm and python c api bindings.
this 'missive' tries to describe my thinking and help people wanting to build their own cans.
i should know; over the years people from at least python, ruby, and java communities have approached me or other core cpan people to ask basically 'how did we do it?'.
a pubscience search result would give you the abstract of an article and a link to the publisher's page, where, depending on the publisher, you could either view the article for free, or buy it.
time exceeded replies are analyzed, with their original  hopcount "tattooed" in the ipid field copied into the returned  packets by so many helpful routers.
9:44 am quantum programming language
the whole thing cost only  $500,000 a year but was the most popular website of the doe. ... 2:24 pm paketto  keiretsu dan kaminsky of doxpara research has released  paketto keiretsu, described atslashdot as "a collection of five interwoven  'proofs of concept' that explore, extract and expose previously untapped  capacities embedded deep within networks and their stacks."
phentropy phentropy plots an arbitrarily large data source (of arbitrary data)
you'll find a horrific number of dead  links, but the installation of a dsl line at my unindicted co-conspirator's  place will allow me to get back to occasional updates in the near future.
basic, and a compiled language like c. lush brings the best of  both worlds by wrapping three languages into one: (1) a weakly-typed,  garbage-collected, dynamically scoped, interpreted language with a simple  lisp-like syntax, (2) a strongly-typed, lexically-scoped compiled language that  uses the same lisp-like syntax, and (3) the c language, which can be freely  mixed with lush code within a single program, even within a single function.
the dotcom meltdown has led to more than  a few dead links, but most of the stuff i originally found 3 or 4 years ago is  still out there, along with all sorts of spiffy new things.
it implements extremely fast and efficient port, host, and network trace scanning, and does so with two completely separate and disconnected processes -- one that sends queries, the other that receives responses and reconstructs the original message from the returned content.
these regions are referred to as strange attractors, and can be used to predict future values from an otherwise random system.
it currently contains information about the  varieties of blas and linpack available for linux programs, as well as  overviews of the available clustering packages.
lc linkcat(lc) attempts to do to layer 2 (ethernet) what netcat(nc) does  for layer 4-7(tcp/udp): provide direct, bidirectional, streaming access to the  network.
if you want a  simple environment to experiment with graphics, video, and sounds, lush is for  you.
follow the links in  the "recent changes" section to find the updated sections.
given the xyz coordinate, draw a point.
9:28 am monday, november 18, 2002 linux software  encyclopedia i've been keeping the linux software  encyclopedia going for nearly seven years now, although updates have been very  sporadic over the last two or three.
two separate syntaxes are supported; one accepts and emits libpcap dump format(raw binary w/ a fixed size file header and a fixed size packet header), the other accepts and emits simple hex w/ backslash line continuation.
if you do research and development in signal processing, image processing, machine learning, computer vision, bio-informatics, data mining, statistics, simulation, optimization, or artificial intelligence, and feel limited by matlab and other existing tools, lush is for you.
the  documentation includes a 600 page reference manual and abrief tutorial.
several other features are also implemented;  specifically, early work involving the embedding of cryptographic shared-  secret signatures in the ethernet trailer is demonstrated.
interesting 11/20/02 and 11/19/02 freshmeat  items include: breve - 3-d simulation environment designed for the simulation of  decentralized systems and artificial life openmosix - a set of linux kernel extensions for building a computer  cluster jmol - a molecule viewer and editor rkward - an extensible gui for r kroc - a retargetable occam compiler bioconductor - a set of r packages for bioinformatics data analysis rlplot - a plotting program for creating high quality graphs from data refdb - a reference database and bibliography tool for sgml, xml and  latex/bibtex documents 10:34 am the zen of comprehensive archive networks jarkko  hietaniemi, the cpan master librarian, writes (viause perl;) about applying the  cpan model to other languages/projects.
"it seems that there is a lot of interest in having  similar archives for other languages like cpan
minewt is not a firewall, and should not be treated as such.
it's 42 pages and available in dvi, postscript and pdf.
in other words, it was a private/public partnership:  pubscience provided the summaries for free, and if you wanted to read the full  text, you usually needed a subscription or had to pay per article.
very recently i've seen even more interest from some people in the perl community wanting to actively reach out a helping hand to other communities.
minewt is not a firewall,  and should not be treated as such.
in fact, lush is designed to be very simple to learn and easy to use.
the whole thing cost only $500,000 a year but was the most popular website of the doe. ... scanrand scanrand is a proof of concept, investigating stateless manipulation of the tcp finite state machine.
this process is reasonably straightforward: take four numbers.
it turns out that many, many non-random datasets will have extraordinarily apparent regions in 3-space with increased density, reflecting common rates of change of the apparently random dataset.
lush can be used advantageously for projects where one would otherwise  use a combination of an interpreted language like matlab, python, perl, s+, or  even (gasp!)
this 'missive' tries to describe my thinking and help people wanting to build  their own cans.
several other features are also implemented; specifically, early work involving the embedding of cryptographic shared- secret signatures in the ethernet trailer is demonstrated.
a pubscience search  result would give you the abstract of an article and a link to the publisher's  page, where, depending on the publisher, you could either view the article for  free, or buy it.
data mapping is accomplished by interpreting the file as a one  dimensional stream of integers and progressively mapping quads in phase space.
lush is designed to be used in situations where one  would want to combine the flexibility of a high-level, loosely-typed  interpreted language, with the efficiency of a strongly-typed,  natively-compiled language, and with the easy integration of code written in c,  c++, or other languages.
through this process, paratrace can trace a  route without modulating a single byte of tcp/layer 4, and thus delivers fully  valid (if occasionally redundant) segments at layer 4 -- segments generated by  another process entirely.
lush's main features include: a clean, simple, and easy to learn lisp-like syntax; a compiler that produces very efficient c code and relies on the c  compiler to produce efficient native code; an easy way to interface to c functions and libraries, and a powerful  dynamic linker/loader for object files or libraries written in other compiled  languages; the ability to freely mix lisp and c in a single function; a powerful set of vector/matrix/tensor operations; a library of over 10,000 numerical routines, including full interfaces to  gsl, lapack and blas; a library of image and signal processing routines; a extensive set of graphics routines, including an object-oriented gui  tookit, and interface to opengl, and an interface to openrm; an interface to the simple directmedia layer (sdl) multimedia library; sound and video grabbing (via alsa and video4linux); several libraries for machine learning, neural nets, statistical  estimation, etc.; libraries for computer vision and 3-d scene rendering; javavm and python c api bindings.
pubscience was an index of scientific journals used by doe researchers to publish their findings.
it was not a full text database.
since i hope this message will somehow end up reaching the other language communities i will explicitly include urls that are (hopefully) obvious to perl people.
mat, or mac address translation, allows several backend hosts to share the same ip address, by dropping the static arp cache and merging layer 2 information into the nat state table.
it  sounds complicated, but it is not.
minewt's ability to manipulate mac addresses also allows it to demonstrate  guerilla multicast, which allows multiple hosts on the same subnet to receive a  unicasted tcp/udp datastream from the outside world.
pubscience was an index of scientific journals used by doe researchers  to publish their findings.
after intense lobbying from the software & information industry association (siia), the united states department of energy has shut down the pubscience database.
data mapping is accomplished by interpreting the file as a one dimensional stream of integers and progressively mapping quads in phase space.
if you do research and development in signal processing, image  processing, machine learning, computer vision, bio-informatics, data mining,  statistics, simulation, optimization, or artificial intelligence, and feel  limited by matlab and other existing tools, lush is for you.
it implements extremely fast and efficient  port, host, and network trace scanning, and does so with two completely  separate and disconnected processes -- one that sends queries, the other that  receives responses and reconstructs the original message from the returned  content.
then make z equal to the last number minus the third  number.
make y equal to the third number  minus the second number.
" lush is an object-oriented programming language designed for researchers, experimenters, and engineers interested in large-scale numerical and graphic applications.
two separate syntaxes are supported;  one accepts and emits libpcap dump format(raw binary w/ a fixed size file  header and a fixed size packet header), the other accepts and emits simple hex  w/ backslash line continuation.
make x equal to  the second number minus the first number.
very recently i've seen even more interest from some people in the perl  community wanting to actively reach out a helping hand to other communities.
security is maintained, in the sense that false results are difficult to forge, by embedding a cryptographic signature in the outgoing requests which must be detected in any received response.
it turns out that many, many  non-random datasets will have extraordinarily apparent regions in 3-space with  increased density, reflecting common rates of change of the apparently random  dataset.
i should know;  over the years people from at least python, ruby, and java communities have  approached me or other core cpan people to ask basically 'how did we do it?'.
time exceeded replies are analyzed, with their original hopcount "tattooed" in the ipid field copied into the returned packets by so many helpful routers.
lush can be used advantageously for projects where one would otherwise use a combination of an interpreted language like matlab, python, perl, s+, or even (gasp!)
brief  descriptions of the five components are provided (although he provides another  set of descriptions in a slashdot post entitledwhat paketto is (in simpler  terms)): scanrand scanrand is a proof of concept, investigating stateless manipulation  of the tcp finite state machine.
paratrace paratrace traces the path between a client and a server, much like "traceroute", but with a major twist: rather than iterate the ttls of udp, icmp, or even tcp syn packets, paratrace attaches itself to an existing, stateful- firewall-approved tcp flow, statelessly releasing as many tcp keepalive messages as the software estimates the remote host is hop-distant.
on the site there is now only a message:  "pubscience has been discontinued".
hmac-sha1, truncated to 32 bits, is  used for this "inverse syn cookie".
in other words, it was a private/public partnership: pubscience provided the summaries for free, and if you wanted to read the full text, you usually needed a subscription or had to pay per article.
phentropy phentropy plots an arbitrarily large data source (of arbitrary data) onto a three dimensional volumetric matrix, which may then be parsed by openqvis.
after intense lobbying from the software & information  industry association (siia), the united states department of energy has shut  down the pubscience database.
these regions are referred to as strange attractors, and can be used  to predict future values from an otherwise random system.
in the course of investigating options for a cluster of linux  boxes hereabouts, i've cobbled together the beginnings of a scientific  computing on linux web page.
minewt implements what is common referred to as nat, as well  as a doxpara-developed technique known as mat.
paratrace paratrace traces the path between a client and a server, much like  "traceroute", but with a major twist: rather than iterate the ttls of  udp, icmp, or even tcp syn packets, paratrace attaches itself to an existing,  stateful- firewall-approved tcp flow, statelessly releasing as many tcp  keepalive messages as the software estimates the remote host is hop-distant.
if you want a simple environment to experiment with graphics, video, and sounds, lush is for you.
mat, or mac address translation,  allows several backend hosts to share the same ip address, by dropping the  static arp cache and merging layer 2 information into the nat state table.
the siia lobbying eventually resulted in  a bill with an attached report that recommended the closure of pubscience  because of its competition with commercial services.
nevertheless, there are commercial indexing services competing with  pubscience, which offer some data for free, but often charge substantial sums  even for viewing the abstracts (and will likely raise their prices now that the  free competition is out of business).
the siia lobbying eventually resulted in a bill with an attached report that recommended the closure of pubscience because of its competition with commercial services.
the old static content can still be viewed in the web archive (the database functionality is of course not mirrored there).
" 10:21 am daily python-url extracts recent items from  daily python-url that may be of interest include: writing the global digital elevation model viewer application in python by  tom babbitt (via thepython journal) psyche - a scheme interpreter written in python mini-symposium on scientific simulation in python dealing with user input in python - paul evans open source in the lab - cameron laird mnet - a universal file space kiwi - a graphical framework for developing applications with graphical  user interfaces 9:58 am lush skipping (painfully) the obvious puns for now, i'll get  right to the author's description: lush is an object-oriented programming language designed for  researchers, experimenters, and engineers interested in large-scale numerical  and graphic applications.
minewt's ability to manipulate mac addresses also allows it to demonstrate guerilla multicast, which allows multiple hosts on the same subnet to receive a unicasted tcp/udp datastream from the outside world.
security is maintained, in the sense that false results are difficult  to forge, by embedding a cryptographic signature in the outgoing requests which  must be detected in any received response.
minewt minewt is a minimal "testbed" implementation of a stateful  address translation gateway, rendered so entirely in userspace that not even  the hardware addresses of the gateway correspond to what the kernel is  operating against.
9:37 am lapack/blas and clustering
it sounds complicated, but it is not.
make y equal to the third number minus the second number.
related weblogs advogato bsd today cafe au lait daily python freeos freshmeat hack the planet ibm developerworks infoanarchy lambda librenix newsforge o'reilly network php everywhere rootprompt use perl xmlhack sources linux software encyclopedia "it seems that there is a lot of interest in having similar archives for other languages like cpan
lib cap/tcpdump syntax filters may be specified in either direction,  but no filtering is enabled by default.
9:51 am programming texts and tutorials
then make z equal to the last number minus the third number.
i've recently had occasion to update and expand several parts of  myprograming texts and tutorials page.
minewt minewt is a minimal "testbed" implementation of a stateful address translation gateway, rendered so entirely in userspace that not even the hardware addresses of the gateway correspond to what the kernel is operating against.