this one is for all of you bayesian/mcmc modelers out there.
contact drew by email
numpy, short for numeric python, is the cornerstone of python’s mathematics and statistics operations.
if you are interested in using python as a platform for scientific research, i highly recommend installing this distribution,which is free for academics.
drew studies terrorism and armed conflict; using tools from mathematics and computer science to gain a deeper understanding of these phenomena.
json is also what is returned by google’ssocialgraph api, so cjson allows researchers to feed this social network data directly into python data types.
still waiting for a clever binding to matplotlib to draw the dendrogram, but in the meantime, you can use their java programtreeview to display result.
i’ve been always afraid that the easiness of programming in python will not be compensate the execution speed (as usual with interpreters).
[reply] drew conway is a phd student in political science at new york university.
[reply] i am glad the list was helpful.
i’ve recently embarked upon a bit of complex networks  research with a former colleague of mine and i am currently surveying the tools  available so this article is particularly timely for me.
html5lib after the fall of beautifulsoup, i was desperate for a web data parser that  equaled soup’s flexibility and easy of use.
very straightforward and simple to use, and since many social science data sets are stored on mysql databases, a necessity.
json ( javascript object notation) is useful for many things, but most notably for social scientist is how many social networking sites use json to encode public data about their users and their users’ relationships.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway i am glad the list was helpful.
python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing machine!
i with there was a pygeneticprogramming  counterpart to pyevolve so models could be built that blended gp’s  sophisticated agent evolution; but alas, no one has done the heavy lifting for  me yet.
if you are interested in  using python as a platform for scientific research, i highly recommend  installing this distribution,which is free for academics.
[reply] thanks for the addition bruno.
that said, python is an extremely versatile  and easy to learn language, so i would recommend focusing and building you  skills there.
numpy numpy, short for numeric python, is the cornerstone of python’s  mathematics and statistics operations.
and also thanks for networkx, i initially worked on graphviz but this baby fits right into my programming environment.
and also thanks for networkx, i initially worked on  graphviz but this baby fits right into my programming environment.
rpy has practically been replaced by rpy2, which uses slightly different syntax but feels more robust.
highly extensible, and will display your results  just the way you like ‘em.
download simpy sympy not to be confused with the previous entry, sympy is an full-featured  python library for symbolic mathematics.
i have tried others,  and people harp on how many better options there are, but i can’t seem to  shake it.
this module also supports the beautifulsoup tree type, as well as many others, making it incredibly useful across a wide range of tasks.
in my next update i am going to add a great python  package for symbolic mathematics that incorporates much of the functionality of  sage.
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging  of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social  science researchers.
to take advantage of its power,  you will need a little background in html (or xml, if that happens to be what  you are parsing), but there aremany tutorials available online to get you up to  speed quickly.
[reply] http://christopherroach.com christopher great article.
download sympy update: how to use python and sympy to solve optimization  problems.
all scientific computing in python starts and ends with numpy!
json is also what  is returned by google’ssocialgraph api, so cjson allows researchers to  feed this social network data directly into python data types.
agent based simulations are very interesting indeed.
if you are find that there is something you can’t do in python, and  there is an easy solution in r, just run it through rpy.
download pymc simpy short for “simulation in python”, simpy is an object-oriented,  process-based discrete-event simulation language, making it a wholesale  agent-based modeling environment written entirely in python.
download scipy the third tine on python’s scientific trident, matplotlib (pylab) is the standard for 2d plotting.
download matplotlib networkx this package is what motivated me to learn python.
i should also note that most (maybe all by now) of these packages come  standard with theenthought distribution of python.
oh, and for those of you with accreditation concerns, its subversion is maintained by los alamos national laboratory.
[reply] i would also add sage which integrates most of those tools.
[reply] thanks for the pyevolve link – i’ve been looking for something like this for quite awhile.
for novice social network  analysts/graph theorist, the learning curve will be steep, but taking the time  to learn nx will preclude you from having to waste your time withother inferior  tools.
this package is  great for researchers who want symbolic mathematics support, but have no access  to mega-expensive computer algebra systems, likemathematica.
really, can’t work without it
download cjson a complete pure python genetic algorithm framework.
contact drew by email research and working papers download vitae copyright © 2012 zero intelligence agents - all rights reserved powered bywordpress & the atahualpa theme by bytesforall.
recently python has become more and more of a core component of my workflow  with rpy for the plotting/graphing and modeling components.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for software writing.
[reply] rr, i am very biased here, since python pretty much brought me back from the brink of giving up software coding.
if you’ve got the time to reply, i’d love to read some of your thoughts on why you think networkx is superior to some of the tools you listed above with a specific emphasis on the network workbench since that is one of the tools that i am considering as well.
[reply] http://www.cumberlandgenetic.com
after the fall of beautifulsoup, i was desperate for a web data parser that equaled soup’s flexibility and easy of use.
drew studies terrorism and armed conflict; using tools from mathematics and  computer science to gain a deeper understanding of these phenomena.
download pyevolve a pure python binding for mysql, allowing the user to integrate mysql execution into any python script.
i’ve recently embarked upon a bit of complex networks research with a former colleague of mine and i am currently surveying the tools available so this article is particularly timely for me.
download networkx pymc
it is the actively developed strain of rpy.
i agree, ipython is a good tool, but in  terms of ide i have a hard time getting away from idle.
i still  dont understand its data structures, also its script is archaic.
good luck on your social studies; any help you needs, just mail.
rpy has practically been replaced by rpy2,  which uses slightly different syntax but feels more robust.
[reply] vamsee thanks for the packages, i used to think numpy is only for high level  scientific calculations.
[reply] rr very helpful list, thanks for posting!
to distinguish itself, scipy adds several of its own sophisticated data types, and integration and optimization techniques.
recently python has become more and more of a core component of my workflow with rpy for the plotting/graphing and modeling components.
[reply] oliver, i totally agree.
for novice social network analysts/graph theorist, the learning curve will be steep, but taking the time to learn nx will preclude you from having to waste your time withother inferior tools.
i was looking into  using the network workbench and gephi for most of my analysis, but i would love  to have something like networkx that i could use from python just for the  ability to automate much of the drudgery.
download numpy scipy scipy, short for scientific python, is the little brother of numpy, as it  relies on numpy data types for its operations.
been relying heavily on python and r for years in and out  of school in the field of quantatative/molecular genetics of livestock.
download html5lib pycluster there are many clustering algorithms available for python, but many of  these packages are designed to cluster one-dimensional data.
data collected by  social scientist, however, is often of a higher dimension–enter  pycluster.
download mysql for python updated 4/6/2009>: i have been negligent, as itpointed out in the comments, rpy has functionally been replaced by rpy2.
[reply] very helpful list, thanks for posting!
download pycluster cjson this module implements a very fast json encoder/decoder for python.
json ( javascript object notation) is useful for many things, but most notably for  social scientist is how many social networking sites use json to encode public  data about their users and their users’ relationships.
download sympy update: how to use python and sympy to solve optimization problems.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway oliver, i totally agree.
[reply] http://brunomlopes.blogspot.com bruno i’d add ipython: http://ipython.scipy.org/moin/ it’s an  amazing replacement for the vanilla shell, with auto-completion, pdb  integration to drop you on the stack of a previous exception, pretty printing,  session history, and many more.
any words of wisdom on making this choice?
although visualizations are one of networkx’s weaknesses, it does  have a very nice graphviz binding if you want to display your analysis.
its flexibility, widespread community support, and leveraging of legacy c and fortran code also make it an outstanding language for social science researchers.
download mysql for python updated 4/6/2009>: i  have been negligent, as itpointed out in the comments, rpy has functionally  been replaced by rpy2.
download matplotlib
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway thanks for the addition bruno.
you can find the links to rpy2 from the rpy page.
in my next update i am going to add a great python package for symbolic mathematics that incorporates much of the functionality of sage.
while not as  robust asrepast or netlogo, simpy provides an excellent tool set for designing  experiments, and because it is pure python, the data can be fed to other  analytical packages.
rpy2 is a simple python interface for r, able to execute any r function from  within a python script.
the hassle of remembering two sets of details is getting to me.
this package contains efficient implementations of hierarchical and k-means clustering, with several options for measuring distance.
[reply] one small update to your list.
i am wearing my computer science background on my sleeve with this one, but for people serious about designing pure pythonagent-based models, pyevolve provides the tools to create intricate experimental environments.
well, no, but it has inspired me into a personal renaissance for  software writing.
i’ve been always afraid that the easiness of programming in python will  not be compensate the execution speed (as usual with interpreters).
discuss on our wp forum
i should mention that it is important to contribute as well to python  libraries.
[reply] although visualizations are one of networkx’s weaknesses, it does have a very nice graphviz binding if you want to display your analysis.
if you are a new researcher looking to get started,  or experienced and willing to walk away from your [:,:] lifestyle in  matlab—and licensing and training fees—then equip yourself with  these 10 packages and get to it!
[reply] thanks for the quick response, drew.
oliver suggested i add sage to the  list, which is an excellent tool, but sympy contains nearly all of the same  functionality (algebraic evaluation, differentiation, expansion, complex  numbers, etc.), but is contained in a pure python distribution.
[reply] http://frikk.tk blaine thanks for the pyevolve link – i’ve been looking for something  like this for quite awhile.
[reply] i’d add ipython: http://ipython.scipy.org/moin/ it’s an amazing replacement for the vanilla shell, with auto-completion, pdb integration to drop you on the stack of a previous exception, pretty printing, session history, and many more.
this is the best tool  for analyzing network data–period.
if you’ve got the time to  reply, i’d love to read some of your thoughts on why you think networkx
download simpy not to be confused with the previous entry, sympy is an full-featured python library for symbolic mathematics.
if you are find that there is something you can’t do in python, and there is an easy solution in r, just run it through rpy.
any words of wisdom  on making this choice?
i will  definitely look into rpy2.
[reply] abhijit one small update to your list.
if there is enough interest, i will post another update in the  near future with a few additional packages i have run across since the last  update.
mark thanks for this.
[reply] perone, thanks, and i just updated my pyevolve to the new version–looks great!
download  cjson pyevolve a complete pure python genetic algorithm framework.
the third tine on python’s scientific trident, matplotlib (pylab) is  the standard for 2d plotting.
there are very few statistical calculations that the combination of numpy and scipy cannot handle, but there are no statistical operations r cannot do.
i have tried others, and people harp on how many better options there are, but i can’t seem to shake it.
if you need to download and organize large amounts of data from the internet in a quick and easy way, then html5lib is the only package you will need.
[reply] thanks for the packages, i used to think numpy is only for high level scientific calculations.
download numpy scipy, short for scientific python, is the little brother of numpy, as it relies on numpy data types for its operations.
data collected by social scientist, however, is often of a higher dimension–enter pycluster.
agent based simulations are very interesting  indeed.
download pymc short for “simulation in python”, simpy is an object-oriented, process-based discrete-event simulation language, making it a wholesale agent-based modeling environment written entirely in python.
this package is great for researchers who want symbolic mathematics support, but have no access to mega-expensive computer algebra systems, likemathematica.
if you need  to download and organize large amounts of data from the internet in a quick and  easy way, then html5lib is the only package you will need.
to take advantage of its power, you will need a little background in html (or xml, if that happens to be what you are parsing), but there aremany tutorials available online to get you up to speed quickly.
if i had to switch though, and since i am a macpython user, it  would be totextmate.
i have a question: do you have any experience building/executing agent-based models in python?
category: networks, tools | 20 comments http://whynoti.org din0bot
rpy2 is a simple python interface for r, able to execute any r function from within a python script.
if there is enough interest, i will post another update in the near future with a few additional packages i have run across since the last update.
i was looking into using the network workbench and gephi for most of my analysis, but i would love to have something like networkx that i could use from python just for the ability to automate much of the drudgery.
« markov mad libs (using  garfield) 4th uk social networks conference » updated: must-have python packages for social scientists by drew  conway, on june 18th, 2008 python is the greatest thing to happen to computer science since the turing  machine!
[reply] thanks for this.
i need the statistical functions of r but unfortunately r is a pain to learn and work with.
[reply] http://blogs.nyu.edu/blogs/agc282/zia/ drew conway
i should mention that it is important to contribute as well to python libraries.
download pyevolve mysql for python a pure python binding for mysql, allowing the user to integrate mysql  execution into any python script.
[reply] about the author drew conway is a phd student in political science at new york university.
still waiting  for a clever binding to matplotlib to draw the dendrogram, but in the meantime,  you can use their java programtreeview to display result.
very straightforward and simple to use, and  since many social science data sets are stored on mysql databases, a necessity.
there are many clustering algorithms available for python, but many of these packages are designed to cluster one-dimensional data.
if you are a new researcher looking to get started, or experienced and willing to walk away from your [:,:] lifestyle in matlab—and licensing and training fees—then equip yourself with these 10 packages and get to it!
is superior to some of the tools you listed above with a specific emphasis on  the network workbench since that is one of the tools that i am considering as  well.
if i had to switch though, and since i am a macpython user, it would be totextmate.
[reply] http://code.google.com/p/pyevolve/ perone hello conway, i’m author of pyevolve, thank you for indicating the  framework.
this module also  supports the beautifulsoup tree type, as well as many others, making it  incredibly useful across a wide range of tasks.
many of the packages proceeding this rely on some  combination of numpy and scipy.
download scipy matplotlib
been relying heavily on python and r for years in and out of school in the field of quantatative/molecular genetics of livestock.
pymc is also highly extensible, and well supported by the community.
all scientific computing in python  starts and ends with numpy!
oh, and for those of you with accreditation concerns, its subversion is  maintained by los alamos national laboratory.
i need the statistical  functions of r but unfortunately r is a pain to learn and work with.
this is the best tool for analyzing network data–period.
pymc is also highly extensible, and well  supported by the community.
to distinguish itself, scipy  adds several of its own sophisticated data types, and integration and  optimization techniques.
i still dont understand its data structures, also its script is archaic.
the  hassle of remembering two sets of details is getting to me.
that said, python is an extremely versatile and easy to learn language, so i would recommend focusing and building you skills there.
a question: i like both r and python a lot but would love to  “standardize” on one for my modeling/number-crunching needs.
this package contains efficient implementations of hierarchical and  k-means clustering, with several options for measuring distance.
i with there was a pygeneticprogramming counterpart to pyevolve so models could be built that blended gp’s sophisticated agent evolution; but alas, no one has done the heavy lifting for me yet.
[reply] i do plenty of genomic data mining with python.
my personal goal would be to bring pythons statistical capabilities  to that of spss or systat.
pymc implements the metropolis-hastings algorithm as a python class, providing flexibility when building your model.
[reply] vman i do plenty of genomic data mining with python.
a question: i like both r and python a lot but would love to “standardize” on one for my modeling/number-crunching needs.
many of the packages proceeding this rely on some combination of numpy and scipy.
download pycluster this module implements a very fast json encoder/decoder for python.
i will definitely look into rpy2.
[reply] perone, thanks, and i just updated my pyevolve to the new  version–looks great!
i have a question:  do you have any experience building/executing agent-based models in python?
i agree, ipython is a good tool, but in terms of ide i have a hard time getting away from idle.
there are very few statistical calculations that the combination of numpy  and scipy cannot handle, but there are no statistical operations r cannot do.
[reply] it is my pleasure to read this page,i look forward to reading more.
i should also note that most (maybe all by now) of these packages come standard with theenthought distribution of python.
i am wearing my  computer science background on my sleeve with this one, but for people serious  about designing pure pythonagent-based models, pyevolve provides the tools to  create intricate experimental environments.
[reply] dear drew, thanks for this compilation of python tools.
oliver suggested i add sage to the list, which is an excellent tool, but sympy contains nearly all of the same functionality (algebraic evaluation, differentiation, expansion, complex numbers, etc.), but is contained in a pure python distribution.
[reply] great article.
june  18th, 2008 | tags:list, python |
[reply] hello conway, i’m author of pyevolve, thank you for indicating the framework.
highly extensible, and will display your results just the way you like ‘em.
pymc  implements the metropolis-hastings algorithm as a python class, providing  flexibility when building your model.
this package is what motivated me to learn python.
it is the actively  developed strain of rpy.
my personal goal would be to bring pythons statistical capabilities to that of spss or systat.
[reply] http://www.ua.ac.be/cesar.garcia-diaz cesar garcia diaz dear drew, thanks for this compilation of python tools.
while not as robust asrepast or netlogo, simpy provides an excellent tool set for designing experiments, and because it is pure python, the data can be fed to other analytical packages.
[reply] http://www.drewconway.com/ drew conway rr, i am very biased here, since python pretty much brought me back from the  brink of giving up software coding.