the percentage methylated reference (pmr) was calculated as the gene:reference ratio of a sample divided by the gene:reference ratio ofin vitro methylated ( sssi-treated) human white blood cell dna and multiplying by 100 [14].
first, are these markers hypermethylated in cancer samples irrespective of the subject's age, gender and racial/ethnic background?
cdkn2a is one of the first  tumor suppressor genes found to be methylated in a variety of cancers,  including lung cancer[17].
published: 29 october 2007 © 2007 tsou et al; licensee biomed central ltd. this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative  commons attribution license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which  permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium,  provided the original work is properly cited.
we applied random forests to determine a good classifier based on a subset of our loci and determined that combined use of the same four top markers allows identification of lung cancer tissue from non-lung cancer tissue with 94% sensitivity and 90% specificity.
cdnk2a, also  referred to asp16ink4a, encodes an important cell cycle  regulator that is frequently inactivated in cancer.
cancer res 2000, 60:2473-2476.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text maneckjee r, minna jd: opioid and nicotine receptors affect growth regulation of human lung cancer cell lines.
cell growth differ 1994, 5: 1033-1040.pubmed abstract | publisher full text bibikova m, lin z, zhou l, chudin e, garcia ew, wu b, doucet d, thomas nj, wang y, vollmer e, goldmann t, seifart c, jiang w, barker dl, chee ms, floros j, fan jb: high-throughput dna methylation profiling using universal bead arrays.
background lung cancer is expected to cause over 160,000 deaths in 2007 -killing more  americans than cancer of the prostate, breast, colon, rectum and pancreas  combined[1].
while these dna methylation markers are ultimately intended for the non-invasive analysis of patient bodily fluids, a preliminary indication of their potential to sensitively and specifically detect cancer could be obtained by plotting roc curves using the pmr values from the tumor vs. adjacent non-tumor samples.
at  bottom, the relationship of the loci is indicated.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text rauch t, wang z, zhang x, zhong x, wu x, lau sk, kernstine kh, riggs ad, pfeifer gp: homeobox gene methylation in lung cancer studied by genome-wide analysis with a microarray-based methylated cpg island recovery assay.
in an analysis of eight adenocarcinomas and matching adjacent lung, substantial dna methylation of the hoxa and d clusters was observed[26].
this can happen when genes are  very heavily methylated in the cancer sample, while the sssi-treated sample (in  spite of extensivein vitro dna methylation) is not fully methylated at  that locus.
national  institutes of health/national cancer institute r21 ca102247 and r01 ca119029,  whittier foundation translational research grant, and a stop cancer award.
pubmed abstract laird pw, zijderveld a, linders k, rudnicki ma, jaenisch r, berns a: simplified mammalian dna isolation procedure.
graphic representation of pmr values obtained for 28 loci in ad (a), adjntl (b) and ntl (c).
in addition, all four markers remained significantly hypermethylated in tumor vs. adjntl when subjects were stratified by gender or by ethnic group (p < 0.05) (table3).
we examined stages ia and ib individually, but grouped stages iia, iib, and iiia (only one paired sample was available for iia and iiia, and none for stage iiib).
nat med 1995, 1:686-692.
ages ranged from 37–82 years old at time of surgery (median: 58 years old).
kds oversaw statistical analysis and drafted statistical sections of the manuscript.
the choice of loci  was based on a prescreening of 114 loci carried out on a collection of human  lung cancer cell lines, including 11 adenocarcinoma cell lines (unpublished  data).
[http:/ / www.cancer.org/ docroot/ med/ content/ med_1_1_most-requested_graphs_and_f igures_2007.asp] webcite -.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text eads ca, danenberg kd, kawakami k, saltz lb, blake c, shibata d, danenberg pv, laird pw: methylight: a high-throughput assay to measure dna methylation.
dna methylation of these loci did not differ  significantly based on gender, race, age or tumor stage, indicating their wide  applicability as potential lung adenocarcinoma markers.
using bootstrap samples of the data, we grew a  forest of 30,000 trees.
henschke ci, yankelevitz df, libby dm, pasmantier mw, smith jp, miettinen  os: survival of patients with stage i lung cancer detected on ct  screening.
all authors  reviewed and commented on the manuscript during its drafting and approved the  final version.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text maneckjee r, minna jd:
the ability of the top four candidates, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml (all  p < 1 × 10-9), to individually identify lung cancer samples was next  evaluated.
pwl provided experimental advice and mentoring for jat.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text chen ky, chang ch, yu cj, kuo sh, yang pc: distribution according to histologic type and outcome by gender and age group in taiwanese patients with lung carcinoma.
in lung cancer patients, such hypermethylation is detectable in a variety of samples ranging from tumor material to blood and sputum.
all studies were  institutionally approved by the university of southern california institutional  review board (irb# hs-016041, hs-06-00447), and the identities of patients were  not made available to laboratory investigators.
the paired adjntl form an exquisite control for the cancer-specific  nature of the observed dna methylation changes, as each of these samples  conforms to its tumor sample in patient age, environmental exposure, and  genetic background.
pubmed abstract laird pw, zijderveld a, linders k, rudnicki ma, jaenisch r, berns a: simplified mammalian dna isolation procedure.
discussion based on the results of our analyses, four loci that are very strong  candidates for a dna methylation panel aimed at early lung adenocarcinoma  detection have been identified: cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text belinsky sa: gene-promoter hypermethylation as a biomarker in lung cancer.
nine loci, cdh13, sfrp1, opcml, twist1, sfrp5, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1  and rassf1, clustered together (bottom right), showing heavier dna methylation  in the tumor samples.
interestingly, for one locus, lzts1 (leftmost locus in fig.1), the dna methylation pattern appeared to be reversed; ntl showed the highest level of dna methylation, while ad samples were least methylated.
very recently, high throughput dna methylation profiling of 11 lung adenocarcinomas and control lung identified a number of cpg dinucleotides methylated in the cancer samples[32].
to determine whether any of the four top markers might have prognostic implications, we determined whether there was any relationship between their dna methylation level and survival.
apc methylation was found to be statistically significantly different only when paired tumor and non-tumor lung samples were compared.
n engl j med 2006, 355:1763-1771.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text nguyen c, liang g, nguyen tt, tsao-wei d, groshen s, lubbert m, zhou jh, benedict wf, jones pa: susceptibility of non-promoter cpg islands to de novo methylation in normal and neoplastic cells.
this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
the identification of eight cpg island loci showing highly significant hypermethylation in lung adenocarcinoma provides strong candidates for evaluation in patient remote media such as plasma and sputum.
to ensure that these markers detect cancer-specifichypermethylation changes, associated with histologically  visible lung cancer (allowing surgical resection), we compared the dna  methylation profiles of the tumors with histologically normal adjacent lung  tissue (adjntl) from lung cancer patients.
here we describe our evaluation of 28 potential dna methylation markers using primary human lung adenocarcinoma samples.
jah provided  non-cancer lung samples and statistical discussions.
distribution according  to histologic type and outcome by gender and age group in taiwanese patients  with lung carcinoma.
conclusion the identification of eight cpg island loci showing highly significant  hypermethylation in lung adenocarcinoma provides strong candidates for  evaluation in patient remote media such as plasma and sputum.
all of these except cdh1  remained significant when ad samples were compared to adjntl, while all except  lzts1 remained significant in the comparison of ad to paired adjntl.
dna methylation of hox genes, encoding homeobox transcription factors  involved in embryogenesis and differentiation, had recently been observed in  lung adenocarcinoma and squamous cell lung cancer.
dna methylation of these loci did not differ significantly based on gender, race, age or tumor stage, indicating their wide applicability as potential lung adenocarcinoma markers.
among others, the 28 loci included cpg islands in the promoters of tumor suppressor genes and genes with important roles in cell cycle regulation, dna repair, and apoptosis (table1).
dna hypermethylation at promoter cpg islands shows great promise as a cancer-specific marker that would complement visual lung cancer screening tools such as spiral ct, improving early detection.
three quarters of lung cancer patients are diagnosed with  regionally or distantly disseminated disease; their 5-year survival is only  15%.
carcinogenesis 2003, 24: 1897-1901.pubmed abstract | publisher full text toyooka s, suzuki m, maruyama r, toyooka ko, tsukuda k, fukuyama y, lizasa t, aoe m, date h, fujisawa t, shimizu n, gazdar af: the relationship between aberrant methylation and survival in non-small cell lung cancers.
authors' contributions jat was involved in marker design, experimental execution and initial  analysis.
thirteen of the analyzed loci showed statistically significant differences in dna methylation when ad samples were compared to all ntl samples: opcml, cdx2, hoxa1, cdkn2a ex2, sfrp1, cdh13, twist1, lzts1, rassf1, sfrp4 and 5, esr1, and cdh1.
a recent analysis of prospectively collected sputum showed cdkn2a methylation in 39% of cases and 25% of controls; methylation of this gene was associated with an elevated risk of lung cancer[20].
for the comparison of paired ad and adjntl samples from the same patients, the wilcoxon signed rank test was used.
thus, we suggest that cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml are the top candidates from the 28 tested, and should be validated as dna methylation markers for lung adenocarcinoma.
here we demonstrate that hoxa1 is a very promising dna methylation marker for lung adenocarcinoma.
st helped locate and section most of the tissues and provided the linked and de-identified clinicopathological information.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text belinsky sa, liechty kc, gentry fd, wolf hj, rogers j, vu k, haney j, kennedy tc, hirsch fr, miller y, franklin wa, herman jg, baylin sb, bunn pa, byers t: promoter hypermethylation of multiple genes in sputum precedes lung cancer incidence in a high-risk cohort.
the percentage  methylated reference (pmr) was calculated as the gene:reference ratio of a  sample divided by the gene:reference ratio ofin vitro methylated ( sssi-treated) human white blood cell dna and multiplying by 100 [14].
twenty-eight loci were chosen for evaluation (table 1).
these  adjacent non-tumor lung samples were supplemented with 6 additional cancer-free  archival samples from lung cancer patients for which the tumor block was  unavailable, and 11 archival non-tumor lung samples from patients operated for  non-cancer reasons, such as pneumothorax or emphysema.
reducing the locus number to 13 did not  affect sensitivity and specificity, and limiting our markers to the top-ranked  four (hoxa1, opcml, cdkn2aex2 and cdx2, which were also the most significant  based on our statistical analysis) resulted in a sensitivity of 94% and a  specificity of 90%.
in fact, methylation of the cdkn2a promoter cpg island has been observed in  the sputum of subjects at risk for lung cancer 3 years prior to diagnosis[18]  and in the sputum of asymptomatic heavy smokers[19].
to make an impact on long term survival, better strategies are needed for early detection.
molecular analyses of plasma, sputum, and bronchial  lavage fluids have also shown promise as strategies for early detection, but  these methods still lack sensitivity[10].
two-dimensional hierarchical clustering of samples and loci based on dna methylation data.
this suggests  that basal dna methylation is high but variable at this locus; elevated dna  methylation in tumors is likely masked by interpatient variability and only  becomes visible when samples from the same patient are compared.
the mean is shown  by the wide horizontal line, and the top and bottom of the diamond indicate a  95% normal confidence interval for the sample mean.
dna methylation analysis dna methylation analysis was done by methylight as previously described [14 ].
a loss of sensitivity might be foreseen due to the small amounts of dna shed into the blood of each patient, but at the same time, an increase in specificity might be expected if tumor dna is shed more readily into the bloodstream than dna from adjacent histologically normal tissue.
jsg was involved in experimental execution and extensive data analysis, drafting the manuscript, and generation of figures.
nucleic acids res 1991, 19:4293.
environmental exposures, such as those arising from tobacco smoke, could lead  to higher basal levels of methylation in non-tumor lung[12], which might affect  the background signal when any resulting markers are applied to non-invasive  molecular analyses of bodily fluids in the future.
it is thought that dna methylation observed in the sputum is indicative of field cancerization of the airways and not necessarily a symptom of a present cancer[20].
while each of the four top-ranked loci is of interest as a dna  methylation marker, it is as apanel that they promise to be most  powerful.
lung cancer is clinically classified into two classes: the aggressive subtype small cell lung cancer (sclc, ~13% of cases) and non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc, the remaining ~87%)[1].
importantly, all four markers were significantly hypermethylated in stage ia cancers.
j r statist soc b 1995, 57: 289-300.
one probe  identified dna methylation in the area covered by the opcml probe used here.
in lung cancer patients, such  hypermethylation is detectable in a variety of samples ranging from tumor  material to blood and sputum.
while substantial  methylation at the exon 2 cpg island is detected in histologically normal  adjntl, by comparison, dna methylation in adenocarcinoma is highly  significantly elevated (p ≤ 1 × 10e-10).
two of the cancer samples used in this study were provided by the norris comprehensive cancer center's nih-funded slide retrieval and tissue discard repository.
recent results  from the early lung cancer action project (elcap) indicate that this approach  allows detection of early stage lung cancer[8], but in this and other studies,  non-cancerous lesions far outnumber malignancies (less than 10% of lesions are  cancer).
pubmed abstract | publisher full text palmisano wa, divine kk, saccomanno g, gilliland fd, baylin sb, herman jg,  belinsky sa: predicting lung cancer by detecting aberrant promoter  methylation in sputum.
note that for all four markers, the mean value in non-tumor lung  fromnon-cancer patients is lower than that of adjacent non-tumor lung  fromlung cancer patients.
the dna was bisulfite converted as previously  described[13].
utilizing all 28 loci, we estimated a sensitivity of 92% and a specificity of 95%.
all but one of the tumor samples clustered together in a major branch of the dendrogram, while the majority of non-tumor lung samples grouped in a separate cluster.
first, are these markers hypermethylated in cancer  samples irrespective of the subject's age, gender and racial/ethnic background?
in the center, dna methylation  levels are indicated by a color gradient, with the highest dna methylation  levels for each locus indicated in red and the lowest in deep blue.
our goal was to identify cancer-specific  markers, not risk markers.
cancer res 2000, 60:5954-5958.
j natl cancer inst 2001, 93: 1465-1472.pubmed abstract | publisher full text salem c, liang g, tsai yc, coulter j, knowles ma, feng ac, groshen s,  nichols pw, jones pa:
however, the  biological consequences of the observed hypermethylation would also be worth  investigating.
hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides were reviewed by an experienced lung pathologist (mnk) to support the original classification of the tumor and to select optimal tumor and non-tumor areas of the specimens.
dna was extracted from microdissected tumor and non-tumor lung samples via proteinase k digestion[ 35].
the mean is shown by the wide horizontal line, and the top and bottom of the diamond indicate a 95% normal confidence interval for the sample mean.
a 1992, 89: 1169-1173.
importantly, all four markers were  significantly hypermethylated in stage ia cancers.
dna methylation of hox genes, encoding homeobox transcription factors involved in embryogenesis and differentiation, had recently been observed in lung adenocarcinoma and squamous cell lung cancer.
controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text yoshimi i, ohshima a, ajiki w, tsukuma h, sobue t: a comparison of trends in the incidence rate of lung cancer by histological type in the osaka cancer registry, japan, and in the surveillance, epidemiology and end results program, usa.
of these, adenocarcinoma has recently surpassed squamous cell lung cancer as the most common subtype in the united states, accounting for approximately 40% of nsclc[3].
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text tsou ja, galler js, wali a, ye w, siegmund kd, groshen s, laird pw, turla  s, koss mn, pass hi, laird-offringa ia: dna methylation profile of 28  potential marker loci in malignant mesothelioma.
ite a  laird-offringa3,1* * corresponding author: ite a laird-offringa ilaird@usc.edu †
a recent analysis suggests spiral ct screening may not reduce  lung cancer mortality[9].
briefly, cells were lysed in a solution containing 100 mmol/l tris-hcl (ph 8.0), 10 mmol/l edta (ph 8.0), 1 mg/ml proteinase k, and 0.05 mg/ml trna and incubated at 50°c overnight.
given the  histopathologic, clinical and molecular differences between lung cancer  subtypes, we believe that markers should be developed individually for the  major histological subtypes.
this does not affect the significance of the loci identified in  this study, as the same batch ofsssi-treated dna was used throughout  the study.
we determined error rates using the observations that were not used to  generate the trees.
the detection of cdkn2a methylation in a high fraction of lung cancer patient plasma samples bodes well for its application to non-invasive detection[23].
it was only applied to those 20 loci for which no previous  information supporting a hypothesis of dna methylation in lung ad was available[ 15].
waki t, tamura g, sato m, motoyama t: age-related methylation of  tumor suppressor and tumor-related genes: an analysis of autopsy samples.
opioids induce while nicotine suppresses  apoptosis in human lung cancer cells.
it is one of the most widely studied hypermethylated loci, and methylation of its promoter cpg island appears to be a very early event in the development of non-small cell lung cancer (recently reviewed in[10 ]).
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text guo m, house mg, suzuki h, ye y, brock mv, lu f, liu z, rustgi ak, herman  jg: epigenetic silencing of cdx2 is a feature of squamous esophageal  cancer.
only cdkn2a ex2 hypermethylation was significant in stage ib tumors, but this could be due to the small number of paired samples (n = 6).
because of the  costs associated with quantitative molecular analyses, it would be important to  limit the number of markers included in the panel.
the choice of loci was based on a prescreening of 114 loci carried out on a collection of human lung cancer cell lines, including 11 adenocarcinoma cell lines (unpublished data).
quantitative assessment of dna methylation levels allows a more detailed evaluation of candidate dna methylation markers, and of their suitability for correctly identifying a cancer vs. non-cancer sample.
fig.4 shows that the area under the curve (auc, and indicator of marker performance that would be 1 for a marker showing 100% specificity and sensitivty) is 0.87–0.95 for the four top loci.
while the population analyzed in the current study is small, we reasoned that an indication of the potential of our top four markers to broadly identify lung adenocarcinoma might be obtained.
to avoid assigning statistical significance to spurious  associations, we incorporated a multiple comparisons threshold for those loci  that at time of analysis lacked any prior data suggesting they might be  hypermethylated in lung adenocarcinoma (table2, before-last column, [15] see  materials and methods for details).
here we  demonstrate that hoxa1 is a very promising dna methylation marker for lung  adenocarcinoma.
frequency and median pmr values of ad, adj ntl  and ntl tissues for 28 loci of the thirteen significant loci, opcml, cdx2, hoxa1, cdkn2a ex2, sfrp1,  cdh13, twist1 and rassf1 show considerable promise as cancer-specific dna  methylation markers, exhibiting highly significant hypermethylation in tumors  compared to paired non-tumor tissues (p ≤ 1 × 10-7, table 2).
st helped locate and  section most of the tissues and provided the linked and de-identified  clinicopathological information.
mnk reviewed all slides prior to microdissection.
corresponding author: ite a laird-offringa ilaird@usc.edu author affiliations 1 norris cancer center and department of surgery and ofbiochemistry and molecular biology, keck school of medicine, university of southern california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 2 department of preventive medicine, keck school of medicine, university of southern california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 3 department of surgery, keck school of medicine, university of southern california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 4 department of pathology, keck school of medicine, university of southern california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa for all author emails, please log on.
nsclc is histologically  subdivided into four major subtypes with distinct pathological and molecular  characteristics: adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung cancer, large cell lung  cancer and "other" (comprising neuroendocrine cancers, carcinoids  etc.)[2].
the relationship of  samples is indicated at right in the same color schematic as the labels.
potential "remote" media to be considered are sputum, bronchioalveolar lavage, and blood plasma, all of which we are in the process of collecting for examination.
lung cancer 2007, 58:220-30.
to our knowledge, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml constitute the strongest lung adenocarcinoma dna methylation markers identified to date, and we are working on further evaluations of their potential with great anticipation.
we also included many loci that appeared promising based on previous  reports describing their dna methylation in lung cancer or other cancers, so  that all markers of interest could be compared on one set of tissues using a  single technique and platform.
dna hypermethylation occurs  in all cancers, frequently leading to gene silencing through methylation of  cpg-rich regions (cpg islands) near the transcriptional start sites of genes[11 ].
two-dimensional hierarchical clustering of  samples and loci based on dna methylation data.
despite the promising auc values, the sensitivity and specificity of these  top four markers, usedindividually and determined using the current  sample collection in a five-fold cross-validation, was limited: 67–86%  and 74–82% respectively.
receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves were plotted using the ad  vs. all adjntl lung pmr values and jmp 6.0 software (sas institute, cary, nc).
we find it to be methylated in 100% of lung adenocarcinomas, showing a 10-fold  higher median methylation than adjntl tissue (table2).
nucleic acids res 2005, 33: 6823-6836.pubmed abstract |
given that opioids have demonstrated growth inhibitory and pro-apoptotic effects in lung cancer cells[29 -31], it is perhaps not surprising that the opcml promoter cpg island might be a target for dna methylation in lung cancer.
two groups reported an  association of dna methylation of cdkn2a with poor survival in  adenocarcinoma/nsclc patients[24,25], while divine et al (2005), like us,  reported no such association[12].
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text weisenberger dj, siegmund kd, campan m, young j, long ti, faasse ma, kang gh, widschwendter m, weener d, buchanan d, koh h, simms l, barker m, leggett b, levine j, kim m, french aj, thibodeau sn, jass j, haile r, laird pw: cpg island methylator phenotype underlies sporadic microsatellite instability and is tightly associated with braf mutation in colorectal cancer.
whether or not this  hypermethylation results in gene inactivation is not relevant for the use of  these loci as dna methylation markers, and was not determined.
molecular analyses of plasma, sputum, and bronchial lavage fluids have also shown promise as strategies for early detection, but these methods still lack sensitivity[10].
nature reviews cancer 2004, 4: 1-11.publisher full text laird pw: the power and the promise of dna methylation markers.
quantitative assessment of dna methylation levels allows a  more detailed evaluation of candidate dna methylation markers, and of their  suitability for correctly identifying a cancer vs. non-cancer sample.
competing interests ialo and pwl are shareholders of epigenomics ag, which has a commercial  interest in the development of dna markers for disease detection and diagnosis.
the ward hierarchical clustering method was used to categorize between cancer and non-tumor samples.
lung cancer is expected to cause over 160,000 deaths in 2007 -killing more americans than cancer of the prostate, breast, colon, rectum and pancreas combined[1].
these markers can later be combined into a lung  cancer hypermethylation panel that can be used for detection of all lung  cancers.
for this  reason, we used the bisulfite conversion based real-time pcr technique,  methylight, to measure dna methylation in tumor and control tissues[13].
pubmed abstract | publisher full text maneckjee r, minna jd: opioid and nicotine receptors affect  growth regulation of human lung cancer cell lines.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text destro a, bianchi p, alloisio m, laghi l, di gioia s, malesci a, cariboni u, gribaudi g, bulfamante g, marchetti a, bosari s, infante m, ravasi g, roncalli m: k-ras and p16(ink4a)alterations in sputum of nsclc patients and in heavy asymptomatic chronic smokers.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text ries lag, harkins d, krapcho m, mariotto a, feuer ej, clegg l, eisner mp,  horner mj, howlader n, hayat m, hankey bf, edwards bk: seer cancer  statistics review, 1975-2004, national cancer institute.
pmr values have been categorized as colored boxes denoting no detectable dna methylation (blue), dna methylation below the median of all positive samples of each locus (yellow), and dna methylation equal to or above the median (red).
cancer 2000, 88:1837-1841.
this suggests that basal dna methylation is high but variable at this locus; elevated dna methylation in tumors is likely masked by interpatient variability and only becomes visible when samples from the same patient are compared.
three quarters of lung cancer patients are diagnosed with regionally or distantly disseminated disease; their 5-year survival is only 15%.
the effect appears to be even more pronounced when ad is compared to ntl from non-cancer patients.
all markers were also significantly  hypermethylated in later stage lung adenocarcinoma (stages iia-iiia).
methods study subjects lung adenocarcinoma and when available adjacent non-tumor lung was obtained  from archival paraffin blocks from 51 subjects who had been treated at three  los angeles hospitals: the los angeles county hospital, the usc university  hospital and the norris comprehensive cancer center.
reducing the locus number to 13 did not affect sensitivity and specificity, and limiting our markers to the top-ranked four (hoxa1, opcml, cdkn2aex2 and cdx2, which were also the most significant based on our statistical analysis) resulted in a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 90%.
nature reviews cancer 2003, 3: 253-266.pubmed abstract | publisher full text divine kk, pulling lc, marron-terada pg, liechty kc, kang t, schwartz ag,  bocklage tj, coons ta, gilliland fd, belinsky sa: multiplicity of  abnormal promoter methylation in lung adenocarcinomas from smokers and never  smokers.
our goal was to identify cancer-specific markers, not risk markers.
in addition, it is unclear whether the early stage lung cancers identified by spiral ct represent cancers that would ultimately progress and lead to death.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text ries lag, harkins d, krapcho m, mariotto a, feuer ej, clegg l, eisner mp, horner mj, howlader n, hayat m, hankey bf, edwards bk: seer cancer statistics review, 1975-2004, national cancer institute.
the adjntl sections were derived from separate, histologically verified cancer-free paraffin blocks.
receiver operating characteristic curves for the four top markers.
although the opcml locus was not studied in detail in the bibikova study, the  observed methylation supports the idea that opcml is a strong candidate marker  in lung adenocarcinoma.
in lung cancer: principles and practice.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text destro a, bianchi p, alloisio m, laghi l, di gioia s, malesci a, cariboni  u, gribaudi g, bulfamante g, marchetti a, bosari s, infante m, ravasi g,  roncalli m: k-ras and p16(ink4a)alterations in sputum of nsclc patients  and in heavy asymptomatic chronic smokers.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text virmani ak, tsou ja, siegmund kd, shen l, long ti, laird pw, gazdar af,  laird-offringa ia: hierarchical clustering of lung cancer cell lines  using dna methylation markers.
all but  one of the tumor samples clustered together in a major branch of the  dendrogram, while the majority of non-tumor lung samples grouped in a separate  cluster.
cdh13, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1, opcml, rassf1, sfpr1, and twist1 (p-value << 0.0001).
conclusion from a starting panel of 28 dna methylation loci, we have identified 13  that show statistically significant methylation differences between lung  adenocarcinoma and non-cancer lung tissue.
none of the funding agencies played any role in the collection,  analysis, interpretation of the data, writing of the manuscript, nor the  decision to publish.
note that all eight of the  most significant loci cluster at bottom right.
because of the costs associated with quantitative molecular analyses, it would be important to limit the number of markers included in the panel.
in lung cancer: principles and  practice.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text wang j, lee jj, wang l, liu dd, lu c, fan yh, hong wk, mao l: value of p16ink4a and rassf1a promoter hypermethylation in prognosis of patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer.
these  analyses indicate that the top four markers show high potential for  identification of lung adenocarcinoma, even in its earliest stages, an  important characteristic if these markers are to be used for early detection.
clinical information was missing for 5 patients.
opcml, encoding an opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule, has been shown to  be frequently methylated in ovarian cancer[28].
nat genet 2006, 38:787-793.
thus, we  suggest that cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml are the top candidates from the  28 tested, and should be validated as dna methylation markers for lung  adenocarcinoma.
pmr values have been categorized as colored boxes  denoting no detectable dna methylation (blue), dna methylation below the median  of all positive samples of each locus (yellow), and dna methylation equal to or  above the median (red).
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text maneckjee r, minna jd: nonconventional opioid binding sites mediate growth inhibitory effects of methadone on human lung cancer cells.
dna hypermethylation occurs in all cancers, frequently leading to gene silencing through methylation of cpg-rich regions (cpg islands) near the transcriptional start sites of genes[11 ].
edited by pass hi, mitchell jb, johnson dh, turrisi at.
in lung cancer patients, such hypermethylation is quantitatively detectable in a variety of samples ranging from tumor material to blood and sputum[10].
all studies were institutionally approved by the university of southern california institutional review board (irb# hs-016041, hs-06-00447), and the identities of patients were not made available to laboratory investigators.
we applied two-dimensional hierarchical clustering to examine the relationship between the loci and the tumor and non-tumor lung samples (fig2; vhl was omitted because it showed no dna methylation in any samples).
of these, 8 show highly significant  differences.
this emphasizes the importance of using  histologically normal tissue adjacent to lung cancer for comparison; such  tissue may show higher basal dna methylation levels while appearing  histologically normal, and should be used for comparison with lung cancer  tissue to ensure identification ofcancer-specific markers.
clin cancer res 2004, 10: 6119-6125.pubmed abstract | publisher full text shiraishi m, sekiguchi a, oates aj, terry mj, miyamoto y: hox gene clusters are hotspots of de novo methylation in cpg islands of human lung adenocarcinomas.
all  eight of these loci grouped together in the hierarchical clustering (fig.2).
neither of these studies examined a large  number of adenocarcinomas, nor were quantitative techniques used.
in addition, it is unclear whether the early stage lung cancers  identified by spiral ct represent cancers that would ultimately progress and  lead to death.
publisher full text |  pubmed central full text ihaka r, gentleman r: r: a language for data analysis and  graphics.
nine loci, cdh13, sfrp1, opcml, twist1, sfrp5, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and rassf1, clustered together (bottom right), showing heavier dna methylation in the tumor samples.
apc methylation was found to be statistically significantly different  only when paired tumor and non-tumor lung samples were compared.
to make an impact on long term  survival, better strategies are needed for early detection.
cdx2, another homeobox transcription factor, had been described to be  methylated in squamous esophageal cancer[33] and colorectal carcinoma [34], but  to our knowledge, its dna methylation in lung cancer has never been examined.
such studies are currently ongoing.
none of the funding agencies played any role in the collection, analysis, interpretation of the data, writing of the manuscript, nor the decision to publish.
the paired adjntl form an exquisite control for the cancer-specific nature of the observed dna methylation changes, as each of these samples conforms to its tumor sample in patient age, environmental exposure, and genetic background.
the incidence of lung adenocarcinoma is on the  rise in many countries, in particular in women[4,5].
the authors thank members of the laird lab for help with methylight and probe/primer design, and laird-offringa lab members for critical comments on the manuscript.
american cancer society: cancer facts & figures 2007.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text weisenberger dj, campan m, long ti, kim m, woods c, fiala e, ehrlich m, laird pw: analysis of repetitive element dna methylation by methylight.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text sellar gc, watt kp, rabiasz gj, stronach ea, li l, miller ep, massie ce,  miller j, contreras-moreira b, scott d, brown i, williams ar, bates pa, smyth  jf, gabra h: opcml at 11q25 is epigenetically inactivated and has  tumor-suppressor function in epithelial ovarian cancer.
splits were determined using a random sample of five variables and trees were grown until there was only one observation in each leaf.
the two-dimensional hierarchical clustering was carried out using jmp 6.0 and log-transformed pmr values.
we found no significant association between dna methylation and survival for the four loci, or any of the other 24 loci studied (data not shown).
samples are indicated at the  left, loci at thetop.
to date the penetrance of dna methylation at any  single locus has been too low to provide great clinical sensitivity.
because our primary goal is marker development, here we focused only on whether loci showed consistent hypermethylation.
while the population analyzed in the current study is  small, we reasoned that an indication of the potential of our top four markers  to broadly identify lung adenocarcinoma might be obtained.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text kawai h, tomii k, toyooka s, yano m, murakami m, tsukuda k, shimizu n: promoter methylation downregulates cdx2 expression in colorectal  carcinomas.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text merlo a, herman jg, mao l, lee dj, gabrielson e, burger pc, baylin sb, sydranski d: 5'cpg island methylation is associated with transcriptional silencing of the tumor suppressor p16/cdkn2/mts1 in human cancers.
our focus is to  increase the repertoire of sensitive dna hypermethylation markers for lung  cancer, and to compose a small panel of molecular markers that could be used to  detect lung cancer with high sensitivity and specificity.
the relationship of samples is indicated at right in the same color schematic as the labels.
for each observation, its outcome was predicted by having  the majority vote from the trees that were generated without the original data  point in their bootstrap sample.
we found no significant association between  dna methylation and survival for the four loci, or any of the other 24 loci  studied (data not shown).
results we identified thirteen loci showing significant differential dna  methylation levels between tumor and non-tumor lung; eight of these show highly  significant hypermethylation in adenocarcinoma:
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text maneckjee r, minna jd: nonconventional opioid binding sites  mediate growth inhibitory effects of methadone on human lung cancer cells.
nature genet 2003, 34:337-343.
from a starting panel of 28 dna methylation loci, we have identified 13 that show statistically significant methylation differences between lung adenocarcinoma and non-cancer lung tissue.
kds oversaw  statistical analysis and drafted statistical sections of the manuscript.
utilizing all 28 loci, we estimated a sensitivity of 92% and a  specificity of 95%.
using the gini index from the random forest classifier (last column, table2) to measure locus importance, we restricted our analysis to the most highly ranked variables.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text palmisano wa, divine kk, saccomanno g, gilliland fd, baylin sb, herman jg, belinsky sa: predicting lung cancer by detecting aberrant promoter methylation in sputum.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text merlo a, herman jg, mao l, lee dj, gabrielson e, burger pc, baylin sb,  sydranski d: 5'cpg island methylation is associated with  transcriptional silencing of the tumor suppressor p16/cdkn2/mts1 in human  cancers.
this does not affect the significance of the loci identified in this study, as the same batch ofsssi-treated dna was used throughout the study.
all ad and adjntl lung samples for which there was complete dna methylation data were used for the analysis.
dna hypermethylation at promoter cpg islands shows great promise as a  cancer-specific marker that would complement visual lung cancer screening tools  such as spiral ct, improving early detection.
to address the first question, we assessed correlations to age and determined whether each of the four markers showed statistically significant hypermethylation in tumor vs. adjacent normal tissues in men, women, and all four racial/ethnic groups.
lung adenocarcinoma and when available adjacent non-tumor lung was obtained from archival paraffin blocks from 51 subjects who had been treated at three los angeles hospitals: the los angeles county hospital, the usc university hospital and the norris comprehensive cancer center.
the ability of our four-marker panel to clinically detect lung  cancer with high sensitivity and specificity will depend on many factors.
although the  exposure history of these ntl samples is unknown, their generally lower dna  methylation levels emphasize that these samples may not be the best controls  when searching for loci that show cancer-specific hypermethylation.
molecular cancer 2007, 6:70 doi:10.1186/1476-4598-6-70 the electronic version of this article is the complete one and can be found online at:http://www.molecular-cancer.com/content/6/1/70 © 2007 tsou et al; licensee biomed central ltd.
we also examined non-tumor lung from  non-cancer patients (ntl).
the four most highly ranked loci, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml, which show significant dna methylation even in stage ia tumor samples, merit further investigation as some of the most promising lung adenocarcinoma markers identified to date.
oncol rep 2005, 13:547-551.
bethesda, md.[ http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2004/] webcite 2006.
dna was extracted  from microdissected tumor and non-tumor lung samples via proteinase k digestion[ 35].
thus, these four markers appear to be highly promising dna  hypermethylation markers for development into non-invasive molecular markers of  lung adenocarcinoma, through examination of dna shed into bodily fluids such as  sputum, bronchioalveolar lavage, or blood.
indeed, waki and coworkers have observed frequent dna methylation of apc in non-cancer lung and other organs[16].
carcinogenesis 2003, 24: 1897-1901.pubmed abstract | publisher full text toyooka s, suzuki m, maruyama r, toyooka ko, tsukuda k, fukuyama y, lizasa  t, aoe m, date h, fujisawa t, shimizu n, gazdar af: the relationship  between aberrant methylation and survival in non-small cell lung cancers.
in fact, methylation of the cdkn2a promoter cpg island has been observed in the sputum of subjects at risk for lung cancer 3 years prior to diagnosis[18] and in the sputum of asymptomatic heavy smokers[19].
the 5-year survival of lung cancer patients is only 15%, largely due to the fact that three quarters of lung cancer patients are diagnosed when their disease has spread regionally or distantly[7].
in lung cancer patients, such hypermethylation is quantitatively detectable  in a variety of samples ranging from tumor material to blood and sputum[10].
vhl, which was negative in all specimens, was omitted from the clustering analysis.
waki t, tamura g, sato m, motoyama t: age-related methylation of tumor suppressor and tumor-related genes: an analysis of autopsy samples.
while all  four markers show increased dna methylation in adenocarcinoma compared to  adjacent non-tumor tissue, the spread of dna methylation levels differs, which  would affect their sensitivity and specificity in future detection strategies.
gene name and function of the 28 loci studied the results of the dna methylation analyses for the 28 loci in 51 ad, 38  adjntl and 11 ntl samples are shown in fig.1.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text liu ns, spitz mr, kemp bl, cooksley c, fossela fv, lee js, hong wk, khuri  fr: adenocarcinoma of the lung in young patients; the m.d. anderson  experience.
it was only applied to those 20 loci for which no previous information supporting a hypothesis of dna methylation in lung ad was available[ 15].
because our primary goal is marker development, here we focused only on  whether loci showed consistent hypermethylation.
the next step would entail the exploration of different methods to measure these markers non-invasively in early stage lung cancer patients.
despite the promising auc values, the sensitivity and specificity of these top four markers, usedindividually and determined using the current sample collection in a five-fold cross-validation, was limited: 67–86% and 74–82% respectively.
because of its increasing frequency and its preponderance in non- and  previous smokers, we focused first on lung adenocarcinoma (ad).
of the many potential molecular markers, dna hypermethylation – an  epigenetic alteration – shows great promise.
we applied two-dimensional hierarchical clustering to examine the  relationship between the loci and the tumor and non-tumor lung samples (fig2;  vhl was omitted because it showed no dna methylation in any samples).
acknowledgements the authors thank members of the laird lab for help with methylight and  probe/primer design, and laird-offringa lab members for critical comments on  the manuscript.
the marker potential of quantitative markers is frequently presented in the  form of a receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve, in which sensitivity  vs. 1-specificity at all possible cut-off values is plotted.
a  loss of sensitivity might be foreseen due to the small amounts of dna shed into  the blood of each patient, but at the same time, an increase in specificity  might be expected if tumor dna is shed more readily into the bloodstream than  dna from adjacent histologically normal tissue.
cdkn2a is one of the first tumor suppressor genes found to be methylated in a variety of cancers, including lung cancer[17].
in addition to primers and probe sets designed specifically for the gene of interest, an internal reference primer and probe set designed to analyze alu repeats (alu) was included in the analysis to normalize for input dna[38].
adenocarcinoma is also the  most common lung cancer subtype in non- and previous smokers[6].
abstract background lung cancer is the number one cancer killer of both men and women in the  united states.
given that opioids have  demonstrated growth inhibitory and pro-apoptotic effects in lung cancer cells[29 -31]
our analyses of the present sample  collection, which contains modest numbers of representatives from all these  groups, is very encouraging as they suggest that the markers function  independently of subject age, gender or ethnic subgroup, and are positive in  early stage cancer.
in a different study, analysis of a stage i adenocarcinoma and squamous  cell lung carcinoma showed dna methylation of the hox clusters, and examination  of the hoxa and d clusters in more detail in squamous cell cancers and control  tissue indicated a dna methylation frequency of 45–80% for hoxa7-9, but  methylation of hoxa1 was limited[27].
if molecular markers with high sensitivity and specificity for cancers that will progress can be identified, such markers could be combined with spiral ct to screen high-risk individuals, allowing molecular detection and visualization of clinically relevant early lesions.
associations between age, gender and race of ad cases were tested by  dichotomizing the subjects either by the presence/absence of dna methylation,  or, if the samples were frequently methylated, by the median of all positive  pmr values.
based on the results of our analyses, four loci that are very strong candidates for a dna methylation panel aimed at early lung adenocarcinoma detection have been identified: cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml.
nature reviews cancer 2003, 3: 253-266.pubmed abstract | publisher full text divine kk, pulling lc, marron-terada pg, liechty kc, kang t, schwartz ag, bocklage tj, coons ta, gilliland fd, belinsky sa: multiplicity of abnormal promoter methylation in lung adenocarcinomas from smokers and never smokers.
it allows  detailed imaging of the lung, and can detect very small lesions.
in addition to  primers and probe sets designed specifically for the gene of interest, an  internal reference primer and probe set designed to analyze alu repeats (alu)  was included in the analysis to normalize for input dna[38].
these markers can later be combined into a lung cancer hypermethylation panel that can be used for detection of all lung cancers.
neither of these studies examined a large number of adenocarcinomas, nor were quantitative techniques used.
the four most significant markers also ranked as the top four to be used in a marker panel, as determined by a random forest approach.
however, the biological consequences of the observed hypermethylation would also be worth investigating.
lung cancer is the number one cancer killer of both men and women in the united states.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text liu y, an q, li l, zhang d, huang j, feng x, cheng s, gao y: hypermethylation of p16ink4a in chinese lung cancer patients: biological and clinical implications.
the adjntl sections were derived from separate, histologically verified  cancer-free paraffin blocks.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text sellar gc, watt kp, rabiasz gj, stronach ea, li l, miller ep, massie ce, miller j, contreras-moreira b, scott d, brown i, williams ar, bates pa, smyth jf, gabra h: opcml at 11q25 is epigenetically inactivated and has tumor-suppressor function in epithelial ovarian cancer.
this project was funded by grant support for ialo: national institutes of health/national cancer institute r21 ca102247 and r01 ca119029, whittier foundation translational research grant, and a stop cancer award.
results ideal dna hypermethylation markers for lung adenocarcinoma should show a  high frequency of methylation in tumors as well as dna methylation levels that  are significantly elevated in tumor compared to non-tumor lung tissue.
cancer res 2006, 66:3338-3344.
primer and probe sequences were as described[14,36,37].
to date the penetrance of dna methylation at any single locus has been too low to provide great clinical sensitivity.
because of its increasing frequency and its preponderance in non- and previous smokers, we focused first on lung adenocarcinoma (ad).
the ability of our four-marker panel to clinically detect lung cancer with high sensitivity and specificity will depend on many factors.
the only exception was cdkn2a ex2 methylation in asian  subjects (p = 0.11), which may be related to the small sample size but will  need to be further explored.
for candidate hypermethylation markers of lung adenocarcinoma, two  important questions arise.
nature reviews cancer 2004, 4: 1-11.publisher full text laird pw: the power and the promise of dna methylation markers.
thus, these four markers appear to be highly promising dna hypermethylation markers for development into non-invasive molecular markers of lung adenocarcinoma, through examination of dna shed into bodily fluids such as sputum, bronchioalveolar lavage, or blood.
performance of top four markers in samples based  on gender, race/ethnicity and stage to address the second question, we determined whether each of the four  markers was significantly hypermethylated in early and later stage tumors,  using paired samples (table3).
potential  "remote" media to be considered are sputum, bronchioalveolar lavage,  and blood plasma, all of which we are in the process of collecting for  examination.
philadelphia , lippincott-raven publishers; 1996:361-395.
henschke ci, yankelevitz df, libby dm, pasmantier mw, smith jp, miettinen os: survival of patients with stage i lung cancer detected on ct screening.
five cancer samples showed dna  methylation of hoxa1, while only one adjntl sample was methylated at this  locus.
whether or not this hypermethylation results in gene inactivation is not relevant for the use of these loci as dna methylation markers, and was not determined.
in a different study, analysis of a stage i adenocarcinoma and squamous cell lung carcinoma showed dna methylation of the hox clusters, and examination of the hoxa and d clusters in more detail in squamous cell cancers and control tissue indicated a dna methylation frequency of 45–80% for hoxa7-9, but methylation of hoxa1 was limited[27].
of the rest, 28 were male and 18 were female, 14 were white of non-hispanic descent, 14 white of hispanic descent, 11 were black, and 7 were of various asian origins.
the ward  hierarchical clustering method was used to categorize between cancer and  non-tumor samples.
of the many potential molecular markers, dna hypermethylation – an epigenetic alteration – shows great promise.
the differences between the obtained results  might be due to the examination of a different cpg island or a different  population.
our focus is to increase the repertoire of sensitive dna hypermethylation markers for lung cancer, and to compose a small panel of molecular markers that could be used to detect lung cancer with high sensitivity and specificity.
vhl, which was  negative in all specimens, was omitted from the clustering analysis.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text benjamini y, hochberg y: controlling the false discovery rate: a  practical and powerful approach to multiple testing.
none of the work performed in the laboratories of the authors is or has been  supported or directed by epigenomics.
here we  describe our evaluation of 28 potential dna methylation markers using primary  human lung adenocarcinoma samples.
for this reason, we used the bisulfite conversion based real-time pcr technique, methylight, to measure dna methylation in tumor and control tissues[13].
because  dna methylation of lzts1 is reduced in tumors it is not a candidate for a  positive lung adenocarcinoma marker and it was not studied further at this  time.
fig.3 shows the distribution of pmr values in the examined sample  collection.
all authors reviewed and commented on the manuscript during its drafting and approved the final version.
[http:/ / www.cancer.org/ docroot/  med/ content/ med_1_1_most-requested_graphs_and_f igures_2007.asp] webcite -.
to our knowledge, we are the first to examine cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1  and opcml in combination.
environmental exposures, such as those arising from tobacco smoke, could lead to higher basal levels of methylation in non-tumor lung[12], which might affect the background signal when any resulting markers are applied to non-invasive molecular analyses of bodily fluids in the future.
of the rest, 28 were male and 18 were female, 14 were  white of non-hispanic descent, 14 white of hispanic descent, 11 were black, and  7 were of various asian origins.
the four most  highly ranked loci, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml, which show significant  dna methylation even in stage ia tumor samples, merit further investigation as  some of the most promising lung adenocarcinoma markers identified to date.
graphic representation of pmr values obtained  for 28 loci in ad (a), adjntl (b) and ntl (c).
however, to date the penetrance of dna methylation at any single locus has not been high enough to provide great clinical sensitivity.
very recently, high throughput dna  methylation profiling of 11 lung adenocarcinomas and control lung identified a  number of cpg dinucleotides methylated in the cancer samples[32].
using bootstrap samples of the data, we grew a forest of 30,000 trees.
proc natl acad sci u s a 2007, 104: 5527-5532.
clinical information was  missing for 5 patients.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text belinsky sa: gene-promoter hypermethylation as a biomarker in  lung cancer.
cancer 1995, 75:191-202.
dna methylation, expressed as the  percentage methylated reference (pmr[14]) is visualized by color coding.
using the gini index from the random forest classifier  (last column, table2) to measure locus importance, we restricted our analysis  to the most highly ranked variables.
we had evaluated dna methylation of the cdkn2a  promoter cpg island as a cancer indicator, but found substantial dna  methylation in adjntl, and no significant difference between adjntl and cancer  (data not shown).
we have also observed dna methylation of additional hox genes (unpublished studies), but hoxa1 appears to be particularly informative.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text benjamini y, hochberg y:
while these dna  methylation markers are ultimately intended for the non-invasive analysis of  patient bodily fluids, a preliminary indication of their potential to  sensitively and specifically detect cancer could be obtained by plotting roc  curves using the pmr values from the tumor vs. adjacent non-tumor samples.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text nguyen c, liang g, nguyen tt, tsao-wei d, groshen s, lubbert m, zhou jh,  benedict wf, jones pa: susceptibility of non-promoter cpg islands to de  novo methylation in normal and neoplastic cells.
all of these except cdh1 remained significant when ad samples were compared to adjntl, while all except lzts1 remained significant in the comparison of ad to paired adjntl.
we also examined a number of non-tumor lung (ntl)  samples from patients operated for non-cancer reasons (emphysema, lung  collapse, etc.).
we established that its level of dna  methylation is a strong indicator of lung adenocarcinoma.
for 32 of these cases, a separate paraffin block containing histologically verified cancer-free lung was available.
two groups reported an association of dna methylation of cdkn2a with poor survival in adenocarcinoma/nsclc patients[24,25], while divine et al (2005), like us, reported no such association[12].
a recent analysis of  prospectively collected sputum showed cdkn2a methylation in 39% of cases and  25% of controls; methylation of this gene was associated with an elevated risk  of lung cancer[20].
comparison of ad in fig.1 panel a with adjntl in panel b shows that a number of  loci are more heavily methylated in ad.
among others, the 28 loci included cpg islands  in the promoters of tumor suppressor genes and genes with important roles in  cell cycle regulation, dna repair, and apoptosis (table1).
travis wd, linder j, mackay b: classification, histology,  cytology, and electron microscopy.
prior experience  with chest x-ray, sputum cytology, and fiberoptic examination have failed to  decrease lung cancer patient mortality, although several recent strategies show  promise.
if molecular markers with high  sensitivity and specificity for cancers that will progress can be identified,  such markers could be combined with spiral ct to screen high-risk individuals,  allowing molecular detection and visualization of clinically relevant early  lesions.
travis wd, travis lb, devesa ss: lung cancer.
genome res 2006, 16:383-393.
wc provided additional samples through the norris cancer center's los angeles area tissue discard repository.
jah provided non-cancer lung samples and statistical discussions.
lung cancer is clinically classified into two classes: the  aggressive subtype small cell lung cancer (sclc, ~13% of cases) and non-small  cell lung cancer (nsclc, the remaining ~87%)[1].
we  found no correlation of methylation of cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml with  the age.
to ensure that these markers detect cancer-specifichypermethylation changes, associated with histologically visible lung cancer (allowing surgical resection), we compared the dna methylation profiles of the tumors with histologically normal adjacent lung tissue (adjntl) from lung cancer patients.
associations between age, gender and race of ad cases were tested by dichotomizing the subjects either by the presence/absence of dna methylation, or, if the samples were frequently methylated, by the median of all positive pmr values.
ialo designed the study, oversaw all aspects of the project, mentored jat and jsg, and revised manuscript drafts.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text liu ns, spitz mr, kemp bl, cooksley c, fossela fv, lee js, hong wk, khuri fr: adenocarcinoma of the lung in young patients; the m.d. anderson experience.
pwl  provided experimental advice and mentoring for jat.
our analyses of the present sample collection, which contains modest numbers of representatives from all these groups, is very encouraging as they suggest that the markers function independently of subject age, gender or ethnic subgroup, and are positive in early stage cancer.
fig.4  shows that the area under the curve (auc, and indicator of marker performance  that would be 1 for a marker showing 100% specificity and sensitivty) is  0.87–0.95 for the four top loci.
to determine which combinations of markers would be most effective to correctly identify tumor vs. non-tumor samples, we fit a random forest classifier to the data set, using 87 samples and 28 variables (2 ad samples with missing pmr data were omitted, resulting in 49 ad vs. 38 adjntl).
we next analyzed the statistical significance of the differences in dna  methylation levels for individual markers and different combinations of tissue  samples (table2): ad vs. all ntl samples, ad vs. adjntl, and ad vs. paired adjntl (32 of the 38 adjntl samples were derived from the ad patients in  fig.1a).
we examined stages ia and ib individually, but  grouped stages iia, iib, and iiia (only one paired sample was available for iia  and iiia, and none for stage iiib).
ialo designed the study, oversaw all aspects of the  project, mentored jat and jsg, and revised manuscript drafts.
[ http://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2004/] webcite 2006.
indeed, waki  and coworkers have observed frequent dna methylation of apc in non-cancer lung  and other organs[16].
to avoid assigning statistical significance to spurious associations, we incorporated a multiple comparisons threshold for those loci that at time of analysis lacked any prior data suggesting they might be hypermethylated in lung adenocarcinoma (table2, before-last column, [15] see materials and methods for details).
to our knowledge, we are the first to examine cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml in combination.
to control the false discovery rate at 5%, a multiple comparisons threshold was set.
mnk reviewed all slides  prior to microdissection.
performance of top four markers in samples based on gender, race/ethnicity and stage to address the second question, we determined whether each of the four markers was significantly hypermethylated in early and later stage tumors, using paired samples (table3).
pubmed abstract | publisher full text yoshimi i, ohshima a, ajiki w, tsukuma h, sobue t: a comparison  of trends in the incidence rate of lung cancer by histological type in the  osaka cancer registry, japan, and in the surveillance, epidemiology and end  results program, usa.
five cancer samples showed dna methylation of hoxa1, while only one adjntl sample was methylated at this locus.
to address the first  question, we assessed correlations to age and determined whether each of the  four markers showed statistically significant hypermethylation in tumor vs.  adjacent normal tissues in men, women, and all four racial/ethnic groups.
ialo and pwl are shareholders of epigenomics ag, which has a commercial interest in the development of dna markers for disease detection and diagnosis.
ages ranged from 37–82 years old at time  of surgery (median: 58 years old).
prior experience with chest x-ray, sputum cytology, and fiberoptic examination have failed to decrease lung cancer patient mortality, although several recent strategies show promise.
we applied random  forests to determine a good classifier based on a subset of our loci and  determined that combined use of the same four top markers allows identification  of lung cancer tissue from non-lung cancer tissue with 94% sensitivity and 90%  specificity.
to our knowledge, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml constitute the  strongest lung adenocarcinoma dna methylation markers identified to date, and  we are working on further evaluations of their potential with great  anticipation.
note that for all four markers, the mean value in non-tumor lung fromnon-cancer patients is lower than that of adjacent non-tumor lung fromlung cancer patients.
jama 2007, 297:953-961.
nucleic acids res 2000, 28:e32.
j comput graph statist 1996, 5: 299-314.publisher full text © 2012 biomed central ltd unless otherwise stated.
jpn j clin oncol 2003, 33:98-104.
gene name and function of the 28 loci studied the results of the dna methylation analyses for the 28 loci in 51 ad, 38 adjntl and 11 ntl samples are shown in fig.1.
only cdkn2a ex2  hypermethylation was significant in stage ib tumors, but this could be due to  the small number of paired samples (n = 6).
all eight of these loci grouped together in the hierarchical clustering (fig.2).
j natl cancer inst 2001, 93: 1465-1472.pubmed abstract | publisher full text salem c, liang g, tsai yc, coulter j, knowles ma, feng ac, groshen s, nichols pw, jones pa:
this supports the notion that dna hypermethylation markers are best used in the form of a panel.
while all four markers show increased dna methylation in adenocarcinoma compared to adjacent non-tumor tissue, the spread of dna methylation levels differs, which would affect their sensitivity and specificity in future detection strategies.
cancer epidemiol biomarkers prev 2002, 11: 291-297.
the effect appears to be even more  pronounced when ad is compared to ntl from non-cancer patients.
all ad and adjntl lung samples for which there was complete  dna methylation data were used for the analysis.
log-transformed pmr values for ad, adjntl and ntl are shown.
the marker potential of quantitative markers is frequently presented in the form of a receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve, in which sensitivity vs. 1-specificity at all possible cut-off values is plotted.
this supports the notion that dna  hypermethylation markers are best used in the form of a panel.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text wang j, lee jj, wang l, liu dd, lu c, fan yh, hong wk, mao l: value of p16ink4a and rassf1a promoter hypermethylation in prognosis of  patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer.
int j cancer 2005, 114:400-405.
of these, 8 show highly significant differences.
research identification of a panel of sensitive and specific dna methylation  markers for lung adenocarcinoma jeffrey a tsou1†, janice s galler1 †, kimberly d siegmund2, peter w laird3,1 ,sally turla4, wendy cozen2, jeffrey  a hagen3, michael n koss4
pmr values of ad were compared to adjntl and ntl lung as continuous variables by means of the wilcoxon rank sum test.
these adjacent non-tumor lung samples were supplemented with 6 additional cancer-free archival samples from lung cancer patients for which the tumor block was unavailable, and 11 archival non-tumor lung samples from patients operated for non-cancer reasons, such as pneumothorax or emphysema.
briefly, cells were lysed in a solution containing 100 mmol/l tris-hcl (ph  8.0), 10 mmol/l edta (ph 8.0), 1 mg/ml proteinase k, and 0.05 mg/ml trna and  incubated at 50°c overnight.
spiral computed tomography (spiral ct) is one such approach.
for the comparison of paired  ad and adjntl samples from the same patients, the wilcoxon signed rank test was  used.
to determine whether any of the four top markers might have prognostic  implications, we determined whether there was any relationship between their  dna methylation level and survival.
, it is perhaps not surprising that the opcml promoter cpg island might be  a target for dna methylation in lung cancer.
the only exception was cdkn2a ex2 methylation in asian subjects (p = 0.11), which may be related to the small sample size but will need to be further explored.
equal contributors author affiliations 1 norris cancer center and department of surgery and ofbiochemistry and  molecular biology, keck school of medicine, university of southern california,  los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 2 department of preventive medicine, keck school of medicine, university  of southern california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 3 department of surgery, keck school of medicine, university of southern  california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa 4 department of pathology, keck school of medicine, university of southern  california, los angeles, ca 90089-9176, usa for all author emails, please log on.
we also included many loci that appeared promising based on previous reports describing their dna methylation in lung cancer or other cancers, so that all markers of interest could be compared on one set of tissues using a single technique and platform.
we determined error rates using the observations that were not used to generate the trees.
for candidate hypermethylation markers of lung adenocarcinoma, two important questions arise.
because dna methylation of lzts1 is reduced in tumors it is not a candidate for a positive lung adenocarcinoma marker and it was not studied further at this time.
the black bar at bottom indicates loci showing  statistically significant differences in dna methylation levels between tumor  and non-tumor lung.
splits were determined using a random sample of five  variables and trees were grown until there was only one observation in each  leaf.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text belinsky sa, liechty kc, gentry fd, wolf hj, rogers j, vu k, haney j,  kennedy tc, hirsch fr, miller y, franklin wa, herman jg, baylin sb, bunn pa,  byers t: promoter hypermethylation of multiple genes in sputum precedes  lung cancer incidence in a high-risk cohort.
we find it to be methylated in 100% of lung adenocarcinomas, showing a 10-fold higher median methylation than adjntl tissue (table2).
two  of the cancer samples used in this study were provided by the norris  comprehensive cancer center's nih-funded slide retrieval and tissue discard  repository.
to control the false discovery rate at 5%, a multiple comparisons  threshold was set.
interestingly, for one locus, lzts1 (leftmost locus in fig.1), the dna  methylation pattern appeared to be reversed; ntl showed the highest level of  dna methylation, while ad samples were least methylated.
to determine which  combinations of markers would be most effective to correctly identify tumor vs.  non-tumor samples, we fit a random forest classifier to the data set, using 87  samples and 28 variables (2 ad samples with missing pmr data were omitted,  resulting in 49 ad vs. 38 adjntl).
pubmed abstract | publisher full text bach pb, jett jr, pastorino u, tockman ms, swensen sj, begg cb: computed tomography screening and lung cancer outcomes.
cancer 2005, 103:2566-2574.
frequency and median pmr values of ad, adj ntl and ntl tissues for 28 loci of the thirteen significant loci, opcml, cdx2, hoxa1, cdkn2a ex2, sfrp1, cdh13, twist1 and rassf1 show considerable promise as cancer-specific dna methylation markers, exhibiting highly significant hypermethylation in tumors compared to paired non-tumor tissues (p ≤ 1 × 10-7, table 2).
sample ids are indicated on the left, with ad samples in  red, adjntl samples in black, and ntl samples in blue.
int j cancer 2007, 121:1219-1226.
using the current  tissue collection and 5-fold cross validation, the four most significant loci  (cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml) individually distinguish lung  adenocarcinoma from non-cancer lung with a sensitivity of 67–86% and  specificity of 74–82%.
based on the cancer-specific hypermethylation of the cdkn2a  exon 2 cpg island observed in colorectal and bladder cancers[21,22], we tested  this downstream island instead.
cdnk2a, also referred to asp16ink4a, encodes an important cell cycle regulator that is frequently inactivated in cancer.
jsg was involved in experimental execution and extensive data  analysis, drafting the manuscript, and generation of figures.
based on the cancer-specific hypermethylation of the cdkn2a exon 2 cpg island observed in colorectal and bladder cancers[21,22], we tested this downstream island instead.
recent results from the early lung cancer action project (elcap) indicate that this approach allows detection of early stage lung cancer[8], but in this and other studies, non-cancerous lesions far outnumber malignancies (less than 10% of lesions are cancer).
statistical analyses pmr values of ad were compared to adjntl and ntl lung as continuous  variables by means of the wilcoxon rank sum test.
a recent analysis suggests spiral ct screening may not reduce lung cancer mortality[9].
pubmed abstract | publisher full text bach pb, jett jr, pastorino u, tockman ms, swensen sj, begg cb: computed tomography screening and lung cancer outcomes.
opioids induce while nicotine suppresses apoptosis in human lung cancer cells.
the detection of cdkn2a  methylation in a high fraction of lung cancer patient plasma samples bodes well  for its application to non-invasive detection[23].
ideal dna hypermethylation markers for lung adenocarcinoma should show a high frequency of methylation in tumors as well as dna methylation levels that are significantly elevated in tumor compared to non-tumor lung tissue.
proc natl acad sci u s a 1990, 87: 3294-3298.
cdx2, another homeobox transcription factor, had been described to be methylated in squamous esophageal cancer[33] and colorectal carcinoma [34], but to our knowledge, its dna methylation in lung cancer has never been examined.
tissue samples and dna extraction hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides were reviewed by an experienced lung  pathologist (mnk) to support the original classification of the tumor and to  select optimal tumor and non-tumor areas of the specimens.
jeffrey a tsou1, janice s galler1 , kimberly d siegmund2, peter w laird3,1 ,sally turla4, wendy cozen2, jeffrey a hagen3, michael n koss4 and ite a laird-offringa3,1* *
using the current tissue collection and 5-fold cross validation, the four most significant loci (cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml) individually distinguish lung adenocarcinoma from non-cancer lung with a sensitivity of 67–86% and specificity of 74–82%.
nucleic acids res 2005, 33: 6823-6836.pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text ihaka r, gentleman r: r: a language for data analysis and graphics.
these validations should consist of examining a sufficiently large number of new subjects representing both genders and all four major ethnic/racial subgroups in the united states (whites of non-hispanic and hispanic descent, blacks, and asians), as well as early and late stage cancer.
for 32 of these cases, a separate paraffin  block containing histologically verified cancer-free lung was available.
the incidence of lung adenocarcinoma is on the rise in many countries, in particular in women[4,5].
pubmed abstract | publisher full text liu y, an q, li l, zhang d, huang j, feng x, cheng s, gao y: hypermethylation of p16ink4a in chinese lung cancer patients: biological and  clinical implications.
progressive increases in de novo methylation of  cpg islands in bladder cancer.
cell growth differ 1994, 5: 1033-1040.pubmed abstract | publisher full text bibikova m, lin z, zhou l, chudin e, garcia ew, wu b, doucet d, thomas nj,  wang y, vollmer e, goldmann t, seifart c, jiang w, barker dl, chee ms, floros  j, fan jb: high-throughput dna methylation profiling using universal  bead arrays.
the four most significant markers also ranked as the top four to  be used in a marker panel, as determined by a random forest approach.
comparison of ad in fig.1 panel a with adjntl in panel b shows that a number of loci are more heavily methylated in ad.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text chen ky, chang ch, yu cj, kuo sh, yang pc:
pubmed abstract | publisher full text eads ca, danenberg kd, kawakami k, saltz lb, blake c, shibata d, danenberg  pv, laird pw:
the next step would entail the exploration of different methods to measure  these markers non-invasively in early stage lung cancer patients.
nsclc is histologically subdivided into four major subtypes with distinct pathological and molecular characteristics: adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung cancer, large cell lung cancer and "other" (comprising neuroendocrine cancers, carcinoids etc.)[2].
we found no correlation of methylation of cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml with the age.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text maneckjee r, minna jd:
this would greatly increase the chances of curative resection of lung  cancer, while minimizing unnecessary and potentially life-threatening  procedures in patients with benign lesions.
jat was involved in marker design, experimental execution and initial analysis.
references american cancer society: cancer facts & figures 2007.
progressive increases in de novo methylation of cpg islands in bladder cancer.
dna methylation analysis was done by methylight as previously described [14 ].
all statistical tests were two-sided.
oncogene 2002, 21:3659-3662.
note that all eight of the most significant loci cluster at bottom right.
part of springer science+business media.
to ensure the identification  of markers that are more highly methylated in adenocarcinoma even when compared  to heavily exposed but histologically cancer-free lung, we used adjacent  non-tumor lung (adjntl) from lung cancer cases as our cancer-free comparison.
and secondly, are these markers hypermethylated even in the earliest stages of  lung adenocarcinoma?
these predicted values were compared against the true tissue type to estimate prediction error.
dna methylation, expressed as the percentage methylated reference (pmr[14]) is visualized by color coding.
this emphasizes the importance of using histologically normal tissue adjacent to lung cancer for comparison; such tissue may show higher basal dna methylation levels while appearing histologically normal, and should be used for comparison with lung cancer tissue to ensure identification ofcancer-specific markers.
the ability of the top four candidates, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1 and opcml (all p < 1 × 10-9), to individually identify lung cancer samples was next evaluated.
opcml, encoding an opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule, has been shown to be frequently methylated in ovarian cancer[28].
this project was funded by grant support for ialo:
fig.3 shows the distribution of pmr values in the examined sample collection.
this can happen when genes are very heavily methylated in the cancer sample, while the sssi-treated sample (in spite of extensivein vitro dna methylation) is not fully methylated at that locus.
we identified thirteen loci showing significant differential dna methylation levels between tumor and non-tumor lung; eight of these show highly significant hypermethylation in adenocarcinoma:
lung cancer 2004, 44:23-32.
these predicted values were compared against  the true tissue type to estimate prediction error.
we also examined a number of non-tumor lung (ntl) samples from patients operated for non-cancer reasons (emphysema, lung collapse, etc.).
travis wd, linder j, mackay b: classification, histology, cytology, and electron microscopy.
the fact that this marker set allows identification  of cancer specimens in the current tissue collection with a substantially  higher sensitivity and specificity than any previously identified single  markers underlines the importance of developing suitable marker panels.
wc provided additional samples through the  norris cancer center's los angeles area tissue discard repository.
and secondly, are these markers hypermethylated even in the earliest stages of lung adenocarcinoma?
the distribution of pmr values by group (ad, adjntl and ntl) were shown using  log-transformed data in jmp 6.0.
the 5-year survival of lung cancer patients is only 15%, largely due to the  fact that three quarters of lung cancer patients are diagnosed when their  disease has spread regionally or distantly[7].
receiver operating characteristic curves for the  four top markers.
we also examined non-tumor lung from non-cancer patients (ntl).
the distribution of pmr values by group (ad, adjntl and ntl) were shown using log-transformed data in jmp 6.0.
of these, adenocarcinoma has recently surpassed squamous cell lung  cancer as the most common subtype in the united states, accounting for  approximately 40% of nsclc[3].
we used the real-time pcr-based method methylight to examine dna methylation quantitatively at twenty-eight loci in 51 primary human lung adenocarcinomas, 38 adjacent non-tumor lung samples, and 11 lung samples from non-lung cancer patients.
we have also observed dna methylation of additional hox genes  (unpublished studies), but hoxa1 appears to be particularly informative.
we had evaluated dna methylation of the cdkn2a promoter cpg island as a cancer indicator, but found substantial dna methylation in adjntl, and no significant difference between adjntl and cancer (data not shown).
adenocarcinoma is also the most common lung cancer subtype in non- and previous smokers[6].
the distribution of pmr values by group.
we established that its level of dna methylation is a strong indicator of lung adenocarcinoma.
in addition, all four markers remained significantly hypermethylated  in tumor vs. adjntl when subjects were stratified by gender or by ethnic group  (p < 0.05) (table3).
cdh13, cdkn2a ex2, cdx2, hoxa1,  opcml, rassf1, sfpr1, and twist1 (p-value << 0.0001).
at bottom, the relationship of the loci is indicated.
j comput graph statist 1996, 5: 299-314.publisher full text advertisement
pubmed abstract | publisher full text weisenberger dj, campan m, long ti, kim m, woods c, fiala e, ehrlich m,  laird pw: analysis of repetitive element dna methylation by methylight.
all markers were also significantly hypermethylated in later stage lung adenocarcinoma (stages iia-iiia).
proc natl acad sci u s
these validations should consist of examining a sufficiently  large number of new subjects representing both genders and all four major  ethnic/racial subgroups in the united states (whites of non-hispanic and  hispanic descent, blacks, and asians), as well as early and late stage cancer.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text weisenberger dj, siegmund kd, campan m, young j, long ti, faasse ma, kang  gh, widschwendter m, weener d, buchanan d, koh h, simms l, barker m, leggett b,  levine j, kim m, french aj, thibodeau sn, jass j, haile r, laird pw: cpg island methylator phenotype underlies sporadic microsatellite instability  and is tightly associated with braf mutation in colorectal cancer.
atlanta:american cancer society.
we next analyzed the statistical significance of the differences in dna methylation levels for individual markers and different combinations of tissue samples (table2): ad vs. all ntl samples, ad vs. adjntl, and ad vs. paired adjntl (32 of the 38 adjntl samples were derived from the ad patients in fig.1a).
the black bar at bottom indicates loci showing statistically significant differences in dna methylation levels between tumor and non-tumor lung.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text kawai h, tomii k, toyooka s, yano m, murakami m, tsukuda k, shimizu n: promoter methylation downregulates cdx2 expression in colorectal carcinomas.
while each of the four top-ranked loci is of interest as a dna methylation marker, it is as apanel that they promise to be most powerful.
one probe identified dna methylation in the area covered by the opcml probe used here.
given the histopathologic, clinical and molecular differences between lung cancer subtypes, we believe that markers should be developed individually for the major histological subtypes.
it allows detailed imaging of the lung, and can detect very small lesions.
the differences between the obtained results might be due to the examination of a different cpg island or a different population.
although the exposure history of these ntl samples is unknown, their generally lower dna methylation levels emphasize that these samples may not be the best controls when searching for loci that show cancer-specific hypermethylation.
oncogene 2003, 22:4128-4133.
to determine which combinations of markers would be most effective to correctly identify tumor vs. non-tumor samples, we fit a random forest classifier to the data set, using the r programming language (v 2.5[39]) and 87 samples and 28 variables (2 ad samples with missing pmr data were omitted, resulting in 49 ad/38 adjntl).
these analyses indicate that the top four markers show high potential for identification of lung adenocarcinoma, even in its earliest stages, an important characteristic if these markers are to be used for early detection.
the fact that this marker set allows identification of cancer specimens in the current tissue collection with a substantially higher sensitivity and specificity than any previously identified single markers underlines the importance of developing suitable marker panels.
samples are indicated at the left, loci at thetop.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text tsou ja, galler js, wali a, ye w, siegmund kd, groshen s, laird pw, turla s, koss mn, pass hi, laird-offringa ia: dna methylation profile of 28 potential marker loci in malignant mesothelioma.
to determine which combinations of markers would be most effective to  correctly identify tumor vs. non-tumor samples, we fit a random forest  classifier to the data set, using the r programming language (v 2.5[39]) and 87  samples and 28 variables (2 ad samples with missing pmr data were omitted,  resulting in 49 ad/38 adjntl).
however, to date the penetrance of dna methylation at any single locus has not  been high enough to provide great clinical sensitivity.
receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves were plotted using the ad vs. all adjntl lung pmr values and jmp 6.0 software (sas institute, cary, nc).
it is one of the most widely studied hypermethylated  loci, and methylation of its promoter cpg island appears to be a very early  event in the development of non-small cell lung cancer (recently reviewed in[10 ]).
we used  the real-time pcr-based method methylight to examine dna methylation  quantitatively at twenty-eight loci in 51 primary human lung adenocarcinomas,  38 adjacent non-tumor lung samples, and 11 lung samples from non-lung cancer  patients.
in an analysis of eight  adenocarcinomas and matching adjacent lung, substantial dna methylation of the  hoxa and d clusters was observed[26].
br j cancer 2004, 91(4):771-774.
in the center, dna methylation levels are indicated by a color gradient, with the highest dna methylation levels for each locus indicated in red and the lowest in deep blue.
thirteen of the analyzed loci showed  statistically significant differences in dna methylation when ad samples were  compared to all ntl samples: opcml, cdx2, hoxa1, cdkn2a ex2, sfrp1, cdh13,  twist1, lzts1, rassf1, sfrp4 and 5, esr1, and cdh1.
it is thought that dna methylation observed in the sputum  is indicative of field cancerization of the airways and not necessarily a  symptom of a present cancer[20].
sample ids are indicated on the left, with ad samples in red, adjntl samples in black, and ntl samples in blue.
methylight: a high-throughput assay to measure dna  methylation.
the dna was bisulfite converted as previously described[13].
to ensure the identification of markers that are more highly methylated in adenocarcinoma even when compared to heavily exposed but histologically cancer-free lung, we used adjacent non-tumor lung (adjntl) from lung cancer cases as our cancer-free comparison.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text virmani ak, tsou ja, siegmund kd, shen l, long ti, laird pw, gazdar af, laird-offringa ia: hierarchical clustering of lung cancer cell lines using dna methylation markers.
this would greatly increase the chances of curative resection of lung cancer, while minimizing unnecessary and potentially life-threatening procedures in patients with benign lesions.
molecular cancer 2007, 6:70  doi:10.1186/1476-4598-6-70 the electronic version of this article is the complete one and can be found  online at:http://www.molecular-cancer.com/content/6/1/70 received: 5  september 2007
clin cancer res 2004, 10: 6119-6125.pubmed abstract | publisher full text shiraishi m, sekiguchi a, oates aj, terry mj, miyamoto y: hox  gene clusters are hotspots of de novo methylation in cpg islands of human lung  adenocarcinomas.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text rauch t, wang z, zhang x, zhong x, wu x, lau sk, kernstine kh, riggs ad,  pfeifer gp: homeobox gene methylation in lung cancer studied by  genome-wide analysis with a microarray-based methylated cpg island recovery  assay.
while substantial methylation at the exon 2 cpg island is detected in histologically normal adjntl, by comparison, dna methylation in adenocarcinoma is highly significantly elevated (p ≤ 1 × 10e-10).
the two-dimensional hierarchical clustering  was carried out using jmp 6.0 and log-transformed pmr values.
although the opcml locus was not studied in detail in the bibikova study, the observed methylation supports the idea that opcml is a strong candidate marker in lung adenocarcinoma.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text guo m, house mg, suzuki h, ye y, brock mv, lu f, liu z, rustgi ak, herman jg: epigenetic silencing of cdx2 is a feature of squamous esophageal cancer.
for each observation, its outcome was predicted by having the majority vote from the trees that were generated without the original data point in their bootstrap sample.
none of the work performed in the laboratories of the authors is or has been supported or directed by epigenomics.
using bootstrap samples of the data, we grew  a forest of 30,000 trees.
occasionally, pmr values over 100 were observed.