the reduction is achieved, however, by compressing certain data structures as they are constructed; when information is required, relevant parts are temporarily restored.)
rule selection the algorithm for refining an initial collection of rules has been  altered, with the result that release 1.20 sometimes produces smaller rulesets.
- new unix options - options are now provided to ignore any .costs files and to set the random number seed (so that runs with sampling etc.
the cross-reference window itself now indicates whether cases are misclassified.
release 1.19 rulesets require less memory
release 1.14 new data type timestamps are read and written in the form yyyy-mm-dd  hh:mm:ss using a 24-hour clock.
ordered discrete values are nominal values that have a natural ordering, such as small, medium, large, xl, xxl.
census income data (income, 199,523 cases, obtained from  uci kdd archive).
the process for finding all the rules that are satisfied by a case has been enhanced.
- the main window can be clicked on top of the output window.
public source code output from the sample program is easier to read, and cases are  identified by their label attribute (if this is defined).
for linux uses who have installed a recent version of wine, the new  release includes an optional gui with many features of the see5 user interface.
the methods for finding the bounds within which this combination is invoked have been re-designed to make them both faster and more effective.
non-interactively from a ms-dos command window.
- improved boosting - boosting is a technique originated by yoav freund and rob schapire for building multiple classifiers to improve predictive accuracy.
implicitly defined attributes can be used to compute functions of times, such  as the number of seconds between two times.
the definition of "usage" for rulesets  has been changed in this release so that the information is more consistent  across ruleset and tree classifiers.
previous releases often showed low confidence for ruleset predictions even when  those predictions were quite accurate.
- new unix option - cross-validation has now been incorporated directly into c5.0 rather than being available only through the xval script.
the cross-reference window itself now indicates whether cases are  misclassified.
release 1.11 - new data types - dates are input and output in the form yyyy/mm/dd and can be used with implicitly defined attributes to determine, for instance, the number of days between two dates or the day of the week on which a date falls.
previous releases often showed low confidence for ruleset predictions even when those predictions were quite accurate.
(thecross-reference facility in particular provides information that is not available from the command-line version.)
(recall that see5/c5.0 already has data types for times and for dates.)
the difference is  particularly noticeable when the leaves involved have very little supporting  data.
sleep income forest results for 1.18 are shown in blue.
a label attribute does not affect classification in any way, but its value is displayed where possible with information about the case such as error messages, cross-referencing results etc.
(there's also  a new button on the dialog box to reset all of them to their default values.)
for most applications this should not affect the final classifier; in  some cases, the tree or ruleset will be larger or smaller, but predictive  accuracy should be similar.
- faster classification with rulesets -
- enhanced multi-threading - release 2.04 will now use up to four processors and so will run faster on the new quad-core cpus and computers with two dual-core processors.
- rule selection - the algorithm for refining an initial collection of rules has been altered, with the result that release 1.20 sometimes produces smaller rulesets.
- minor tweak - boosting has been improved somewhat for large data files (more than four thousand records).
the changes have also been reflected in the public source code for reading and using classifiers.
this invokes a novel method of cross-referencing classifiers and the data from which they were constructed.
better rulesets release 1.13 focuses on improvements to all aspects of rulesets.
attributes found to be irrelevant or harmful to predictive performance are disregarded ("winnowed") and only the remaining attributes are used to construct decision trees or rulesets.
the first line of the names file can now contain the name of another attribute instead of the list of classes separated by commas.
release 2.08 differential misclassification costs see5/c5.0's handling of misclassification costs has been revised,  particularly when the application has more than two classes.
earlier releases names file the format of the names file has been extended to allow you to select any  discrete-valued attribute as the class.
release 1.11 new data types dates are input and output in the form yyyy/mm/dd and can be used with implicitly defined attributes to determine, for  instance, the number of days between two dates or the day of the week on which  a date falls.
for thresholded class attributes (see below), a value of "?"
progress report (unix version) c5.0 now updates the file /tmp/
for most applications this should not affect the final classifier; in some cases, the tree or ruleset will be larger or smaller, but predictive accuracy should be similar.
would indicate four discrete  classes: price less than or equal to 100 price greater than 100 but less than or equal to 1000 price greater  than 1000 but less than or equal to 5000 price greater than  5000.
this decision is made on the basis of heuristic estimates of usefulness and, although a test can be removed later, the test itself is hardly ever changed.
muti-class applications that specify a costs file should now observe lower average misclassification costs for unseen cases, especially when rulesets are generated.
every case in this monitoring application is described by 6 numeric-valued attributes and belongs to one of six classes.
releases 1.17 and 1.18 generate rulesets with similar predictive accuracies, but notice how much faster 1.18 is -- on the largest dataset it isnearly five times as fast as 1.17.
release 1.13 - new data type - times are read and written in the form hh:mm:ss .
the new release requires very little time to carry out the ordering and analysis.
a new button on the classifier construction dialog box allows any .costs  file to be ignored.
small changes to pruning algorithms
for example, the time to generate a ruleset for one dataset with  750,000 cases was reduced by more than 10%.
release 1.06 cross-reference facility (see5) this has been extended to allow classifiers to be related to cases in .test and .cases files in addition to the .data file.
(for the technically minded, the results window  no longer uses the rich edit control.)
the windows gui has also been improved slightly and  the public code has a new option governing output format.
release 2.06 - new algorithm for softening thresholds - see5/c5.0 decision trees have an option to soften threshold tests for continuous attributes; values near the threshold cause both the low and high branches to be evaluated and combined probabilistically.
- speed improvements - both c5.0 and see5 are now faster, particularly for large datasets.
- simplified output for rules - when the "rules" option is selected, the output now omits information about decision trees.
- cross-validations with misclassification costs - for applications with a .costs file, the unix cross-validation script now reports average misclassification costs.
rulesets are  constructed from half the data and tested on the remaining 52,954 cases to  estimate their true error rate.
ordered discrete values are nominal values that have a natural  ordering, such assmall, medium, large, xl, xxl.
- progress report (unix version) - c5.0 now updates the file /tmp/
- better use of cost information - while the treatment of costs for two-class problems remains much the same, the handling of cost information for applications with three or more classes has been extensively revised.
this shows, for each attribute, the percentage of training cases  for which the value of that attribute is both known and also used in  classifying the case.
- faster boosting - boosting is speedier for large datasets, especially where the number of boosting trials exceeds 20 or so.
faster subsetting of discrete attributes when the subsetting option is invoked, the values of discrete attributes  are collected into subsets.
warning: the new code will not work correctly with releases earlier than 1.10.
- result window (windows version) - the system menu for this window has been extended with the option switch to wordpad.
the  reduction is achieved, however, by compressing certain data structures as they  are constructed; when information is required, relevant parts are temporarily  restored.)
attributes excluded/included the attributes that may be used in constructing a classifier can now be  specified in the.names file.
- cross-reference facility (windows version) - see5 now has a new button that looks like a large `x'.
- changes to results window (see5 only) -
faster boosting boosting is speedier for large datasets, especially where the number of  boosting trials exceeds 20 or so.
changes to test selection one of the fundamental processes in classifier construction is deciding  whether to incorporate another test and, if so, which alternative test to pick.
the method for finding fuzzy thresholds has been changed in release 1.10 and they are now used whenever a case is classified by a decision tree.
the dialog box in the windows version has been changed to  accommodate larger values of theminimum cases option.
in release 2.05, an attribute is "used" to classify a case when it referenced by one or more conditions of anapplicable rule (i.e., a rule whose conditions are all satisfied by a case).
a new option allows global pruning to be disabled if desired.
release 1.07 includes an  additional programsee5x that can be executed as a console application.
- changes to the see5 gui - there have been several improvements in line with suggestions made by users (and please keep them coming!): - a new edit menu brings up the .names or .costs file in wordpad, making it easier to change these files.
the formulas need not be simple -- both numeric and logical values can be introduced in this way.
two small bugs in the windows gui have been rectified.
the most serious bug in the initial release concerned the use of rulesets together with a costs file -- the system could sometimes associate an incorrect class with a rule, leading to abnormally high error rates.
faster rulesets rulesets are now generated more quickly, especially for large  applications.
see5/c5.0 uses a  modified form of the original technique that has now been further improved,  especially for large datasets and rule-based classifiers.
release 1.17 - simpler trees - a further global decision tree pruning phase has been incorporated in the new release.
notes from previous releases release 2.08 - differential misclassification costs - see5/c5.0's handling of misclassification costs has been revised, particularly when the application has more than two classes.
(there's also a new button on the dialog box to reset all of them to their default values.)
for example, consider the attributes `purchased ticket?' with values `yes' and `no', and `ticket cost' with numeric values.
the definition of "usage" for rulesets has been changed in this release so that the information is more consistent across ruleset and tree classifiers.
the dialog box in the windows version has been changed to accommodate larger values of theminimum cases option.
- bug fix: attribute winnowing -
alternative ordering for rulesets a new option allows rulesets to be ordered by utility, from most  important to least important for classification accuracy.
if there are more than twenty classes, when a  confusion matrix would be too large, release 2.04 records the number of false  positives and false negatives for each class.
boosting a modified method is used to predict when boosting is likely to be  harmful.
the methods for finding the bounds within which this combination is  invoked have been re-designed to make them both faster and more effective.
this facility can help to identify  problems in the training data, and can be very useful for understanding complex  classifiers (such as boosted trees or rulesets).
however, the option +d that preserves detailed outputs now saves one file for each cross-validation rather than one file for each c5.0 run.
release 1.14 - new data type - timestamps are read and written in the form yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss using a 24-hour clock.
- linux gui - for linux uses who have installed a recent version of wine, the new release includes an optional gui with many features of the see5 user interface.
see5/c5.0 now uses a modified test selection strategy when the training  data contains thousands of cases or more.
releases 1.17 and 1.18 generate  rulesets with similar predictive accuracies, but notice how much faster 1.18 is  -- on the largest dataset it isnearly five times as fast as 1.17.
for the continuous target attribute in a .cases file caused problems.
decision trees are pruned more carefully, and the confidence of predictions is now calculated differently.
for larger datasets, release 1.17 uses internal sampling to evaluate  alternative splitting tests.
on the well-known census dataset, for example, release 1.17 produces a 159-leaf decision tree that is slightly more accurate than the 211-leaf tree output by release 1.16.
this bug could cause  see5/c5.0 to crash, or to give incomplete results with the cross-reference  facility.
this affects the output from the public code to read and interpret  see5/c5.0 ruleset classifiers, and also impacts results with boosted rulesets.
release 1.08 new attribute type label
saving cross-referencing results (see5) see5's cross-referencing facility is a powerful tool for finding the  cases covered by particular components of classifiers, and parts of classifiers  relevant to particular cases.
- progress report file - the unix progress report file is now filestem .tmp, allowing two or more users to process copies of the same application in different directories.
the attribute winnowing option attempts to identify unhelpful attributes and exclude them from classifiers.
changes to .tree and .rules files up to release 1.11 decision tree and ruleset models have been stored as  binary files.
cross-validations with misclassification costs
the first line of the names file can  now contain the name of another attribute instead of the list of classes  separated by commas.
there were also problems when the winnowing option was used at the same  time as the minimum cases option was set to 1.
- adaptation to microsoft bug-fix (network versions only) - to improve security, microsoft windows updates have disabled a feature that is used by clients to read on-line help, as documentedhere.
from this release they have been changed to ascii files, so that  models generated on one machine type may be deployed on machines of another  type.
the xval script is still used for multiple cross-validations.
warning: the new code will not work  correctly with releases earlier than 1.10.
release 2.04 - attribute usage - a new summary highlights the usage of attributes that appear in a classifier.
- the process for selecting rules to form the final ruleset has been revised, with the result that rulesets are generally a bit smaller without loss of predictive accuracy.
conversely, click on a decision tree leaf or a rule to  see the cases that match that leaf or rule.
a bug in the ruleset interpreter was fixed.
minor tweaks several algorithms used in see5/c5.0 have been tuned or otherwise  improved.
for example, a test that separates one class from another in a small subset of the training cases might be genuinely interesting; on the other hand, if hundreds of alternatives have been tried, it is more likely that a similar separation can be found even when none of the tests is helpful for prediction.
options for see5x are set by command-line parameters in exactly the same way as  for the unix version c5.0.(not included with the free demonstration download.)
any solaris  licensees who might be inconvenienced by this change should contact us to  discuss possible remedies, such as moving their licences to different computers.
in release 2.05, an attribute is "used" to  classify a case when it referenced by one or more conditions of anapplicable rule (i.e., a rule whose conditions are all satisfied by a case).
while the treatment of costs for two-class problems remains much the  same, the handling of cost information for applications with three or more  classes has been extensively revised.
- there were also problems when the winnowing option was used at the same time as the minimum cases option was set to 1.
in some situations, for instance when investigating alternative classifier construction options, it is desirable to be able to `lock in' a particular sample, and an additional option on the classifier construction dialog box is now provided for this purpose.
click on a training case to see the parts of the classifiers relevant to that case.
last updated february 2012 home products download evaluations prices purchase contact us
(this bug only trivially affected the output of  see5/c5.0 and had no noticeable impact on the trees' predictive accuracy.)
- enhanced multi-threading - additional sections of see5/c5.0 have been multi-threaded.
- other changes and bug fixes - there have been minor modifications to the way soft thresholds for decision trees are found.
click on a training case to see the parts of the classifiers  relevant to that case.
this can noticeably reduce the time taken to process very large datasets.
this definition proved unsatisfactory because it depended on the order in which rule conditions were checked, and also because many attributes ended up having usage figures around 100%.
release 1.07 - sampling option - see5 and c5.0 now include an option to sample from large datasets.
revision of source code
progress report file the unix progress report file is now filestem .tmp, allowing two  or more users to process copies of the same application in different  directories.
this could (very rarely) lead to different classifiers when the training data were reordered, or when see5/c5.0 was run on computers with multiple cpus.
release 1.20/1.20a the changes in release 1.20 were as follows: differential misclassification costs with rulesets, boosting
however, the option+d that preserves detailed outputs now  saves one file for each cross-validation rather than one file for each c5.0 run.
a client pc running 64-bit windows xp/vista/7
the information in the cross-referencing window  at any point in time can now be saved as a text file.
this affects the output from the public code to read and interpret see5/c5.0 ruleset classifiers, and also impacts results with boosted rulesets.
as an added convenience, classifiers constructed using the sampling  option are now automatically evaluated on a disjoint set of test cases.
if you downloaded release 2.06 between 22 december 2008 and 12 january 2009, we recommend that you re-install the corrected release.
- many-valued discrete attributes - see5/c5.0's handling of discrete attributes with numerous values is faster, and thesubsetting option uses less memory.
(note that fuzzy thresholds have no effect on rulesets.)
as an added convenience, classifiers constructed using the sampling option are now automatically evaluated on a disjoint set of test cases.
release 1.16 attribute winnowing when the number of attributes is large (in the hundreds, say) it becomes  harder to distinguish predictive information from chance coincidences.
release 1.07 sampling option see5 and c5.0 now include an option to sample from large datasets.
this application has seven classes (possible types of forest cover), and the cases are described in terms of 12 numeric and two multi-valued discrete attributes.
release 1.10 allows suchimplicitly-defined attributes to be described by formulas in the .names file.
the on-line help for the windows version has been moved to the more  modern htmlhelp format and now corresponds closely to thetutorial available on  the web.
changes to results window (see5 only) viewing large results files should now be much faster; some minor format  changes will also be apparent.
- changes to test selection - one of the fundamental processes in classifier construction is deciding whether to incorporate another test and, if so, which alternative test to pick.
improved boosting the boosting option generates several classifiers that are then voted to  give a final prediction.
the pruning algorithms have been altered slightly to correct a potential  problem.
- confidence of ruleset predictions - calculation of the confidence of a ruleset prediction has been altered so that it more accurately reflects the ruleset's performance on unseen data.
in a customer retention application, for example, the importance of  a case describing a customer might depend on the size of the customer's  account.
the classifier construction settings last used with an application are  stored and are reset whenever that application is selected again.
boosting is no longer disabled when this occurs, but a warning message  is still printed.
- saving cross-referencing results (see5) - see5's cross-referencing facility is a powerful tool for finding the cases covered by particular components of classifiers, and parts of classifiers relevant to particular cases.
the use of costs with rulesets or boosted classifiers, however, can sometimes produce quite high error rates.
this  tends to produce more compact models with higher predictive accuracy.
- 64-bit linux version - c5.0 is now available in a 64-bit linux version for amd pcs with athlon64 and opteron cpus, and intel pcs with extended memory 64 technology.
release 2.05 - attribute usage for rules - a summary showing the relevance of attributes to classifying cases was introduced in release 2.04.
more efficient memory use for high-dimensional applications memory allocation has been improved for applications with thousands of  attributes.
even without the winnowing option, the classifiers produced by release 1.16 may differ from those generated by earlier releases.
a new button on the toolbar allows the previous output to be redisplayed.
- improved error messages - problems with application files (.names, .data, .test, .costs etc) can be corrected more easily because the error message includes the line number of the file in question.
adaptation to microsoft bug-fix (network versions only) to improve security, microsoft windows updates have disabled a feature  that is used by clients to read on-line help, as documentedhere.
the most serious bug in  the initial release concerned the use of rulesets together with a costs file --  the system could sometimes associate an incorrect class with a rule, leading to  abnormally high error rates.
dates can now be entered as either yyyy/mm/dd or yyyy-mm-dd.
these concern the display of implicitly-defined discrete attributes when the value is unknown, and the possible change of classifier settings when the "cross-reference" or "making predictions" windows are invoked immediately after a cross-validation.
a timestamp is rounded to the nearest  minute and implicitly defined attributes can be used to compute functions of  timestamps such as the number of minutes between two of them.
minor tweak boosting has been improved somewhat for large data files (more than four  thousand records).
(thecross-reference facility in particular provides information that is not  available from the command-line version.)
release 2.01 multi-threading the core of see5/c5.0 has been rewritten so that it can take advantage of  computers with dual processors or intel pcs with hyper-threading technology.
the classifier construction settings last used with an application are stored and are reset whenever that application is selected again.
winnowing improved winnowing (pre-filtering the attributes) is now faster and somewhat more  conservative.
the source code that facilitates such deployment has also changed substantially.
as a result, you may observe changes in the rulesets generated from your data.
release 2.02 - faster rule utility ordering - this option could be quite slow when large numbers of rules are involved.
for example, release 1.19 uses 143mb during processing of theforest application, less than half the 296mb needed by release 1.18.
with values `yes' and `no', and `ticket cost' with numeric values.
- attributes excluded/included - the attributes that may be used in constructing a classifier can now be specified in the .names file.
release 2.02 faster rule utility ordering
bug fixes several relatively minor bugs have been fixed.
release 2.04 attribute usage a new summary highlights the usage of attributes that appear in a  classifier.
this  enables a fixed percentage of the cases in adata file to be used for  training.
attributes found to be irrelevant or harmful to
furthermore, the remaining attributes that will be used to build  classifiers are now ranked by importance, with an estimate of how predictive  accuracy or misclassification cost would increase if individual attributes were  removed.
- more efficient memory use for high-dimensional applications - memory allocation has been improved for applications with thousands of attributes.
the use of data subsets has been discontinued in  release 2.06, at a cost of a small increase in the time required for  applications with many continuous attributes and hundreds of thousands of  training cases.
the source code that facilitates such deployment has also changed  substantially.
boosting is now noticeably faster and more resistant to noise in the data.
enhancement of public source code
the problem could arise in applications with many attributes and a  large number of missing values.
- false positive/false negative breakdown - see5/c5.0 currently shows a confusion matrix only when the number of classes does not exceed twenty.
when an attribute's discrete values are noted as ordered, see5/c5.0 exploits
muti-class applications that specify a  costs file should now observe lower average misclassification costs for unseen  cases, especially when rulesets are generated.
(the list of classes is still ok, so you don't have to  change existing names files.)
rule numbering has also been changed: the numbers are now sequential, rather than the previous higgledy-piggledy arrangement.
warning: the new code will not  work correctly with releases before 1.10, nor will release 1.10 work with the  old source code.
the main window can be clicked on top of the output window.
in previous releases, use of the cross-reference facility in the see5  could cause problems when there were errors in thecases file.
furthermore, rules  can be grouped into a number of bands, so that it is possible to see how the  most important x% of rules perform on training and test data.
- bug fix (june 2010) - a bug in the ruleset interpreter was fixed.
this option could be quite slow when large numbers of rules are involved.
- bug fix: pruning - a minor bug that could affect pruning of decision trees has been corrected.
- bug fix - in previous releases, use of the cross-reference facility in the see5 could cause problems when there were errors in the cases file.
if a case's value of the former is `no', the appropriate value for the latter is now `n/a'.
- revision of source code - the source code for reading and interpreting classifiers constructed by see5/c5.0 has been further revised.
this  definition proved unsatisfactory because it depended on the order in which rule  conditions were checked, and also because many attributes ended up having usage  figures around 100%.
this decision is made on the basis of heuristic estimates of usefulness and,  although a test can be removed later, the test itself is hardly ever changed.
if you downloaded  release 2.06 between 22 december 2008 and
- a new button on the classifier construction dialog box allows any .costs file to be ignored.
this option, which is commonly used to increase  classification accuracy, has been updated to give better results, especially on  applications that use differential misclassification costs.
a bug that could allow some or all of these  attributes to be retained was corrected on 12 january 2009.
usage figures for trees and rulesets are now more similar.
- rules are found more quickly (quite a lot more quickly in some applications).
forest cover type data (forest, 581,012 cases, also from  uci kdd archive).
boosting is no longer disabled when this occurs, but a warning message is still printed.
when the value of a is near t, small changes in the value can produce quite different classifications.
- census income data (income, 199,523 cases, obtained from uci kdd archive).
speed is the most obvious improvement, but the rulesets themselves are sometimes smaller.
filestem (where filestem is the application name) to indicate the stage it is up to, and where it is in that stage.
- in the see5 gui, the "use classifier" button for interactive interpretation would not work with ruleset classifiers.
bug fix (windows only): interactive interpreter previous releases could sometimes give incorrect results for boosted  classifiers.
- public source code - output from the sample program is easier to read, and cases are identified by their label attribute (if this is defined).
- faster rulesets - rulesets are now generated more quickly, especially for large applications.
for example, the following graphs compare the performance of 1.18 to the previous release (1.17) on three large datasets: - sleep stage scoring data (sleep, 105,908 cases, obtained frommlc++).
- better rulesets - release 1.13 focuses on improvements to all aspects of rulesets.
release 1.08 - new attribute type label - in some applications, each case has an identifying code or serial number; this information can be recorded in alabel attribute.
this  option can lead to noticeably better predictive performance and is now  recommended for applications with many continuous attributes.
this bug could cause see5/c5.0 to crash, or to give incomplete results with the cross-reference facility.
if there are more than twenty classes, when a confusion matrix would be too large, release 2.04 records the number of false positives and false negatives for each class.
improved error messages problems with application files (.names, .data, .test, .costs etc) can be  corrected more easily because the error message includes the line number of the  file in question.
the sampling option introduced in release 1.07 allows random train/test  splits of an application's data to be generated automatically.
release 1.15 faster boosting
changes to the see5 gui there have been several improvements in line with suggestions made by  users (and please keep them coming!): a new edit menu brings up the .names or .costs file in wordpad,  making it easier to change these files.
the difference is particularly noticeable when the leaves involved have very little supporting data.
predictive  performance are disregarded ("winnowed") and only the remaining  attributes are used to construct decision trees or rulesets.
one noticeable consequence is that decision trees tend to be both smaller and more accurate when there are discrete attributes with many values.
rulesets each rule now provides information on the number of cases that it covers,  and the method of choosing a default class has been altered slightly.
this facility can help to identify problems in the training data, and can be very useful for understanding complex classifiers (such as boosted trees or rulesets).
this option invokes the wordpad editor on the output,  allowing it to be printed, edited etc.
the releases perform  similarly for 25,000 training cases, but 1.17's advantage increases with size  -- at around 200,000 cases, 1.17 is almost twice as fast as 1.16.
improved scalability
you might like to inspect this file from time to time during long runs.
false positive/false negative breakdown see5/c5.0 currently shows a confusion matrix only when the number of  classes does not exceed twenty.
this mechanism is intended to make classification models  more compact without impairing their predictive accuracy.
on the well-known  census dataset, for example, release 1.17 produces a 159-leaf decision tree  that is slightly more accurate than the 211-leaf tree output by release 1.16.
the problem could arise in applications with many attributes and a large number of missing values.
this information to test subranges of the values, e.g. [large-xxl].
speed improvements both c5.0 and see5 are now faster, particularly for large datasets.
new unix options options are now provided to ignore any .costs files and to set the random  number seed (so that runs with sampling etc.
furthermore, rules can be grouped into a number of bands, so that it is possible to see how the most important x% of rules perform on training and test data.
the attribute winnowing option attempts to identify unhelpful attributes  and exclude them from classifiers.
release 1.05 - rulesets - the method for generating and selecting rules has been `tweaked' slightly to improve performance on some datasets.
in release 2.04, an attribute was considered to have been "used"  if its value was required to determine which rules applied to a case.
this application has seven classes (possible types of  forest cover), and the cases are described in terms of 12 numeric and two  multi-valued discrete attributes.
the change is intended to reduce the  number of unhelpful tests appearing in classifiers so that they are smaller  and/or have higher predictive accuracy.
filestem (where filestem is  the application name) to indicate the stage it is up to, and where it is in  that stage.
these versions allow the use of more than 2gb of memory, as  required by some extremely large data mining tasks.
release 1.06 - cross-reference facility (see5) - this has been extended to allow classifiers to be related to cases in .test and .cases files in addition to the .data file.
(this may sound as though 1.18 was rather wasteful with memory.
faster classification with rulesets the process for finding all the rules that are satisfied by a case has  been enhanced.
in response to several requests, the free source code for reading and interpreting classifiers has been extended.
new distribution format for windows see5
the memory required to generate rules from large datasets has been  significantly reduced.
for instance, if attribute price has numeric values, the class specifier would indicate four discrete classes: price less than or equal to 100 price greater than 100 but less than or equal to 1000 price greater than 1000 but less than or equal to 5000 price greater than 5000.
release 1.07 includes an additional programsee5x that can be executed as a console application.
release 1.12 - new data values - a new value n/a can be used when the value of an attribute is not applicable to a case.
- rulesets - each rule now provides information on the number of cases that it covers, and the method of choosing a default class has been altered slightly.
64-bit linux version c5.0 is now available in a 64-bit linux version for amd pcs with athlon64  and opteron cpus, and intel pcs with extended memory 64 technology.
with fuzzy  thresholds, both branches of the tree are explored if the value ofa is  close tot; the results are then combined to give a classification that  changes more slowly with the value ofa. previous releases of see5/c5.0 had a fuzzy thresholds option, but these  soft thresholds were used only in interactive classification.
this can be either a list of the  allowable attributes or, alternatively, a list of the attributes to be excluded.
rules are found more quickly (quite a lot more quickly in some  applications).
release 1.12 new data values a new value n/a can be used when the value of an attribute is not  applicable to a case.
confidence of ruleset predictions calculation of the confidence of a ruleset prediction has been altered so  that it more accurately reflects the ruleset's performance on unseen data.
in some  situations, for instance when investigating alternative classifier construction  options, it is desirable to be able to `lock in' a particular sample, and an  additional option on the classifier construction dialog box is now provided for  this purpose.
release 2.03 introduces an optionalcase weight attribute with numeric values; the effect is to bias the development of a classifier to increase accuracy on more important cases.
viewing large results files should now be much faster; some minor format changes will also be apparent.
discontinuation of solaris support solaris on sparc architectures will no longer be supported.
when (single or boosted) ruleset classifiers are used, a new option shows the rules that are applicable to each case.
the goal of this application is to predict whether a  person's income is above or below $50,000 using 7 numeric and 33 discrete  (nominal) attributes.
this speeds up the generation of decision trees as the following example shows: the graph compares the times required by 1.16 and 1.17 to construct a decision tree for different-sized subsets of a dataset.
in this release the algorithms for generating rulesets have been substantially revised.
a label attribute does  not affect classification in any way, but its value is displayed where possible  with information about the case such as error messages, cross-referencing  results etc.
release 2.03 introduces an optionalcase weight attribute with  numeric values; the effect is to bias the development of a classifier to  increase accuracy on more important cases.
usage  figures for trees and rulesets are now more similar.
bug fix: pruning a minor bug that could affect pruning of decision trees has been  corrected.
- finally, large rulesets can be interpreted more quickly -- an advantage when using the public c code to deploy applications.
enhanced multi-threading additional sections of see5/c5.0 have been multi-threaded.
- smaller trees for applications with multi-valued discrete attributes - the algorithms for discrete attributes have been further improved.
bug fixes two bugs have been fixed: a value of the "minimum cases" option greater than 25 could  occasionally behave as if it was set to 25, and the highest possible threshold of a continuous attribute was sometimes  overlooked.
a new winnowing option helps to overcome this problem by investigating the usefulness of all attributes before any classifier is constructed.
release 1.13 new data type times are read and written in the form hh:mm:ss .
many-valued discrete attributes see5/c5.0's handling of discrete attributes with numerous values is  faster, and thesubsetting option uses less memory.
can install and use the 64-bit version, even if the server runs 32-bit windows.
- new distribution format for windows - see5 release 2.01 is distributed as a self-contained inno executable.
- improvements to the see5 gui - the output window is now more readable, and can be copied and printed directly (without having to switch to wordpad).
right from the very first release, see5/c5.0 has allowed variable costs  to be associated with different types of classification error as describedhere.
- sample locking (see5) - the sampling option introduced in release 1.07 allows random train/test splits of an application's data to be generated automatically.
for example, consider the attributes `purchased ticket?'
when the value of a is near t, small  changes in the value can produce quite different classifications.
rulesets are constructed from half the data and tested on the remaining 52,954 cases to estimate their true error rate.
result window (windows version) the system menu for this window has been extended with the option switch to wordpad.
- enhancement of public source code -
the results summary also incorporates costs directly.
the use of data subsets has been discontinued in release 2.06, at a cost of a small increase in the time required for applications with many continuous attributes and hundreds of thousands of training cases.
these versions allow the use of more than 2gb of memory, as required by some extremely large data mining tasks.
this is particularly useful when discrete attributes have numerous values and is now much faster than in previous releases.
this enables a fixed percentage of the cases in adata file to be used for training.
release 1.10 allows suchimplicitly-defined attributes to be  described by formulas in the .names file.
to ease the changeover, see5/c5.0 and the new public code will still read  model files (.tree and .rules) generated by release 1.11.
improvements to the see5 gui
enhanced multi-threading release 2.04 will now use up to four processors and so will run  faster on the new quad-core cpus and computers with two dual-core processors.
when the subsetting option is invoked, the values of discrete attributes are collected into subsets.
when an  attribute's discrete values are noted as ordered, see5/c5.0 exploits this  information to test subranges of the values, e.g.[large-xxl].
the output window is now more readable, and can be copied and printed  directly (without having to switch to wordpad).
in some applications, each case has an identifying code or serial number;  this information can be recorded in alabel attribute.
- improved boosting - the boosting option generates several classifiers that are then voted to give a final prediction.
furthermore, the remaining attributes that will be used to build classifiers are now ranked by importance, with an estimate of how predictive accuracy or misclassification cost would increase if individual attributes were removed.
release 2.07 - 64-bit windows support - this release includes 64-bit versions of see5 and see5x (the batch executable).
in release 2.04, an attribute was considered to have been "used" if its value was required to determine which rules applied to a case.
the pruning algorithms have been altered slightly to correct a potential problem.
with fuzzy thresholds, both branches of the tree are explored if the value ofa is close tot; the results are then combined to give a classification that changes more slowly with the value ofa. previous releases of see5/c5.0 had a fuzzy thresholds option, but these soft thresholds were used only in interactive classification.
if a case's  value of the former is `no', the appropriate value for the latter is now `n/a'.
this could (very rarely) lead to different  classifiers when the training data were reordered, or when see5/c5.0 was run on  computers with multiple cpus.
for example, the time to generate a ruleset for one dataset with 750,000 cases was reduced by more than 10%.
release 1.20a was also tweaked to improve speed.
rule numbering has also been changed:  the numbers are now sequential, rather than the previous higgledy-piggledy  arrangement.
- - see5 on-line help rewritten - the on-line help for the windows version has been moved to the more modern htmlhelp format and now corresponds closely to thetutorial available on the web.
the 32-bit release of see5 will run under either 32-bit or 64-bit windows, so there is no need to change unless your tasks may use more than 2gb of memory.
release 1.15 - faster boosting - the proprietary variant of boosting employed in see5/c5.0 has been modified considerably.
from this release they have been changed to ascii files, so that models generated on one machine type may be deployed on machines of another type.
- new class type: thresholded continuous attribute - this convenience feature now allows classes to be defined as subranges of a continuous attribute.
- alternative ordering for rulesets - a new option allows rulesets to be ordered by utility, from most important to least important for classification accuracy.
any solaris licensees who might be inconvenienced by this change should contact us to discuss possible remedies, such as moving their licences to different computers.
this option invokes the wordpad editor on the output, allowing it to be printed, edited etc.
selecting tests recent releases used a subset of the training data to eliminate some  possible tests from consideration.
one  noticeable consequence is that decision trees tend to be both smaller and more  accurate when there are discrete attributes with many values.
(recall that see5/c5.0 already has  data types for times and for dates.)
for applications with a .costs file, the unix cross-validation script now  reports average misclassification costs.
the results summary also incorporates  costs directly.
- fuzzy thresholds - a test on a numeric attribute a in a decision tree has two branches associated with it, one for each ofa  t for some thresholdt.
as before, half of the data -- 290,506 cases  -- are used for training and the remainder for testing.
see5 on-line help rewritten
release 1.09 confidence values for decision trees
(note that fuzzy thresholds  have no effect on rulesets.)
the source code for reading and interpreting classifiers constructed by  see5/c5.0 has been further revised.
for instance, if attributeprice has  numeric values, the class specifier price: 100, 1000, 5000.
this is particularly useful when discrete  attributes have numerous values and is now much faster than in previous  releases.
release 1.18 - major improvements to rulesets - release 1.18 complements the changes introduced in 1.17, where the focus was on decision trees.
this can be either a list of the allowable attributes or, alternatively, a list of the attributes to be excluded.
decision trees are  pruned more carefully, and the confidence of predictions is now calculated  differently.
- bug fixes - several relatively minor bugs have been fixed.
every case in this monitoring application is described by 6  numeric-valued attributes and belongs to one of six classes.
the formulas need not be simple --  both numeric and logical values can be introduced in this way.
bug fix: rulesets and global pruning this bug affected only ruleset classifiers generated with global pruning  disabled -- the resulting rulesets might have been over-simplified.
release 2.01 - multi-threading - the core of see5/c5.0 has been rewritten so that it can take advantage of computers with dual processors or intel pcs with hyper-threading technology.
in response to several requests, the free source code for reading and  interpreting classifiers has been extended.
a client pc running 64-bit windows xp/vista/7 can  install and use the 64-bit version, even if the server runs 32-bit windows.
bug fix: attribute winnowing
- changes to .tree and .rules files - up to release 1.11 decision tree and ruleset models have been stored as binary files.
- bug fixes - two bugs have been fixed that (sometimes) cause problems with combinations of options: - use of the discrete value subsetting option together with the rulesets option for applications with ordered discrete attributes; and - use of the attribute winnowing option together with the sampling option and samples greater than 50% (windows only).
- faster subsetting of discrete attributes -
release 1.10 - attributes defined by formulas - it is sometimes convenient to define the value of an attribute as a function of other attribute values rather than by giving the value explicitly in .data files.
release 2.07 64-bit windows support
the use of costs with rulesets or boosted classifiers, however, can sometimes  produce quite high error rates.
this can  result in speed improvements when the application has many discrete attributes,  especially with the discrete value subset option.
a new winnowing option helps to overcome this problem by  investigating the usefulness of all attributes before any classifier is  constructed.
the method for  finding fuzzy thresholds has been changed in release 1.10 and they are now used  whenever a case is classified by a decision tree.
speed is the most obvious improvement, but the  rulesets themselves are sometimes smaller.
the process for selecting rules to form the final ruleset has been  revised, with the result that rulesets are generally a bit smaller without loss  of predictive accuracy.
the 64-bit version of see5 will run only under 64-bit windows xp, windows vista, or windows 7.
linux c5.0 continues to be available in both 32-bit and 64-bit versions.
the change is intended to reduce the number of unhelpful tests appearing in classifiers so that they are smaller and/or have higher predictive accuracy.
(for the technically minded, the results window no longer uses the rich edit control.)
- revision of source code - the source code for reading and interpreting classifiers constructed by see5/c5.0 has been extensively revised.
conversely, click on a decision tree leaf or a rule to see the cases that match that leaf or rule.
the proprietary variant of boosting employed in see5/c5.0 has been  modified considerably.
this release includes 64-bit versions of see5 and see5x (the batch  executable).
even without the winnowing option, the  classifiers produced by release 1.16 may differ from those generated by earlier  releases.
release 1.17 simpler trees a further global decision tree pruning phase has been incorporated  in the new release.
the network version of see5 includes both 32-bit and 64-bit versions for  installation on client pcs.
release 2.01 is distributed as a self-contained inno executable.
fuzzy thresholds a test on a numeric attribute a in a decision tree has two  branches associated with it, one for each ofa  t for some thresholdt.
bug fix: case weight attributes and cost files a bug in release 2.04 could cause problems for applications with two  classes that used both a case weight attribute and a .costs file.
this can result in speed improvements when the application has many discrete attributes, especially with the discrete value subset option.
most of these changes will be invisible to the user, but some (such as the method for selecting subsets of discrete values) may cause classifiers to differ from those produced by release 1.10.
this invokes a  novel method of cross-referencing classifiers and the data from which they were  constructed.
release 2.03 - weighting individual cases - the training cases for some applications have different relative importance.
for example, the following graphs compare the performance of 1.18 to the  previous release (1.17) on three large datasets: sleep stage scoring data (sleep, 105,908 cases, obtained  frommlc++).
- bug fix: case weight attributes and cost files - a bug in release 2.04 could cause problems for applications with two classes that used both a case weight attribute and a .costs file.
- bug fix: rulesets and global pruning - this bug affected only ruleset classifiers generated with global pruning disabled -- the resulting rulesets might have been over-simplified.
this option can lead to noticeably better predictive performance and is now recommended for applications with many continuous attributes.
- bug fixes - two bugs have been fixed: - a value of the "minimum cases" option greater than 25 could occasionally behave as if it was set to 25, and - the highest possible threshold of a continuous attribute was sometimes overlooked.
a bug that could allow some or all of these attributes to be retained was corrected on 12 january 2009.
in this release the algorithms for generating rulesets  have been substantially revised.
smaller trees for applications with multi-valued discrete attributes the algorithms for discrete attributes have been further improved.
- selecting tests - recent releases used a subset of the training data to eliminate some possible tests from consideration.
- attribute winnowing - when the number of attributes is large (in the hundreds, say) it becomes harder to distinguish predictive information from chance coincidences.
release 1.20 has been modified so that  classifiers of these kinds often have lower error rates without a noticeable  increase in misclassification costs.
release 1.19 - rulesets require less memory - the memory required to generate rules from large datasets has been significantly reduced.
the client installation program has been modified to set appropriate registry entries on the client, and also leaves a local copy of the help (see5help.chm) in the see5 folder as a workaround in case new windows updates affect htmlhelp.
earlier releases - names file - the format of the names file has been extended to allow you to select any discrete-valued attribute as the class.
new class type: thresholded continuous attribute this convenience feature now allows classes to be defined as subranges of  a continuous attribute.
the source code for reading and interpreting classifiers constructed by  see5/c5.0 has been extensively revised.
release 2.05 attribute usage for rules a summary showing the relevance of attributes to classifying cases was  introduced in release 2.04.
- improved scalability - for larger datasets, release 1.17 uses internal sampling to evaluate alternative splitting tests.
the 64-bit version of see5 will run only under 64-bit windows xp,  windows vista, or windows 7.
the client  installation program has been modified to set appropriate registry entries on  the client, and also leaves a local copy of the help (see5help.chm) in the see5  folder as a workaround in case new windows updates affect htmlhelp.
release 1.20 has been modified so that classifiers of these kinds often have lower error rates without a noticeable increase in misclassification costs.
better use of cost information
 rulequest research 2012
release 1.09 - confidence values for decision trees - when a case is classified by a decision tree, the calculation of the classification confidence has been changed slightly.
other changes and bug fixes there have been minor modifications to the way soft thresholds for  decision trees are found.
the releases perform similarly for 25,000 training cases, but 1.17's advantage increases with size -- at around 200,000 cases, 1.17 is almost twice as fast as 1.16.
- minor tweaks - several algorithms used in see5/c5.0 have been tuned or otherwise improved.
a timestamp is rounded to the nearest minute and implicitly defined attributes can be used to compute functions of timestamps such as the number of minutes between two of them.
this tends to produce more compact models with higher predictive accuracy.
the -x option invokes cross-validation and specifies the number of folds.
the network version of see5 includes both 32-bit and 64-bit versions for installation on client pcs.
when (single or boosted) ruleset  classifiers are used, a new option shows the rules that are applicable to each  case.
when a case is classified by a decision tree, the calculation of the  classification confidence has been changed slightly.
for example, release 1.19 uses 143mb during processing  of theforest application, less than half the 296mb needed by release 1.18.
this shows, for each attribute, the percentage of training cases for which the value of that attribute is both known and also used in classifying the case.
- discontinuation of solaris support - solaris on sparc architectures will no longer be supported.
release 1.16 the windows gui has also been improved slightly and the public code has a new option governing output format.
see5/c5.0 now uses a modified test selection strategy when the training data contains thousands of cases or more.
implicitly defined attributes can be used to compute functions of times, such as the number of seconds between two times.
release 1.18 major improvements to rulesets release 1.18 complements the changes introduced in 1.17, where the focus  was on decision trees.
this speeds up the generation of decision trees as  the following example shows: the graph compares the times required by 1.16 and 1.17 to construct a  decision tree for different-sized subsets of a dataset.
12 january 2009, we recommend that  you re-install the corrected release.
the linux gui calls the native linux  c5.0, so there is no performance penalty.
warning: the new code will not work correctly with releases before 1.10, nor will release 1.10 work with the old source code.
for  example, a test that separates one class from another in a small subset of the  training cases might be genuinely interesting; on the other hand, if hundreds  of alternatives have been tried, it is more likely that a similar separation  can be found even when none of the tests is helpful for prediction.
(the list of classes is still ok, so you don't have to change existing names files.)
the new release requires very little time to carry out the ordering and  analysis.
to ease the changeover, see5/c5.0 and the new public code will still read model files (.tree and .rules) generated by release 1.11.
in a customer retention application, for example, the importance of a case describing a customer might depend on the size of the customer's account.
(this bug only trivially affected the output of see5/c5.0 and had no noticeable impact on the trees' predictive accuracy.)
the data are divided into a training set of 99,762 cases and a test set of 99,761.
the changes have also been reflected in the public source code for  reading and using classifiers.
cross-reference facility (windows version) see5 now has a new button that looks like a large `x'.
these errors are now reported via pop-up messages.
as a result, you may observe changes  in the rulesets generated from your data.
you might like to inspect this file from time to time during long  runs.
boosting is now noticeably faster and more resistant to  noise in the data.
improved boosting boosting is a technique originated by yoav freund and rob schapire for  building multiple classifiers to improve predictive accuracy.
- for thresholded class attributes (see below), a value of "?" for the continuous target attribute in a .cases file caused problems.
release 1.20a was  also tweaked to improve speed.
the linux gui calls the native linux c5.0, so there is no performance penalty.
- bug fix (windows only): interactive interpreter - previous releases could sometimes give incorrect results for boosted classifiers.
- forest cover type data (forest, 581,012 cases, also from uci kdd archive).
simplified output for rules when the "rules" option is selected, the output now omits  information about decision trees.
options for see5x are set by command-line parameters in exactly the same way as for the unix version c5.0.(not included with the free demonstration download.)
these concern the  display of implicitly-defined discrete attributes when the value is unknown,  and the possible change of classifier settings when the  "cross-reference" or "making predictions" windows are  invoked immediately after a cross-validation.
the data are divided into a training set of 99,762 cases  and a test set of 99,761.
release 1.20/1.20a the changes in release 1.20 were as follows: release 1.20a fixed three bugs in 1.20: - differential misclassification costs with rulesets, boosting -
release 2.06 new algorithm for softening thresholds see5/c5.0 decision trees have an option to soften threshold tests for  continuous attributes; values near the threshold cause both the low and high  branches to be evaluated and combined probabilistically.
release 1.20a fixed three bugs in 1.20: in the see5 gui, the "use classifier" button for interactive  interpretation would not work with ruleset classifiers.
this mechanism is intended to make classification models more compact without impairing their predictive accuracy.
the goal of this application is to predict whether a person's income is above or below $50,000 using 7 numeric and 33 discrete (nominal) attributes.
the information in the cross-referencing window at any point in time can now be saved as a text file.
batch-mode version of see5 guis are great, but it's sometimes useful to be able to run see5
new unix option cross-validation has now been incorporated directly into c5.0 rather than  being available only through thexval script.
the 32-bit release of see5 will run under either 32-bit or 64-bit windows,  so there is no need to change unless your tasks may use more than 2gb of  memory.
finally, large rulesets can be interpreted more quickly -- an advantage  when using the public c code to deploy applications.
release 2.03 weighting individual cases the training cases for some applications have different relative  importance.
bug fixes two bugs have been fixed that (sometimes) cause problems with  combinations of options: use of the discrete value subsetting option together with the rulesets  option for applications with ordered discrete attributes; and use of the attribute winnowing option together with the sampling option  and samples greater than 50% (windows only).
as before, half of the data -- 290,506 cases -- are used for training and the remainder for testing.
- small changes to pruning algorithms -
release 1.05 rulesets the method for generating and selecting rules has been `tweaked' slightly  to improve performance on some datasets.
release 1.10 attributes defined by formulas it is sometimes convenient to define the value of an attribute as a  function of other attribute values rather than by giving the value explicitly  in .data files.
this option, which is commonly used to increase classification accuracy, has been updated to give better results, especially on applications that use differential misclassification costs.
most of these changes will be invisible to the user, but some (such  as the method for selecting subsets of discrete values) may cause classifiers  to differ from those produced by release 1.10.
sample locking (see5)
see5/c5.0 uses a modified form of the original technique that has now been further improved, especially for large datasets and rule-based classifiers.
- winnowing improved - winnowing (pre-filtering the attributes) is now faster and somewhat more conservative.
right from the very first release, see5/c5.0 has allowed variable costs to be associated with different types of classification error as describedhere.
- batch-mode version of see5 - guis are great, but it's sometimes useful to be able to run see5 non-interactively from a ms-dos command window.
- boosting - a modified method is used to predict when boosting is likely to be harmful.