keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ pavey2004microarray]  s. pavey, p. johansson, l. packer,  j. taylor, m. stark, p.m. pollock, g.j. walker, g.m. boyle,  u. harper, s.j. cozzi, k. hansen, l. yudt, c. schmidt,  p. hersey, k.a. ellem, m.g. o'rourke, p.g. parsons, p. meltzer,  m. ringner, and n.k. hayward.
through the use of the chromosome regions  identified as variables, support vector machine analysis was applied to assess  classification potential, and feature selection (recursive feature elimination)
the parametric model of kernel  matrices is created as a set of spectral variants of the auxiliary kernel  matrix, and the missing entries are estimated by fitting this model to the  existing entries.
our  system uses a transformation that converts protein domains to fixed-dimension  representative feature vectors, where each feature records the sensitivity of  each protein domain to a previously learned set of ?protein motifs?
for 10 randomly selected such exons we successfully performed biological verification experiments and confirmed three novel alternatively spliced exons.
sel., 17(4):367-373, 2004.
use of a support vector machine classifier, feature  selection, and test evaluation using cross-validation led to identification of  a generalizable expression signature, a small subset of genes whose expression  potentially can be used to predict tumor outcome in new samples.
the recent trend of secondary structure prediction studies is mostly based on the neural network or the support vector machine (svm).
these observations  suggest that there are gene-specific mutation signals in addition to a common  mapk activation that result from the pleiotropic effects of either braf or nras
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: a powerful proteomics methodology couples  high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) with tandem mass spectrometry and  database-search software, such as sequest.
this flexibility makes  rankgene a useful tool in gene expression analysis and feature selection.
furthermore, cross-validation testing shows that including the bzip experimental data significantly improves performance.
genetically, this progression is accompanied by a significant global increase in losses and gains of dna, and specifically by increased numerical aberrations on chromosome arms 1q, 7p, and 8p.
we propose a pairwise kernel that converts a kernel between single proteins into a kernel between pairs of proteins, and we illustrate the kernel's effectiveness in conjunction with a support vector machine classifier.
43, 246-255; correction (2001) proteins struct.
prediction of protein structural  classes by support vector machines.
availability: the prediction system uses proprietary hardware and is available for both commercial and strategic academic collaborations.
the first difficulty to overcome when combining prediction methods is overfitting.
bmc bioinformatics, 6(1):152, jun 2005.
in addition, the use of a supervised analysis method (support vector machines) made it possible to correctly classify samples.
keywords: biosvm [liu2003in-silico]  huiqing  liu, hao han, jinyan li, and limsoon wong.
febs lett., 576(3):348-352, 2004.
compounds that were tested with both a 24 and 48 h exposure are included.
this method seems to perform slightly better than two profile based methods,  syfpeithi and hla_bind.
the evolution of drug-resistant genetic variants in response to therapy plays a key role in treatment failure and finding a new potent drug combination after therapy failure is considered challenging.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] dna microarray technology provides useful tools for profiling  global gene expression patterns in different cell/tissue samples.
dna repair-related genes were found to be enriched for about eight-fold in the resulting gene set relative to the entire gene set.
relative solvent accessibility  based on a two state-model, for 25 and 0 accuracy, respectively.
the software and datasets are available from the authors upon request.
however, the choice of an appropriate combiner  appears to be an issue in its own right.
we obtained 190 samples from 14 tumor classes and generated a combined expression dataset containing 16063 genes for each of those samples.
keywords: biosvm tumors are associated with altered or deregulated gene products that affect critical cellular functions.
a profiled svm gives different weights to different parts of the training data  to focus the training on the most important regions.
novel species- or  clade-specific sequences may have no counterpart within existing databases and  remain ambiguous features.
[ bib | .pdf ] in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in the  amount of biological information, either dna or protein sequences, that has  become available in public databases.
the success of our consensus approach suggests that similar  methodologies can be developed to improve prediction accuracies for other  bioinformatic problems.
we  also achieve high success rates in recognizing cell cycle regulated genes.
in the discussion that follows, we present such a method, wn-svm, and show that it exhibits a very significant improvement in sensitivity compared with earlier approaches.
keywords: biosvm membrane proteins are generally classified into the following five types: 1), type i membrane protein; 2), type ii membrane protein; 3), multipass transmembrane proteins; 4), lipid chain-anchored membrane proteins; and 5), gpi-anchored membrane proteins.
high-throughput technologies provide some data about these  interactions, but so far that data is fairly noisy.
a steatotic and a non-hepatotoxic 5ht(6) receptor antagonist compound from the same series were successfully discriminated by this toxicogenomics model.
they enable the application of kernel methods, such as support vectormachines, to the analysis and classification of graphs, for example, chemicalcompounds.
keywords: biosvm motivation: since the gap between sharply increasing known sequences and slow accumulation of known structures is becoming large, an automatic classification process based on the primary sequences and known three-dimensional structure becomes indispensable.
keywords: biosvm the ability to predict protein function from structure is becoming increasingly important as the number of structures resolved is growing more rapidly than our capacity to study function.
conclusions we developed a consensus method for predicting protein-protein interface residues by combining sequence and structure-based methods.
in this experiment,  information gain and chi2-test were most effective feature selection methods.
the developed method achieves an average sensitivity of 97.38% (sd = 0.0125) and an average specificity of 93.30% (sd = 0.0174) in 1000 independent k-fold cross-validations, where k = 2, ..., 10.
the problem of distinguishing edge strands from central strands based on sequence information alone is important in predicting residues and mutations likely to be involved in aggregation, and is also a first step in predicting folding topology.
keywords: biosvm this manuscript describes a support vector machine based method for the prediction of constitutive as well as immunoproteasome cleavage sites in antigenic sequences.
we show both techniques improve identification performance and in conjunction provide an improvement over using only one of the techniques.
in this communication, we apply the support vector machine (svm) method, using a combination of protein descriptors based on the properties derived from the composition of n-peptide and jury voting, to the fine-grained fold prediction, and are able to achieve an overall prediction accuracy of 69.6 the same independent set-significantly higher than the previous results.
furthermore, a proper choice of a subset of complementary support vector machines constructed by different features of proteins maximizes the prediction accuracy.
we performed proteomic studies on lung cancer cells to elucidate the mechanisms that determine histological phenotype.
machine learning has not previously been used to predict sirna  efficacy.
these methods  exploit semidefinite programming techniques to reduce the problem of finding  optimizing kernel combinations to a convex optimization problem.
in order to equip the  system with the optimal combination of data modeling methods, we performed a  comprehensive evaluation of several major classification algorithms, gene  selection methods, and cross-validation designs using 11 datasets spanning 74  diagnostic categories (41 cancer types and 12 normal tissue types).
i-mutant2.0:  predicting stability changes upon mutation from the protein sequence or  structure.
some of  these descriptors are specifically designed for the study of a particular type  of properties or agents, and their use for other properties or agents might  generate noise and affect the prediction accuracy of a statistical learning  system.
understanding hiv-1 protease specificity is important when designing hiv inhibitors and several different machine learning algorithms have been applied to the problem.
we discuss the relative merits of various automated methods for recognizing g-protein coupled receptors (gpcrs), a superfamily of cell membrane proteins.
while increasing the number of samples is a plausible solution to the problem of accuracy degradation, it is important to develop algorithms that are able to analyze effectively multiple-class expression data for these special datasets.
in addition, we describe feature scaling methods for further  exploiting prior knowledge of heterogeneity by giving each data type different  weights.
a variety of methods has been designed to annotate sequences on a large scale.
the data set was carefully analyzed and a support  vector machine was trained on a combination of a new robust evolutionary  conservation signal with the local surface properties to predict  protein-protein interfaces.
this paper investigates the next  step-multiclass classification of samples based on gene expression.
shahmuradov, and v. v. solovyev.
the best classification results are found using  svms: the accuracy for training and test sets is 91.2% and 88.2%, respectively.
we have therefore developed a novel method for dimensionality reduction and tested on a published ovarian high-resolution seldi-tof dataset.
the ann used in this study is a feed-forward neural network with a standard  back-propagation training algorithm.
methods: one hundred and eighty-two serum samples including 55 from colorectal cancer (crc) patients, 35 from colorectal adenoma (cra) patients and 92 from healthy persons (hp) were detected by surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (seldi-ms).
bioinformatics, 20:i326-i333, 2004.
the aim of this paper is to systematically benchmark the role of non-linear versus linear techniques and dimensionality reduction methods.
supplementary information: ftp.uni-koeln.de/institute/biochemie/pub/brenda/info/diseasesupp.pdf.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] motivation: during the bavarian newborn screening programme all  newborns have been tested for about 20 inherited metabolic disorders.
bioinformatics, 19(suppl.
predictions by our approach are  robust to errors in the protein n-terminal sequences.
keywords: biosvm background recent technological advances in mass spectrometry pose challenges in computational mathematics and statistics to process the mass spectral data into predictive models with clinical and biological significance.
these molecular patterns can be revealed routinely on a genomic scale.
here we demonstrate how phenotypic classes can be  predicted by combining feature selection and discriminant analysis.
although both the distributed encoding method and the bio-basis function method work well, they still have some limits in use.
the prediction accuracy  is better than those achieved with tools trained on arabidopsis data.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] the support vector machines (svm), as a novel type of learning  machine, were used to develop a quantitative structure-mobility relationship  (qsmr) model of 58 aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic acids based on molecular  descriptors calculated from the structure alone.
our method uses a window of multiple alignment profiles to represent each instance and support vector machines with a polynomial kernel as the learning algorithm.
we extend a central idea previously reported (bock, j. r., and gough, d. a. (2001)
eukaryotic pre-mrnas are spliced to form mature  mrna.
one of the best known examples of this is the signal identifying a core promoter-the site at which the basal transcription machinery starts the transcription of a gene.
keywords: biosvm [yamanishi2004heterogeneous]  y. yamanishi, j.-p. vert, and m. kanehisa.
bmc bioinformatics,  6(1):88, apr 2005.
we then compared the overall  performance of this method with the existing protein classification methods on  benchmark scop datasets.
these kernels are constructed directly from these explicit protein similarity  measures and employ effective profile-to-profile scoring schemes for measuring  the similarity between pairs of proteins.
we employ advanced machine learning techniques in order to answer the following two questions: (1) is a certain exon alternatively spliced?
the datasets used are available at http://www.hh.se/staff/bioinf/ keywords: biosvm
public access to our rna gene predictions and an interface for user predictions is available via the web.
conclusion: gene expression profiles support the classification of ccs/msp as a distinct genomic subtype of melanoma.
availability: a web server implementing the prediction method is available at http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/subloc/. contact: sunzhr@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn; huasj00@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn supplementary information: supplementary material is available at http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/subloc keywords: biosvm motivation: protein fold recognition is an important approach to structure discovery without relying on sequence similarity.
the prediction accuracies are better than, or comparable  to, those obtained by other methods such as neural networks, bayesian  classification, multiple linear regression, and information theory.
we find that it performs significantly better than an svm method that uses blast or smith-waterman similarity scores as features.
the ability to resolve gene expression pathway phenotypes provides insight into how the major machineries of gene expression communicate with each other.
the methods are based on novel classification schemes, the adaboost and the support vector machines (svm).
[ bib |  http | .pdf ] motivation: remote homology detection is the problem of  detecting homology in cases of low sequence similarity.
this paper provided a new and effective method for predicting the chromatography retention of peptides and some insight into the structural features which are related to the capacity factor of peptides.
there has been great expectation that the knowledge of an individual's genotype will provide a basis for assessing susceptibility to diseases and designing individualized therapy.
we have applied a new method to analyze such relationships using support vector machines (svms), which is one of the methods for artificial neuronal network.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm [schwender2004pilot]   holger schwender, manuela zucknick, katja ickstadt, hermann m bolt, and  g. e. n. i. c. a. network.
keywords: biosvm prediction of protein function is of significance in studying biological processes.
by predicting phosphorylation sites and their kinases  from primary protein sequences, we can obtain much valuable information that  can form the basis for further research.
when cross-validation studies are performed, care must be taken to ensure that the test set does not influence the choice of the peaks used in the classification.
for both kinds of data,  svm outperforms various neural networks using the same set of descriptors.
the data reduction allowed us to avoid over-fitting and to increase the efficiency of the algorithm.
our studies shed some lights on global characteristics of  protein dispensability and evolution.
when only sequence information was used, prediction performance was highest using the feature vectors, sequentially neighboring profiles and predicted interaction site ratios, which were calculated by svm regression using amino acid compositions.
when a kernel matrix is derived from  such data, we have to leave the entries for unavailable samples as missing.
the dipeptide composition based method predicted 67.6% of protein sequences with an accuracy of 100% with a reliability index > or =5.
we have developed  and evaluated a variety of learned information extraction systems for  identifying human protein names in medline abstracts and subsequently  extracting information on interactions between the proteins.
three of these proteins or protein fragments are down-regulated and one up-regulated in lung cancer, the disease under consideration in this data set.
non-additive effects are difficult to study because they require the identification of many more binding sequences than are normally necessary for describing additive specificity (typically via the construction of weight matrices).
in the first  step, new features are generated using k-gram nucleotide acid or amino acid  patterns.
this work shows that svm provide a promising alternative to standard  statistical classification and prediction methods in functional genomics.
we conclude  that mapping gene expression data into a high-dimensional feature space is only  a good idea when combined with a learning algorithm, such as the support vector  machine that does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality.
results:  we present a method for detecting remote homology that is based on the presence  of discrete sequence motifs.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] this manuscript describes a support vector machine based method  for the prediction of constitutive as well as immunoproteasome cleavage sites  in antigenic sequences.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the support vector machines (svms) method was introduced for  predicting the structural class of protein domains.
the sequencing of complementary dna (cdna) libraries prepared from the biological interface between two organisms provides an inexpensive way to identify the novel genes that may be expressed as a cause or consequence of compatible or incompatible interactions.
in this paper, support vector machines (svms), a new machine learning  method, is proposed for predicting the alpha-turn types in proteins.
yklee/msvm.html contact: yklee@stat.ohio-state.edu keywords: biosvm hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is one of the most common human malignancies in the world.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of learning  machine, for the first time, was used to develop a quantitative  structure-property relationship (qspr) model of the heat capacity of a diverse  set of 182 compounds based on the molecular descriptors calculated from the  structure alone.
we conclude that  classification of sentence type seems feasible within the domain of rct's.
when used with an svm, the kernels enable fast  prediction on test sequences.
we prepared a training set based on the variant phenotypic annotation of the swiss-prot database and focused our analysis on nssnps having homologous 3d structures.
the quantum chemical parameters  involved in the model are kier and hall index (order3) (khi3), information  content (order 0) (ic0), yz shadow (yzs) and max partial charge for an n atom  (maxpcn), min partial charge for an n atom (minpcn).
these studies open new avenues for  identifying complex disease genes and biomarkers for disease diagnosis and for  assessing drug efficacy and toxicity.
bioinformatics , 2005.
[ bib ] several studies using microarrays have shown that changes in  gene expression provide information about the mechanism of toxicity induced by  xenobiotic agents.
the high rates of correct prediction imply that that the formation of different alpha-turn types is evidently correlated with the sequence of a pentapeptide, and hence can be approximately predicted based on the sequence information of the pentapeptide alone, although the incorporation of its interaction with the other part of a protein, the so-called "long distance interaction", will further improve the prediction quality.
we also show how we can use the learned svm classifier to extract "discriminative sequence motifs" - short regions of the original profile that contribute almost all the weight of the svm classification score - and show that these discriminative motifs correspond to meaningful structural features in the protein data.
in b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and  j.p. vert, editors,kernel methods in computational biology, pages  193-206.
if we include this extra information into our graph model, our classifier yields significantly higher accuracy levels than the vector models.
these accuracies  are slightly better than those obtained from other statistical classification  methods, including k-nearest neighbor (k-nn), probabilistic neural networks  (pnn), and c4.5 decision tree, that use the same sets of data and molecular  descriptors.
we designed a general computational kernel for classification problems that require specific motif extraction and search from sequences.
keywords: biosvm [tsuda2002marginalized]   k. tsuda, t. kin, and k. asai.
the  multi-category support vector machine techniques by crammer and singer, weston  and watkins, and one-versus-rest were found to be the best methods and they  outperform other learning algorithms such as k-nearest neighbors and neural  networks often to a remarkable degree.
using the supervised learning procedure support vector machine, we identified trios of cdnas that could be used to classify samples as normal or tumor, based on single-array analysis.
our experiments indicate a relationship between feature window size and the amount of training data and that a combination of surface words, orthographic features and head noun features achieve the best performance among the feature sets tested.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] here, we report a novel protein sequence descriptor-based remote  homology identification method, able to infer fold relationships without the  explicit knowledge of structure.
two of these machines are used to  combine some of the current best protein secondary structure prediction  methods.
keywords: biosvm [zhang2003classification]   s.-w. zhang, q. pan, h.-c. zhang, y-l. zhang, and h.-y. wang.
keywords: biosvm [yu2004predicting]  c.-s.  yu, c.-j. lin, and j.-k. hwang.
to  facilitate the identification of disease-associated nssnps from a large number  of neutral nssnps, it is important to develop computational tools to predict  the phenotypic effects of nssnps.
availability: matlab source code is available at http://www.kyb.tuebingen.mpg.de/bs/people/weston/kdd/kdd.html contact: jason.weston@tuebingen.mpg.de supplementary information: supplementary material is available at http://www.kyb.tuebingen.mpg.de/bs/people/weston/kdd/kdd.html.
multidimensional analysis confirmed these clusters and more  importantly, it separated carcinoma in situ from papillary superficial lesions  and subgroups within early-stage and invasive tumors displaying different  overall survival.
these state strings are transformed into fixed-dimension feature vectors for input to a support vector machine.
bock, j. r., and gough, d. a. (2002) whole-proteome interaction  mining.
the heuristic method was then  used to search the descriptor space and select the descriptors responsible for  activity.
keywords: biosvm [bock2001predicting]   j. r. bock and d. a. gough.
(1) when performing classification with least squares support vector machines (ls-svms) (without dimensionality reduction), rbf kernels can be used without risking too much overfitting.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of a protein is  essential for describing and understanding its function.
we also present results obtained using the  two-stage classifier on an independent test set of seven capri (critical  assessment of predicted interactions) targets.
kernel hierarchical gene  clustering from microarray expression data.
despite such large training sets accuracy  for biology ne has proven to be consistently far below the high levels of  performance in the news domain where f scores above 90 are commonly reported  which can be considered near to human performance.
an unbiased evaluation study shows that for nssnps with sufficient evolutionary information (with not <10 homologous sequences), the performance of our method is comparable with the sift algorithm, while for nssnps with insufficient evolutionary information (<10 homologous sequences), our method outperforms the sift algorithm significantly.
keywords: biosvm motivation: in this age of complete genome sequencing, finding the location and structure of genes is crucial for further molecular research.
the abundance of each amino acid from p1 to p9 positions in  high-, intermediate-, and low-affinity tap binders were examined.
we have applied a machine learning algorithm, called the support vector machine, to discriminate between correctly and incorrectly identified peptides using sequest output.
support vector machines performed slightly better for most drugs, but knowledge extraction was easier for decision trees.
geno2pheno is freely available at http://cartan.gmd.de/geno2pheno.html.
results: six machine  learning techniques have been investigated for their classification accuracy  focusing on two metabolic disorders, phenylketo nuria (pku) and medium-chain  acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency (mcadd).
some uncharacterized transcripts might be of interest in future studies.
using this data set, we  devised binary classifiers with an artificial neural network and a support  vector machine.
at present, discriminative methods such as  svm-fisher and svm-pairwise, which combine support vector machine (svm) and  sequence similarity, are recognized as the most accurate methods, with  svm-pairwise being the most accurate.
chiral catalysts and additives were encoded by their chirality codes and presented as input to neural networks.
we constructed a data set of proteins with known locations from the swiss-prot database.
our study  shows that true pases in dna and mrna sequences can be characterized by  different features, and also shows that both upstream and downstream sequence  elements are important for recognizing pases from dna sequences.
keywords: biosvm [tsuda2002new]   k. tsuda, m. kawanabe, g. rätsch, s. sonnenburg, and  k.-r. müller.
[ bib |  doi | http ] this paper brings together two strands of machine learning of  increasing importance: kernel methods and highly structured data.
we present a kernel method for predicting protein-protein interactions using a combination of data sources, including protein sequences, gene ontology annotations, local properties of the network, and homologous interactions in other species.
however, the relationship between the expression timecourse of a transcription factor and its target is not obvious (e.g. simple correlation over the timecourse), and current analysis methods, such as hierarchical clustering, have not been very successful in deciphering them.
we also compared the ls bound measure with other evaluation criteria, including the well-known fisher's ratio and mahalanobis class separability measure, and other published gene selection algorithms, including weighting factor and svm recursive feature elimination.
therefore, computational  techniques for predicting protein-protein interactions could be of significant  value.
previous works focused on predicting protein localization in gram-negative bacteria obtained good results.
the subcellular location of a protein can provide  valuable information about its function.
the optimal qspr model developed was based on support vector machines, which showed the following results: the root-mean-square error of 0.2383 and the prediction correlation coefficient r=0.9702 were obtained for the whole data set.
the svm method is a comparatively new learning system which has mostly been used in pattern recognition problems.
our approach enables us to study the full combinatorial set of sequences for a variety of dna-binding proteins, make a detailed analysis of non-additive effects and exploit this information to improve binding site predictions using either weight matrices or support vector machines.
these results demonstrated a novel approach to discovery of new biomarkers for early detection of liver cirrhosis and classification of liver diseases.
although the string kernel approach makes no use of prior biological knowledge, it still captures sufficient biological information to enable it to outperform some of the state-of-the-art methods.
furthermore, we provide evidence that the in vivo moa of hexachlorophene does not match the moa predicted from in vitro data, a situation frequently faced in drug discovery.
in y. weiss, b. schölkopf, and j. platt, editors, adv.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics motivation: one of the most important issues in computational proteomics is to produce a prediction model for the classification or annotation of biological function of novel protein sequences.
keywords: biosvm motivation: during the past decade, the new focus on genomics has highlighted a particular challenge: to integrate the different views of the genome that are provided by various types of experimental data.
availability: svm  software is publicly available at http://microarray.cpmc.columbia.edu/gist.
in this context, the problem of inferring a global protein network for a given organism, using all available genomic data about the organism, is quickly becoming one of the main challenges in current computational biology.
these methods include: linear discriminant analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, k-nearest neighbor classifier, bagging and boosting classification trees, support vector machine, and random forest (rf).
finally, this system was applied to a real-world curation problem and its use was found to reduce the task duration by 70 days.
the performance and predictive ability of svm are investigated and compared with other methods such as multiple linear regression and radial basis function neural network methods.
here, we describe a method that can assign  function from structure without the use of algorithms reliant upon alignments.
keywords: biosvm the identification of the genes that participate at the biological interface of two species remains critical to our understanding of the mechanisms of disease resistance, disease susceptibility and symbiosis.
putative retained genes exhibit possible functions that might explain the peculiar physiological properties of mosses.
supplementary information:
their ability to work in high dimension, to process  non-vectorial data, and the natural framework they provide to integrate  heterogeneous data are particularly relevant to various problems arising in  computational biology.
contact: ekzmao@ntu.edu.sg.
also, the  optimal window length for six svm binary classifiers is established by testing  different window sizes and our new encoding scheme is tested based on this  optimal window size via sevenfold cross validation tests.
prediction of rna-binding proteins from primary sequence by a support vector  machine approach.
three binary classifiers (k-nearest neighbors, weighted  voting, and support vector machines) were applied in conjunction with three  combination scenarios (one-vs-all, all-pairs, hierarchical partitioning).
tradeoffs between various kernels are briefly discussed.
the data  set consists of 70 proteins of human antibody 1 light chains, each represented  by aligned sequences of 120 amino acids.
more information available via www.dbs.ifi.lmu.de/mitarbeiter/borgwardt.html.
recent advances in generating  high-throughput data such as genomic sequence data, protein-protein interaction  data, gene-expression data, and growth-rate data of mutants allow us to  investigate protein dispensability systematically at the genome scale.
the overall classification success rate for a k-nearest neighbor classifier built with just six topological descriptors is 81.2 and 86.5 success rate for a three-descriptor support vector machine model is 99.7 and 83.8% for an external prediction set.
model selection and solution multiplicity issues are also discussed.
a database of this kind may  facilitate the prioritization of novel antibacterial entities in drug discovery  programs.
the  prediction accuracy shows an improvement over other algorithms based on various  types of amino acid composition (single, pair and gapped pair).
keywords: biosvm proteomics [ baumgartner2004supervised]  c. baumgartner, c. bohm,  d. baumgartner, g. marini, k. weinberger, b. olgemoller,  b. liebl, and a. a. roscher.
one problem with discriminant analysis of dna microarray data is that each sample is represented by quite a large number of genes, and many of them are irrelevant, insignificant or redundant to the discriminant problem at hand.
keywords: biosvm [huan2004accurate]   j. huan, w. wang, a. washington, j. prins, r. shah,  and a. tropsha.
the 125 genes at the union of the top 50s are plausible markers for a  prototype decision support system.
keywords: biosvm positive definite kernels between labeled graphs have recently been proposed.
a public colon cancer data set  is used to evaluate the performance of the proposed approach for the two  classification methods: k nearest neighbors (k-nn) and support vector machine  (svm).
the set is split according to enzyme classification (ec) number.
these findings indicate that incorporating structural information is critical to achieving good prediction accuracy when sufficient evolutionary information is not available.
in this study, 409 peptides that bind to human tap transporter with  varying affinity were analyzed to explore the selectivity and specificity of  tap transporter.
keywords: biosvm treatment of wilms tumor has a high success rate, with some 85 of patients achieving long-term survival.
[ bib | doi |  http | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [stapley2002predicting]   b.j. stapley, l.a. kelley, and m.j. sternberg.
these  potential markers highlight the importance of tissue biology in the etiology of  cancer.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] this article describes a method developed for predicting  transmembrane beta-barrel regions in membrane proteins using machine learning  techniques: artificial neural network (ann) and support vector machine (svm).
gene selection for microarray data.
keywords: biosvm simultaneous multiclass classification of tumor types is essential for future clinical implementations of microarray-based cancer diagnosis.
an integrated approach to the detection of  colorectal cancer utilizing proteomics and bioinformatics.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [lee2003classification]   y. lee and c.-k. lee.
assignments between enzyme classes and diseases were created based on their  co-occurrence within a single sentence.
keywords: biosvm [plewczynski2005automotif]   dariusz plewczynski, adrian tkacz, lucjan stanislaw wyrwicz, and leszek  rychlewski.
the reliability of  prediction was further improved by cascade svm that uses features of amino  acids along with sequence.
in  addition, our results further suggest that this system may be combined with  other prediction methods to achieve more reliable results, and that the support  vector machine method is a very useful tool for biological sequence analysis.
support vector machine (svm) and  linear classifier models were generated and evaluated on cross-validated data.
the server  is available for free use by all academic users at the url  http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/pcleavage/ or  http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/mirror/pcleavage/. keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics
support vector machines for prediction  of peptidyl prolyl cis/trans isomerization.
in this paper, we present a svm prediction method of ppii conformation based on local sequence.
it  is concluded that newly sequenced proteins, or those for which  three-dimensional crystal structures are not easily obtained, can be rapidly  analyzed for their binding potential against a library of ligands using this  methodology.
results: the contribution  of this paper is 2-fold.
it currently covers 54 functional families and additional families  will be added in the near future.
in both studied cases, the  predictive ability of the svm model is comparable or superior to those obtained  by mlr and rbfnn.
one of the urgent issues in the use of microarray data is to develop methods for characterizing samples based on their gene expression.
[  bib | http | .pdf ] adult soft tissue sarcomas are a heterogeneous group of tumors,  including well-described subtypes by histological and genotypic criteria, and  pleomorphic tumors typically characterized by non-recurrent genetic aberrations  and karyotypic heterogeneity.
support vector machines (svms) were used as discriminators, and were the focus of off-line training.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] a method for identifying the positions in the amino acid  sequence, which are critical for the catalytic activity of a protein using  support vector machines (svms) is introduced and analysed.
the data set was carefully analyzed and a support vector machine was trained on a combination of a new robust evolutionary conservation signal with the local surface properties to predict protein-protein interfaces.
exploiting  generative models in discriminative classifiers.
supplementary information:  http://www.public.iastate.edu/ chhyan/ismb2004/list.html keywords: biosvm [yamanishi2004protein]   y. yamanishi, j.-p. vert, and m. kanehisa.
model characteristics  and data set features were studied in detail.
the predictive features have been selected through iterative svms/gas, and recursive feature elimination post-processing steps, leading to a very compact cancer-related predictive gene set.
two machine learning methods, support vector machine and random forest, were trained and evaluated.
here we seek to learn the function that maps features of a receptor-ligand pair onto their equilibrium free binding energy.
we present a new method for remote homology detection that relies on combining probabilistic modeling and supervised learning in high-dimensional features spaces.
results: we have devised two novel automated methods in protein backbone conformational state prediction: one method is based on support vector machines (svms); the other method combines a standard feed-forward back-propagation artificial neural network (nn) with a local structure-based sequence profile database (lsbsp1).
two consensus support vector machine (csvm) methods, "positive majority" (pm-csvm) and "positive probability" (pp-csvm), were used in this work.
support vector regression applied to the determination of the developmental age  of a drosophila embryo from its segmentation gene expression patterns.
keywords: biosvm [wang2005using]   m. wang, j. yang, and k-c. chou.
we investigated two new methods: the unique one-against-others and the all-against-all methods.
here, we introduced a novel system  that combines a pre-processing dictionary- and rule-based filtering step with  several separately trained support vector machines (svms) to identify protein  names in the medline abstracts.
(2) how can we identify yet  unidentified exons within known introns?
an adaptive search of possible subsets of features produces a simplified model based on 36 features that predicts at an accuracy of 80 avoid calculating alignments and predict a recently released set of unrelated proteins.
keywords: biosvm [krishnapuram2004bayesian]   balaji krishnapuram, alexander j hartemink, lawrence carin, and  mãâ¡rio a t figueiredo.
compared to  the traditional greedy methods the gain in speed can be up to one order of  magnitude, with results being comparable or even better than the greedy  methods.
a method is briefly sketched by which training of neural networks can be adapted to unequal sample sizes per class.
keywords: biosvm [yan2004identification]   c. yan, v. honavar, and d. dobbs.
a web server gpcrsclass has been developed for predicting amine-binding receptors from its amino acid sequence [http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/gpcrsclass/ and http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/raghava/gpersclass/ (mirror site)].
it has been demonstrated in the literature that biomarkers can be identified to distinguish normal individuals from cancer patients using ms data.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the receptors of amine subfamily are specifically major drug  targets for therapy of nervous disorders and psychiatric diseases.
a data  set comprising genotypes at 25 single nucleotide polymorphic (snp) loci from  518 breast cancer cases and 586 age-matched population-based controls from the  genica study was used to built a classification rule with the discrimination  methods svm (support vector machine), cart (classification and regression  tree), bagging, random forest, logitboost and k nearest neighbours (knn).
finally, we applied our svm classifiers to 13 cases of cup.
while much progress has been made  towards scalingup experimental methods for functional assignment to putative  genes, most current genomic annotation systems rely on computational solutions  for homology modeling via sequence or structural similarity.
[ bib | .pdf ] protein structural annotation and classification is an important  problem in bioinformatics.
j chem inf comput sci, 44(5):1823-8, 2004.
this method achieved matthew's correlation coefficents of 0.54 and 0.43 on in vitro and major histocompatibility complex ligand data, respectively.
an unbiased evaluation study shows that for nssnps with sufficient  evolutionary information (with not <10 homologous sequences), the  performance of our method is comparable with the sift algorithm, while for  nssnps with insufficient evolutionary information (<10 homologous  sequences), our method outperforms the sift algorithm significantly.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 35-70. mit press, 2004.
in the most challenging example, we simulate a  lead-hopping experiment by excluding an entire class of compounds (defined by a  core substructure) from the training set.
analysis of multiple  single nucleotide polymorphisms of candidate genes related to coronary heart  disease susceptibility by using support vector machines.
data mining techniques for cancer detection  using serum proteomic profiling.
different kernel functions and sliding window sizes have been explored to find how they affect the prediction performance.
contact:  samson@fn.csa.ru keywords: gene expression patterns; development; embryo  staging; support vector regression; segmentation genes; drosophila.
yu, s. zheng, y. tang, and l. li.
on other hand there are only few studies on relation between  expression level and composition of nucleotide/protein sequence, using  expression data.
these reference data were analyzed using a supervised learning method (support  vector machines, svm) to generate classification rules.
here, we introduce a new method of beta-turn prediction that uses the support vector machine (svm) algorithm together with predicted secondary structure information.
here we describe the use of large-scale rna profiling and supervised machine learning algorithms to construct a first-generation molecular classification scheme for carcinomas of the prostate, breast, lung, ovary, colorectum, kidney, liver, pancreas, bladder/ureter, and gastroesophagus, which collectively account for [ ]70 cancer-related deaths in the united states.
in addition, our results further suggest that this system may be combined with other prediction methods to achieve more reliable results, and that the support vector machine method is a very useful tool for biological sequence analysis.
we have developed a web-based software, svmprot, for svm  classification of a protein into functional family from its primary sequence.
this latter task, to  the best of our knowledge, is exploited for the first time.
from the  results of comparison, addition of structural information has brought no  significant benefit for the recognition of splice sites and had even lowered  the rate of recognition.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machine (svm) and artificial neural network (ann)  systems were applied to a drug/nondrug classification problem as an example of  binary decision problems in early-phase virtual compound filtering and  screening.
[ bib | doi | arxiv  |http | .pdf ] nuclear receptors are key transcription factors that regulate  crucial gene networks responsible for cell growth, differentiation, and  homeostasis.
predicting  protein-protein interactions from primary structure.
ccs/msp also has typical melanoma features,  including immunoreactivity for s100 and hmb45, pigmentation, mitf-m expression,  and a propensity for regional lymph node metastases.
the method outperformed all the generative-based methods and is comparable with the svm-fisher method.
[ bib | .ps.gz |  .ps.gz ] keywords: biosvm [kin2002marginalized]   t. kin, k. tsuda, and k. asai.
moreover, we show that the same accuracy of prediction can be achieved when the dimensionality of the feature vector was reduced by applying factor analysis.
by use of an efficient data  structure, the kernels are fast to compute once the profiles have been  obtained.
biol., 9(6):849-864,  2002.
for the test set, a predictive correlation coefficient r = 0.9801 and root-mean-square error of 0.1523 were obtained.
results: the average  three-state prediction accuracy per protein (q3) is estimated by  cross-validation to be 77.07 +/- 0.26
bioinformatics, 20(17):3185-3195, nov 2004.
the sirna database is available upon request.
biochem., 84(2):343-348, 2002.
however, little progress has been made in understanding the specificity because nonlinear and overly complex models have been used.
but employing very different codon usage, perhaps indicating a non-ribosomal function.
results: two methods for prediction of molecular bioactivity for drug design are introduced and shown to perform well in a data set previously studied as part of the kdd (knowledge discovery and data mining) cup 2001.
here we assess the use of a global  expression profiling technique that identifies chromosome regions corresponding  to differential gene expression, termed comparative expressed sequence  hybridization (cesh).
the recent  development of microarray technologies has enabled biologists to quantify gene  expression of tens of thousands of genes in a single experiment.
work is in  progress to make the method available on-line and to integrate the svm  predictions into the psipred server.
in this article, we present a remote homolog detection method called svm-hmmstr that overcomes the reliance on detectable sequence similarity by transforming the sequences into strings of hidden markov states that represent local folding motif patterns.
clustering of the publicly available data and  subsequent prediction resulted in a total of 19,081 non-redundant orf.
second, we attempt to improve the mpi principles and existing tools by an algorithm that can filter ineffective sirnas.
in this paper, we propose a new algorithm called pslip which uses support vector machines (svms) in conjunction with multiple physicochemical properties of amino acids to predict protein subcellular localization in eukaryotes across six different locations, namely, chloroplast, cytoplasmic, extracellular, mitochondrial, nuclear and plasma membrane.
hepatotoxic compounds in the  database were either known hepatotoxicants or showed hepatotoxicity during  preclinical testing.
these studies open new avenues for identifying complex disease genes and biomarkers for disease diagnosis and for assessing drug efficacy and toxicity.
prediction of p-glycoprotein substrates by a support  vector machine approach.
we describe how in practice the  selection bias can be assessed and corrected for by either performing a  cross-validation or applying the bootstrap external to the selection process.
this study presents a physicochemical property based protein localization prediction algorithm.
the method  discriminated amine subfamily of gpcrs from globular proteins with matthew's  correlation coefficient of 0.98 and 0.99 using amino acid composition and  dipeptide composition, respectively.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machine, as a novel type of learning machine, for the first time, was used to develop a qsar model of 57 analogues of ethyl 2-[(3-methyl-2,5-dioxo(3-pyrrolinyl))amino]-4-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate (epc), an inhibitor of ap-1 and nf-kappa b mediated gene expression, based on calculated quantum chemical parameters.
the  protein fingerprint data were analyzed by bioinformatics tools.
although svm outperformed the ann classifiers with regard to overall prediction accuracy, both methods were shown to complement each other, as the sets of true positives, false positives (overprediction), true negatives, and false negatives (underprediction) produced by the two classifiers were not identical.
acta,  1648(1-2):127-133, 2003.
an essential part focuses on solving a large number of parameterized differential equations.
keywords: biosvm [myasnikova2002support]   e. myasnikova, a. samsonova, m. samsonova, and j. reinitz.
examinations for self-consistency and jackknife testing  of the svms method were conducted for three sets consisting of 1,911, 2,044,  and 2,191 proteins.
the results  showed that employing the active learning method can achieve high accuracy and  significantly reduce the need for labeled training instances.
keywords: biosvm microarray objective:
[  bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [helma2004data]   c. helma, t. cramer, s. kramer, and l. de raedt.
we employed the so-called "active learning paradigm" from machine learning for selecting the successive batches.
results: unsupervised analyses demonstrated a clear distinction between sts and melanoma and, furthermore, showed that ccs/msp cluster with the melanomas as a distinct group.
in this paper, we propose a general  framework to incorporate feature (gene) selection into pattern recognition in  the process to identify biomarkers.
these results guided the development of a software system that fully automates cancer diagnostic model construction with quality on par with or better than previously published results derived by expert human analysts.
methods for  optimizing antiviral combination therapies.
in order to increase the power of predictive methods for  protein-protein interaction sites, we have developed a consensus methodology  for combining four different methods.
one approach is to assign functional family of a protein to provide useful hint about its function.
results: our new tagging-system nlprot is  capable of extracting protein names with a precision (accuracy) of 75 76 and  contains 200 annotated abstracts.
this server accepts protein sequences in  any standard format and present results in a user-friendly format.
in 3d, we consider similarity measures between  histograms of pairwise distances between atom classes.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm we present novel kernels that measure similarity of two rna sequences, taking account of their secondary structures.
a  comparative study of feature selection and multiclass classification methods  for tissue classification based on gene expression.
among dozens of  unequivocally categorized genes, many were known to be causally related to the  drug mechanisms.
the model trained on the remaining compounds is able to recall 75% of the actives from the "new" lead series while correctly classifying >99% of the 5000 inactives included in the validation set.
we discuss the relative  merits of various automated methods for recognizing g-protein coupled receptors  (gpcrs), a superfamily of cell membrane proteins.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the large volume of single nucleotide polymorphism  data now available motivates the development of methods for distinguishing  neutral changes from those which have real biological effects.
results: in this paper we describe the results of analysis of amino acid preference in mammalian viruses.
for such a purpose, a machine learning method, support vector machine (svm), was explored for the prediction of p-gp substrates.
in order to equip the system with the optimal combination of data modeling methods, we performed a comprehensive evaluation of several major classification algorithms, gene selection methods, and cross-validation designs using 11 datasets spanning 74 diagnostic categories (41 cancer types and 12 normal tissue types).
here we describe the use of large-scale rna profiling and  supervised machine learning algorithms to construct a first-generation  molecular classification scheme for carcinomas of the prostate, breast, lung,  ovary, colorectum, kidney, liver, pancreas, bladder/ureter, and  gastroesophagus, which collectively account for [ ]70 cancer-related  deaths in the united states.
the fragment generator finds all fragments (i.e. linearly connected atoms) that satisfy user-specified constraints regarding their frequency and generality.
in  addition, key expression changes related to the mechanism of
in our approach,  annotation was provided through gene ontology terms by applying multiple  support vector machines (svm) for the classification of correct and false  predictions.
hierarchical cluster analysis, principal component analysis, and support vector machine (svm) analysis exploited genomic correlations within the data to classify ccs/msp.
they also outperform the decomposition approaches based on bi-class svms.
this indicates that the structural class of a protein inconsiderably correlated with its amino and composition, and the support vector machine can be referred as a powerful computational tool for predicting the structural classes of proteins.
fivefold cross validation verifies the high  sensitivity and selectivity of the model.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ han2004prediction]  l.y. han, c.z. cai, s.l. lo, m.c. chung, and y.z. chen.
from information theory, the entropy of a random variable x measures the information content carried by x and the mutual information (mi) between two random variables x and y measures the correlation between x and y. we define a subgraph x as coherent if it is strongly correlated with every sufficiently large sub-subgraph y embedded in it.
contrary to arabidopsis, where cds contain on average 44% g/c, in physcomitrella the average g/c content is 50%.
keywords: biosvm [saeys2004feature]   y. saeys, s. degroeve, d. aeyels, p. rouzé, and  y. van de peer.
our approach relies on novel probabilistic models for dna  binding sites and modules of binding sites, on algorithms to study them from  the data and on a support vector machine that uses the models studied to  classify a set of sequences.
the performance was compared using various different descriptor sets and descriptor combinations based on the 120 standard ghose-crippen fragment descriptors, a wide range of 180 different properties and physicochemical descriptors from the molecular operating environment (moe) package, and 225 topological pharmacophore (cats) descriptors.
keywords: biosvm motivation: in order to extract protein sequences from nucleotide sequences, it is an important step to recognize points at which regions start that code for proteins.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] a high-performance method was developed for protein secondary  structure prediction based on the dual-layer support vector machine (svm) and  position-specific scoring matrices (pssms).
these kernels measure the similarity between two sequences by summing up scores obtained from local alignments with gaps of the sequences.
we perform feature selection based on  a first-order adaptive scaling algorithm, which confirms the importance of  changes in certain amino acid positions and identifies other positions that are  key in the characterization of protein function.
the use of all genes can suppress or reduce the performance of a classification rule due to the noise of nondiscriminatory genes.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003protein]  c.z. cai,  w.l. wang, l.z. sun, and y.z. chen.
for model fitting, we adopt the em algorithm (distinguished from the em algorithm of dempster et al., 1977) based on the information geometry of positive definite matrices.
results: this paper presents new methods to infer enzyme networks from the integration of multiple genomic data and chemical information, in the framework of supervised graph inference.
compared to the traditional greedy methods the gain in speed can be up to one order of magnitude, with results being comparable or even better than the greedy methods.
both algorithms are trained on an identical data set consisting of 179 cns active molecules and 145 cns inactive molecules.
although both the distributed encoding method and the bio-basis  function method work well, they still have some limits in use.
in this paper we  present a general method for characterizing a set of sequences by their  recurrent motifs.
results: we extracted several hundred local sequence features of constitutive as well as alternative exons.
no physical parameters are explicitly involved in calculations.
exploring functional relationships between components of the  gene expression machinery.
we selected hiv-1  protease as the subject of the study.
it is shown that the  prediction accuracy of the network reconstruction consistently improves owing  to the introduction of chemical constraints, the use of a supervised approach  and the weighted integration of multiple datasets.
prediction of cytochrome p450 3a4, 2d6, and  2c9 inhibitors and substrates by using support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [hu2004improved]  h.j. hu,  y. pan, r. harrison, and p.c. tai.
the size of the sample (n = 2,671) indicates that this approach is robust and may have widespread applicability beyond restricted families of receptor types.
results: we demonstrate that svms with  selective kernel scaling are an effective tool in discriminating between benign  and pathologic human immunoglobulin light chains.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: a new method that uses support vector machines  (svms) to predict protein secondary structure is described and evaluated.
our svm classification system used a set of linear solvation  energy relationship (lser) descriptors and was optimized by leave-one-out cross  validation procedure.
three-state  prediction results provide a 64.5 approach has successfully been applied for  solvent accessibility prediction by considering long-range interaction and  handling unbalanced data.
our study shows that true pases in dna and mrna sequences can be characterized by different features, and also shows that both upstream and downstream sequence elements are important for recognizing pases from dna sequences.
they can be used to probe biological systems and to discover new drugs and other useful compounds.
a feature  selection method, recursive feature elimination (rfe), is used to automatically  select molecular descriptors for support vector machines (svm) prediction of  p-glycoprotein substrates (p-gp), human intestinal absorption of molecules  (hia), and agents that cause torsades de pointes (tdp), a rare but serious side  effect.
in general, the svm methodology was able to produce models with  the best predictive performance, followed by brann and then plsda.
keywords: biosvm motivation: feature subset selection is an important preprocessing step for classification.
keywords: biosvm background we describe the e-rfe method for gene ranking, which is useful for the identification of markers in the predictive classification of array data.
logistic regression analysis led to  superior classification rules (sensitivity >96.8 to all investigated  algorithms.
we compute the kernels efficiently using a mismatch tree data structure, allowing us to calculate the contributions of all patterns occurring in the data in one pass while traversing the tree.
keywords: biosvm [sanchez-carbayo2003gene]   marta sanchez-carbayo, nicholas d socci, juan jose lozano, wentian  li, elizabeth charytonowicz, thomas j belbin, michael b prystowsky,  angel r ortiz, geoffrey childs, and carlos cordon-cardo.
a statistical learning algorithm trained from all of these data to recognize particular classes of proteins-membrane proteins and ribosomal proteins-performs significantly better than the same algorithm trained on any single type of data.
griffin: a system for predicting gpcr-g-protein coupling  selectivity using a support vector machine and a hidden markov model.
we also demonstrate that various rule induction methods are able to  identify protein interactions with higher precision than manually-developed  rules.
on a core promoter dataset our results are comparable with the state-of-the-art mcpromoter.
the accurate prediction of intron boundaries largely facilitates the correct prediction of gene structure in nuclear genomes.
to facilitate the identification of disease-associated nssnps from a large number of neutral nssnps, it is important to develop computational tools to predict the phenotypic effects of nssnps.
we show computational experiments for mck using 74 sets of human trna sequence data: (i) kernel principal component analysis (pca) for visualizing trna similarities, (ii) supervised classification with support vector machines (svms).
in this research, the proteins are classified  into the following 12 groups: (1) chloroplast, (2) cytoplasm, (3) cytoskeleton,  (4) endoplasmic reticulum, (5) extracall, (6) golgi apparatus, (7) lysosome,  (8) mitochondria, (9) nucleus, (10) peroxisome, (11) plasma membrane, and (12)  vacuole, which have covered almost all the organelles and subcellular  compartments in an animal or plant cell.
wapp thus predicts peptides that are cleaved by the proteasome at the c terminus, transported by tap, and show significant affinity to mhc class i molecules.
to test the influence of genetic polymorphisms on breast cancer risk, we have measured 98 single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) distributed over 45 genes of potential relevance to breast cancer etiology in 174 patients and have compared these with matched normal controls.
the left-out active compounds  comprised approximately 40% of the actives.
we have benchmarked the  descfold method against several other state-of-the-art fold recognition  algorithms for the 172 livebench-8 targets, and we concluded that it was able  to add value to the existing techniques by providing a confident hit for at  least 10 known methods.
the motif content of a pair of sequences is used  to define a similarity that is used as a kernel for a support vector machine  (svm) classifier.
a large number of metabolic pathways remain unknown nowadays, and many enzymes are missing even in known metabolic pathways.
we derive an  expectation-maximization (em) algorithm to efficiently compute a maximum a  posteriori (map) point estimate of the various parameters.
febs lett., 579(13):2878-82, may 2005.
the chemical compatibility between two enzymes is obtained automatically from the information encoded by their enzyme commission (ec) numbers.
matthew's correlation coefficient (mcc) could reach 0.4.
our method is tested in three subcellular localization predictions for prokaryotic proteins and four subcellular localization predictions for eukaryotic proteins on reinhardt's dataset.
experimental  evidence highlights the gain in quality resulting from combining some of the  most widely used prediction methods with our svms rather than with the ensemble  methods traditionally used in the field.
based on the method, a web server,  pcleavage, has also been developed.
keywords: biosvm [wagner2004computational]   m. wagner, d.n. naik, a. pothen, s. kasukurti, r.r. devineni,  b.l. adam, o.j. semmes, and g.l. wright jr. computational protein  biomarker prediction: a case study for prostate cancer.
one of the  urgent issues in the use of microarray data is to develop methods for  characterizing samples based on their gene expression.
these potential "retained  genes" might have been lost during seed plant evolution.
in vitro experiments and a dog study confirmed the correctness of the toxicogenomics alert.
a  blind pilot analysis of the genotypic data set was a first approach to obtain  an impression of the statistical structure of the data.
the predicted accuracies are evaluated using  the internal and external crossvalidation.
we approached it as a modified form of the document classification task.
this study may provide a clue for the needs of different chemotherapy and the reason for heterogeneity of the clinical responses according to histological subtypes.
biol.,  7(1,2):95-114, 2000.
active learning in the drug discovery process.
protein sci., 13(5):1402-1406, 2004.
the seven descriptors selected using ga-pls, which is a sophisticated hybrid approach that combines ga as a powerful optimization method with pls as a robust statistical method for variable selection, were used as inputs of rbfnns and svm to predict the isoelectric point of an amino acid.
these algorithms need information sources or features from which the models can be computed.
many tools for localizing  these boundaries on dna sequences have been developed and are available to  researchers through the internet.
i binding peptides using support vector machines, shows high performance and is easy to apply to a large number of mhc class i types.
fibroblast cultures were irradiated, and their expression profile was compared using intensity ratios of the cdna microarrays representing 5603 image clones.
whereas protein kernels proposed  in the literature provide a similarity between single proteins, prediction of  interactions requires a kernel between pairs of proteins.
the prediction system used-predphospho-can be applied to the functional study of proteins, and can help predict the changes in phosphorylation sites caused by amino acid variations at intra- and interspecies levels.
inpacific  symposium on biocomputing, pages 139-150, 2001.
results: we  describe a generalization of the hierarchical clustering algorithm that  efficiently incorporates these higher-order features by using a kernel function  to map the data into a high-dimensional feature space.
of the different methods explored the most promising  one was support vector machines which gave us high levels of sensitivity and  specificity.
learning kernels from biological networks by  maximizing entropy.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: discovery of host and pathogen genes expressed at  the plant-pathogen interface often requires the construction of mixed libraries  that contain sequences from both genomes.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(75), 2004.
we proposed a systematic approach for determining the  discriminatory genes and revealing the biological phenomena of hcc with cdna  microarray data.
further test on the swissprot new-unique data set showed that locsvmpsi also performed better than some widely used prediction methods, such as psortii, targetp and locnet.
compared to the currently available annotation, we provided more than twice the number of contigs with good quality annotation, and additionally we assigned a confidence value to each predicted go term.
gene  expression profiling after radiation-induced dna damage is strongly predictive  of brca1 mutation carrier status.
of these  putative transcripts, approximately 30% have a homolog in both rice and  arabidopsis transcriptome.
compared to prediction of mhc binding  only, we report an increased overall accuracy and a lower rate of false  positive predictions for the hla-a*0201, hla-b*2705, hla-a*01, and hla-a*03  alleles using wapp.
the amino acid composition and the auto-correlation functions based on the amino acid index profile of the primary sequence have been taken into account in the algorithms.
a computational ensemble pharmacophore model has recently been used for the prediction of p-gp substrates with a promising accuracy of 63%.
j chem inf comput sci, 44(4):1497-505, 2004.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation:
bioinformatics, 18(5):689-696, 2002.
in a second phase, the three  top-performing descriptors were combined to obtain a final method with improved  performance, which we named descfold.
a key goal of genomics is to assign function to genes, especially for orphan sequences.
moreover, we show that the same  accuracy of prediction can be achieved when the dimensionality of the feature  vector was reduced by applying factor analysis.
we have  tested our method on several independent data sets, including two public ones  and our own extracted sequences.
[ bib  |.pdf | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [beerenwinkel2001geno2pheno]  n. beerenwinkel, b. schmidt, h. walter, r. kaiser,  t. lengauer, d. hoffman, k. korn, and j. selbig.
we propose a pairwise  kernel that converts a kernel between single proteins into a kernel between  pairs of proteins, and we illustrate the kernel's effectiveness in conjunction  with a support vector machine classifier.
these predictions were supported by comprehensive review of the patients' clinical histories.
process syst., volume 18, pages 1401-1408,  cambridge, ma, 2006.
keywords: machine learning, feature subset selection, estimation of distribution algorithms, splice site prediction.
we applied this ls bound measure for gene selection on two benchmark microarray datasets: colon cancer and leukemia.
according to the f1 performance measure and  the rate of false positive (rfp) measure, the string kernel method performs  well in classifying protein sequences.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: both small interfering rnas (sirnas) and antisense  oligonucleotides can selectively block gene expression.
we also find evidence for signals downstream of the start codon, previously introduced as transcriptional enhancers.
the method appears to work best when a substantial set of relevant documents is obtained, while it works poorly on single documents and/or short passages.
by scanning predicted peptides found in the human genome with the svmtree server, we have identified a large number of genes that encode gpcrs.
we found closely matching masses in a database for protein  expression in lung cancer for three of the four proteins we used to classify  lung cancer.
we designed a general computational kernel for  classification problems that require specific motif extraction and search from  sequences.
the resulting svm-based classifier achieves a true positive rate of 48.5% at a false positive rate of 1%.
with the development of genome sequencing technology and bioinformatics, biologists can now deduce all the proteins that are likely produced in a given bacteria and have attempted to classify where proteins are located in a bacterial cell.
this method achieved matthew's correlation coefficents  of 0.54 and 0.43 on in vitro and major histocompatibility complex ligand data,  respectively.
kernels for small molecules and the  prediction of mutagenicity, toxicity and anti-cancer activity.
the results can be used for a variety of intelligent language  processing applications.
med., 32(2):71-83,  2004.
results: most current  discriminative methods for protein fold prediction use the one-against-others  method, which has the well-known ?
our experiments suggest that this technique performs well relative to several other remote homology methods for the majority of protein domains in scop 1.37 pdb90.
a supervised svm learning approach further validated this finding and provided a user-independent approach to diagnosis.
all these results indicate that locsvmpsi is a powerful tool for the prediction of eukaryotic protein subcellular localization.
our study suggests the  potential of svm as a useful tool for facilitating the prediction of  protein-rna interactions.
peptides, 23:205-208, 2002.
however, the  simultaneous classification across a heterogeneous set of tumor types has not  been well studied yet.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] molecular portraits, such as mrna expression or dna methylation  patterns, have been shown to be strongly correlated with phenotypical  parameters.
pac  symp biocomput, pages 370-81, 2005.
our results suggest the importance of taking into account the characteristics in this data which may also be relevant in other problems of a similar type.
high-throughput technologies provide some data about these interactions, but so far that data is fairly noisy.
but few studies have been made to predict ppii secondary  structures computationally.
clustering of the publicly available data and subsequent prediction resulted in a total of 19,081 non-redundant orf.
for such a purpose, a machine learning method, support  vector machine (svm), was explored for the prediction of p-gp substrates.
supplementary  information: http://www.esat.kuleuven.ac.be/ npochet/bioinformatics/ keywords: biosvm microarray [ passerini2004learning]  a. passerini and p. frasconi.
learn., 46(1/3):389-422, jan 2002.
keywords: biosvm objective: to find new potential biomarkers and establish the patterns for the detection of ovarian cancer.
the overall prediction accuracy of  this hybrid classifier for the disulfide-bonding state of cysteines in proteins  has scored 84.1 on cysteine and protein basis using the rigorous jack-knife  procedure, respectively.
the process of building multiclass classifiers is divided into two components: (i) selection of the features (i.e. genes) to be used for training and testing and (ii) selection of the classification method.
the polynomial kernel functions with different  parameter d were chosen.
estimates show that more than half of the human genes and at least  one-third of the genes of less complex organisms, such as nematodes or flies,  are alternatively spliced.
our software  (eclat) has achieved a classification accuracy of 93.1 vulgare and b. graminis,  which is a significant improvement compared to pf-ind (prediction accuracy of  81.2 est sequences with at least 50 nt of coding sequence can be classified by  eclat with high confidence.
validation of the method shows that the function can be predicted to an accuracy of 77 protein.
this work explores  the use of a statistical learning method, support vector machine (svm), for tdp  prediction.
these data also suggest that interactions  between two or more of these elements may contribute to exon recognition, and  provide candidate sequences for assessment as intronic splicing enhancers.
in 1d, we consider string kernels  based on smiles strings.
unlike other algorithms, contextual  information is preserved by dividing the protein sequences into clusters.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] we explore two different methods to predict the binding ability  of nonapeptides at the class i major histocompatibility complex using a general  linear scoring function that defines a separating hyperplane in the feature  space of sequences.
keywords: biosvm recent reports support a possible future application of gene expression profiling for the diagnosis of leukemias.
in most cases, we achieved better validation results than those reported previously on the same data sets.
this approach correctly identified all 20 experimentally verified promoters of human chromosome 22.
it was also compared with the results from a simple search algorithm.
our  approach should be useful in structure prediction and modeling.
results: our new tagging-system nlprot is capable of extracting protein names with a precision (accuracy) of 75 76 and contains 200 annotated abstracts.
histopathology and clinical chemistry data were used to anchor the transcript profiles to an established endpoint (steatosis, cholestasis, direct acting, peroxisomal proliferation or nontoxic/control).
we  developed a text mining system that supports researchers in their search for  experimentally obtained parameters for kinetic models.
furthermore, they predicted the correct class of hepatotoxicant in most cases.
when used with an svm, the kernels enable fast prediction on test sequences.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] recent reports support a possible future application of gene  expression profiling for the diagnosis of leukemias.
keywords: biosvm [vert2004primer]  j.-p.  vert, k. tsuda, and b. schölkopf.
omics,  8(2):131-152, 2004.
using feature selection methods we find seven attributes that are dominant for the task of classification.
previous studies have  shown that alternatively spliced exons possess several features that  distinguish them from constitutively spliced ones.
as illustration, naive bayes models,  simple graphical models, and svms were applied to published transcription  profile data for 1,988 genes in 62 colon adenocarcinoma tissue specimens  labeled as tumor or nontumor.
results with e-rfe, we speed up the recursive feature elimination (rfe) with svm classifiers by eliminating chunks of uninteresting genes using an entropy measure of the svm weights distribution.
[ bib  |http | .pdf ] motivation: a major post-genomic scientific and technological  pursuit is to describe the functions performed by the proteins encoded by the  genome.
in terms of detection  performance and selected proteomic patterns.
contact: booch@cse.ucsc.edu keywords: biosvm support vector machine (svm), which is one kind of learning machines, was applied to predict the subcellular location of proteins from their amino acid composition.
chromosomal aberration and other data  support the prediction that the three genes at the intersection of the top 50s,  cystatin c, azurocidin, and adipsin, are good targets for investigating the  basic biology of all/aml.
the increasing number of protein sequences and 3d  structure obtained from genomic initiatives is leading many of us to focus on  proteomics, and to dedicate our experimental and computational efforts on the  creation and analysis of information derived from 3d structure.
as tumor samples can differ from normal samples in their cell-type composition, we also perform loocv experiments using appropriately modified sets of genes, attempting to eliminate the resulting bias.
enzyme names for the 3901 enzyme classes in the brenda database, a repository for quantitative and qualitative enzyme information, were identified in more than 100,000 abstracts retrieved from the pubmed literature database.
testing the quality of regression on the training set showed good prediction accuracy.
methods for facilitating early  elimination of potential p-gp substrates are useful for facilitating new drug  discovery.
by use of an efficient data structure, the kernels are fast to compute once the profiles have been obtained.
in this article, based on the concept  of using the functional domain composition to define a protein, the support  vector machine algorithm is developed for predicting the membrane protein type.
kernel pca with linear kernel gives better results.
results: we introduce a class of string kernels, called mismatch kernels, for use with support vector machines (svms) in a discriminative approach to the problem of protein classification and remote homology detection.
the validation results show that the prediction performance was  organism-independent and could reproduce the annotation of other automated  systems as well as high-quality manual annotations.
keywords: biosvm featureselection microarray [zhou2005recognition]  guodong zhou, dan shen, jie zhang, jian su, and soonheng  tan.
[ bib | .ps | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [furey2000support]   t. s. furey, n. cristianini, n. duffy, d. w. bednarski,  m. schummer, and d. haussler.
a multiclass svm architecture was designed to place less discriminatory load on weaker discriminators, and novel svm kernels were used to boost discrimination strength.
peptides, 24(4):629-630, 2003.
validation  of the method shows that the function can be predicted to an accuracy of 77  protein.
the performance of the  method was evaluated using 5-fold cross-validation.
we take an  alternative approach, employing a relatively simple model that learns  dynamically from a large collection of data.
the application of bootstrapping techniques to hierarchical clustering segregated early-stage and invasive transitional carcinomas into two main clusters.
the  results of the model for 6022 tetrapeptides indicate that the rates of  self-consistency for beta-turn types i, i', ii, ii', vi and viii and  non-beta-turns are 99.92 98.02 training data, the rate of correct prediction by  the svms for a given protein: rubredoxin (54 residues.
both k-nearest  neighbor and support vector machine models are developed.
the objectives of this paper are (1) to briefly review the application of data mining techniques in proteomics for cancer detection/diagnosis; (2) to explore a novel analytic method with different feature selection methods; (3) to compare the results obtained on different datasets and that reported by petricoin et al.
our main selection strategy is based on the maximum margin hyperplane-generated by "support vector machines".
results: a systematic  benchmarking study is performed by comparing linear versions of standard  classification and dimensionality reduction techniques with their non-linear  versions based on non-linear kernel functions with a radial basis function  (rbf) kernel.
j. pathol.,  163(2):505-16, aug 2003.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ zhang2005improved]  qidong zhang, sukjoon yoon, and william j welsh.
among its unique  attractive features, the present svm method avoids overtraining and compresses  information and provides a predicted reliability index.
this is an important step in genomic  analysis to determine protein coding from nucleotide sequences.
recent genomic and bioinformatic advances have motivated the development of numerous network models intending to describe graphs of biological, technological, and sociological origin.
based  on the knowledge of known rna-binding and non-rna-binding proteins, an svm  system was trained to recognize rna-binding proteins.
given profiling data from two  types of samples, genes that most distinguish the samples (marker genes) are  good candidates for subsequent in-depth experimental studies and developing  decision support systems for diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring.
we have clustered and assembled  physcomitrella patens est and cds data in order to represent the transcriptome  of this non-seed plant.
we briefly critique some of these methods prior to a detailed evaluation of gene harvesting.
contact: dgough@bioeng.ucsd.edu keywords: biosvm [ben-hur2003remote]   a. ben-hur and d. brutlag.
the prediction result of the svm model  is better than that of heuristic method.
in contrast to  information gain and chi2-test, mutual information had relatively poor  performance due to its bias toward favoring rare features and its sensitivity  to probability estimation errors.
bmc  bioinformatics, 6(1):174, jul 2005.
in addition, key expression changes related to the mechanism of mp-induced hepatotoxicity were identified.
however, a general methodology to design a kernel is not fully  developed.
svms are considered a  supervised computer learning method because they exploit prior knowledge of  gene function to identify unknown genes of similar function from expression  data.
discriminative methods involving  support vector machines (svms) are currently the most effective methods for the  problem of superfamily recognition in the structural classification of proteins  (scop) database.
51 tetrapeptides) which  includes 12 beta-turn type i tetrapeptides, 1 beta-turn type ii tetrapeptide  and 38 non-beta-turns reached 82.4 of the svms implies that the formation of  different beta-turn types or non-beta-turns is considerably correlated with the  sequence of a tetrapeptide.
contact: dgough@bioeng.ucsd.edu keywords: biosvm motivation: remote homology detection is the problem of detecting homology in cases of low sequence similarity.
we discuss in detail five of the  steps in preprocessing the mass spectral data for biomarker discovery, as well  as our criterion for choosing a small set of peaks for classifying the samples.
in this latter case, the web server requires only pasting of a protein sequence in a raw format.
in conclusion, we showed gene  expression profiling to be useful in classification and diagnosis, providing  insights into pathogenesis and pointing to potential new therapeutic targets of  soft tissue sarcoma.
a public colon cancer data set is used to evaluate the performance of the proposed approach for the two classification methods: k nearest neighbors (k-nn) and support vector machine (svm).
we test the method on two remote homology detection tasks:  prediction of a previously unseen scop family and prediction of an enzyme class  given other enzymes that have a similar function on other substrates.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] a number of medically important disease-causing bacteria  (collectively called gram-negative bacteria) are noted for the extra  "outer" membrane that surrounds their cell.
ten folds cross-validation support vector machine (svm) was used to establish the diagnostic pattern.
since it is not known how many and which  nucleotides are relevant for splice site prediction, the set of features is  chosen large enough such that the probability that all relevant information  sources are in the set is very high.
the seven molecular descriptors selected by the heuristic method in codessa  were used as inputs for svm.
bioinformatics, 19(13):1656-1663, 2003.
keywords: biosvm [donaldson2003prebind]   i. donaldson, j. martin, b. de bruijn, c. wolting,  v. lay, b. tuekam, s. zhang, b. baskin, g.d. bader,  k. michalickova, t. pawson, and c.w.v. hogue.
in some instances, this task is difficult or impossible because of atypical clinical presentation or histopathology.
phys med biol, 46(6):1651-63, jun 2001.
while modest inhibitors are partly characterized by properties linked to global structure of a molecule including hydrophobicity and diameter, strong inhibitors are exclusively characterized by properties linked to substructures of a molecule.
treating sentences as a simple "bag of words", the svm model had an average roc area of 0.92.
a simple consensus of the svm, psipred and profsec achieves  significantly higher prediction accuracy than the individual methods.
svmprot classification system is trained from representative proteins of a number of functional families and seed proteins of pfam curated protein families.
gene selection techniques can significantly improve  classification performance of both mc-svms and other non-svm learning  algorithms.
ieee trans pattern anal mach intell , 26(9):1105-11, sep 2004.
a feature selection method, recursive feature elimination (rfe), is used to automatically select molecular descriptors for support vector machines (svm) prediction of p-glycoprotein substrates (p-gp), human intestinal absorption of molecules (hia), and agents that cause torsades de pointes (tdp), a rare but serious side effect.
keywords: biosvm statistical-learning methods have been developed for facilitating the prediction of pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of chemical agents.
keywords: biosvm this study aimed to evaluate in silico models based on quantum chemical (qc) descriptors derived using the electronegativity equalization method (eem) and to assess the use of qc properties to predict chemical metabolism by human udp-glucuronosyltransferase (ugt) isoforms.
keywords: biosvm this paper discusses the use of several rank-based virtual screening methods for prioritizing compounds in lead-discovery programs, given a training set for which both structural and bioactivity data are available.
results: we report on two different approaches to assessing spectral quality prior to identification: binary classification, which predicts whether or not sequest will be able to make an identification, and statistical regression, which predicts a more universal quality metric involving the number of b- and y-ion peaks.
the current approach is compared with the classical weight matrix method.
the prediction results are in very good agreement with the  experimental values.
we have developed a machine learning approach using neural networks  and support vector machines to extract common features among known rnas for  prediction of new rna genes in the unannotated regions of prokaryotic and  archaeal genomes.
hierarchical cluster analysis, principal component analysis, and  support vector machine (svm) analysis exploited genomic correlations within the  data to classify ccs/msp.
motivation: classification of proteins sequences into functional  and structural families based on sequence homology is a central problem in  computational biology.
the results underline the fact  that, even in the presence of significant deformation, non-additive effects may  involve only a limited number of dinucleotide steps.
dynamic alignment kernels.
for splice site prediction, the features we consider in this study are the presence or absence of certain nucleotides in close proximity to the splice site.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] objective:
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] in this paper we try to identify potential biomarkers for early  stroke diagnosis using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass  spectrometry coupled with analysis tools from machine learning and data mining.
keywords: biosvm nlp a quantitative structure-enantioselectivity relationship was established for a combinatorial library of enantioselective reactions performed by addition of diethyl zinc to benzaldehyde.
biologists have begun collecting gene expression for a large number of samples.
stat., 14(4):1065-1084, 2004.
using a cut-off threshold of 15 of exposed  and buried residues), this method was able to achieve a prediction accuracy of  70.1 for multiple alignment sequence input, respectively.
we investigated three  different models of amino acid preference.
an automated prediction system can help reduce resources necessary to carry out this task.
the parameter of svm kernel function was  an important factor to the performance of this method.
keywords: biosvm the prediction of protein secondary structure is an important step in the prediction of protein tertiary structure.
however, its optimal extension to more than two classes was not obvious, which  might impose limitations in its application to multiple tumor types.
the algorithm was applied to the  dataset provided by park and kanehisa and we obtained prediction accuracies for  the different classes ranging from 87.7%-97.0% with an overall accuracy of  93.1%.
supplementary information: data for 203 synthesized peptides is available at  http://linus.nci.nih.gov/data/lau203_peptide.pdf keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics [ zhang2003sequence]  x. h-f. zhang, k. a. heller, i. hefter,  c. s. leslie, and l. a. chasin.
keywords: biosvm ecent research has demonstrated quite convincingly that accurate cancer diagnosis can be achieved by constructing classifiers that are designed to compare the gene expression profile of a tissue of unknown cancer status to a database of stored expression profiles from tissues of known cancer status.
using a correlation-based  feature selector combined with machine learning algorithms such as decision  trees, naïve bayes and support vector machines, we show that  classification performance at least as good as published results can be  obtained on acute leukemia and diffuse large b-cell lymphoma microarray data  sets.
in the 5-fold cross-validation, the data set was randomly  partitioned into five equal sets and evaluated five times on each distinct set  while keeping the remaining four sets for training.
the problem of distinguishing edge  strands from central strands based on sequence information alone is important  in predicting residues and mutations likely to be involved in aggregation, and  is also a first step in predicting folding topology.
our  predictive models were able to discriminate between hepatotoxic and  nonhepatotoxic compounds.
discriminative topological features reveal biological  network mechanisms.
these kernels measure sequence  similarity based on shared occurrences of fixed-length patterns in the data,  allowing for mutations between patterns.
our data indicate that supervised learning classification techniques can predict outcome in dlbcl and identify rational targets for intervention.
the results show that our filtering algorithm is effective.
we are seeking to develop a system for cancer diagnostic model creation based on microarray data.
the high sensitivity and selectivity indicates that n-mer frequencies along with non-linear time series descriptors, such as lyapunov component stability and tsallis entropy, and supervised machine-learning methods, such as svms, can be useful in the identification of pol ii promoters.
keywords: biosvm gene expression studies bridge the gap between dna information and trait information by dissecting biochemical pathways into intermediate components between genotype and phenotype.
the training set is composed of embryos for which the precise developmental age was determined by measuring the degree of membrane invagination.
why neural networks should not be  used for hiv-1 protease cleavage site prediction.
implicit motif distribution based  hybrid computational kernel for sequence classification.
we selected hiv-1 protease as the subject of the study.
conclusions we showed that the oligo kernel can provide a valuable tool for the analysis of relevant signals in biological sequences.
[ bhasin2005gpcrsclass]  m. bhasin and g. p. s. raghava.
keywords: biosvm, cgh background t-cells are key players in regulating a specific immune response.
under such conditions, most protein classification algorithms have  limited accuracy.
it is also computationally efficient and robust to noise commonly found in full text material.
keywords: biosvm [lanckriet2004kernel-based]   g.r.g. lanckriet, n. cristianini, m.i. jordan, and w.s.
bioinformatics,  18:147-159, 2002.
keywords: biosvm [yamanishi2003extraction]   y. yamanishi, j.-p. vert, a. nakaya, and m. kanehisa.
using support vector machines, we  attempted to predict phosphorylation sites and the type of kinase that acts at  each site.
nlprot was so successful due to the svm-building blocks that succeeded in utilizing the local context of protein names in the scientific literature.
we employed the so-called  "active learning paradigm" from machine learning for selecting the  successive batches.
keywords: biosvm [yu2004integrated]  j.k.  yu, y.d. chen, and s. zheng.
overall, 144 proteins were identified  by peptides predicted to be correctly sequenced, and 113 were identified by at  least three peptides or one or two peptides with at least an 80 identified  proteins included 22 proteasome subunits or associated proteins, 18 e1, e2 or  e3 ubiquitin system enzymes or related proteins, and four ubiquitin domain  proteins.
several papers have been published where nonlinear  machine learning algorithms, e.g. artificial neural networks, support vector  machines and decision trees, have been used to model the specificity of the  hiv-1 protease and extract specificity rules.
the other contains eight pairs of homologous enzymes of different families.
the success prediction rates by  the jackknife test for the beta-turn subset of 455 tetrapeptides and  non-beta-turn subset of 3807 tetrapeptides in the training dataset were 58.1  and 98.4 success rates with the independent dataset test for the beta-turn  subset of 110 tetrapeptides and non-beta-turn subset of 30,231 tetrapeptides  were 69.1 and 97.3 study support the conclusion that the residue-coupled effect  along a tetrapeptide is important for the formation of a beta-turn.
to select relevant genes involved in different types of cancer remains a challenge.
these reference data were analyzed using a supervised learning method (support vector machines, svm) to generate classification rules.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm we present an automatic method to classify the sub-cellular location of proteins based on the text of relevant medline abstracts.
keywords: biosvm proteomics
the use of 13 features, including four new parameters, significantly improved the separation between positive and negative peptides.
the results showed that employing the active learning method can achieve high accuracy and significantly reduce the need for labeled training instances.
cancer microarray data normally contains a small number of samples which have a large number of gene expression levels as features.
our goal is to distinguish each native sequence for a major portion of representative protein structures from a large number of alternative decoy sequences, each a fragment from proteins of different folds.
learning gene  functional classifications from multiple data types.
we will show that the fisher kernel is a special case of marginalized kernels, which gives another viewpoint to the fisher kernel theory.
the accuracies for the svm prediction of tdp-causing agents and  non-tdp-causing agents are 97.4 and 84.6% respectively; one is substantially  improved against and the other is comparable to the results obtained by other  classification methods useful for multiple-mechanism prediction problems.
licensing agreements are available for commercial interests.
attractive features of our approach are its flexibility with respect to oligomer length and position conservation.
keywords: biosvm [vlahovicek2005sbase]   kristian vlahovicek, lãâ¡szló  kajãâ¡n, vilmos agoston, and sãâ¡ndor  pongor.
with the development of genome sequencing technology and bioinformatics,  biologists can now deduce all the proteins that are likely produced in a given  bacteria and have attempted to classify where proteins are located in a  bacterial cell.
analysis of the moss transcriptome displays differences in gene  structure, codon and splice site usage in comparison with the seed plant  arabidopsis.
often pairs of models can reproduce these  features with indistinguishable fidelity despite being generated by vastly  different mechanisms.
this model is more general than the other ones of previous statistical methods.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ raetsch2005rase]  g. rätsch, s. sonnenburg, and  b. schölkopf.
availability: available on request from the authors.
keywords: biosvm motivation.
its prediction accuracy was evaluated by using an independent set of agents and by comparison with results obtained from other commonly used classification methods using the same dataset and optimization procedure.
moreover, the proportion of the positive examples and negative examples in the training set may not represent the real-world data distribution, which causes concept drift.
in view of this, we initiate the study of filtering ineffective sirnas.
combining pairwise sequence similarity and  support vector machines for remote protein homology detection.
a preliminary  evaluation of the number of modulated genes uncovered striking differences  between the five different sites.
we discuss several classification-based approaches to finding protein biomarker  candidates using protein profiles obtained via mass spectrometry, and we assess  their statistical significance.
few studies have tackled this problem until now.
rfe significantly reduces the number of descriptors for each of these  properties thereby increasing the computational speed for their classification.
the sbase domain sequence resource, release 12: prediction of protein  domain-architecture using support vector machines.
protein subcellular localization is an important determinant of protein function and hence, reliable methods for prediction of localization are needed.
these approaches include: data mining  using support vector machines, threading through protein structures, prediction  of conserved residues on the protein surface by analysis of phylogenetic trees,  and the conservatism of conservatism method of mirny and shakhnovich.
by introducing a kernel parameter that  controls the degree of position-dependency, our feature space representation  can be tailored to the characteristics of the biological problem at hand.
keywords: biosvm [hutter2004prediction]   b. hutter, c. schaab, s. albrecht, m. borgmann, n. a.  brunner, c. freiberg, k. ziegelbauer, c. o. rock,  i. ivanov, and h. loferer.
adding a feature of relative sentence location improved performance markedly for some models and overall increasing the average roc to 0.95.
two sets of features are  defined: an order-independent feature set that captures the amino acid and  local structure composition; and an order-dependent feature set that captures  the sequential ordering of the local structures.
keywords: biosvm this article describes a method developed for predicting transmembrane beta-barrel regions in membrane proteins using machine learning techniques: artificial neural network (ann) and support vector machine (svm).
extraction  of correlated gene clusters from multiple genomic data by generalized kernel  canonical correlation analysis.
however, the simpler naive bayes model as well as the decision tree  model performed quite similarly to the svm.
it shows that whether cysteines should form disulfide bonds depends not only on the global structural features of proteins but also on the local sequence environment of proteins.
by using a significantly higher number of inhibitors and noninhibitors than  that used in earlier studies.
the collected database comprises 315 ao molecules including 68  features each, inducing a problem well-suited to svms.
nucleic acids res., 33(12):3699-707, 2005.
whereas protein kernels proposed in the literature provide a similarity between single proteins, prediction of interactions requires a kernel between pairs of proteins.
on a dataset of alternatively spliced exons we outperform a previous approach.
gpcrs are found in a wide range of organisms and are central to a cellular signalling network that regulates many basic physiological processes.
the percentage of  true positives recognized before the first false positive was 65 both svm  methods, 13 for kernnn.
second, we attempt to  improve the mpi principles and existing tools by an algorithm that can filter  ineffective sirnas.
j biomed inform , 37(6):423-35, dec 2004.
peptides, 24(1):159-161,  2003.
we suggest a practical approach to take advantage of multiple  methods in biomarker applications.
the overall  accuracy for both the independent testing set and estimate of jackknife testing  reached approximately 70%.
genes of interest that discriminate ccs/msp included those encoding melanocyte differentiation antigens, mitf, sox10, erbb3, and fgfr1.
the goal of the biocreative exercise was to evaluate the  performance of current text mining systems.
as a result of  computational analysis, a tissue sample is discovered and confirmed to be  wrongly labeled.
based on the mi metric, we  have designed a search scheme that only reports coherent subgraphs.
using t-statistics, we identified 80 cdnas whose expression in normal and tumor samples differed more than 3.5 sample standard deviations.
we found that hierarchical  clustering analysis and principal component analysis divided the cell lines  according to their original histology.
keywords: biosvm support vector machines (svms) are used to estimate aqueous solubility of organic compounds.
though multi-class  classification is typically solved by combining several binary classifiers,  recently, several multi-class methods that consider all classes at once have  been proposed.
in b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors, kernel methods in computational biology, pages 131-154.
of special mention is an obvious outlier, yeast gene rpl22b, highly homologous to rpl22a
here we seek to learn the function  that maps features of a receptor-ligand pair onto their equilibrium free  binding energy.
here we develop several new classes of kernels for small molecules using their 1d, 2d and 3d representations.
we have introduced a three-dimensional local descriptor that  contains information about the expected remote contacts by both the long-range  interaction matrix and neighbor sequences.
both functional and nonfunctional training sequences are then inputted into the  trained hmms to generate functional and nonfunctional feature vectors.
no prior knowledge of the problem domain nor any natural language processing is used at any stage.
results: we propose a reasonable way of designing a kernel when  objects are generated from latent variable models (e.g., hmm).
this article introduces the  application of string kernels in classifying protein sequences into homogeneous  families.
methods and  material:
the developed method  achieves an average sensitivity of 97.38% (sd = 0.0125) and an average  specificity of 93.30% (sd = 0.0174) in 1000 independent k-fold  cross-validations, where k = 2, ..., 10.
the boundaries among the classes were then determined with a set of support vector machines.
secondary structure prediction with support vector machines.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(6):2048-56, 2003.
the total prediction accuracies of two tests are both 100 self-consistency test, and are 92.9 test, respectively.
our study indicates that  multiclass classification problem is much more difficult than the binary one  for the gene expression datasets.
the amino acid sequences of the variants of a protein, created by inducing mutations, along with their fitness are required as input data by the method to predict its critical positions.
keywords: biosvm [liu2003qsar]  h. x.  liu, r. s. zhang, x. j. yao, m. c. liu, z. d. hu, and  b. t. fan.
a highly accurate classifier of chemical compounds for inhibition of the herg potassium channel is constructed using support vector machine.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: the ability to identify protein-protein interaction sites and to detect specific amino acid residues that contribute to the specificity and affinity of protein interactions has important implications for problems ranging from rational drug design to analysis of metabolic and signal transduction networks.
the majority of experimentally verified molecular  interaction and biological pathway data are present in the unstructured text of  biomedical journal articles where they are inaccessible to computational  methods.
in this study, we analyze 3468 genes of saccharomyces cerevisiae obtained from holstege et al., (1998) to understand the relationship between expression level and amino acid composition.
finally, we use svms to predict  functional roles for uncharacterized yeast orfs based on their expression data.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] motivation: protein fold recognition is an important approach to  structure discovery without relying on sequence similarity.
bmc bioinformatics, 6(1):59, mar 2005.
keywords: biosvm [anderson2003new]  d.c.
keywords: biosvm microarray using gene expression data to classify tumor types is a very promising tool in cancer diagnosis.
the predictor gene subsets include  those whose expression is typical of specific types of normal epithelial  differentiation, as well as other genes whose expression is elevated in cancer.
mhc binding is the last step in the antigen processing pathway and was predicted using a support vector machine method, svmhc.
this work explores the use of different statistical learning methods for  predicting inhibitors of these enzymes and an additional p450 enzyme, cyp2c9,  and the substrates of the three p450 isoenzymes.
this results in a decrease in false positive rates  compared to mhc binding prediction alone.
bioinformatics,  20(11):1682-1689, 2004.
this is an important problem for  scientists to use signal peptides as a vehicle to find new drugs or to  reprogram cells for gene therapy (see, e.g. [7] k.c. chou, current protein and  peptide science 2002;3:615?22).
only  8.3% of the names in this dictionary match swissprot description lines.
the third set consists of approximately equal to 7,100 genes, measured in 72 bone marrow and peripheral blood samples (golub et al, 1999).
this work examines to what extent the reduction of this noise can improve the prediction accuracy of a statistical learning system.
keywords: biosvm we have employed two pattern recognition methods used commonly for face recognition in order to analyse digital mammograms.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] vertebrate pre-mrna transcripts contain many sequences that  resemble splice sites on the basis of agreement to the consensus, yet these  more numerous false splice sites are usually completely ignored by the cellular  splicing machinery.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] in this paper we investigate the feasibility of using an svm  (support vector machine) classifier in our automatic system for the detection  of clustered microcalcifications in digital mammograms.
keywords: biosvm nlp background:
several known frnas  not included in the training datasets were identified as well as several  hundred predicted novel rnas.
the increasing number of protein sequences and 3d structure obtained from genomic initiatives is leading many of us to focus on proteomics, and to dedicate our experimental and computational efforts on the creation and analysis of information derived from 3d structure.
first, normalization of cdna microarray data was performed to  reduce or minimize systematic variations.
automotif server: prediction of single residue post-translational  modifications in proteins.
results: in the present work we will use theoretically estimated binding energies as a basis for overcoming this problem.
atypical region predictions for many eukaryotic viruses, including the alpha-, beta- and gamma-herpesvirinae, and 123 archaeal and bacterial genomes, have been made available online at http://cbcsrv.watson.ibm.com/hgt_svm/. keywords: biosvm herg attracts attention as a risk factor for arrhythmia, which might trigger torsade de pointes.
the comp attribute data  set is composed of amino acid composition, and the fasg, nisk, wols and kytj  attribute data sets are composed of the amino acid composition and the  auto-correlation functions of the corresponding amino acid residue index.
similar expression signatures were observed for both heterogeneous b-precursor all and for bcr-abl-positive cases.
in order to extract useful gene information from cancer microarray data and reduce dimensionality, feature selection algorithms were systematically investigated in this study.
the data reduction allowed us  to avoid over-fitting and to increase the efficiency of the algorithm.
in some instances, this task is difficult or impossible  because of atypical clinical presentation or histopathology.
promoter region-based classification of genes.
our experiments indicate a relationship  between feature window size and the amount of training data and that a  combination of surface words, orthographic features and head noun features  achieve the best performance among the feature sets tested.
it can also be used to define kernels in the form of joint gibbs probability distributions.
with the described techniques the recognition performance can be improved by 26
with the described techniques  the recognition performance can be improved by 26
keywords: biosvm this paper adopts a bayesian approach to simultaneously learn both an optimal nonlinear classifier and a subset of predictor variables (or features) that are most relevant to the classification task.
since the generation of sequences, and experimental protein-protein interactions increases faster than the 3d structure determination of protein complexes, there is tremendous interest in developing in silico methods that generate such structure for prediction and classification purposes.
we examined many issues involved with large number of classes, including dependencies of prediction accuracy on the number of folds and on the number of representatives in a fold.
as such, previously reported gene  expression patterns identified by microarray technology are validated and  confirmed on truly independent leukemia patient samples.
it is found in this work that (1) this method provides much better prediction accuracy than the use of hmms only for prediction, and (2) the support vector machines (svms) algorithm outperforms decision trees and neural network algorithms when they are constructed on the features extracted using the trained hmms.
our results suggest the  importance of exploiting prior information about the heterogeneity of the data.
on the basis of the suitably  normalized data, we identified specific genes involved in histological subtype  of hcc.
however, the majority of analytical methods applied to gene expression data are not efficient for biomarker identification and disease diagnosis.
the heuristic approach yielded a 61 accuracy, while the machine learning approach yielded an 89 accuracy.
this paper studies ways to improve the accuracy for predicting extracellular localization in gram-negative bacteria.
thirteen of these tumors  relapsed within 2 years.
first, we propose to modify the label of  eachvertex by automatically adding information about its environment with the  useof the morgan algorithm.
the focus is on aggressive  dimensionality reduction.
we used a variety of machine learning methods to automatically  develop information extraction systems for extracting information on  gene/protein name, function and interactions from medline abstracts.
the collected database comprises 315 ao molecules including 68 features each, inducing a problem well-suited to svms.
initial results compare favorably against manual classification performed by experts and indicate the capability of svms to capture the underlying structure of the data.
thirteen of these tumors relapsed within 2 years.
animals were treated at one facility, and rna was  distributed to five different sites for gene expression analysis.
we performed multi-class classification by combining the outputs  of binary classifiers.
the  new approach has remarkable power in dealing with the bias caused by the  situation when one subset in the training dataset contains many more samples  than the other.
in this paper, a new method was proposed based on  svm.
in this paper, we present a  svm prediction method of ppii conformation based on local sequence.
keywords: biosvm accurately predicting phosphorylation sites in proteins is an important issue in postgenomics, for which how to efficiently extract the most predictive features from amino acid sequences for modeling is still challenging.
in addition, we describe feature scaling methods for further exploiting prior knowledge of heterogeneity by giving each data type different weights.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm
structural genomics projects are beginning to  produce protein structures with unknown function, therefore, accurate,  automated predictors of protein function are required if all these structures  are to be properly annotated in reasonable time.
using amino acid patterns to  accurately predict translation initiation sites.
using a protein's amino acid composition and limited range correlation of hydrophobicity and solvent accessible surface area as input, each of the svms predicts whether the protein belongs to one of the three classes.
machine learning methods, for  instance the support vector machines (svms), are particularly suitable for  exploiting such features.
activation of cytotoxic t-cells requires recognition of specific peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i molecules.
multi-class support vector  machines for protein secondary structure prediction.
keywords: biosvm [rangwala2005profile-based]   h. rangwala and g. karypis.
second, we analyzed how amino acid  positions support (or prevent) the formation of beta-turns based on the  "multivariable" classification model of a linear svm.
multiple linear regression (mlr) and radial basis function networks (rbfnns) were also utilized to construct quantitative linear and nonlinear models to compare with the results obtained by svm.
thus, the kernels provide a  biologically well-motivated way to compare protein sequences without relying on  family-based generative models such as hidden markov models.
in russ b. altman, a. keith  dunker, lawrence hunter, kevin lauerdale, and teri e. klein, editors, proceedings of the pacific symposium on biocomputing 2002, pages 223-234.
based on our assumption that whole structural segments of ligands, gpcrs and g-proteins are essential to determine gpcr and g-protein coupling, various quantitative features were selected for ligands, gpcrs and g-protein complex structures, and those parameters that are the most effective in selecting g-protein type were used as feature vectors in the svm.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm rapid accumulation of resistance mutations in the genome of the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) plays a central role in drug treatment failure in infected patients.
bioinformatics, 20(suppl.
two different svm algorithms were tested, and the models obtained  were validated with a compound-based external cross-validation approach.
categorization of sentence types in medical abstracts.
the authors have developed geno2pheno, an intelligent system that uses the information encoded in the viral genomic sequence to predict resistance or susceptibility of the virus to 13 antiretroviral agents.
the final prediction results were generated from the second svm layer output.
protein design aims to identify sequences compatible  with a given protein fold but incompatible to any alternative folds.
satisfactory results indicated that the ga-pls approach is a very  effective method for variable selection, and the support vector machine is a  very promising tool for the nonlinear approximation.
[ bib | doi |  http | .pdf ] motivation: in the event of an outbreak of a disease caused by  an initially unknown pathogen, the ability to characterize anonymous sequences  prior to isolation and culturing of the pathogen will be helpful.
the latter employs stochastic context-free grammar (scfg) for estimating the secondary structure.
the immense volume of data which is now available from experiments in molecular biology has led to an explosion in reported results most of which are available only in unstructured text format.
nonetheless, two considerations remained outstanding: we wanted to  further increase the sensitivity of detecting horizontal transfers and also to  be able to apply the method to increasingly smaller genomes.
integrating the biologically relevant prior knowledge, the constructed string kernels can thus be used by any kernel-based method.
the methods described in this paper use only primary sequence information to make their predictions.
we have investigated two aspects of applying svm to the prediction and analysis of beta-turns.
[ she2003frequent-subsequence-based]  r. she, f. chen, k. wang,  m. ester, j.l. gardy, and f.s.l. brinkman.
the proteasomal cleavage site prediction employs a new matrix-based method that is based on experimentally verified proteasomal cleavage sites.
geno2pheno is freely available at  http://cartan.gmd.de/geno2pheno.html.
pract., 199(12):773-784,  2003.
the method can  be applied iteratively to build a kernel on a infinite set from kernels  involving generators of the set.
the test data consist of 209 proteins of human  antibody immunoglobulin light chains, each represented by aligned sequences of  120 amino acids.
expression profiling targeting chromosomes for tumor classification and  prediction of clinical behavior.
in contrast, the practitioner is frequently faced with the problem of combining a given set of pre-trained classifiers, with highly correlated errors, using only a small training sample.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(6):1882-9, 2003.
acids res., 32(21):6437-6444,  2004.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: despite some progress with antiretroviral  combination therapies, therapeutic success in the management of hiv-infected  patients is limited.
genome inform ser workshop  genome inform, 14:196-205, 2003.
technical report ccsd-00012124,  cnrs-hal, oct 2005.
further investigation concerning the function of these genes could contribute to the understanding of gastric carcinogenesis and may prove useful in molecular diagnostics.
further, we find that svm-i-sites outperforms  sequence-based methods such as psi-blast, sam, and svm-fisher while achieving a  comparable performance with svm-pairwise.
bioinformatics,  21:1332-1338, 2005.
splicemachine: predicting splice sites from  high-dimensional local context representations.
prediction of protein solvent  accessibility using support vector machines.
investigating applicability of the bci/svm model found a  strong correlation between the predictive performance and the structural  similarity to the training set.
kernel-based data fusion and its application to protein function  prediction in yeast.
recently, we have  demonstrated that such features can be used to distinguish alternative from  constitutive exons.
leukemia, 18(1):63-71, 2004.
a web version of our software,  svmprot, is accessible at http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
such progress is especially exciting for the detection of early-stage ovarian cancer patients.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] we describe a novel system, griffin (g-protein and receptor  interaction feature finding instrument), that predicts g-protein coupled  receptor (gpcr) and g-protein coupling selectivity based on a support vector  machine (svm) and a hidden markov model (hmm) with high sensitivity and  specificity.
keywords: machine learning, feature subset selection,  estimation of distribution algorithms, splice site prediction.
this predictor was able to correctly classify the moa class for most compounds tested.
in particular, this method can distinguish transmembrane proteins from soluble proteins with an accuracy of approximately 99 helix prediction methods and can be used for consensus analysis of entire proteomes.
keywords: biosvm [yabuki2005griffin]   y. yabuki, t. muramatsu, t. hirokawa, h. mukai, and  m. suwa.
bioinformatics, 17(suppl.
this work explores the use of a statistical learning method, support vector machine (svm), for tdp prediction.
we evaluated our approach on a manually tagged corpus of 800 documents and found that it outperforms keyword searches in abstracts by a factor of five in terms of precision.
we use the support vector machine-learning algorithm  to develop models that are capable of assigning the protein class.
different  kernel functions and sliding window sizes have been explored to find how they  affect the prediction performance.
the algorithm has been used to detect patterns within and among biological sequences, to classify genes and patients based upon gene expression profiles, and has recently been applied to several new biological problems.
conclusions machine learning methods are useful as tools to direct interaction and pathway database back-filling; however, this potential can only be realized if these techniques are coupled with human review and entry into a factual database such as bind.
however, these methods can either only be applied for specific subsets, or their results are not formalised, or they do not provide precise confidence estimates for their predictions.
values as measured with microarrays.
we introduce two classes of kernel functions that are constructed by combining sequence profiles with new and existing approaches for determining the similarity between pairs of protein sequences.
in a case study, the function for xenopus laevis contig sequences was predicted and the results are publicly available at ftp://genome.dkfz-heidelberg.de/pub/agd/gene_association.agd_xenopus.
results: this paper describes a computational framework for integrating and drawing inferences from a collection of genome-wide measurements.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] the prediction of protein relative solvent accessibility gives  us helpful information for the prediction of tertiary structure of a protein.
conventional kernels utilized so far do not provide an easy interpretation of  the learnt representations in terms of positional and compositional variability  of the underlying biological signals.
with the generalized lsm impaired data for learning with  a small set of binding peptides and a large set of non-binding peptides can be  treated in a balanced way rendering lsm more successful than svm, while for  symmetric data sets svm has a slight advantage compared to lsm.
results: the interaction mining approach was demonstrated by building a learning system based on 1,039 experimentally validated protein-protein interactions in the human gastric bacterium helicobacter pylori.
use of the support vector machine and these additional parameters resulted in a more accurate interpretation of peptide ms/ms spectra and is an important step toward automated interpretation of peptide tandem mass spectrometry data in proteomics.
we applied this algorithm to published  sirnas, and could classify effective and ineffective sirnas with 90.6%, 86.2%  accuracy, respectively.
our overall goal is to implicate peaks that have a high likelihood of being biologically linked to a given disease state, and thus to narrow the search for biomarker candidates.
in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in the amount of biological information, either dna or protein sequences, that has become available in public databases.
matthew's correlation coefficients for the jackknife test  could reach about 0.5.
(1) when performing classification  with least squares support vector machines (ls-svms) (without dimensionality  reduction), rbf kernels can be used without risking too much overfitting.
to predict phenotypic drug resistance from genotype, they applied two machine learning techniques: decision trees and linear support vector machines.
amia annu symp proc , pages 440-4, 2003.
svmhc currently contains prediction for 26 mhc class i types from the mhcpep database or alternatively 6 mhc class i types from the higher quality syfpeithi database.
our proposed method, svm-i-sites, utilizes structure similarity  for remote homology detection.
predictive models for breast cancer  susceptibility from multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms.
and the prediction results were consistently better than the previous  method based on several svms using composition of both amino acids and amino  acid pairs.
mismatch string  kernels for svm protein classification.
we show both techniques improve identification performance and in conjunction  provide an improvement over using only one of the techniques.
contact:  borgwardt@dbs.ifi.lmu.de.
overall, recognition systems achieve 56 accuracy on a protein test dataset, where most of the proteins have below 25 information: the protein parameter datasets used in this paper are available online (http://www.nersc.gov/ cding/protein).
this work is partially supported by gsa grant  act#:k96130308.
[ bib ] in an effort to identify genes involved in chemosensitivity and  to evaluate the functional relationships between genes and anticancer drugs  acting by the same mechanism, a supervised machine learning approach called  support vector machine (svm) is used to associate genes with any of five  predefined anticancer drug mechanistic categories.
this property makes wn-svm particularly suitable for studying small-size genomes, similar to those of viruses, as well as the typically larger archaeal and bacterial genomes.
to  evaluate the performance of various classification methods for building  predictive models, we applied these methods on six expression datasets.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] background t-cells are key players in regulating a specific  immune response.
when structural information was also  used, prediction performance was highest using the feature vectors, spatially  neighboring residue profiles, accessible surface areas, and the with/without  protein interaction sites ratios predicted by svm regression and amino acid  compositions.
keywords: biosvm introduction:
[ bib | http | .pdf ] gene expression studies bridge the gap between dna information  and trait information by dissecting biochemical pathways into intermediate  components between genotype and phenotype.
in this paper, stimulated by the concept of using the pseudo-amino acid composition to incorporate the sequence-order effects, the spectral analysis technique is introduced to represent the statistical sample of a protein.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [leslie2002spectrum]   c. leslie, e. eskin, and w.s. noble.
the first one involves an application of svm to the development of a  qsar model for the prediction of toxicities of 153 phenols, and the second  investigation deals with the qsar model between the structures and the  activities of a set of 85 cyclooxygenase 2 (cox-2) inhibitors.
in this article, a support vector machine is applied to predict the cleavability of oligopeptides by proteases with multiple and extended specificity subsites.
keywords: biosvm [vert2005supervised]  j.-p.  vert and y. yamanishi.
a structure template is selected to determine neighbors in 3d space and a window size is used to determine the neighbors in the sequence.
nucleic acids res , 31(13):3692-7, jul 2003.
our investigation in this paper  reports on variations of two widely used feature types, part of speech (pos)
functional annotation of these genes reveals unequal distribution among taxonomic groups and intriguing putative functions such as cytotoxicity and nucleic acid repair.
comprehensive vertical  sample-based knn/lsvm classification for gene expression analysis.
in this work we examine three sets of gene expression data measured across sets of tumor(s) and normal clinical samples: the first set consists of 2,000 genes, measured in 62 epithelial colon samples (alon et al., 1999).
the results show that svm-i-sites is  more efficient than svm-pairwise.
keywords: biosvm, breastcancer summary: this paper studies the problem of building multiclass classifiers for tissue classification based on gene expression.
moreover, p33ing1 expression levels were significantly associated with overall survival.
kernels for gene regulatory  regions.
overall classification accuracy by svms was 64.4 by  conventional analysis using the chi2 test, the association between chd and the  snp of the scavenger receptor b1 gene was most significant in terms of allele  frequencies in cases vs. controls (p = 0.0001).
mhc binding is the last step in the antigen processing  pathway and was predicted using a support vector machine method, svmhc.
in addition, we demonstrate that the  predictive models identify nonresponders and are able to discriminate between  gene changes related to pharmacology and toxicity.
[ middendorf2004discriminative]  m. middendorf, e. ziv, c. adams,  j. hom, r. koytcheff, c. levovitz, g. woods, l. chen,  and c. wiggins.
keywords: biosvm classification analysis of microarray gene expression data has been widely used to uncover biological features and to distinguish closely related cell types that often appear in the diagnosis of cancer.
the  model is discriminative, learning simultaneously from known interactions and  from pairs of proteins that are known (or suspected) not to interact.
results: a  novel method is described, which is independent of the availability of  homologous genes and relies on subtle differences in codon usage between plant  and fungal genes.
in this paper the performance of support vector  machines (svms) is compared to neural networks and to standard statistical  classification methods as discriminant analysis and nearest neighbor  classification.
results high rates of both self-consistency and jackknife tests are obtained.
eem-derived qc descriptors were shown to be both highly predictive and computationally efficient.
in contrast with the baseline method, our method eliminates gene redundancy automatically and yields better and more compact gene subsets.
results: in our studies, protein dispensability is represented as a fitness score that is measured by the growth rate of gene-deletion mutants.
keywords: biosvm [meinicke2004oligo]   p. meinicke, m. tech, b. morgenstern, and r. merkl.
domain prediction is based on an evaluation of  database search results in comparison with a 'similarity network' of  inter-sequence similarity scores, using support vector machines trained on  similarity search results of known domains.
we have developed a four-step strategy for data preprocessing based on: (1) binning, (2) kolmogorov-smirnov test, (3) restriction of coefficient of variation and (4) wavelet analysis.
activation of cytotoxic t-cells requires recognition of  specific peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i  molecules.
we present results of performing leave-one-out  cross validation (loocv) experiments on the three data sets, employing nearest  neighbor classifier, svm (cortes and vapnik, 1995), adaboost (freund and  schapire, 1997) and a novel clustering-based classification technique.
the original datasets for protein dispensability analysis and prediction, together with related scripts, are available at http://digbio.missouri.edu/ ychen/
diffuse large b-cell  lymphoma outcome prediction by gene-expression profiling and supervised machine  learning.
we suggest that the number of binding peptides needed for  svm training is at least 20 sequences.
nlprot is a novel  system that combines dictionary- and rule-based filtering with several support  vector machines (svms) to tag protein names in pubmed abstracts.
as a result of computational analysis, a tissue sample is discovered and confirmed to be wrongly labeled.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl), the most common lymphoid malignancy in adults, is curable in less than 50 models based on pre-treatment characteristics, such as the international prognostic index (ipi), are currently used to predict outcome in dlbcl.
a very successful means of inferring the structure or function of a previously unannotated protein is via sequence similarity with one or more proteins whose structure or function is already known.
the high  rates of correct prediction imply that that the formation of different  alpha-turn types is evidently correlated with the sequence of a pentapeptide,  and hence can be approximately predicted based on the sequence information of  the pentapeptide alone, although the incorporation of its interaction with the  other part of a protein, the so-called "long distance interaction",  will further improve the prediction quality.
furthermore, the models were evaluated by a 10 compound external test set, yielding r2 of 0.71 and 0.89 and rms error of 0.430 and 0.222.
we evaluated the relative performance of several classification methods by using leave-one-out cross-validation and bootstrap cross-validation.
this research shows that, using machine learning methods, it is possible to automatically build models for retrieving high-quality, content-specific articles using inclusion or citation by the acp journal club as a gold standard in a given time period in internal medicine that perform better than the 1994 pubmed clinical query filters.
in this work, we consider one major form of  alternative splicing, namely the exclusion of exons from the transcript.
small molecules play a fundamental role in organic  chemistry and biology.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: remote homology detection between protein sequences  is a central problem in computational biology.
but insufficient attention has been paid to the prediction of  protein-rna interactions, which play central roles in regulating gene  expression and certain rna-mediated enzymatic processes.
the final  prediction results were generated from the second svm layer output.
we applied the functional domain composition method to predict the  functional class of 2018 currently unclassified yeast open reading frames.
the process of  building multiclass classifiers is divided into two components: (i) selection  of the features (i.e. genes) to be used for training and testing and (ii)  selection of the classification method.
in the process of splicing sites  prediction, the statistical information of rna secondary structure in the  vicinity of splice sites, e.g. donor and acceptor sites, is introduced in order  to compare recognition ratio of true positive and true negative.
keywords: biosvm [saeys2003fast]   y. saeys, s. degroeve, d. aeyels, y. van de peer, and  p. rouze.
comparative experiments on learning information extractors for proteins and  their interactions.
we conclude that analysis of  chromosomal expression profiles can group, subgroup, and even predict clinical  behavior of tumors to a level of performance similar to that of microarray  analysis.
when structural information was also used, prediction performance was highest using the feature vectors, spatially neighboring residue profiles, accessible surface areas, and the with/without protein interaction sites ratios predicted by svm regression and amino acid compositions.
keywords: biosvm , breastcancer [ kondor2004diffusion]  r. kondor and j.-p. vert.
with the rapid increase of sequenced  genomic data, the need for an automated and accurate tool to predict  subcellular localization becomes increasingly important.
keywords: biosvm we introduce a method of functionally classifying genes by using gene expression data from dna microarray hybridization experiments.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] simultaneous multiclass classification of tumor types is  essential for future clinical implementations of microarray-based cancer  diagnosis.
protein secondary structure prediction based on  an improved support vector machines approach.
further investigation of this effect revealed that it could be explained by a significant reduction in the accuracy of standard secondary structure prediction methods for edge strands, in comparison with central strands.
the  root-mean-square (rms) errors in heat capacity predictions for the whole data  set given by mlr, rbfnns, and svm were 4.648, 4.337, and 2.931 heat capacity  units, respectively.
five potential biomarkers were found (2085 da,  5881 da, 7564 da, 9422 da, 6044 da), combined with which the diagnostic pattern  separated the ovarian cancer from the healthy samples with a sensitivity of  96.7%, a specificity of 96.7% and a positive predictive value of 96.7%.
we also provide suggested subfamily classification for 18 sequences previously identified as unclassified class a (rhodopsin-like) gpcrs in gpcrdb (horn et al. , nucleic acids res. , 26, 277?281, 1998), available at http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcr/classaâ·unclassified/ keywords: fisher-kernel sequence-classification biosvm dna micro-arrays now permit scientists to screen thousands of genes simultaneously and determine whether those genes are active, hyperactive or silent in normal or cancerous tissue.
[  bib ] keywords: biosvm [kuang2004protein]   r. kuang, c. s. leslie, and a.-s. yang.
overall classification accuracy by svms was 64.4 by conventional analysis using the chi2 test, the association between chd and the snp of the scavenger receptor b1 gene was most significant in terms of allele frequencies in cases vs. controls (p = 0.0001).
we suggest a practical approach to take advantage of multiple methods in biomarker applications.
svmtm: support vector machines  to predict transmembrane segments.
in t. faucett and n. mishra, editors, proceedings of the twentieth international conference on machine learning,  pages 321-328, new york, ny, usa, 2003.
targeting-signal was modeled by the distribution of  subsequence occurrences (implicit motifs) using self-organizing maps.
mhc-peptide complexes are potential tools for diagnosis and treatment of pathogens and cancer, as well as for the development of peptide vaccines.
the second stage evaluated the performance of the  predictors (overall correlation coefficient between observed and predicted  efficacy, r; mean error, me; and root-mean-square-error, rmse) using 8-fold and  minus-one-rna cross-validation methods.
two types of kernels  are presented.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the automotif server allows for identification of  post-translational modification (ptm) sites in proteins based only on local  sequence information.
using cross-validation, we demonstrate that  svms can be trained on relatively small data sets to provide prediction more  accurate than those based on previously published methods or on mhc binding.
as tumor  samples can differ from normal samples in their cell-type composition, we also  perform loocv experiments using appropriately modified sets of genes,  attempting to eliminate the resulting bias.
the prediction models for these mhc types are implemented in a public web service available at http://www.sbc.su.se/svmhc/. conclusions prediction of mhc class
the  diagnostic pattern combined with 7 potential biomarkers could differentiate crc  patients from cra patients with a specificity of 83 the diagnostic pattern  combined with 4 potential biomarkers could differentiate crc patients from hp  with a specificity of 92 sensitivity of 89
we show that this method performs a fast detection of relevant  feature subsets using the technique of constrained feature subsets.
in this  paper we evaluate some of the widely-used sequence classification algorithms  and develop a framework for modeling sequences in a fashion so that traditional  machine learning algorithms, such as support vector machines, can be applied  easily.
keywords: biosvm aim: to find new potential biomarkers and to establish patterns for early detection of colorectal cancer.
a data set comprising genotypes at 25 single nucleotide polymorphic (snp) loci from 518 breast cancer cases and 586 age-matched population-based controls from the genica study was used to built a classification rule with the discrimination methods svm (support vector machine), cart (classification and regression tree), bagging, random forest, logitboost and k nearest neighbours (knn).
we consider the problem of inferring gene functional classifications from a heterogeneous data set consisting of dna microarray expression measurements and phylogenetic profiles from whole-genome sequence comparisons.
extensive benchmark experiments demonstrate that both methods have improved the prediction accuracy rate over the previously published methods for conformation state prediction when using an alphabet of three or four states.
from each of the original datasets, two subsets were generated to simulate two scenarios in biomarker applications.
fast feature selection using a simple estimation of distribution  algorithm: a case study on splice site prediction.
this analysis consists of both classification of the tissue samples, and an exploration of the data for mis-labeled or questionable tissue results.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] rapid accumulation of resistance mutations in the genome of the  human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) plays a central role in drug treatment  failure in infected patients.
nucleic acids res., 33(web server  issue):w143-7, jul 2005.
each peptide was characterized by sequest-calculated features such as delta cn and xcorr, measurements such as precursor ion current and mass, and additional calculated parameters such as the fraction of matched ms/ms peaks.
we show that  it is possible to classify viral sequences by genome type (dsdna, ssdna, ssrna  positive strand, ssrna negative strand, retroid) using amino acid  distribution.
profile-based direct kernels for remote  homology detection and fold recognition.
results: we compare the performance of several classes of statistical methods  for the classification of cancer based on ms spectra.
assignments between enzyme classes and diseases were created based on their co-occurrence within a single sentence.
algorithms that can reliably predict the efficacy of candidate oligos can greatly reduce the cost of knockdown experiments, but previous attempts to predict the efficacy of antisense oligos have had limited success.
the em algorithm for kernel  matrix completion with auxiliary data.
the method is of  interest for the computer-aided design of combinatorial libraries involving  chiral compounds or enantioselective reactions.
in the past, chou and co-workers have shown that different types of amine receptors are correlated with their amino acid composition and are predictable on its basis with considerable accuracy
nucleic acids res., 33(web server issue):w148-53, jul 2005.
class membership was predicted by support vector machine (svm) learning.
keywords: biosvm predicting protein-protein interfaces from a three-dimensional structure is a key task of computational structural proteomics.
to keep a realistic  perspective on clinical applications we focus on multicategory diagnosis.
multidimensional scaling was used to visualize the relationship between a braf  mutation signature and that of a generalized mitogen-activated protein kinase  (mapk) activation (either braf or nras mutation) in the context of the  discriminating gene list.
in the best case the algorithm achieved accuracy of 76% for all lesion  types and 90% for masses only.
using functional domain composition and support vector machines  for prediction of protein subcellular location.
these techniques performed learning on more than 400  genotype-phenotype pairs for each drug.
we take an alternative approach, employing a relatively simple model that learns dynamically from a large collection of data.
in the third step, support vector machines are  employed to recognize true pases from a large number of candidates.
our overall goal is to implicate peaks that  have a high likelihood of being biologically linked to a given disease state,  and thus to narrow the search for biomarker candidates.
to the best of our knowledge, these  are the most accurate results for predicting subcellular localization in  gram-negative bacteria.
0.39 psipred prediction method on a non-homologous test set of 121 proteins despite being trained on substantially fewer examples.
neural comput. & applic., 13:123-129, 2004.
the program integrates into  one system a variety of popular ranking criteria, ranging from the traditional  t-statistic to one-dimensional support vector machines.
kernel-based integration of genomic data using semidefinite programming.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] motivation:
the current  approach not only can play an important complementary role to the powerful  covariant discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo amino acid composition  representation (chou, k. c. (2001) proteins struct.
the experimental results achieved are better than those reported previously using the same data sets.
on the other hand, by means of the kernel trick we can  provide a general learning algorithm for that high-dimensional representation  because all required statistics can be computed without performing an explicit  feature space mapping of the sequences.
two classification methods, fisher's discriminant analysis (fda) and  support vector machine (svm), were used to evaluate the reliability of the  selected genes and discriminate the histological subtypes of hcc.
in addition, we  apply the fwe approach to a toxicogenomic data set with nine treatments (a  control and eight metals, as, cd, ni, cr, sb, pb, cu, and asv) for a total of  55 samples for a multisample classification.
keywords: biosvm [xu2004molecular]  xiu-qin  xu, chon k leow, xin lu, xuegong zhang, jun s liu, wing-hung wong,  arndt asperger, sören deininger, and hon-chiu eastwood leung.
these data also suggest that interactions between two or more of these elements may contribute to exon recognition, and provide candidate sequences for assessment as intronic splicing enhancers.
svms have  many mathematical features that make them attractive for gene expression  analysis, including their flexibility in choosing a similarity function,  sparseness of solution when dealing with large data sets, the ability to handle  large feature spaces, and the ability to identify outliers.
classification of nuclear  receptors based on amino acid composition and dipeptide composition.
we tested an assigning function based on searching for interpro sequence motifs and by taking the most significant blast match within the dataset.
while our classification scheme does not take directly into account sequence information our results are in agreement with functional and sequence based classification of death domain family members.
keywords: biosvm [su2003rankgene]  yang su,  t.m. murali, vladimir pavlovic, michael schaffer, and simon kasif.
only one in 100 to 200 potential binders actually binds to a certain  mhc molecule, therefore a good prediction method for mhc class i binding  peptides can reduce the number of candidate binders that need to be synthesized  and tested.
naive bayes, a specialized  adaboost algorithm, and linear and polynomial support vector machines were  applied to identify these articles.
a single cdna microarray platform was used to profile 229 primary and metastatic tumors representing 14 tumor types and multiple histologic subtypes.
the number of available protein structures still  lags far behind the number of known protein sequences.
the analysis indicates a correlation between the viral genome types dsdna, ssdna, ssrna positive strand, ssrna negative strand, and retroid and amino acid preference.
kernels and distances for  structured data.
however, the  number of dimensions of gene expression data is often very high, e.g., in the  hundreds or thousands.
nucleic acids res., 33(web server issue):w306-10, jul 2005.
the escherichia coli genome was used for development, but we  have applied this method to several other bacterial and archaeal genomes.
based on such a framework, the weighted support vector machine (svm) algorithm is applied.
mp-induced  hepatotoxicity were identified.
the overall self-consistency rate by the re-substitution test for the training or learning dataset reached 100 were taken from chou [j. pept.
the difficulty lies in the fact that the data  are of high dimensionality and that the sample size is small.
most  literature mining tools rely on pre-existing lexicons of biological names,  often extracted from curated gene or protein databases.
as a result, protein structures now frequently lack functional annotations.
results: most current discriminative methods for protein fold prediction use the one-against-others method, which has the well-known ?
in the most challenging example, we simulate a lead-hopping experiment by excluding an entire class of compounds (defined by a core substructure) from the training set.
7253 structured abstracts and 204  unstructured abstracts of randomized controlled trials from medline were parsed  into sentences and each sentence was labeled as one of four types  (introduction, method, result, or conclusion).
we will show that the  fisher kernel is a special case of marginalized kernels, which gives another  viewpoint to the fisher kernel theory.
44, 60), but also may greatly  stimulate the development of this area.
in this paper, the missing entries are completed by exploiting an auxiliary kernel matrix derived from another information source.
chem., 279(22):23262-23266, 2004.
the results obtained by svm were compared with those obtained by the heuristic method.
results in the first stage, the svm-rfe technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of low number of samples and high input space dimension.
chem., 26(3):293-296, 2002.
the  originality of the methods is the introduction of chemical compatibility as a  constraint for refining the network predicted by the network inference engine.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] sbase (http://www.icgeb.trieste.it/sbase) is an online resource  designed to facilitate the detection of domain homologies based on sequence  database search.
however,  the fine-grained assignment of folds, such as those defined in the structural  classification of proteins (scop) database, presents a challenge due to the  larger amount of folds available.
the results are comparable to those previously obtained.
support vector machines for  predicting protein structural class.
the results indicate that solutions obtained by svm training seem to be more robust with a smaller standard error compared to ann training.
marginalized kernels for rna  sequence data analysis.
many signals in biological sequences are based on  the presence or absence of base signals and their spatial combinations.
if accurate prognostic methods were available, effective risk-adapted therapies could be tailored to individual patients at diagnosis.
availability: software is available on request from the authors.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machines (svms) were used to develop qsar models  that correlate molecular structures to their toxicity and bioactivities.
keywords: biosvm [fritz2002microarray-based]   b. fritz, f. schubert, g. wrobel, c. schwaenen,  s. wessendorf, m. nessling, c. korz, r. j. rieker,  k. montgomery, r. kucherlapati, g. mechtersheimer, r. eils,  s. joos, and p. lichter.
the drug activity profiles  are used as training examples to train the svm and then the gene expression  profiles are used as test examples to predict their associated mechanistic  categories.
five potential biomarkers were found (2085 da, 5881 da, 7564 da, 9422 da, 6044 da), combined with which the diagnostic pattern separated the ovarian cancer from the healthy samples with a sensitivity of 96.7%, a specificity of 96.7% and a positive predictive value of 96.7%.
the results demonstrate that mammalian viral genome types differ in their amino acid preference.
the performance of these methods depends on how the protein sequences are modeled and on the method used to compute the kernel function between them.
keywords: biosvm [vert2003extracting]  j.-p.  vert and m. kanehisa.
both csvm methods are potentially useful as filters for predicting inhibitors and substrates of p450 isoenzymes.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] purpose:
a total of 9 binary cancer classification problems, derived from  7 publicly available microarray datasets, and 20 randomizations of each problem  are examined.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: protein backbone torsion angle prediction provides useful local structural information that goes beyond conventional three-state (alpha, beta and coil) secondary structure predictions.
keywords: biosvm [schoelkopf2004kernel]   b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.-p. vert.
in this paper,  we present an in silico method to predict translation initiation sites in  vertebrate cdna or mrna sequences.
besides using local descriptors such as the local sequences, we include global information, such as amino acid compositions and the patterns of the states of cysteines (bonded or nonbonded), or cysteine state sequences, of the proteins.
in this study, a novel method has been developed for classifying the subfamilies of nuclear receptors.
we describe 1178 high-resolution proteins in a  structurally non-redundant subset of the protein data bank using simple  features such as secondary-structure content, amino acid propensities, surface  properties and ligands.
an adaptive search of possible subsets of features produces a  simplified model based on 36 features that predicts at an accuracy of 80 avoid  calculating alignments and predict a recently released set of unrelated  proteins.
for each data set, 70% of the data were used for training, and the remainder were used to assess the generalization performance.
this shows that the performance of our method is comparable to that of the netchop method, which is currently considered to be the best method for proteasome cleavage site prediction.
[ bib ] the solution of binary classification problems using the support  vector machine (svm) method has been well developed.
next, a 2000-gene subset was used  to simulate a whole genome approach.
this is an important problem for scientists to use signal peptides as a vehicle to find new drugs or to reprogram cells for gene therapy (see, e.g. [7] k.c. chou, current protein and peptide science 2002;3:615?22).
keywords: biosvm , breastcancer keywords: biosvm
we show  that the diagnostic classification accuracy of the proposed algorithm is  superior to a number of current state-of-the-art methods in a full  leave-one-out cross-validation study of five widely used benchmark datasets.
we evaluated our approach on a  manually tagged corpus of 800 documents and found that it outperforms keyword  searches in abstracts by a factor of five in terms of precision.
the success of our consensus approach suggests that similar methodologies can be developed to improve prediction accuracies for other bioinformatic problems.
development of binary classification  of structural chromosome aberrations for a diverse set of organic compounds  from molecular structure.
today, a large number  of known protein sequences faces a small number of identified structures.
spot ranking analysis using a support  vector machine algorithm and unsupervised classification methods identified 32  protein spots essential for the classification.
in contrast to information gain and chi2-test, mutual information had relatively poor performance due to its bias toward favoring rare features and its sensitivity to probability estimation errors.
availability: http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/services/nlprot/ keywords: biosvm nlp automatically extracting protein names from the literature and linking these names to the associated entries in sequence databases is becoming increasingly important for annotating biological databases.
cancer res., 61(20):7388-7393, 2001.
in the second step, a number of important features are selected by an entropy-based algorithm.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machines (svms) method was introduced for predicting the structural class of protein domains.
they are also computationally inefficient.
the results also give a broad picture of the relative  strengths of a wide variety of methods when tested on a reasonably large  human-annotated corpus.
some of these adrs, such as torsade de pointes (tdp), are important issues in the approval of drugs for certain diseases.
keywords: biosvm microarray [pavlidis2001gene ]  p. pavlidis, j. weston, j. cai, and w.n. grundy.
methods for facilitating early elimination of potential p-gp substrates are useful for facilitating new drug discovery.
keywords: biosvm [friedel2005support]   c. c. friedel, k. h. v. jahn, s. sommer, s. rudd,  h. w. mewes, and i. v. tetko.
keywords: biosvm [weathers2004reduced]   e. a. weathers, m. e. paulaitis, t. b. woolf, and j. h.  hoh.
[ bib | arxiv | http |  .pdf ] hereditary predisposition and causative environmental exposures  have long been recognized in human malignancies.
results in the first  stage, the svm-rfe technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of  low number of samples and high input space dimension.
the authors compared the generalization performance of the two families of models in leave-one-out experiments.
upon correction of this mistake and the removal of an outlier,  perfect classification of tissues is achieved, but not with high confidence.
the supervised machine learning approach has been  widely applied to bioinformatics and gained a lot of success in this research  area.
to test the influence of genetic polymorphisms on  breast cancer risk, we have measured 98 single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps)  distributed over 45 genes of potential relevance to breast cancer etiology in  174 patients and have compared these with matched normal controls.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] intrinsically disordered proteins are an important class of  proteins with unique functions and properties.
genes  implicated in dlbcl outcome included some that regulate responses to  b-cell?receptor signaling, critical serine/threonine phosphorylation pathways  and apoptosis.
bioinformatics,  20(17):3179-3184, 2004.
support  vector machines (svms) were applied to stratify our samples based on given gene  lists reported to predict mll, bcr-abl, and t-all, as well as mll and non-mll  gene rearrangement positive pediatric all.
quantitative prediction of logk of  peptides in high-performance liquid chromatography based on molecular  descriptors by using the heuristic method and support vector machine.
results: multicategory support vector machines (mc-svms) are the most effective classifiers in performing accurate cancer diagnosis from gene expression data.
the accuracies for classification of substrates and nonsubstrates of cyp3a4,  cyp2d6, and cyp2c9 are 98.2 and 90.9%, 96.6 and 94.4%, and 85.7 and 98.8%,  respectively.
the characteristics of expression data (e.g. large number of genes with small sample size) makes the classification problem more challenging.
we participated in task 2, which addressed assigning gene ontology terms to human proteins and selecting relevant evidence from full-text documents.
griffin (http://griffin.cbrc.jp/) is freely available and allows  users to easily execute this reliable prediction of g-proteins.
[ bib | doi | arxiv  |http | .pdf ] we have generated a database of expression profiles carrying the  transcriptional responses of the model organism bacillus subtilis following  treatment with 37 well-characterized antibacterial compounds of different  classes.
results in this paper we present a novel method for feature subset selection applied to splice site prediction, based on estimation of distribution algorithms, a more general framework of genetic algorithms.
gene expression data analysis of human lymphoma using  support vector machines and output coding ensembles.
svms are supported by an efficient learning algorithm and can utilize some prior knowledge about the structure of the problem.
methods: binary svms are trained to discriminate  between two structural classes.
keywords: biosvm gram-negative bacteria have five major subcellular localization sites: the cytoplasm, the periplasm, the inner membrane, the outer membrane, and the extracellular space.
a number of the genes identified by the jcfo in our experiments are already in use as clinical markers for cancer diagnosis; some of the remaining genes may be excellent candidates for further clinical investigation.
keywords: biosvm [senawongse2005predicting]   pasak senawongse, andrew r dalby, and zheng rong yang.
by using the respective majority votes, the prediction of neural networks yielded the highest f1 value, followed by svms.
the proposed  methods are tested and compared on their ability to infer the enzyme network of  the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae from four datasets for enzymes with assigned  ec numbers: gene expression data, protein localization data, phylogenetic  profiles and chemical compatibility information.
concept-based annotation of enzyme  classes.
keywords: biosvm [donnes2005integrated]   p. dönnes and o. kohlbacher.
progression from pt2 to pt3 prostate cancer is correlated with complex changes of the epithelial cells in terms of volume fraction, of surface area, and of second-order stereological properties.
sci., 44(4):1402-11, 2004.
in particular there has been an intensive  investigation into the named entity (ne) task as a core technology in all of  these tasks which has been driven by the availability of high volume training  sets such as the genia v3.02 corpus.
support vector machines (svms) have achieved  state-of-the-art performance in several classification tasks.
inkdd '03: proceedings of the ninth  acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 436-445.
in conclusion, we suggest that the application of svms for association studies of snps in candidate genes shows considerable promise and that further work could be usefully performed upon the estimation of chd susceptibility in individuals of high risk.
based on the mi metric, we have designed a search scheme that only reports coherent subgraphs.
this structure plays vital roles in many biological processes.
the optimal qspr model developed was based on support vector machines,  which showed the following results: the root-mean-square error of 0.2383 and  the prediction correlation coefficient r=0.9702 were obtained for the whole  data set.
the task of feature  selection is crucial given the presence of noisy or redundant features, and the  well-known problem of the curse of dimensionality.
subsequently, support vector machines were used for classification.
first of all, a joint kernel is designed for complete data which include both visible and hidden variables.
different coding schemes of protein  sequences were explored, and their performances were assessed by  crossvalidation tests.
a string kernel approach used in conjunction with support vector  machines has been shown to achieve good performance in text categorisation  tasks.
the principle of the support vector machine method can also be applied to analyzing the specificity of other multisubsite enzymes.
however, the analysis of immense amount of data poses considerable challenges.
the consensus model could also be tuned to minimize either false positives or  false negatives depending on the emphasis of the screening.
diffusion kernels on graphs and other  discrete input.
in addition, a number of genes were found differentially expressed in dedifferentiated and pleomorphic liposarcomas.
keywords: biosvm [sen2004predicting]  t.z.  sen, a. kloczkowski, r.l. jernigan, c. yan, v. honavar, k.m. ho,  c.z. wang, y. ihm, h. cao, x. gu, and d. dobbs.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] motivation:
thus there is a need to develop tools for facilitating the prediction of these adrs.
sequence information for the splicing  of human pre-mrna identified by support vector machine classification.
this is also the first paper which discusses both  computational and biological evidence for the involvement of zyxin in  leukaemogenesis.
this new approach provides superior prediction performance compared with existing algorithms based on amino acid composition and can be a complementary method to other existing methods based on sorting signals.
results: in this paper, support vector machine has been introduced to predict the subcellular localization of proteins from their amino acid compositions.
conserved codon composition of ribosomal protein coding genes in escherichia  coli, mycobacterium tuberculosis and saccharomyces cerevisiae: lessons from  supervised machine learning in functional genomics.
by comparing the results of training and testing datasets with different  sequence identities, we suggest that the performance of this method correlates  with the sequence identity of dataset.
in order to understand the molecular machinery of the cell, we need to know about the multitude of protein-protein interactions that allow the cell to function.
the algorithm was also shown to be able to predict critical positions that can tolerate two different amino acids and retain function.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of a learning  machine, for the first time, was used to develop a qspr model that relates the  structures of 35 amino acids to their isoelectric point.
applying this system to known gpcr sequences, each binding  g-protein is predicted with high sensitivity and specificity (>85% on  average).
the data input to the machine is in the form of molecular fingerprints.
keywords: biosvm, cgh [donnes2002prediction]   p. dönnes and a. elofsson.
keywords: biosvm [gordon2003sequence]   l. gordon, a. y. chervonenkis, a. j. gammerman, i. a.
availability: the svm software is available at http://www.cs.columbia.edu/ bgrundy/svm.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm [vert2002graph-driven]   j.-p. vert and m. kanehisa.
keywords: biosvm motivation: short interfering rnas (sirnas) can be used to suppress gene expression and possess many potential applications in therapy, but how to design an effective sirna is still not clear.
we compare the svm classifier with an mlp (multi-layer perceptron) in the false-positive reduction phase of our detection scheme: a detected signal is considered either microcalcification or false signal, according to the value of a set of its features.
we approached it as a modified form  of the document classification task.
keywords: biosvm nlp [chen2004prediction]   y.c. chen, y.s. lin, c.j. lin, and j.k. hwang.
the predictor gene subsets include those whose expression is typical of specific types of normal epithelial differentiation, as well as other genes whose expression is elevated in cancer.
7253 structured abstracts and 204 unstructured abstracts of randomized controlled trials from medline were parsed into sentences and each sentence was labeled as one of four types (introduction, method, result, or conclusion).
using the svm classification, the overall accuracies to predict 55 samples into one of the nine treatments are above 80 crossvalidation.
the high accuracy is due to  the combination of a knn majority voting approach and a local support vector  machine approach that makes optimal decisions at the local level.
availability: svm software is publicly available at http://microarray.cpmc.columbia.edu/gist.
1):ii179-ii188, 2003.
inproceedings of the pacific symposium on biocomputing , pages 300-311, 2004.
the metabolic network is an important biological network which relates enzyme proteins and chemical compounds.
keywords: biosvm [bao2002identifying]   l. bao and z. sun.
support vector machines performed slightly better for most drugs, but knowledge  extraction was easier for decision trees.
the three snp sites most useful in this model were (a) the +4536t/c site of the aldosterone synthase gene cyp11b2 at amino acid residue 386 val/ala (t/c) (rs4541); (b) the +4328c/g site of the aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase cyp1b1 at amino acid residue 293 leu/val (c/g) (rs5292); and (c) the +4449c/t site of the transcription factor bcl6 at amino acid 387 asp/asp (rs1056932).
[ bib |  http | .pdf ] using gene expression data to classify tumor types is a very  promising tool in cancer diagnosis.
contact: westhead@bmb.leeds.ac.uk supplementary information: http://www.bioinformatics.leeds.ac.uk/ppi-pred/supp-material.
we  analyzed hepatic gene expression profiles using a supervised learning method  (support vector machines; svms) to generate classification rules and combined  this with recursive feature elimination to improve classification performance  and to identify a compact subset of probe sets with potential use as  biomarkers.
keywords: biosvm motivation: the large volume of single nucleotide polymorphism data now available motivates the development of methods for distinguishing neutral changes from those which have real biological effects.
we present a novel method for clustering short protein segments having strong sequence-structure correlations, and demonstrate that these clusters contain useful structural information via two applications.
in a blind test of unrelated proteins, our scoring function misclassfies only 13 native proteins out of 194.
svmprot can be accessed at http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
the aim of this study was to assess various classification methods that can potentially handle genetic interactions.
our results show that this wrapper approach selects features that improve the performance against the use of all features and against the use of the features selected by the traditional method.
non-synonymous single  nucleotide polymorphisms (nssnps) that lead to an amino acid change in the  protein product are of particular interest because they account for nearly half  of the known genetic variations related to human inherited diseases.
we apply  our method to predict physical interactions in yeast using data from the bind  database.
prediction of  saccharomyces cerevisiae protein functional class from functional domain  composition.
predicting  binding sites of hydrolase-inhibitor complexes by combining several methods.
the method is available online through our prediction server at http://www-bs.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/wapp.
cancer res., 10(3):958-63, feb  2004.
keywords: biosvm [bern2004automatic]   m. bern, d. goldberg, w. h. mcdonald, and iii yates, j. r.  automatic quality assessment of peptide tandem mass spectra.
results: unsupervised analyses demonstrated a clear  distinction between sts and melanoma and, furthermore, showed that ccs/msp  cluster with the melanomas as a distinct group.
keywords: biosvm [su2001molecular]   a. i. su, j. b. welsh, l. m. sapinoso, s. g. kern,  p. dimitrov, h. lapp, p. g. schultz, s. m. powell,  c. a. moskaluk, h. f.jr.
in addition, we incorporate three post-processing modules, including an abbreviation resolution module, a protein/gene name refinement module and a simple dictionary matching module, into the system to further improve the performance.
after  fragment generation, we propose to apply svms to the problem of inducing sars  from these fragments.
to address these challenges, we have developed an information theoretic model called coherent subgraph mining.
conclusion we show that this technique proves to be more robust than the traditional use of estimation of distribution algorithms for feature selection: instead of returning a single best subset of features (as they normally do) this method provides a dynamical view of the feature selection process, like the traditional sequential wrapper methods.
this makes it a very practical solution for classification tasks that  can be solved using a relatively small amount of discriminative features (or  feature dependencies), but where the initial set of potential discriminative  features is rather large.
microarray expression profiling in melanoma  reveals a braf mutation signature.
theoretical issues such as choosing svm kernels and their parameters, training and evaluating feature relevance experts, and the impact of potentially mislabeled samples on marker identification (feature selection) are discussed.
these potential "retained genes" might have been lost during seed plant evolution.
in this study, we developed an algorithm for predicting sirna functionality by using generalized string kernel (gsk) combined with support vector machine (svm).
here we assess the use of a global expression profiling technique that identifies chromosome regions corresponding to differential gene expression, termed comparative expressed sequence hybridization (cesh).
for each  application, the molecular structures were described using either the  physicochemical parameters or molecular descriptors.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ yang2004bio-support]  z. r. yang and k.-c.
in the context of cancer diagnosis and treatment, we consider the problem of constructing an accurate prediction rule on the basis of a relatively small number of tumor tissue samples of known type containing the expression data on very many (possibly thousands) genes.
this reveals that gene harvesting, without additional constraints, can yield artifactual solutions.
however, the relationship between the expression  timecourse of a transcription factor and its target is not obvious (e.g. simple  correlation over the timecourse), and current analysis methods, such as  hierarchical clustering, have not been very successful in deciphering them.
in order to extract useful gene information from  cancer microarray data and reduce dimensionality, feature selection algorithms  were systematically investigated in this study.
matthew's correlation coefficient (mcc) could reach  0.4.
descriptor-based protein remote homology identification.
motivation: high-density dna microarray measures the activities  of several thousand genes simultaneously and the gene expression profiles have  been used for the cancer classification recently.
the algorithm is an extension of recent state-of-the-art sparse bayesian classifiers, which in turn can be seen as bayesian counterparts of support vector machines.
we describe a method for combining multiple kernel representations  in an optimal fashion, by formulating the problem as a convex optimization  problem that can be solved using semidefinite programming techniques.
five methods were evaluated, including information gain, mutual information, a chi2-test, odds ratio, and gss coefficient.
we developed a text mining system that supports researchers in their search for experimentally obtained parameters for kinetic models.
keywords: biosvm cancer diagnosis is a major clinical applications area of gene expression microarray technology.
in this research, the proteins are classified into the following eight groups: chloroplast, cytoplasm, extracellular, golgi apparatus, lysosome, mitochondria, nucleus and peroxisome.
the other contains eight  pairs of homologous enzymes of different families.
the good results indicate that the structural class of a protein is  considerably correlated with its amino acid composition.
bioinformatics,  21(23):4239-4247, dec 2005.
study  of the quantitative structure-mobility relationship of carboxylic acids in  capillary electrophoresis based on support vector machines.
j pept res, 63(1):23-8, jan  2004.
our results suggest that, through three cross  validation, the svm method can achieve a good performance for splice sites  identification.
three binary classifiers (k-nearest neighbors, weighted voting, and support vector machines) were applied in conjunction with three combination scenarios (one-vs-all, all-pairs, hierarchical partitioning).
all svm models showed predictive ability (>60% of test set predicted correctly) and five out of the 12 test sets showed excellent prediction (>80% prediction accuracy).
sequence identification requires high-throughput and reliable classification of genome origin.
this work  proposes a mixture of feature relevance experts as a method for identifying  marker genes and illustrates the idea using published data from samples labeled  as acute lymphoblastic and myeloid leukemia (all, aml).
our method  is available both as an internet server and as a program for download  (http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/services/nlprot/).
from the estimated distribution of the  algorithm, a feature ranking is derived.
[ bib | http | .html  ] classification of human tumors according to their primary  anatomical site of origin is fundamental for the optimal treatment of patients  with cancer.
the dataset consists of expression  experiment results for 97802 cdnas for each tissue.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we investigate the following data mining problem from  computer-aided drug design: from a large collection of compounds, find those  that bind to a target molecule in as few iterations of biochemical testing as  possible.
prediction of protein  subcellular locations by support vector machines using compositions of amino  acids and amino acid pairs.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: in this age of complete genome sequencing, finding  the location and structure of genes is crucial for further molecular research.
the overall prediction accuracy qtotal was 77.3%,  which is the best among the existing prediction methods.
we demonstrate success rate of at least 90 in tumor versus normal classification, using sets of selected genes, with, as well as without, cellular-contamination-related members.
keywords: biosvm [rose2005correlation]   j. r. rose, jr. turkett, w. h., i. c. oroian, w. w.  laegreid, and j. keele.
our results are in the same range of accuracy as other studies  that classify protein-protein interactions from 3d complex structure obtained  experimentally.
j proteome res , 2(2):137-146, 2003.
for two test sets, our discriminant models achieved 90% and 95% accuracy, respectively.
animals were treated at one facility, and rna was distributed to five different sites for gene expression analysis.
according to the results, the q3 prediction accuracy of new tertiary classifier reaches 78.8 reported in the literature.
the method  is based on the theory of support vector machines (svms).
these methods include:  linear discriminant analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, k-nearest  neighbor classifier, bagging and boosting classification trees, support vector  machine, and random forest (rf).
while prediction methods exist  for the individual steps, no method has yet offered an integrated prediction of  all three major processing events.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] in the context of cancer diagnosis and treatment, we consider  the problem of constructing an accurate prediction rule on the basis of a  relatively small number of tumor tissue samples of known type containing the  expression data on very many (possibly thousands) genes.
treating sentences as a simple "bag of words", the svm model had an  average roc area of 0.92.
keywords: biosvm [sorich2004rapid]   michael j sorich, ross a mckinnon, john o miners, david a  winkler, and paul a smith.
the tools used to format and analyze data and supplementary material are available at http://www.cse.sc.edu/ rose/aminopreference/index.html.
res. , 2:419-444, 2002.
keywords: biosvm we introduce a new method for splicing sites prediction based on the theory of support vector machines (svm).
moreover, we identify a group of coordinately expressed genes related to the separation of two distinct subgroups inside diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl), validating a previous alizadeh's hypothesis about the existence of two distinct diseases inside dlbcl.
in particular, we propose an svm kernel function that is explicitly  heterogeneous.
different techniques including standard  t-test, single-gene logistic regression, and support vector machine algorithms  were applied to identify relevant genes involved in bladder cancer progression.
the svmpsi method, which uses support vector machines (svms), and the  position-specific scoring matrix (pssm) generated from psi-blast have been  applied to achieve better prediction accuracy of the relative solvent  accessibility.
in a blind test of unrelated proteins, our scoring function misclassfies  only 13 native proteins out of 194.
in the colon cancer database, using only 4 genes our method is 98% accurate, while the baseline method is only 86% accurate.
the algorithm is based on some new observations on the secondary structure, which we have verified by ai techniques (decision trees and support vector machines).
these kernels are constructed directly from these explicit protein similarity measures and employ effective profile-to-profile scoring schemes for measuring the similarity between pairs of proteins.
to investigate  the performance of this algorithm, variants of the beta-lactamase enzyme were  created in silico using simulations of both mutagenesis and recombination  protocols.
we demonstrate experimentally  that the genes selected by our techniques yield better classification  performance and are biologically relevant to cancer.
results:  in our studies, protein dispensability is represented as a fitness score that  is measured by the growth rate of gene-deletion mutants.
the total prediction accuracies of two tests are both  100 self-consistency test, and are 92.9 test, respectively.
that is,  if mrna target sites are picked at random, many of the antisense or sirna  oligos will not be effective.
the best of our binary classifiers can eliminate over 75  spectra while losing only 10 regression can pick out spectra of modified  peptides that can be identified by a de novo program but not by sequest.
protein  encoding genes in an ancient plant: analysis of codon usage, retained genes and  splice sites in a moss, physcomitrella patens.
cesh is independent of selecting sequences for interrogation and is a simple, rapid, and widely accessible approach to identify clinically useful differential expression.
we examine  the use of scoring methods, measuring separation of tissue type (e.g., tumors  from normals) using individual gene expression levels.
the prebind system described here is available to the public at http://bind.ca.
our results revealed that the  three best-performing sets of descriptors were the sequence-alignment-based  descriptor using psi-blast e-values, the descriptors based on the alignment of  secondary structural elements (ssea), and the descriptors based on the  occurrence of prosite functional motifs.
a highly accurate classifier of chemical  compounds for inhibition of the herg potassium channel is constructed using  support vector machine.
their expression  patterns were significantly associated with pathological stage, tumor grade,  and altered retinoblastoma (rb) expression.
for classification of inhibitors of cyp2c9, the best csvm  method gives an accuracy of 88.9% for inhibitors and 96.3% for noninhibitors.
frierson, and g. m. hampton.
we conjecture that the svms are particularly useful in this context, as they can deal with a large number of features.
functional clusters of other proteins  included redox enzymes, proteins associated with endocytosis, cytoskeletal  proteins, dna damage or repair related proteins, calcium binding proteins, and  splicing factor and related proteins, suggesting that in vitro ubiquitination  is not random, and that these functions may be regulated by the ubiquitin  system.
approximately 3400 terms are annotated and the  model performs at about 74% f-score on cross-validation tests.
keywords: biosvm we explore two different methods to predict the binding ability of nonapeptides at the class
the database was used to build a predictor for the assignment of the mechanisms of action (moas) of antibacterial compounds by the use of support vector machines.
nuclear receptors form a superfamily of phylogenetically related proteins and control functions associated with major diseases (e.g. diabetes, osteoporosis, and cancer).
under such conditions, most protein classification algorithms have limited accuracy.
finally, to combine the results of the six svm binary classifiers, a new tertiary classifier which combines the results of one-versus-one binary classifiers is introduced and the performance is compared with those of existing tertiary classifiers.
five chemists assigned a pair of scores to each of 3980  diverse compounds, with the component scores of each pair corresponding to  drug-likeness and ease of synthesis, respectively.
the heuristic method (hm) and support vector machine (svm) were utilized to construct the linear and nonlinear prediction models, leading to a good correlation coefficient (r2) of 0.86 and 0.94 and root-mean-square errors (rms) of 0.212 and 0.134 albumin drug binding affinity units, respectively.
we applied the functional domain composition method to predict the functional class of 2018 currently unclassified yeast open reading frames.
we conclude that gene copy numbers as measured by array cgh are,  collectively, an excellent indicator of histological subtype.
the tools used to format and analyze data and  supplementary material are available at  http://www.cse.sc.edu/ rose/aminopreference/index.html.
this paper compares various feature  selection methods as well as various state-of-the-art classification methods on  various multiclass gene expression datasets.
a motif-based framework for recognizing  sequence families.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machines (svm) is a powerful classification and  regression tool that is becoming increasingly popular in various machine  learning applications.
using tanimoto similarity index as a confidence  measurement for the predictions, the limitation of the extrapolation was 0.7 in  the case of the bci/svm model.
our approach includes a visualization method for transparent representation of characteristic sequence features.
methods and materials:
high success rates are obtained by the self-consistency test, jackknife test, and independent dataset test, respectively.
the svm method achieved excellent  performance as measured by the matthews correlation coefficient (mcc = 0.45)  using a 7-fold cross validation on a database of 426 non-homologous protein  chains.
previous works show several pairs of tumor  types can be successfully distinguished by their gene expression patterns  (golub et al. 1999, ben-dor et al. 2000, alizadeh et al. 2000).
there  have emerged many methods based on machine learning techniques, such as neural  networks (nn) and support vector machine (svm) etc., to focus on the prediction  of the secondary structures.
the impact of the presence of a germ-line brca1 mutation on gene expression in normal breast fibroblasts after radiation-induced dna damage has been investigated.
mass spectrometry  (ms) holds great promise for biomarker identification and genome-wide protein  profiling.
interestingly, moss orthologs of arabidopsis genes show a significant drift of codon fraction usage, towards the seed plant.
keywords: biosvm [noble2004support]   w. s. noble.
this information helps to reduce the number of binding sites which need to be identified for successful predictions and to avoid problems of over-fitting.
we also achieve high success rates in recognizing cell cycle regulated genes.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] a variety of new procedures have been devised to handle the  two-sample comparison (e.g., tumor versus normal tissue) of gene expression
our method can be used to predict bzip interactions in other genomes and is a  promising approach for predicting coiled-coil interactions more generally.
pattern recognition techniques for automatic detection of suspicious-looking  anomalies in mammograms.
in this paper, a novel method named locsvmpsi has been introduced, which is based on the support vector machine (svm) and the position-specific scoring matrix generated from profiles of psi-blast.
esub8 also provides  excellent results: the total prediction accuracies are 100 87 a different  approach for predicting protein subcellular localization and achieved a  satisfactory result; furthermore, we believe esub8 will be a useful tool for  predicting protein subcellular localizations in eukaryotic organisms.
keywords: biosvm we report our results in classifying protein matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectra obtained from serum samples into diseased and healthy groups.
these kernels measure the similarity between two sequences  by summing up scores obtained from local alignments with gaps of the sequences.
[ bib | www:  ] keywords: biosvm [cui2004esub8]   q. cui, t. jiang, b. liu, and s. ma.
cancer microarray data normally  contains a small number of samples which have a large number of gene expression  levels as features.
two classification methods were attempted, heuristic and support vector machine learning.
bioinformatics, in press) that uses simple descriptors to represent  biomolecules as input examples to train a support vector machine (smola, a. j.,  and scholkopf, b. (1998)
non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nssnps) that lead to an amino acid change in the protein product are of particular interest because they account for nearly half of the known genetic variations related to human inherited diseases.
results: the last is the most computationally expensive  method, but our experiments show that, for those interested in  annotation-quality classification, the results are worth the effort.
in view of this, we  initiate the study of filtering ineffective sirnas.
a number of prediction algorithms have been developed based on amino acid compositions or on the n-terminal characteristics (signal peptides) of proteins.
bioinformatics , 17(supp.
conclusions: three main conclusions can be formulated based on  the performances on independent test sets.
support vector machines for prediction of  protein subcellular location.
in this study, we have combined genetic algorithms (gas) and all  paired support vector machines (svms) for multiclass cancer identification.
keywords: biosvm [sharan2005motif-based]   roded sharan and eugene w myers.
keywords: biosvm [briem2005classifying]   hans briem and judith günther.
in conclusion, we suggest that  the application of svms for association studies of snps in candidate genes  shows considerable promise and that further work could be usefully performed  upon the estimation of chd susceptibility in individuals of high risk.
non-additive effects are difficult to study because they require the  identification of many more binding sequences than are normally necessary for  describing additive specificity (typically via the construction of weight  matrices).
the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of learning machine, was used to develop a quantitative structure-property relationship (qspr) model of the o-h bond dissociation energy (bde) of 78 substituted phenols.
hence a filter that eliminates poor spectra before the database search can significantly improve throughput and robustness.
we find that this approach identifies spatial motifs unique to individual scop families and affords excellent discrimination between families.
in particular, we used svms to predict the regulatory targets for 36 transcription factors in the saccharomyces cerevisiae genome based on the microarray expression data from many different physiological conditions.
the svm method is a comparatively new  learning system which has mostly been used in pattern recognition problems.
both algorithms are trained  on an identical data set consisting of 179 cns active molecules and 145 cns  inactive molecules.
the identification of relevant biological features in  large and complex datasets is an important step towards gaining insight in the  processes underlying the data.
moreover, spectra judged to be of high quality, but that cannot be identified by database search, are prime candidates for still more computationally intensive methods, such as de novo sequencing or wider database searches including post-translational modifications.
keywords: biosvm image computational models of cytochrome p450 3a4 inhibition were developed based on high-throughput screening data for 4470 proprietary compounds.
classification of prostatic carcinoma with  artificial neural networks using comparative genomic hybridization and  quantitative stereological data.
however, the method is faster than the traditional techniques, and scales better to datasets described by a large number of features.
the method was trained and tested on 167 proteins of amine subfamily of g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs).
availability: the software is available from the authors upon request.
however, clinical  data are very sparse and, in the case of antibody-related proteins, the  collected sequences have large variability with only a small subset of  variations relevant to the protein pathogenicity (function).
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ liu2004prediction]  h. x. liu, r. s. zhang, x. j. yao,  m. c. liu, z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
however, the simpler naive bayes model as well as the decision tree model performed quite similarly to the svm.
nonetheless, two considerations remained outstanding: we wanted to further increase the sensitivity of detecting horizontal transfers and also to be able to apply the method to increasingly smaller genomes.
correlation of amino acid preference and mammalian  viral genome type.
our web interface allows the selection of a predictive mode that depends on the availability of the protein structure and/or sequence.
no prior  knowledge of the problem domain nor any natural language processing is used at  any stage.
keywords: biosvm [yuan2002prediction]   z. yuan, k. burrage, and j.s. mattick.
from this, a machine learning algorithm is used to construct a classifier based on these feature vectors.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] owing to the importance of signal peptides for studying the  molecular mechanisms of genetic diseases, reprogramming cells for gene therapy,  and finding new drugs for healing a specific defect, it is in great demand to  develop a fast and accurate method to identify the signal peptides.
omegaf has slightly higher accuracy rates than omegat. the overall predicted accuracies are above 70 external crossvalidation; the two gene sets omegat and omegaf performed equally well.
a string kernel approach used in conjunction with support vector machines has been shown to achieve good performance in text categorisation tasks.
drug  design by machine learning: support vector machines for pharmaceutical data  analysis.
it is also computationally efficient and  robust to noise commonly found in full text material.
these encouraging results illustrate the great potential of using conserved local motifs to tackle protein structure predictions and possibly other important problems in biology.
here, we present gene expression data of 34 adult acute  lymphoblastic leukemia (all) patients (affymetrix u133a microarrays).
as a result, high rates of both self-consistency and jackknife test are obtained.
the third set consists of approximately equal to 7,100 genes, measured  in 72 bone marrow and peripheral blood samples (golub et al, 1999).
experiments with remote homology  detection and fold recognition problems show that these kernels are capable of  producing results that are substantially better than those produced by all of  the existing state-of-the-art svm-based methods.
through analyses of  high-throughput data in yeast saccharomyces cerevisia, we found that a  protein's dispensability had significant correlations with its evolutionary  rate and duplication rate, as well as its connectivity in protein-protein  interaction network and gene-expression correlation network.
the overall rate of correct prediction for 1939 secretary proteins and 1440 nonsecretary proteins was over 91 may also serve as a useful tool for further investigating many unclear details regarding the molecular mechanism of the zip code protein-sorting system in cells.
an evolution based  classifier for prediction of protein interfaces without using protein  structures.
these graph kernels are obtained by marginalizing a kernel betweenpaths with respect to a random walk model on the graph vertices along theedges.
biol., 11(2-3):227-242, 2004.
here svm is tested for functional family assignment of two  groups of enzymes.
keywords: biosvm the idea of performing model combination, instead of model selection, has a long theoretical background in statistics.
both methods were tested with a 5-fold  cross-validation.
the method supports a practical modeling scheme designed to avoid the construction of classification rules based on the selection of too small gene subsets (an effect known as the selection bias, in which the estimated predictive errors are too optimistic due to testing on samples already considered in the feature selection process).
some of these adrs, such as torsade de pointes (tdp), are important  issues in the approval of drugs for certain diseases.
we provide an example showing that a predictive  model built on transcript profiles from one rat strain can successfully  classify profiles from another rat strain.
for the first time evolutionary information was used as one of the attributes and this inclusion of evolutionary importance rankings improves the classification.
we derive an expectation-maximization (em) algorithm to efficiently compute a maximum a posteriori (map) point estimate of the various parameters.
support vector machines for  prediction of protein subcellular location by incorporating  quasi-sequence-order effect.
an algorithm (the phylogenetic bootstrap) is introduced, which suggests traversal of a phenogram, interleaving rounds of computation and experiment, to develop a knowledge base of protein interactions in genetically-similar organisms.
however, a general methodology to design a kernel is not fully developed.
the main part  of griffin includes a hierarchical svm classifier using the feature vectors,  which is useful for class a gpcrs, the major family.
as more peptide data are put into mhc databases, svmhc can easily be updated to give prediction for additional mhc class i types.
the framework of encoding local structure into feature vector is available upon request.
as classification features, we used a protein's co-occurring terms that were automatically extracted from documents.
results: we present a heuristic method based on estimation of distribution algorithms to select relevant subsets of features for splice site prediction in arabidopsis thaliana.
we obtain average classification accuracies of 87 on a four-group classification problem using a two-stage linear svm-based procedure and just 13 peaks, with other methods performing comparably.
we have developed a large-scale annotation system that tackles all of these shortcomings.
importantly, the most commonly used amino acid encoding method has  the flaw that leads to large computational cost and recognition bias.
as a first step toward this goal, it is important to investigate the amount of correlation which exists between these data.
[ bib | doi | http ] automatically extracting protein names from the literature and  linking these names to the associated entries in sequence databases is becoming  increasingly important for annotating biological databases.
these results provide critical information  regarding the consistency of microarray results across different laboratories  and shed light on the strengths and limitations of expression profiling in drug  safety analysis.
results: our prediction system was limited to phosphorylation sites catalyzed by four protein kinase families and four protein kinase groups.
this new approach  provides superior prediction performance compared with existing algorithms  based on amino acid composition and can be a complementary method to other  existing methods based on sorting signals.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] summary: rankgene is a program for analyzing gene expression  data and computing diagnostic genes based on their predictive power in  distinguishing between different types of samples.
first, normalization of cdna microarray data was performed to reduce or minimize systematic variations.
identifying splicing sites in eukaryotic rna:  support vector machine approach.
the results showed that  (1) data mining techniques can be successfully applied to ovarian cancer  detection with a reasonably high performance; (2) the classification using  features selected by the genetic algorithm consistently outperformed those  selected by statistical testing in terms of accuracy and robustness; (3) the  discriminatory features (proteomic patterns) can be very different from one  selection method to another.
although all methods perform well in both subsets  for a relative easy dataset with two classes, differences in performance do  exist among methods for other datasets.
the overall cesh profiles in  favorable-histology wilms tumors were found to correlate with subsequent  clinical behavior.
we employ advanced  machine learning techniques in order to answer the following two questions: (1)  is a certain exon alternatively spliced?
the motif content of a pair of sequences is used to define a similarity that is used as a kernel for a support vector machine (svm) classifier.
keywords: biosvm [guermeur2002combining]   y. guermeur.
for each protein, a vector of terms is generated from medline abstracts in which the protein/gene's name or synonym occurs.
both types of experiment show promising results for mcks.
signal classification was done in silico to establish performance metrics (i.e., where train and test data were of known type, via single-species data files).
in an effort to facilitate drug discovery, computational methods for facilitating the prediction of various adverse drug reactions (adrs) have been developed.
the gain increases when the outputs of the combiners are post-processed with a dp algorithm.
classification of multiple cancer types by  multicategory support vector machines using gene expression data.
availability: the data and additional  interactive graphs on the selected feature subsets are available at  http://www.psb.rug.ac.be/gps contact: svgro@gengenp.rug.ac.be  yvdp@gengenp.rug.ac.be keywords: biosvm [chou2002using]  k.-c.
in the first step, candidate features are generated using k-gram amino acid patterns.
input can be pubmed/medline identifiers, authors, titles and journals, as well as collections of abstracts, or entire papers.
j med chem,  47(21):5311-7, oct 2004.
our proposed method, svm-i-sites, utilizes structure similarity for remote homology detection.
the most complex and accurate model is the ordered triple amino acid preference model (3-aap), which is based on ordered triples of amino acids.
syst., volume 14, pages 1449-1456.
however, these methods typically encode sequence information into their feature vectors and ignore the structure information.
for classification of inhibitors of cyp2c9, the best csvm method gives an accuracy of 88.9% for inhibitors and 96.3% for noninhibitors.
however, clinical data are very sparse and, in the case of antibody-related proteins, the collected sequences have large variability with only a small subset of variations relevant to the protein pathogenicity (function).
in this study, we have combined genetic algorithms (gas) and all paired support vector machines (svms) for multiclass cancer identification.
the accuracy of the predictions ranged from 83 to 95 kinase group level.
we have introduced a three-dimensional local descriptor that contains information about the expected remote contacts by both the long-range interaction matrix and neighbor sequences.
results: both of the support vector machine (svm) and the covariant discriminant algorithms have been first introduced to predict quaternary structure properties from the protein primary sequences.
keywords: biosvm proteomics purpose: to develop a genome-based classification scheme for clear-cell sarcoma (ccs), also known as melanoma of soft parts (msp), which would have implications for diagnosis and treatment.
keywords: biosvm image keywords: biosvm functional annotation of newly sequenced genomes is an important challenge for computational biology systems.
based on the expression profile of the 32 spots, the isolated cancer cells were categorized into three histological groups: the squamous cell carcinoma group, the adenocarcinoma group, and a group of carcinomas with other histological types.
there is a need to understand why particular genes/proteins  express more in particular conditions.
here we demonstrate how phenotypic classes can be predicted by combining feature selection and discriminant analysis.
availability: a web server  implementing the prediction method is available at  http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/subloc/. contact:  sunzhr@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn; huasj00@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn supplementary  information: supplementary material is available at  http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/subloc keywords: biosvm [ding2001multi-class]   c.h.q. ding and i. dubchak.
we performed two suites of experiments.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] we introduce a method of functionally classifying genes by using  gene expression data from dna microarray hybridization experiments.
in the first one we simply applied a number of different machine learning algorithms; in the second one we have chosen the best performing algorithm as it was determined from the first phase and coupled it with a number of different feature selection methods.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] partial least squares discriminant analysis (plsda), bayesian  regularized artificial neural network (brann), and support vector machine (svm)
the overall accuracy  of amino acid composition-based and dipeptide compositionbased classifiers were  82.6 and 97.5 that different subfamilies of nuclear receptors are predictable
gene selection techniques are shown to  significantly improve classification performance.
today, a large number of known protein sequences faces a small number of identified structures.
this is  ensured through an adaptation of a compression method known as the context-tree  weighting algorithm.
thus, for the distinction of these types of liposarcomas, genomic profiling appears to be more advantageous than rna expression analysis.
an estimate of the generalization performance of the classifier was derived from 10-fold cross-validation, which indicated expected upper bounds on precision of 80 one such organism is the enteric pathogen campylobacter jejuni, in which comprehensive machine learning prediction of all possible pairwise protein-protein interactions was performed.
availability: the prediction  system uses proprietary hardware and is available for both commercial and  strategic academic collaborations.
with independent test sets, predictions of enantiomeric excess could be made with an average error as low as 6% ee.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] the binding affinities to human serum albumin for 94 diverse  drugs and drug-like compounds were modeled with the descriptors calculated from  the molecular structure alone using a quantitative structure-activity  relationship (qsar) technique.
to answer question (2), we additionally used  svm-based predictions to recognize acceptor and donor splice sites.
thirty lung cancer cell  lines with three different histological backgrounds (squamous cell carcinoma,  small cell lung carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) were subjected to two-dimensional  difference gel electrophoresis (2-d dige) and grouped by multivariate analyses  on the basis of their protein expression profiles.
the programs for computing the various kernel functions  are available on request from the authors.
keywords: biosvm [tsirigos2005sensitive]   a. tsirigos and i. rigoutsos.
structure-based classification of protein-protein interfaces has been described initially by ponstingl et al.
keywords: biosvm nlp [ zhang2005descriptor-based]  z. zhang, s. kochhar, and m. g.  grigorov.
genotypes were transformed to a numerical vector by giving scores based on difference between the genotypes of each subject and the reference genotypes, which represent the healthy normal population.
keywords: biosvm [williams2004prognostic]   r.d. williams, s.n. hing, b.t. greer, c.c. whiteford, j.s. wei,  r. natrajan, a. kelsey, s. rogers, c. campbell,  k. pritchard-jones, and j. khan.
the relevant descriptors were  related to the fold class membership by using simple similarity measures in the  descriptor spaces, such as the cosine angle.
this study presents a physicochemical property based  protein localization prediction algorithm.
genome inform ser workshop  genome inform, 14:84-93, 2003.
in contrast to geometrically distinct small molecule binding sites, protein-protein interface are notoriously difficult to predict.
syst., pages 563-569, 2000.
bioinformatics, 19(17):2199-2209,  2003.
medinfo, 11(pt 2):813-7, 2004.
we participated in task 2, which  addressed assigning gene ontology terms to human proteins and selecting  relevant evidence from full-text documents.
bioinformatics, 21(2):144-151, jan 2005.
proteins,  57(3):518-530, 2004.
different from the existing methods, this method takes into account of the  physical-chemical properties and structure properties of amino acids.
our results show that it is promising to use machine learning to automatically build systems for extracting information from biomedical text.
as more peptide data are put into  mhc databases, svmhc can easily be updated to give prediction for additional  mhc class i types.
[ bib | .pdf ] prediction of protein secondary structures is an important  problem in bioinformatics and has many applications.
as a result, high rates of both self-consistency and jackknife test are  obtained.
this paper provided a new and  effective method for predicting the chromatography retention of peptides and  some insight into the structural features which are related to the capacity  factor of peptides.
molecular  classification of human carcinomas by use of gene expression signatures.
one classifier follows an association rule approach, while the other is based on support vector machines (svms).
two sets of features are defined: an order-independent feature set that captures the amino acid and local structure composition; and an order-dependent feature set that captures the sequential ordering of the local structures.
the method was developed on the  basis of amino acid composition and dipeptide composition of proteins using  support vector machine.
the computed accuracy for protein family  classification is found to be in the range of 69.1-99.6%.
programs are  available upon request for academics.
we present a new approach that combines  sequential, structural and chemical information into one graph model of  proteins.
of these putative transcripts, approximately 30% have a homolog in both rice and arabidopsis transcriptome.
our  goal is to distinguish each native sequence for a major portion of  representative protein structures from a large number of alternative decoy  sequences, each a fragment from proteins of different folds.
results: by applying support vector regression we have developed a fast method for automated staging of an embryo on the basis of its gene expression pattern.
a  regularized learning scheme enables application even to biological problems for  which only small sets of example sequences are available.
this expectation was validated for various statistical discrimination methods when thirteen peaks were used in cross-validation studies.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] male rats were treated with various model compounds or the  appropriate vehicle controls.
the overall accuracy for both the independent testing set and estimate of jackknife testing reached approximately 70%.
in proceedings of the sixth international conference on computational molecular  biology, 2002.
prediction of the bonding states  of cysteines using the support vector machines based on multiple feature  vectors and cysteine state sequences.
the methods are  based on novel classification schemes, the adaboost and the support vector  machines (svm).
linear classifier performance was significantly worse than the svm in all datasets.
also, the optimal number of  genes can be estimated according to the saturation of zipf's law profiles.
svms avoid several problems associated with unsupervised clustering  methods, such as hierarchical clustering and self-organizing maps.
profiling data were further analyzed by  a recursive support vector machine algorithm to select a panel of statistically  significant biomarkers for class prediction.
developing optimal non-linear  scoring function for protein design.
this work confirms the hypothesis that compound classification based on gene expression data is feasible.
keywords: biosvm eukaryotic gene expression requires the coordinated activity of many macromolecular machines including transcription factors and rna polymerase, the spliceosome, mrna export factors, the nuclear pore, the ribosome and decay machineries.
this is the first such system to be informed by a rigorous comparative analysis of the available algorithms and datasets.
recently, a systematic search for alpha-turns classified alpha-turns into nine different types according to their backbone trajectory features.
keywords: biosvm [seeger2002covariance]   m. seeger.
in addition, seven other b-precursor all cases not bearing t(9;22) or t(11q23)/mll chromosomal aberrations were analyzed.
they are based on  calculated molecular structure descriptors.
keywords: biosvm [borgwardt2005protein]   k.m. borgwardt, c.s. ong, s. schönauer, s.v.n. vishwanathan, a.j.  smola, and h.-p. kriegel.
neural  network., 18(4):1111-1123, 2005.
therefore, when  using data mining techniques, the discrimination of cancer from normal does not  depend solely upon the identity and origination of cancer-related proteins.
we have developed a system for predicting the subcellular localization of proteins for gram-negative bacteria based on amino acid subalphabets and a combination of multiple support vector machines.
microm) and noninhibitors were generated using various machine-learning algorithms (recursive partitioning [rp], bayesian classifier, logistic regression, k-nearest-neighbor, and support vector machine [svm]) with structural fingerprints and topological indices.
at small false positive ratios, our method outperforms the classical  weight matrix method, indicating the current approach may at least serve as a  powerful complemental tool to other existing methods for predicting the signal  peptide cleavage site.
for the test set, a predictive  correlation coefficient r = 0.9801 and root-mean-square error of 0.1523 were  obtained.
taking consensus of the 3 best models yielded a further improvement in predictive capability, kappa = 0.65 and accuracy = 83%.
it is possible that unique serum  proteomic patterns could be used to discriminate cancer samples from non-cancer  ones.
by converting our kernel to a distance pseudo-metric for 1-nearest neighbour, we were able to improve the best accuracy from the literature on the diterpene data set by more than 10%.
our results suggest that, through three cross validation, the svm method can achieve a good performance for splice sites identification.
in this paper, a novel method named locsvmpsi  has been introduced, which is based on the support vector machine (svm) and the  position-specific scoring matrix generated from profiles of psi-blast.
availability:  http://staff.vbi.vt.edu/volkan/p2sl and  http://www.i-cancer.fen.bilkent.edu.tr/p2sl contact: rengul@bilkent.edu.tr.
here, we show that protein function can be predicted as enzymatic or not without resorting to alignments.
results: to estimate the activity of a drug combination against a particular  viral strain, we develop a scoring function whose independent variables  describe a set of antiviral agents and viral dna sequences coding for the  molecular targets of the respective drugs.
keywords: biosvm nlp here, we report a novel protein sequence descriptor-based remote homology identification method, able to infer fold relationships without the explicit knowledge of structure.
keywords: biosvm [kohlmann2004pediatric]   a. kohlmann, c. schoch, s. schnittger, m. dugas,  w. hiddemann, w. kern, and t. haferlach.
i-mutant2.0 predictions are performed starting either from the protein  structure or, more importantly, from the protein sequence.
[ bib |  http | .pdf ] transcription profiling experiments permit the expression levels  of many genes to be measured simultaneously.
these molecular patterns can be revealed routinely on a genomic  scale.
[ bib ] this study evaluated the use of machine learning techniques in  the classification of sentence type.
these results guided the  development of a software system that fully automates cancer diagnostic model  construction with quality on par with or better than previously published  results derived by expert human analysts.
an extremely good correlation (r = 0.88) was  obtained between measured and predicted values, when the cascade svm-based  method was evaluated through jackknife testing.
experiments on common gene expression datasets demonstrated that our approach can achieve high accuracy and efficiency at the same time.
these methods were trained and tested on a nonredundant data set of 16 proteins, and performance was evaluated using "leave one out cross-validation" (loocv).
identifying genes related to drug anticancer  mechanisms using support vector machine.
bioinformatics, 21(8):1559-64, apr 2005.
keywords: biosvm proteomics gene expression profiling offers a promising new technique for the diagnosis and prognosis of cancer.
for proteins that are highly dissimilar or are only similar to proteins also lacking functional annotations, these methods fail.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] using cdna fragments from the fapesp/licr cancer genome project,  we constructed a cdna array having 4512 elements and determined gene expression  in six normal and six tumor gastric tissues.
available  est data was clustered and assembled, and provided the basis for a genome-wide  analysis of protein encoding genes.
the  characteristics of expression data (e.g. large number of genes with small  sample size) makes the classification problem more challenging.
with gsk, sirna sequences were represented as vectors in a multi-dimensional feature space according to the numbers of subsequences in each sirna, and subsequently classified with svm into effective or ineffective sirnas.
[ bib | doi |  http | .pdf ] accurately predicting phosphorylation sites in proteins is an  important issue in postgenomics, for which how to efficiently extract the most  predictive features from amino acid sequences for modeling is still  challenging.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] in this paper, we apply a new machine learning method which is  called support vector machine to approach the prediction of protein structural  class.
a blind pilot analysis of the genotypic data set was a first approach to obtain an impression of the statistical structure of the data.
one consists of 50 enzymes that have no homolog of known  function from psi-blast search of protein databases.
a new discriminative kernel from probabilistic models.
results thorough cross-validation studies and randomization tests are performed on a prostate cancer dataset with over 300 patients, obtained at the eastern virginia medical school using seldi-tof mass spectrometry.
a tutorial on support vector regression, neurocolt technical report nc-tr-98-030, royal holloway college, university of london, uk) and the application of the trained system to previously unseen pairs, estimating their propensity for interaction.
a web application based on the method can be found at  http://www.bioinformatics.leeds.ac.uk/ppi_pred.
subsequently, the system utilizes support vector machine (svm) classifiers to learn the boundaries between structural protein classes.
evaluation of techniques for classifying  biological sequences.
the method is applied to the problem of predicting yeast protein functional classifications using a support vector machine (svm) trained on five types of data.
this method fails when a  similar protein cannot be identified, or when any similar proteins identified  also lack reliable annotations.
j comput aided mol des, 18(6):389-99, jun 2004.
results: here we introduce an approach based on support vector machines (svms)  to predict the targets of a transcription factor by identifying subtle  relationships between their expression profiles.
keywords: biosvm [cai2001support]  y.-d.  cai, x.-j. liu, x.-b. xu, and g.-p. zhou.
conclusions we showed that the oligo kernel can provide a valuable tool  for the analysis of relevant signals in biological sequences.
availability: results, figures and software  are available at http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/supplementary_data/. keywords: biosvm [cuturi2005context-tree]   m. cuturi and j.-p. vert.
systematic benchmarking of  microarray data classification: assessing the role of non-linearity and  dimensionality reduction.
endpoints used are the labels  clastogenic or nonclastogenic according to an in vitro chromosomal aberration  assay with chinese hamster lung cells.
the algorithm, called svm-pairwise, when tested on its ability to recognize  previously unseen families from the scop database, yields significantly better  performance than svm-fisher, profile hmms, and psi-blast.
recently, a systematic search for alpha-turns classified  alpha-turns into nine different types according to their backbone trajectory  features.
the method discriminated amine subfamily of gpcrs from globular proteins with matthew's correlation coefficient of 0.98 and 0.99 using amino acid composition and dipeptide composition, respectively.
results: we compare the performance of several classes of statistical methods for the classification of cancer based on ms spectra.
keywords: biosvm [hofmann2005concept-based]   oliver hofmann and dietmar schomburg.
we present a new  method for remote homology detection that relies on combining probabilistic  modeling and supervised learning in high-dimensional features spaces.
this 3495 da protein was purified on-chip and trypsin digested.
nuclear receptors form a superfamily of phylogenetically related  proteins and control functions associated with major diseases (e.g. diabetes,  osteoporosis, and cancer).
the combination of seldi with bioinformatics tools could help find new biomarkers and establish patterns with high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of crc.
biol., 231(1):85-95, 2004.
data consist of 42 specimen samples, i.e., mass spectra divided in two big  categories, stroke and control specimens.
bioinformatics, 19:238ii-234ii, 2003.
application of dedicated clustering algorithms  revealed that both tumor subtypes are clearly separated by the genomic profiles  but only with a lesser power by the expression profiles.
dna from tumors  of 37 patients (21 squamous carcinomas, and 16 adenocarcinomas) were extracted  and hybridized onto a 452 bac clone array.
in this paper the performance of support vector machines (svms) is compared to neural networks and to standard statistical classification methods as discriminant analysis and nearest neighbor classification.
using the svm model trained on structured abstracts to predict unstructured abstracts yielded performance similar to that of models trained with unstructured abstracts in 3 of the 4 types.
support vector machines for the  classification and prediction of beta-turn types.
keywords: biosvm protein structure prediction is one of the most important problems in modern computational biology.
the concept of drug-likeness, an important characteristic for any compound in a screening library, is nevertheless difficult to pin down.
the svms can save cpu time and avoid the  overfitting problem compared with the neural network method.
a simple consensus of the svm, psipred and profsec achieves significantly higher prediction accuracy than the individual methods.
in this paper, we propose a comprehensive vertical sample-based knn/lsvm classification approach with weights optimized by genetic algorithms for high-dimensional data.
for all users,  unsupervised algorithms showed that gene expression allows the distinction of  the high dose of mp from controls and low dose.
keywords: biosvm [lett2004interaction]   d. lett, m. hsing, and f. pio.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] in biological data, it is often the case that observed data are  available only for a subset of samples.
in this work, we describe an  attraction-repulsion model, in which the interaction between a pair of proteins  is represented as the sum of attractive and repulsive forces associated with  small, domain- or motif-sized features along the length of each protein.
the seven descriptors selected using ga-pls, which is a  sophisticated hybrid approach that combines ga as a powerful optimization  method with pls as a robust statistical method for variable selection, were  used as inputs of rbfnns and svm to predict the isoelectric point of an amino  acid.
bioinformatics, 19(13):1636-1643, 2003.
a set of svms was trained to predict the subcellular  location of a given protein based on its amino acid, amino acid pair, and  gapped amino acid pair compositions.
the algorithm, called svm-pairwise, when tested on its ability to recognize previously unseen families from the scop database, yields significantly better performance than svm-fisher, profile hmms, and psi-blast.
based on the mpi  (max-planck-institute) basic principles, a number of sirna design tools have  been developed recently.
these accuracies are slightly better than those obtained from other statistical classification methods, including k-nearest neighbor (k-nn), probabilistic neural networks (pnn), and c4.5 decision tree, that use the same sets of data and molecular descriptors.
to derive  discriminative classifiers, we construct a mapping from the set of all graphs  to a high-dimensional (in principle infinite-dimensional) "word  space".
furthermore, initial experimental evidence suggests that their outputs could be processed by the biologist to perform higher-level treatments.
keywords: biosvm intrinsically disordered proteins are an important class of proteins with unique functions and properties.
significance analysis of microarrays and the support vector machine classifier identified gene sets that discriminate the samples according to their mutation status.
[3], from complex  structures that have been solved experimentally.
in general, the svm methodology was able to produce models with the best predictive performance, followed by brann and then plsda.
[ bib | .pdf ] kernel methods provide a principled framework in which to  represent many types of data, including vectors, strings, trees and graphs.
this hyperplane separates the current set of active from the inactive compounds and has the largest possible distance from any labeled compound.
phrases in the  abstracts were assigned to concepts from the unified medical language system  (umls) utilizing the metamap program, allowing for the identification of  disease-related concepts by their semantic fields in the umls ontology.
gene profiling successfully classified  bladder tumors based on their progression and clinical outcome.
we present an information extraction system that was designed to locate protein-protein interaction data in the literature and present these data to curators and the public for review and entry into bind.
the accuracies for the svm prediction of tdp-causing agents and non-tdp-causing agents are 97.4 and 84.6% respectively; one is substantially improved against and the other is comparable to the results obtained by other classification methods useful for multiple-mechanism prediction problems.
this is a limitation,  because such databases have low coverage of the many name variants which are  used to refer to biological entities in the literature.
it is likely that eem-derived qc properties will be generally useful for predicting admet and physicochemical properties during drug discovery.
the method was developed on the basis of amino acid composition and dipeptide composition of proteins using support vector machine.
decision trees performed poorer than the other methods in this learning task and dataset.
thus, computational prediction of subcellular locations from the amino acid sequence information would help annotation and functional prediction of protein coding genes in complete genomes.
in addition, the experiments  show that these kernels, even when used in the absence of profiles, produce  results that are better than those produced by existing non-profile-based  schemes.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background kernel-based learning algorithms are among the most  advanced machine learning methods and have been successfully applied to a  variety of sequence classification tasks within the field of bioinformatics.
to determine whether the diagnosis of multiple common adult malignancies could be achieved purely by molecular classification, we subjected 218 tumor samples, spanning 14 common tumor types, and 90 normal tissue samples to oligonucleotide microarray gene expression analysis.
searching for  regularities in the set of gene expression profiles with respect to the  topology of this gene network is a way to automatically extract active pathways  and their associated patterns of activity.
each amino acid in the sequence is represented by a set of six  physicochemical properties: hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, volume, surface  area, bulkiness and refractivity.
phrases in the abstracts were assigned to concepts from the unified medical language system (umls) utilizing the metamap program, allowing for the identification of disease-related concepts by their semantic fields in the umls ontology.
a number of tests have been carried out to evaluate the accuracy of these two algorithms under different circumstances.
keywords: biosvm [bhasin2004analysis]   m. bhasin and g. p. s. raghava.
results: this  paper describes a computational framework for integrating and drawing  inferences from a collection of genome-wide measurements.
the current approach is compared with the classical weight matrix  method.
the approach uses  heavy-tailed priors to promote sparsity in the utilization of both basis  functions and features; these priors act as regularizers for the likelihood  function that rewards good classification on the training data.
this predictor was able to correctly classify the moa class  for most compounds tested.
in the meantime, bioinformatics  approaches may help bridge the information gap required for inference of  protein function.
high success rates are obtained by both the self-consistency and jackknife  tests.
we then compared the overall performance of this method with the existing protein classification methods on benchmark scop datasets.
the performance of all classifiers was evaluated using a 5-fold cross validation test.
the latter pose a diagnostic challenge, even to  experienced pathologists.
accurate and efficient classification of such high-dimensional data remains a contemporary challenge.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ steiner2004discriminating]  guido steiner, laura suter, franziska boess,  rodolfo gasser, maria cristina de vera, silvio albertini, and stefan  ruepp.
two machine learning methods, support vector machine and random  forest, were trained and evaluated.
this work is partially supported by gsa grant act#:k96130308.
results: the last is the most computationally expensive method, but our experiments show that, for those interested in annotation-quality classification, the results are worth the effort.
we hypothesized that the formidable task-size of backfilling the database could be reduced by using support vector machine technology to first locate interaction information in the literature.
however, their tertiary structures remain largely unsolved.
the context-tree kernel for strings.
in the second step, a small number of top-ranked features are selected by an entropy-based algorithm.
using  available training examples from cancer and normal patients, we build a  classifier suitable for genetic diagnosis, as well as drug discovery.
the  pace in searching for the proper inhibitors of hiv protease will be greatly  expedited if one can find an accurate, robust, and rapid method for predicting  the cleavage sites in proteins by hiv protease.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ aphinyanaphongs2005text]  yindalon aphinyanaphongs, ioannis tsamardinos,  alexander statnikov, douglas hardin, and constantin f aliferis.
to  address this question, several members of the hepatotoxicity working group of  the international life sciences institute health and environmental sciences  institute evaluated the liver gene expression profiles of rats treated with  methapyrilene (mp).
significance analysis of  microarrays and the support vector machine classifier identified gene sets that  discriminate the samples according to their mutation status.
despite such large training sets accuracy for biology ne has proven to be consistently far below the high levels of performance in the news domain where f scores above 90 are commonly reported which can be considered near to human performance.
we base our experiments on a proven state-of-the-art model, support vector machines using a high quality subset of 100 annotated medline abstracts.
identifying the interface  between two interacting proteins provides important clues to the function of a  protein and can reduce the search space required by docking algorithms to  predict the structures of complexes.
the predicted accuracies are evaluated using the internal and external crossvalidation.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ bradford2005improved]  james r bradford and david r westhead.
it has been observed that an optimal selection of a large number of features is often an indication for overfitting.
computational  experiments performed using yeast genome-wide datasets, including amino acid  sequences, hydropathy profiles, gene expression data and known protein-protein  interactions, demonstrate the utility of this approach.
availability: software and data available upon request.
this method of correlating drugs and genes provides a strategy for  finding novel biologically significant relationships for molecular pharmacology.
a web version of our software, svmprot, is accessible at http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
in self-consistency and cross-validation tests, which measures the success of learning and prediction, respectively, the rrna-binding svm has consistently achieved >95
our results show that it is promising to use machine  learning to automatically build systems for extracting information from  biomedical text.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm a modular framework is proposed for modeling and understanding the relationships between molecular profile data and other domain knowledge using a combination of generative (here, graphical models) and discriminative [support vector machines (svms)] methods.
these features do not comprise any direct information about the three-dimensional structures of ligand or target.
nineteen models were evaluated by  internal 10-fold cross-validation and also by an independent test set.
kernels can be built from  hidden markov random fields, generalized regular expressions, pair-hmms, or  anova decompositions.
software source code available by request.
many signals in biological sequences are based on the presence or absence of base signals and their spatial combinations.
using a protein's amino acid composition and limited range  correlation of hydrophobicity and solvent accessible surface area as input,  each of the svms predicts whether the protein belongs to one of the three  classes.
keywords: biosvm motivation: a new method that uses support vector machines (svms) to predict protein secondary structure is described and evaluated.
the svm's performance is usually better than that of  traditional machine learning approaches.
this is also the first paper which discusses both computational and biological evidence for the involvement of zyxin in leukaemogenesis.
we perform a thorough comparative study of various other selection strategies on data sets provided by dupont pharmaceuticals and show that the strategies based on the maximum margin hyperplane clearly outperform the simpler ones.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm genomics projects have resulted in a flood of sequence data.
various parameters from the svm have been adjusted to achieve  optimal prediction performance.
protein names precisely peeled off free text.
the svm system was able to correctly classify approximately 90% of the compounds in a cross-validation study yielding a matthews correlation coefficient of 0.78.
this is the reason why we investigate the implementation of support vector machines to perform the task.
molecular classification of multiple tumor  types.
this strategy is particularly attractive  for extracting data relevant to genes of the human genome from the 11 million  abstracts in medline.
comparison of character-level and part of  speech features for name recognition in biomedical texts.
a web server gpcrsclass has been developed for  predicting amine-binding receptors from its amino acid sequence  [http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/gpcrsclass/ and  http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/raghava/gpersclass/ (mirror site)].
the svmpsi produces the highest published q3 and sov94 scores on both the rs126 and cb513 data sets to date.
the most useful features for distinguishing enzymes from non-enzymes  are secondary-structure content, amino acid frequencies, number of disulphide  bonds and size of the largest cleft.
j.,  84(2):967-976, 2003.
methods mol med, 111:233-40, 2005.
(3) when performing kernel principal component analysis (kernel pca) before classification, using an rbf kernel for kernel pca tends to result in overfitting, especially when using supervised feature selection.
to our best knowledge, this mcc value is the highest achieved so far for predicting beta-turn.
three  most predictive models, barnard chemical information (bci)-fingerprint/svm,  mdl-keyset/svm, and topological indices/rp, correctly classified 249, 248, and  236 compounds of 291 noninhibitors and 135, 137, and 147 compounds of 179  inhibitors in the validation set.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the optimal treatment of patients with cancer depends on  establishing accurate diagnoses by using a complex combination of clinical and  histopathological data.
our study indicates the potential of svm in facilitating the  prediction of p-gp substrates.
using endogenous human cellular ubiquitin system enzymes and  added his-tagged ubiquitin, atp, and an atp-regenerating system, we labelled  cellular proteins with hexahistidine tagged ubiquitin in vitro.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the identification of protein-protein interaction sites is  essential for the mutant design and prediction of protein-protein networks.
[ bib | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [tsuda2003em]   k. tsuda, s. akaho, and k. asai.
this paper studies ways to improve the  accuracy for predicting extracellular localization in gram-negative bacteria.
the root-mean-square (rms) errors in bde predictions for the  training, test, and overall data sets were 3.808, 3.320, and 3.713 bde units  (kj mol(-1)), respectively.
the heuristic method (hm) and support vector  machine (svm) were utilized to construct the linear and nonlinear prediction  models, leading to a good correlation coefficient (r2) of 0.86 and 0.94 and  root-mean-square errors (rms) of 0.212 and 0.134 albumin drug binding affinity  units, respectively.
the correct prediction rates reach 82, 75,  and 73 2591 proteins, respectively.
results: this paper presents new  methods to infer enzyme networks from the integration of multiple genomic data  and chemical information, in the framework of supervised graph inference.
performance was measured via leave-one-out classification accuracy.
the consensus model could also be tuned to minimize either false positives or false negatives depending on the emphasis of the screening.
we define a subgraph x as coherent if it is strongly correlated with every  sufficiently large sub-subgraph y embedded in it.
the support vector machine (svm) is one of the  classification methods successfully applied to the cancer diagnosis problems.
the latter pose a diagnostic challenge, even to experienced pathologists.
keywords: biosvm [lodhi2002text]   h. lodhi, c. saunders, j. shawe-taylor, n. cristianini, and  c.je n'ai pas vraiment d'éléments de réponse.
results: we introduce a  class of string kernels, called mismatch kernels, for use with support vector  machines (svms) in a discriminative approach to the problem of protein  classification and remote homology detection.
in addition to  providing an interface for the classification of sequences, users are presented  with the opportunity to train a model to suit their preferred species pair.
on 10-fold  cross-validation, we obtained a prediction accuracy of 65.3 sequence-coding  schemes can significantly improve the fine-grained fold prediction.
the binary kernel discrimination approach yielded consistently superior rankings and would appear to have considerable potential for chemical screening applications.
j chem inf model, 45(4):1147-52, 2005.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] a new method has been developed for prediction of transmembrane  helices using support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [seike2005proteomic]   m. seike, t. kondo, k. fujii, t. okano, t. yamada,  y. matsuno, a. gemma, s. kudoh, and s. hirohashi.
the classification scheme was based on identifying gene subsets whose expression typifies each cancer class, and we quantified the extent to which these genes are characteristic of a specific tumor type by accurately and confidently predicting the anatomical site of tumor origin for 90 including 9 of 12 metastatic lesions.
a discriminative  framework for detecting remote protein homologies.
it has  been shown that alternatively spliced exons have certain properties that  distinguish them from constitutively spliced exons.
the distributed  encoding method is unable to code the biological content in sequences  efficiently, whereas the bio-basis function method is a nonparametric method,  which is often computationally expensive.
each amino acid in the sequence is represented by a set of six physicochemical properties: hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, volume, surface area, bulkiness and refractivity.
this makes a reduction of the data  dimensionality necessary.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we have used microarray gene expression profiling and machine  learning to predict the presence of braf mutations in a panel of 61 melanoma  cell lines.
we then evaluate the  utility of the kernel hierarchical clustering algorithm using both internal and  external validation.
although various statistical methods have been  utilized to identify biomarkers from ms data, there has been no systematic  comparison among these approaches in their relative ability to analyze ms data.
the correct rates for self-consistency and the jackknife test values achieved with these protein sets were 94 and 83 89 and 75 for correct prediction rates were undertaken with three independent testing datasets containing 2,148 proteins, 2,417 proteins, and 2,494 proteins producing values of 84, 77, and 74%, respectively.
keywords: biosvm rational design of epitope-driven vaccines is a key goal of immunoinformatics.
the svm  software is available upon request from the authors.
keywords: biosvm [siepen2003beta]   j. a. siepen, s. e. radford, and d. r. westhead.
proteomics, 3(9):1692-1698,  2003.
these points are called translation  initiation sites (tis).
bioinformatics,  20(suppl.
[ bib | doi | http | www: ] motivation.
finally, ann- and svm-based methods were combined to utilize the full potential of both techniques.
previous  attempts to address this problem select genes with correlation techniques.
availability:  predphospho is available at http://www.ngri.re.kr/proteo/predphospho.htm.
results: we have devised two novel automated methods in protein  backbone conformational state prediction: one method is based on support vector  machines (svms); the other method combines a standard feed-forward  back-propagation artificial neural network (nn) with a local structure-based  sequence profile database (lsbsp1).
two gene sets are considered: the  gene set omegaf formed by the anova f-test, and a gene set omegat formed by the  union of one-versus-all t-tests.
if accurate  prognostic methods were available, effective risk-adapted therapies could be  tailored to individual patients at diagnosis.
we assess the quality of the dictionary by studying its protein name recognition performance in full text.
the present release of the sbase a library of protein domain  sequences contains 972,397 protein sequence segments annotated by structure,  function, ligand-binding or cellular topology, clustered into 8547 domain  groups.
support vector machine prediction of signal peptide cleavage site using a  new class of kernels for strings.
we have also developed an svm-based method using a primary sequence as input and achieved an accuracy of 77.4 by adding 36 physicochemical parameters to the amino acid sequence information.
support vector machine classification of microarray data.
misclassification rates are lower when both the training and test sets are used to select the peaks used in classification versus when only the training set is used.
the results show that svm-i-sites is more efficient than svm-pairwise.
furthermore, this analysis was performed to explore classification methods that may be applied to molecular-epidemiological evaluation.
j chem inf  comput sci, 44(3):950-7, 2004.
this method yielded an optimal subset of 14 representative features, which were all related to energy and sequence motifs.
the data is characterized by very few positive examples, a very large number of features (describing three-dimensional properties of the molecules) and rather different distributions between training and test data.
in  order to equip the system with the optimum combination of classifier, gene  selection and cross-validation methods, we performed a systematic and  comprehensive evaluation of several major algorithms for multicategory  classification, several gene selection methods, multiple ensemble classifier  methods, and two cross validation designs using 11 datasets spanning 74  diagnostic categories and 41 cancer types and 12 normal tissue types.
however, features of a protein nonlinear to the  sequence may also be predictive to its function.
we provide evidence that existing related methods (e.g. estscan) could profit from advanced tis recognition.
although all methods perform well in both subsets for a relative easy dataset with two classes, differences in performance do exist among methods for other datasets.
some uncharacterized  transcripts might be of interest in future studies.
deciphering the patterns of peptides that elicit a mhc restricted t-cell response is critical for vaccine development.
the following algorithms were used:  knn, decision tree induction, support vector machines and feed-forward neural  networks.
keywords: biosvm [bock2002new]  j. r.  bock and d. a. gough.
results obtained employing such constraints motivate the  use of regularized regression procedures such as the lasso, least angle  regression, and support vector machines.
in the past, chou and  co-workers have shown that different types of amine receptors are correlated  with their amino acid composition and are predictable on its basis with  considerable accuracy
we used a supervised machine-learning approach (based on support vector machines) to assign protein function and select passages that support the assignments.
inproceedings of the 2002 american medical informatics  association (amia) annual symposium, pages 7-11, 2002.
we present results of performing leave-one-out cross validation (loocv) experiments on the three data sets, employing nearest neighbor classifier, svm (cortes and vapnik, 1995), adaboost (freund and schapire, 1997) and a novel clustering-based classification technique.
these models were found to efficiently eliminate compounds that  are not drug-like and/or hard-to-synthesize derivatives, demonstrating the  suitability of these models for use as compound acquisition filters.
the algorithm classified two categories of patients with very different five-year overall survival rates (70 within specific ipi risk categories who were likely to be cured or to die of their disease.
structures from the nci aids data set and from the syngenta corporate database were represented by two types of fragment bit-string and by sets of high-level molecular features.
use of the support vector  machine and these additional parameters resulted in a more accurate  interpretation of peptide ms/ms spectra and is an important step toward  automated interpretation of peptide tandem mass spectrometry data in proteomics.
with this learning approach researchers first develop a large training  set, which is a time-consuming and costly process.
as much as 97% of the predicted patches had an overlap with the true interface patch while only 22% of the surface residues were included in an average predicted patch.
the total prediction accuracies reach 91.4 in  prokaryotic organisms and 79.4 organisms.
the current approach not only can play an important complementary role to the powerful covariant discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo amino acid composition representation (chou, k. c. (2001) proteins struct.
one of  the best known examples of this is the signal identifying a core promoter-the  site at which the basal transcription machinery starts the transcription of a  gene.
svms show better generalization performance, but decision trees have the advantage of generating interpretable rules with robust estimates of prediction confidence.
the predictors based on these different  compositions were then combined using a voting scheme.
result: we run experiments on the structural  classification of proteins 1.53 data set.
results:  multicategory support vector machines (mc-svms) are the most effective  classifiers in performing accurate cancer diagnosis from gene expression data.
the  overall accuracies of svm are 78.5, 87.5, 83.2, 81.7 and 81.9 and kytj data  sets in jackknife test, which are 19.6, 7.8, 15.5, 13.1 and 15.8 algorithm in  the same test.
each pathway usually involves many genes, such as enzymes, which can themselves participate in many pathways.
such a scoring function should be able to characterize the global fitness landscape of many proteins simultaneously.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] p-glycoproteins (p-gp) actively transport a wide variety of  chemicals out of cells and function as drug efflux pumps that mediate multidrug  resistance and limit the efficacy of many drugs.
unlike other algorithms, contextual information is preserved by dividing the protein sequences into clusters.
predicting subcellular localization of proteins  for gram-negative bacteria by support vector machines based on n-peptide  compositions.
this framework relied on a gene's nucleotide composition, obviated the need for knowledge of codon boundaries and database searches, and was shown to perform very well across a wide range of archaeal and bacterial genomes when compared with previously published approaches, such as codon adaptation index and c + g content.
after fragment generation, we propose to apply svms to the problem of inducing sars from these fragments.
the selection criteria of the acp journal club for articles in internal  medicine were the basis for identifying high-quality articles in the areas of  etiology, prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment.
the set of candidates reported by these tools is usually large and often contains ineffective sirnas.
[  bib | .html ] protein structure prediction is one of the most important  problems in modern computational biology.
for example, hierarchical clustering can be applied to expression profiles of genes across multiple experiments, identifying groups of genes that share similiar expression profiles.
we achieved the best cross validation error rate of 18.75 support vector machine algorithm.
the results indicate that svm can be used as an alternative powerful modeling tool for qsar studies.
matrix-cgh revealed copy number gains of numerous oncogenes,  i.e., ccnd1, mdm2, gli, cdk4, myb, esr1, and aib1, several of which correlate  with a high level of transcripts from the respective gene.
keywords: biosvm support vector machines (svm) is a powerful classification and regression tool that is becoming increasingly popular in various machine learning applications.
method: we present a method to perform this task, which consists in encoding both the gene network and the set of profiles into two kernel functions, and performing a regularized form of canonical correlation analysis between the two kernels.
however, these methods require resolving a much larger optimization problem and are applicable to small datasets.
this is not necessarily true, and non-additive effects have already been experimentally demonstrated in a small number of cases.
here we present a web-service, eclair, which utilizes support vector machines for the classification of the origin of expressed sequence tags stemming from mixed host cdna libraries.
[ bib | .pdf ] shotgun tandem mass spectrometry-based peptide sequencing using  programs such as sequest allows high-throughput identification of peptides,  which in turn allows the identification of corresponding proteins.
availability:  supplementary data at www.cs.columbia.edu/compbio/hiclust.
data from additional samples, increased experience with the performance of various preprocessing techniques, and affirmation of the biological roles of the proteins that help in classification, will strengthen our conclusions in the future.
here, we  show that protein function can be predicted as enzymatic or not without  resorting to alignments.
deciphering the patterns of peptides that elicit a mhc restricted t-cell  response is critical for vaccine development.
overall classification accuracy was 78 poorly differentiated cancers resulted in low-confidence predictions and could not be accurately classified according to their tissue of origin, indicating that they are molecularly distinct entities with dramatically different gene expression patterns compared with their well differentiated counterparts.
a number of protective mechanisms have evolved in the edge strands of beta-sheets, preventing the aggregation and insolubility of most natural beta-sheet proteins.
the correct rates for self-consistency and the jackknife  test values achieved with these protein sets were 94 and 83 89 and 75 for  correct prediction rates were undertaken with three independent testing  datasets containing 2,148 proteins, 2,417 proteins, and 2,494 proteins  producing values of 84, 77, and 74%, respectively.
by using the respective majority  votes, the prediction of neural networks yielded the highest f1 value, followed  by svms.
first, we developed a new svm method, called btsvm, which predicts beta-turns of a protein from its sequence.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] classification models are generated to predict in vitro  cytogenetic results for a diverse set of 383 organic compounds.
[ bib  |doi | .pdf ] support vector machine (svm) is introduced as a method for the  classification of proteins into functionally distinguished classes.
identification of protein-protein interaction sites and detection of specific  amino acids that contribute to the specificity and the strength of protein  interactions is an important problem with broad applications ranging from  rational drug design to the analysis of metabolic and signal transduction  networks.
the polynomial kernel functions with different parameter d were chosen.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] motivation: in drug discovery a key task is to identify  characteristics that separate active (binding) compounds from inactive  (non-binding) ones.
bock, j. r., and gough, d. a. (2002) whole-proteome interaction mining.
neurocomputing , 56:305-327, 2004.
from information theory, the entropy of a random variable x  measures the information content carried by x and the mutual information (mi)  between two random variables x and y measures the correlation between x and y.
biomarker identification by  feature wrappers.
agents  chemother., 48(8):2838-2844, aug 2004.
as a small-genome case study, we analyze the genome of the human cytomegalovirus and demonstrate that wn-svm correctly identifies regions that are known to be conserved and prototypical of all beta-herpesvirinae, regions that are known to have been acquired horizontally from the human host and, finally, regions that had not up to now been suspected to be horizontally transferred.
keywords: biosvm [wang2005gene]   yu wang, igor v tetko, mark a hall, eibe frank, axel facius,  klaus f x mayer, and hans w mewes.
in addition, it was shown that combinations of three bases within the splice donor consensus sequence were more effective than consensus values in distinguishing real from pseudo splice sites; two-way base combinations were optimal for distinguishing 3' splice sites.
their ability to work in high dimension, to process non-vectorial data, and the natural framework they provide to integrate heterogeneous data are particularly relevant to various problems arising in computational biology.
data generated using both quantitative pcr and microarray were subsequently used to train and validate a cross-platform svm model with high prediction accuracy.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] membrane proteins are generally classified into the following  five types: 1), type i membrane protein; 2), type ii membrane protein; 3),  multipass transmembrane proteins; 4), lipid chain-anchored membrane proteins;  and 5), gpi-anchored membrane proteins.
we conjecture that the svms are particularly useful in  this context, as they can deal with a large number of features.
in order to solve the task (1), we  combine the kernel with additional local sequence information, such as lengths  of the exon and the flanking introns.
by using a bayesian averaging framework with conjugate priors on a class of  markovian models known as prob- abilistic suffix trees or context-trees, we  compute the value of this kernel in linear time and space while only using the  information contained in the spectrum of the considered strings.
further a support vector machine (svm)-based method has been developed to model the tap binding affinity of peptides.
biol.,  10(6):961-980, 2003.
the results show that svm may be applied to discriminate between the primary sequences of homodimers and non-homodimers and the two protein sequence descriptors can reflect the quaternary structure information.
typically, candidate selection relies on the prediction of  mhc-peptide binding only, as this is known to be the most selective step in the  mhc class i antigen processing pathway.
differentially expressed genes in gastric tumors  identified by cdna array.
the results are then compared to  several other methods.
using tanimoto similarity index as a confidence measurement for the predictions, the limitation of the extrapolation was 0.7 in the case of the bci/svm model.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics motivation: a major post-genomic scientific and technological pursuit is to describe the functions performed by the proteins encoded by the genome.
for each expert, a gene subset consisting of  the top 50 genes distinguished all from aml samples as completely as all 7,070  genes.
mol cell proteomics, 1(11):904-910, 2002.
we also used svm for estimating the activity of carbonic anhydrase ii (ca ii) enzyme inhibitors and found that the prediction quality of our svm model is better than that reported earlier for conventional qsar.
keywords: biosvm featureselection microarray
it is tailored for bio-chemical databases, where the examples are two-dimensional descriptions of chemical compounds.
when using  single-pass cdna sequences difficulties arise from the short sequence length,  the lack of sufficient taxonomically relevant sequence data in public databases  and ambiguous sequence homology between plant and pathogen genes.
our method can be used to predict bzip interactions in other genomes and is a promising approach for predicting coiled-coil interactions more generally.
we compared the performance of our method with that of the sift algorithm, which is one of the best predictive methods to date.
first, we propose a fair scheme to compare existing  design tools based on real data in the literature.
in combination with  classification methods, this technology can be useful to support clinical  management decisions for individual patients, e.g. in oncology.
it shows that whether cysteines should form disulfide  bonds depends not only on the global structural features of proteins but also  on the local sequence environment of proteins.
however, these methods had relatively low accuracies for the localization of extracellular proteins.
availability: http://staff.vbi.vt.edu/volkan/p2sl and http://www.i-cancer.fen.bilkent.edu.tr/p2sl contact: rengul@bilkent.edu.tr.
the best solution on this dataset is  achieved using a linear classifier like the simple perceptron or the linear  support vector machine, and it is straightforward to extract rules from these  linear models.
sbase b contains 169,916 domain sequences clustered into 2526 less well-characterized groups.
moreover, p33ing1 expression levels  were significantly associated with overall survival.
previous work using the support vector machine supervised learning algorithm with microarray data suggests that higher-order features, such as pairwise and tertiary correlations across multiple experiments, may provide significant benefit in learning to recognize classes of co-expressed genes.
combining text with protein amino-acid composition improves recall for some sub-cellular locations.
we use the method to  create a protein name dictionary from a set of 80,528 full text articles.
the  results obtained with well-tuned rbf kernels are never worse and sometimes even  statistically significantly better compared to results obtained with a linear  kernel in terms of test set receiver operating characteristic and test set  accuracy performances.
the theory of svm and ann training is briefly  reviewed.
keywords: biosvm prediction of protein secondary structures is an important problem in bioinformatics and has many applications.
we have developed a web-based software, svmprot, for svm classification of a protein into functional family from its primary sequence.
gene  functional classification from heterogeneous data.
support vector machine for predicting  alpha-turn types.
for a new kp480 set, the prediction accuracy of svmpsi was q3 = 78.5 for 136 non-redundant protein sequences which do not contain homologues of training data sets were q3 = 77.2 svmpsi results in casp5 illustrate that it is another competitive method to predict protein secondary structure.
availability:the demo version of our method  is accessible from our website http://mendel.cs.rhul.ac.uk/ keywords: biosvm
to identify the histological subtype-specific genes  of hcc, we analyzed the gene expression profile of 10 hcc patients by means of  cdna microarray.
availability: the  software system gems is available for download from http://www.gems-system.org  for non-commercial use.
a slightly more complex model is the ordered  pair amino acid preference model (2-aap), which characterizes genomes of  different viral genome types by the frequency of ordered pairs of amino acids.
this paper proposes an ensemble of classifiers for biomedical name recognition in which three classifiers, one support vector machine and two discriminative hidden markov models, are combined effectively using a simple majority voting strategy.
this method consists of three sequential steps as follows.
the molecular descriptors representing the structural features of the compounds only included the constitutional and topological descriptors, which can be obtained easily without optimizing the structure of the molecule.
it is shown that the  inclusion of protein structure information produces more accurate methods, in  agreement with other recent studies, and the effect of using predicted rather  than actual structure is evaluated.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(135):135, 2004.
a feature relevance  expert implements an algorithm that calculates how well a gene distinguishes  samples, reorders genes according to this relevance measure, and uses a  supervised learning method [here, support vector machines (svms)] to determine  the generalization performances of different nested gene subsets.
we thus demonstrate the ability of our method  to make accurate predictions despite the sizeable fraction of false positives  that are known to exist in interaction databases.
discriminative methods involving support vector machines (svms) are currently the most effective methods for the problem of superfamily recognition in the structural classification of proteins (scop) database.
press, cambridge, massachussetts, 2004.
existing approaches generally use sequence-based models that capture local dependencies among nucleotides in a small window around the splice site.
we briefly critique  some of these methods prior to a detailed evaluation of gene harvesting.
bmc  bioinformatics, 6 suppl 1:s22, 2005.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] given a nascent protein sequence, how can one predict its signal  peptide or "zipcode" sequence?
approximately 3400 terms are annotated and the model performs at about 74% f-score on cross-validation tests.
therefore, computational techniques for predicting protein-protein interactions could be of significant value.
these genes encode proteins with diverse molecular functions, including  transcription factors, developmental regulators, apoptotic factors, and  signaling molecules.
a support vector machine-based method is applied in this study, in which statistical testing and genetic algorithm-based methods are used for feature selection respectively.
searching for regularities in the set of gene expression profiles with respect to the topology of this gene network is a way to automatically extract active pathways and their associated patterns of activity.
for our estimate of sustained performance, we  considered partially identified names as false positives.
in the second step, a small number of top-ranked  features are selected by an entropy-based algorithm.
these genes encode proteins with diverse molecular functions, including transcription factors, developmental regulators, apoptotic factors, and signaling molecules.
in a second step we examine the performance of svms if the embedding is varied  from frequencies of single amino acids to frequencies of tripletts of amino  acids.
the pssms were generated from  psi-blast profiles, which contain important evolution information.
we apply this technique to the problem of splice site prediction, and show how it can be used to gain insight into the underlying biological process of splicing.
due to the complexity of proteomic profiling, a higher order analysis such as data mining is needed to uncover the differences in complex proteomic patterns.
keywords: biosvm microarray motivation:
contact: yvsae@gengenp.rug.ac.be keywords: biosvm motivation: unsupervised analysis of microarray gene expression data attempts to find biologically significant patterns within a given collection of expression measurements.
the support vector machine (svm) is one of the classification methods successfully applied to the cancer diagnosis problems.
the family of kernels generated generalizes  the family of radial basis kernels.
to identify specific patterns of gene expression  that are predictive of relapse, we used high-density (30 k) cdna microarrays to  analyze rna samples from 27 favorable histology wilms tumors taken from primary  nephrectomies at the time of initial diagnosis.
however, a small number of data sets showed either equivalent or better predictability using plsda, which may indicate relatively linear relationships in these data sets.
the interaction sites of residue units were predicted using support vector machines (svm) and the profiles of sequentially/spatially neighboring residues, plus additional information.
as illustration, naive bayes models, simple graphical models, and svms were applied to published transcription profile data for 1,988 genes in 62 colon adenocarcinoma tissue specimens labeled as tumor or nontumor.
of the different methods explored the most promising one was support vector machines which gave us high levels of sensitivity and specificity.
it  minimizes a function of two terms: the number of misclassified vectors of the  training set and a term regarding the generalization classifier capability.
this method of correlating  the drugs and genes provides a strategy for finding novel biologically  significant relationships for molecular pharmacology.
[ bib | doi | http ] we present a new approach to the induction of sars based on the  generation of structural fragments and support vector machines (svms).
mining mass spectra for diagnosis and  biomarker discovery of cerebral accidents.
the approach consisted of: (i) protein  profiling using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization (seldi)  technology; (ii) selection of a statistically significant serum biomarker set  using machine learning algorithms; and (iii) identification of selected serum  biomarkers by peptide sequencing.
svms have many mathematical features that make them attractive for gene expression analysis, including their flexibility in choosing a similarity function, sparseness of solution when dealing with large data sets, the ability to handle large feature spaces, and the ability to identify outliers.
lett., 15(11):2886-90, jun 2005.
it enables the classification system to achieve good or even better solutions with a restricted subset of features, allows for a faster classification, and it helps the human expert focus on a relevant subset of features, hence providing useful biological knowledge.
in a case study, the function  for xenopus laevis contig sequences was predicted and the results are publicly  available at  ftp://genome.dkfz-heidelberg.de/pub/agd/gene_association.agd_xenopus.
the prediction accuracy for nonsubstrates of p-gp is 79.2% using 5-fold cross-validation.
conclusion we have confirmed the reliability and potential value of classifying proteins via their predicted interactions.
support vector regression is a  statistical method for creating regression functions of arbitrary type from a  set of training data.
in most instances, cancer  cases occur sporadically, suggesting that environmental influences are critical  in determining cancer risk.
we analyzed hepatic gene expression profiles using a supervised learning method (support vector machines; svms) to generate classification rules and combined this with recursive feature elimination to improve classification performance and to identify a compact subset of probe sets with potential use as biomarkers.
the removal of irrelevant and redundant information often  improves the performance of learning algorithms.
selenoprotein w may discriminate t cells from b cells.
our data indicate that supervised learning classification  techniques can predict outcome in dlbcl and identify rational targets for  intervention.
such progress is especially exciting for the detection of early-stage  ovarian cancer patients.
interestingly, rules generated by the decision tree method are in close agreement with our knowledge of protein structure and are potentially useful in a number of different biological applications.
this kernel function is further used in dual svm, which performs the recognition.
thereby importance of features can be measured in terms of discriminative strength with respect to classification of the underlying sequences.
in this paper, we introduce a support vector machine (svm) approach to  prediction and analysis of beta-turns.
bioinformatics, 21(8):1487-94, apr 2005.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] we present a method for predicting protein-protein interactions  mediated by the coiled-coil motif.
the accuracy and matthews correlation coefficient (mcc) value of svm, ann, and combined method are 78.5 and 0.64, respectively.
bioinformatics, 17(5):455-460, 2001.
the improvement of speed is mainly related to the vertical data representation, p-tree,patents are pending on the p-tree technology.
discriminating different classes of toxicants by transcript profiling.
the method appears  to work best when a substantial set of relevant documents is obtained, while it  works poorly on single documents and/or short passages.
bmc bioinformatics , 5(1):116, aug 2004.
keywords: biosvm [yu2005integrated]  j.-k.
the approach consisted of: (i) protein profiling using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization (seldi) technology; (ii) selection of a statistically significant serum biomarker set using machine learning algorithms; and (iii) identification of selected serum biomarkers by peptide sequencing.
we report encouraging experimental results on a range of real-world data sets.
protein function prediction via graph kernels.
keywords: biosvm [yiu2005filtering]   s. m. yiu, prudence w. h. wong, t.w. lam, y.c. mui, h. f. kung,  marie lin, and y. t. cheung.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] in recent years, the poly-l-proline type ii (ppii) conformation  has gained more and more importance.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] this paper explores the utility of data mining and machine  learning algorithms for the induction of mutagenicity structure-activity  relationships (sars) from noncongeneric data sets.
wn-svm uses a one-class support-vector machine and can learn using rather small training sets.
because these new micro-array devices generate bewildering amounts of raw data, new analytical methods must be developed to sort out whether cancer tissues have distinctive signatures of gene expression over normal tissues or other types of cancer tissues.
the success prediction rates by the jackknife test for the beta-turn subset of 455 tetrapeptides and non-beta-turn subset of 3807 tetrapeptides in the training dataset were 58.1 and 98.4 success rates with the independent dataset test for the beta-turn subset of 110 tetrapeptides and non-beta-turn subset of 30,231 tetrapeptides were 69.1 and 97.3 study support the conclusion that the residue-coupled effect along a tetrapeptide is important for the formation of a beta-turn.
[ bib | doi |  http ] background:
in this chapter we survey some of the most prominent applications published so far, highlighting the particular developments in kernel methods triggered by problems in biology, and mention a few promising research directions likely to expand in the future.
the method is based on sequence alignment kernel, a function reflecting the quantitative measure of match between two sequences.
the experiments demonstrate that the kernel representation itself is insufficient to provide improved clustering performance.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] accurate splice site prediction is a critical component of any  computational approach to gene prediction in higher organisms.
the results demonstrate the feasibility of performing clinically useful classification from samples of multiple tumor types.
keywords: biosvm the binding affinities to human serum albumin for 94 diverse drugs and drug-like compounds were modeled with the descriptors calculated from the molecular structure alone using a quantitative structure-activity relationship (qsar) technique.
but insufficient attention has been paid to the prediction of protein-rna interactions, which play central roles in regulating gene expression and certain rna-mediated enzymatic processes.
availability: http://gpcr.biocomp.unibo.it/cgi/predictors/i-mutant2.0/i-mutant2.0.cgi.
availability:the demo version of our method is accessible from our website http://mendel.cs.rhul.ac.uk/ keywords: biosvm
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [pavlidis2001promoter]   p. pavlidis, t. s. furey, m. liberto, d. haussler, and  w. n. grundy.
the majority of information in the biological literature resides in full text articles, instead of abstracts.
however, such approaches lead to a loss of contextual  information.
each dataset is  represented via a kernel function, which defines generalized similarity  relationships between pairs of entities, such as genes or proteins.
results from literature on beta-lactamase were used to test the  accuracy of this method.
we have also implemented a web server to predict protein localization across the six classes (available at http://pslip.bii.a-star.edu.sg).
two classification methods were attempted, heuristic and support  vector machine learning.
in addition, we apply the fwe approach to a toxicogenomic data set with nine treatments (a control and eight metals, as, cd, ni, cr, sb, pb, cu, and asv) for a total of 55 samples for a multisample classification.
the prediction accuracy shows an improvement over other algorithms based on various types of amino acid composition (single, pair and gapped pair).
keywords: biosvm [cai2002support]  y.-d.  cai, x.-j. liu, x.-b. xu, and k.-c. chou.
keywords: biosvm [chen2005understanding]   y. chen and d. xu.
the production of biological information has become much greater than its consumption.
quantitative modelling results in a nonlinear, seven-descriptor model based on svms with root mean-square errors of 0.107 and 0.136 for training and prediction sets, respectively.
the performance was compared using various different descriptor sets  and descriptor combinations based on the 120 standard ghose-crippen fragment  descriptors, a wide range of 180 different properties and physicochemical  descriptors from the molecular operating environment (moe) package, and 225  topological pharmacophore (cats) descriptors.
active learning avoids these problems.
the method was trained and tested on a data set derived from protherm, which is presently the most comprehensive available database of thermodynamic experimental data of free energy changes of protein stability upon mutation under different conditions.
we study this  approach with new multi-class classification methods and examined many issues  important for a practical recognition system.
using fewer  features will of course also improve the prediction speed of the system.
encouraging classification results are reported on a standard protein homology detection experiment, showing that the context-tree kernel performs well with respect to other state-of-the-art methods while using no biological prior knowledge.
however, the analysis of immense amount of data poses  considerable challenges.
five methods were evaluated, including information  gain, mutual information, a chi2-test, odds ratio, and gss coefficient.
support vector regression is used for predicting peptides transported by tap.
in a second phase, the three top-performing descriptors were combined to obtain a final method with improved performance, which we named descfold.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] feature selection is frequently used as a preprocessing step to  machine learning.
assessment of hepatotoxic liabilities by transcript profiling.
these observations suggest that there are gene-specific mutation signals in addition to a common mapk activation that result from the pleiotropic effects of either braf or nras on other signaling pathways, leading to measurably different transcriptional changes.
however, making use  of theoretical results is ordinarily subject to the satisfaction of strong  hypotheses (weak error correlation, availability of large training sets,  possibility to rerun the training procedure an arbitrary number of times,  etc.).
the  recognition of novel amine type of receptors and their cognate ligands is of  paramount interest for pharmaceutical companies.
in our attempts to understand cellular function at the molecular level, we must be able to synthesize information from disparate types of genomic data.
first, a 50-gene subset was used to simulate a candidate gene approach when it might not be practical to measure a large number of genes/biomarkers.
bioinformatics, 16(10):906-914, oct 2000.
bioinformatics, 20(5):735-741,  2004.
using simple attributes that can be calculated from any crystal structure, such as secondary structure content, amino acid propensities, surface properties and ligands, we describe each enzyme in a non-redundant set.
methods: sixty one serum samples  including 32 ovarian cancer patients and 29 healthy people were detected by  surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (seldi-ms).
reduced amino acid alphabet is sufficient to accurately recognize  intrinsically disordered protein.
feature selection and  transduction for prediction of molecular bioactivity for drug design.
selection of an optimal  subset from the original gene set becomes an important prestep in sample  classification.
recent study yielded reasonable prediction  accuracy of 56.0 an independent set of 27 most populated folds.
learn., 57(3):205-232, 2004.
experiments in  the domains of carcinogenicity and mutagenicity prediction show that the  minimum and the maximum frequency queries for fragments can be answered within  a reasonable time, and that the predictive accuracy obtained using these  fragments is satisfactory.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] this paper discusses the use of several rank-based virtual  screening methods for prioritizing compounds in lead-discovery programs, given  a training set for which both structural and bioactivity data are available.
based on over 30 different  validation sets, the svm can predict up to 96 molecules correctly, averaging  81.5 of equal numbers of cns positive and negative molecules.
experiments in the domains of carcinogenicity and mutagenicity prediction show that the minimum and the maximum frequency queries for fragments can be answered within a reasonable time, and that the predictive accuracy obtained using these fragments is satisfactory.
three methods based  on binary classifications: one-against-all (oaa), one-against-one (oao), and  directed acyclic graph (dag), and two approaches for multi-class problem by  solving one single optimization problem, are implemented to predict protein  secondary structure.
in this paper, we propose a new algorithm called pslip which uses support  vector machines (svms) in conjunction with multiple physicochemical properties  of amino acids to predict protein subcellular localization in eukaryotes across  six different locations, namely, chloroplast, cytoplasmic, extracellular,  mitochondrial, nuclear and plasma membrane.
the data input to the machine is in the form of molecular  fingerprints.
as few as 83 genes are able to discriminate between braf mutant and braf wild-type samples with clear separation observed using hierarchical clustering.
[ bib  |http | .pdf ] in this paper we propose a new method for recognition of  prokaryotic promoter regions with startpoints of transcription.
the best multi-gene model found had a leave-one-out accuracy of 89.2%.
data are available at: http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/sppi contact: asa@gs.washington.edu.
j chem inf comput sci,  43(6):2019-24, 2003.
bio-support vector  machines for computational proteomics.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background we describe the e-rfe method for gene ranking, which  is useful for the identification of markers in the predictive classification of  array data.
the findings, nevertheless, suggest that snp data  might be useful for the classification of individuals into categories of high  or low risk of diseases.
we show that other machine learning methods also perform comparably to the svm on many of those datasets.
their overall accuracies were 82%, 82%, and  81%, respectively.
further test on the swissprot new-unique data set showed that  locsvmpsi also performed better than some widely used prediction methods, such  as psortii, targetp and locnet.
the approach collects high frequency terms in an article, and uses support vector machines (svm) to identify biological entity names.
this study  may provide a clue for the needs of different chemotherapy and the reason for  heterogeneity of the clinical responses according to histological subtypes.
recent study yielded reasonable prediction accuracy of 56.0 an independent set of 27 most populated folds.
furthermore, we obtain improved  performance by combining several sequence-based kernels based on k-mer  frequency, motif and domain content and by further augmenting the pairwise  sequence kernel with features that are based on other sources of data.
these extensions are then tested on benchmark experiments of  chemicalcompounds classification, with promising results.
keywords: biosvm [mika2004protein]  sven  mika and burkhard rost.
data mining research suggests that the  use of frequent patterns has good performance in aiding the development of  accurate and efficient classification algorithms.
keywords: biosvm proteomics background:
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] tumors are associated with altered or deregulated gene products  that affect critical cellular functions.
since they are frequently based on  different principles, and different knowledge sources, significant benefits can  be expected from combining them.
we describe how in practice the selection bias can be assessed and corrected for by either performing a cross-validation or applying the bootstrap external to the selection process.
the results demonstrate that our methods are better both in terms of accurately identifying omps and providing biological insights that increase our understanding of the structures and functions of these important proteins.
the impact of the presence of a germ-line brca1  mutation on gene expression in normal breast fibroblasts after  radiation-induced dna damage has been investigated.
conclusions without a decrease of classification accuracy, e-rfe allows a  speed-up factor of 100 with respect to standard rfe, while improving on  alternative parametric rfe reduction strategies.
that meant over 82 the areas under the receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves were over 0.81, while in passive learning the areas under the roc curves were below 0.50.
the  study is designed to develop a reliable prediction method using an alternative  technique and to investigate the applicability of svms to this type of  bioinformatics problem.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(4):1269-75, 2003.
the classification results might also  suggest possible mechanisms for the propensity of immunoglobulin light chains  to amyloid formation.
sensitivity and specificity of classification using the selected protein marker set were higher than 92%.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] ecent research has demonstrated quite convincingly that accurate  cancer diagnosis can be achieved by constructing classifiers that are designed  to compare the gene expression profile of a tissue of unknown cancer status to  a database of stored expression profiles from tissues of known cancer status.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ park2003prediction]  k.-j. park and m. kanehisa.
the goal of the biocreative exercise was to evaluate the performance of current text mining systems.
these results guided the construction of a software  system gems (gene expression model selector) that automates high-quality model  construction and enforces sound optimization and performance estimation  procedures.
identifying genes related to chemosensitivity using support vector machine.
with our method it is possible  to model and analyze positional variability of oligomers of any length in a  natural way.
we describe a novel system, griffin (g-protein and receptor interaction feature finding instrument), that predicts g-protein coupled receptor (gpcr) and g-protein coupling selectivity based on a support vector machine (svm) and a hidden markov model (hmm) with high sensitivity and specificity.
the svm system was able to correctly classify approximately 90% of  the compounds in a cross-validation study yielding a matthews correlation  coefficient of 0.78.
our study indicates the potential of svm in facilitating the prediction of p-gp substrates.
accurate prediction of  protein backbone torsion angles will substantially improve modeling procedures  for local structures of protein sequence segments, especially in modeling loop  conformations that do not form regular structures as in alpha-helices or  beta-strands.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] summary:
keywords: biosvm [bao2005prediction]  lei  bao and yan cui.
in this  work we examine three sets of gene expression data measured across sets of  tumor(s) and normal clinical samples: the first set consists of 2,000 genes,  measured in 62 epithelial colon samples (alon et al., 1999).
in the third step, a classification model is built to recognize true tiss by applying support vector machines or ensembles of decision trees to the selected features.
keywords: biosvm [kim2003protein]   h. kim and h. park.
biol.,  9(2):401-411, 2002.
a consistently down-regulated 3495 da protein in cirrhosis samples was one of the selected significant biomarkers.
the optimal regression function was then used for the prediction of the gene expression based age of embryos in which the precise age has not been measured by membrane morphology.
in common with most  other methods, only non-synonymous changes in protein coding regions of the  genome are considered.
each position in the sequence is described by  the properties of the amino acid at that position and the properties of its  neighbors in 3d space or in the sequence.
the methods are applied to ovarian cancer and  control serum samples from the national ovarian cancer early detection program  clinic at northwestern university hospital.
fragment generation and  support vector machines for inducing sars.
experiments on common gene expression datasets demonstrated that our approach  can achieve high accuracy and efficiency at the same time.
keywords: biosvm [segal2003regression]   m. r. segal, k. d. dahlquist, and b. r. conklin.
relative solvent accessibility based on a two state-model, for 25 and 0 accuracy, respectively.
ensemble classifiers do not generally improve performance of the  best non-ensemble models.
availability:  supplementary data at http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/sdp-svm keywords: biosvm [lanckriet2004kernel-baseda]  g.r. lanckriet, m. deng, n. cristianini, m.i. jordan, and w.s.  noble.
identification of protein-protein interaction sites and detection of specific amino acids that contribute to the specificity and the strength of protein interactions is an important problem with broad applications ranging from rational drug design to the analysis of metabolic and signal transduction networks.
recently, we have demonstrated that such features can be used to distinguish alternative from constitutive exons.
classification and subtype prediction of adult soft tissue sarcoma by  functional genomics.
structures from the nci aids data set and from the syngenta corporate database  were represented by two types of fragment bit-string and by sets of high-level  molecular features.
keywords: biosvm [swamidass2005kernels]   s. j. swamidass, j. chen, j. bruand, p. phung,  l. ralaivola, and p. baldi.
conclusion: gene expression profiles support the classification of  ccs/msp as a distinct genomic subtype of melanoma.
the results obtained by gaussian-kernel svm were much better than those obtained by multiple linear regression, radial basis function neural networks, linear-kernel svm, and other qspr approaches.
rapid prediction of chemical metabolism by  human udp-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms using quantum chemical descriptors  derived with the electronegativity equalization method.
applying these new guidelines, our program appeared to significantly out-perform other methods tagging protein names.
med., 41(4):529-534, 2003.
the  use of all genes can suppress or reduce the performance of a classification  rule due to the noise of nondiscriminatory genes.
when applied to the prediction of hiv protease  cleavage sites, the new method has shown a remarkable advantage in reducing the  model complexity and enhancing the model robustness.
this dictionary term lookup method compares favourably to other published methods, supporting the significance of our direct extraction approach.
finding kinetic parameters using text mining.
these representations were processed using binary kernel discrimination, similarity searching, substructural analysis, support vector machine, and trend vector analysis, with the effectiveness of the methods being judged by the extent to which active test set molecules were clustered toward the top of the resultant rankings.
it is generally assumed that protein affinity for dna involves additive contributions from successive nucleotide pairs within the target sequence.
class membership was predicted by support  vector machine (svm) learning.
furthermore, kernel functions derived from different types of data can be combined in a straightforward fashion.
these algorithms need information sources or features from which  the models can be computed.
the results obtained through this study indicated that  the svm method would become a powerful tool for predicting peptidyl prolyl  cis/trans isomerization.
the results obtained  through the self-consistency test, jack-knife test, and independent dataset  test have indicated that the current method and the elegant component-coupled  algorithm developed by chou and co-workers, if effectively complemented with  each other, may become a powerful tool for predicting the structural class of  protein domains.
in this paper, we apply a new machine learning method which is called support vector machine to approach the prediction of protein structural class.
each dataset is represented via a kernel function, which defines generalized similarity relationships between pairs of entities, such as genes or proteins.
additionally, an example is shown where a hepatotoxic liability was correctly recognized in the absence of pathological findings.
the general performance of the system was benchmarked with a large dataset.
it minimizes a function of two terms: the number of misclassified vectors of the training set and a term regarding the generalization classifier capability.
a study of remote homology detection.
this method  uses the support vector machines trained by multiple feature vectors based on  n-peptide compositions.
a web service, tappred  (http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/tappred/ or  http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/mirror/tappred/), has been developed based on  this approach.
there is no allowance because the rule is either tested on tissue samples that were used in the first instance to select the genes being used in the rule or because the cross-validation of the rule is not external to the selection process; that is, gene selection is not performed in training the rule at each stage of the cross-validation process.
and its optimized logical algebra.
using machine learning techniques such as support vector machines (svms), decision trees, and naive bayes, we identified a subset of three snps as key discriminators between breast cancer and controls.
moreover, we applied feature weights to kernels in svms in order to consider the degree of significance that depends on the distance from the specific amino acid.
using two published data sets, we demonstrate that when correction is made for the selection bias, the cross-validated error is no longer zero for a subset of only a few genes.
graphical models and svms hold  promise as the foundations for developing decision support systems for  diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring as well as inferring biological networks.
in this experiment, information gain and chi2-test were most effective feature selection methods.
keywords: biosvm [mahe2004extensions]   p. mahé, n. ueda, t. akutsu, j.-l. perret, and j.-p.  vert.
properties of the activity score and applications are  discussed.
[ bib | doi | http | www: ] the support vector machines (svms) method is proposed because it  can reflect the sequence-coupling effect for a tetrapeptide in not only a  beta-turn or non-beta-turn, but also in different types of beta-turn.
prediction of protein relative solvent  accessibility with support vector machines and long-range interaction 3d local  descriptor.
we have developed a machine learning approach using neural networks and support vector machines to extract common features among known rnas for prediction of new rna genes in the unannotated regions of prokaryotic and archaeal genomes.
proteomics, 4(8):2320-2332,  2004.
keywords: biosvm [hakenberg2004finding]   j. hakenberg, s. schmeier, a. kowald, e. klipp, and
based on the novel concept, the representation for a protein can be defined as a vector in a high-dimensional space, where each of the clustered functional domains derived from the protein universe serves as a vector base.
proteins resident in this  membrane (outer membrane proteins, or omps) are of primary research interest  for antibiotic and vaccine drug design as they are on the surface of the  bacteria and so are the most accessible targets to develop new drugs against.
joint classifier  and feature optimization for comprehensive cancer diagnosis using gene  expression data.
one approach to predicting interactions in silico is to produce from  first principles a detailed model of a candidate interaction.
keywords: biosvm microarray constantly improving gene expression profiling technologies are expected to provide understanding and insight into cancer-related cellular processes.
overall, partial least squares discriminant analysis (pls-da) and support vector machines (svm) outperform all other methods.
using self-organizing map, the expression profile of these cdnas allowed perfect separation of malignant and non-malignant samples.
the kernel  representation is both flexible and efficient, and can be applied to many  different types of data.
results: a wrapper-based feature subset selection algorithm using a support vector machine or a naive bayes prediction method was evaluated against the traditional method for selecting features relevant for splice site prediction.
availability: http://genomics10.bu.edu/yangsu/rankgene contact: murali@bu.edu keywords: biosvm partial least squares discriminant analysis (plsda), bayesian regularized artificial neural network (brann), and support vector machine (svm) methodologies were compared by their ability to classify substrates and nonsubstrates of 12 isoforms of human udp-glucuronosyltransferase (ugt), an enzyme "superfamily" involved in the metabolism of drugs, nondrug xenobiotics, and endogenous compounds.
however, measuring those parameters is an  expensive task, and finding them in the literature is very laborious.
accurate identification of  alternatively spliced exons using support vector machine.
methodologies were compared by their ability to classify substrates and  nonsubstrates of 12 isoforms of human udp-glucuronosyltransferase (ugt), an  enzyme "superfamily" involved in the metabolism of drugs, nondrug  xenobiotics, and endogenous compounds.
experimental results indicate that binding type can be  predicted at significantly higher accuracy than using prosite patterns.
the seven molecular descriptors selected by the heuristic method in codessa were used as inputs for svm.
computational methods have been developed for the prediction of protein-protein  interactions.
cross-validation and randomization are essential tools that must be  performed carefully in order not to bias the results unfairly.
correct prediction of stage from primary tumor data was possible with an accuracy of 74-80 of prediction was similar when the gleason score was used as input variable, when stereological data were used, or when a combination of cgh data and stereological data was used.
the correlation (r = 0.80) was obtained between the predicted and experimental measured values by using sequence-based svm.
the algorithm has been used to detect patterns within and among  biological sequences, to classify genes and patients based upon gene expression  profiles, and has recently been applied to several new biological problems.
although most recent computational studies on alternative splicing apply only to exons which are conserved among two species, our method only uses information that is available to the splicing machinery, i.e. the dna sequence itself.
in most cases the success of a model has been evaluated by how well it reproduces a few key features of the real-world data, such as degree distributions, mean geodesic lengths, and clustering coefficients.
when information gain was used to select the features, svm was much less sensitive to the reduction of feature space.
we discuss several classification-based approaches to finding protein biomarker candidates using protein profiles obtained via mass spectrometry, and we assess their statistical significance.
we also demonstrate that various rule induction methods are able to identify protein interactions with higher precision than manually-developed rules.
it was also compared with the results from a simple  search algorithm.
proc ieee comput syst bioinform conf , pages 152-160, 2004.
microarray-based copy number and expression  profiling in dedifferentiated and pleomorphic liposarcoma.
the results demonstrate the feasibility of performing clinically  useful classification from samples of multiple tumor types.
we recommend using 10-fold rather than leave-one-out cross-validation, and concerning the bootstrap, we suggest using the so-called .632+ bootstrap error estimate designed to handle overfitted prediction rules.
next, lung cancer cells isolated from tumor tissue by laser microdissection were classified on the basis of the expression pattern of these 32 protein spots.
a svm equipped with a tanimoto similarity  kernel estimates solubility with accuracy comparable to results from other  reported methods where the same data sets have been studied.
the results evaluated by curators were modest, and quite  variable for different problems: in many cases we have relatively good  assignment of go terms to proteins, but the selected supporting text was  typically non-relevant (precision spanning from 3% to 50%).
similar  methods were used to identify genes that are differentially expressed between  tumors with and without genomic 1q gain.
software source code  available by request.
in conclusion, the results show that, despite some variability, robust gene expression changes were consistent between sites.
the current approach, complemented with the powerful covariant  discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo-amino acid composition that has  incorporated quasi-sequence-order effect as recently proposed by k. c. chou  (2001), may become a very useful high-throughput tool in the area of  bioinformatics and proteomics.
we apply our methods to predict the function of  every currently unclassified protein in the protein data bank.
[ bib | http ] the translation initiation site (tis) prediction problem is  about how to correctly identify tis in mrna, cdna, or other types of genomic  sequences.
the svm classification systems trained in this work were added to our web-based protein functional classification software svmprot, at http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] purpose: to develop a genome-based classification scheme for  clear-cell sarcoma (ccs), also known as melanoma of soft parts (msp), which  would have implications for diagnosis and treatment.
selection of an optimal subset from the original gene set becomes an important prestep in sample classification.
combining qc  and 2d descriptors (from previous work) using a consensus approach resulted in  a statistically significant improvement in predictivity (to 84%) over both the  qc and 2d models and the other methods of combining the descriptors.
availability: eclat is freely available on the internet (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/est) or on request as a standalone version.
cancer  res., 10(8):2725-2737, 2004.
keywords: biosvm there is growing interest in the application of machine learning techniques in bioinformatics.
febs lett., 555(2):358-362, 2003.
the  individual methods are combined in a filtering approach mimicking the natural  processing pathway.
we present a complete automated  annotation system that overcomes many of the usual problems by applying a  controlled vocabulary of gene ontology and an established classification method  on large and well-described sequence data sets.
when tested on the most popular dataset cb513, it achieved a q(3) accuracy of 0.7844, which illustrates that it is one of the top range methods for protein of secondary structure prediction.
with the rapid increase of sequenced genomic data, the need for an automated and accurate tool to predict subcellular localization becomes increasingly important.
2-d dige achieves more  accurate quantification of protein expression by using highly sensitive  fluorescence dyes to label the cysteine residues of proteins prior to  two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
moreover, we applied feature weights  to kernels in svms in order to consider the degree of significance that depends  on the distance from the specific amino acid.
keywords: biosvm an attractive application of expression technologies is to predict drug efficacy or safety using expression data of biomarkers.
13(3):596-607, mar 2004.
on other signaling pathways, leading to measurably different transcriptional  changes.
many current scoring strategies require information about the target three-dimensional structure.
nevertheless, the issue of whether gene expression profiles are reproducible across different laboratories remains to be determined.
0.62 and r(2) = 0.88.
the foundation for the model is a sample of text  annotated by a domain expert according to an ontology of concepts, properties  and relations.
however, its optimal extension to more than two classes was not obvious, which might impose limitations in its application to multiple tumor types.
comparable  classification accuracy shown in the applications and its flexibility render  the msvm a viable alternative to other classification methods supplementary
the techniques are demonstrated by methylation pattern based discrimination between acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia.
predicting protein-protein interactions from primary structure.
our goal is a fully automatic pattern recognition system for a family of  sequences, which simultaneously discovers the base signals, their spatial  relationships and a classifier based upon them.
so a fully automatic and reliable classification system is needed.
[ bib  |doi | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [yan2004two-stage]   c. yan, d. dobbs, and v. honavar.
keywords: biosvm [guo2004novel]   j. guo, h. chen, z. sun, and y. lin.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ jiang-ning2004cooperativity]  s. jiang-ning, l. wei-jiang, and  x. wen-bo.
with gsk, sirna sequences were  represented as vectors in a multi-dimensional feature space according to the  numbers of subsequences in each sirna, and subsequently classified with svm  into effective or ineffective sirnas.
j chem  inf comput sci, 44(4):1267-74, 2004.
pathological changes in an organ or tissue may be reflected in proteomic patterns in serum.
our investigation in this paper reports on variations of two widely used feature types, part of speech (pos) tags and character-level orthographic features, and makes a comparison of how these variations influence performance.
protein subcellular  localization prediction for gram-negative bacteria using amino acid  subalphabets and a combination of multiple support vector machines.
building a protein name dictionary from full  text: a machine learning term extraction approach.
we conclude that classification of sentence type seems feasible within the domain of rct's.
each compound is represented by calculated  molecular structure descriptors encoding the topological, electronic,  geometrical, or polar surface area aspects of the structure.
bioinformatics 17,  455-460;
in biology, where structures or  processes are described by a large number of features, the elimination of  irrelevant and redundant information in a reasonable amount of time has a  number of advantages.
a  machine learning approach to mining protein function predictions from text can  yield good performance only if sufficient training data is available, and  significant amount of supporting data is used for prediction.
tight  turns play an important role in globular proteins from both the structural and  functional points of view.
in combination these two features types appear to interfere with each other and degrade performance slightly to an f score of 72.3.
second, we suggest a modification of the random walkmodel to prevent the walk from coming back to a vertex that was just visited.
in order to equip the system with the optimum combination of classifier, gene selection and cross-validation methods, we performed a systematic and comprehensive evaluation of several major algorithms for multicategory classification, several gene selection methods, multiple ensemble classifier methods, and two cross validation designs using 11 datasets spanning 74 diagnostic categories and 41 cancer types and 12 normal tissue types.
we  also used svm for estimating the activity of carbonic anhydrase ii (ca ii)
furthermore, based on above approach, an online web service, nrpred, was developed, which is available at www.imtech.res.in/raghava/nrpred.
availability: results, figures and software are available at http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/supplementary_data/. keywords: biosvm we propose a new kernel for strings which borrows ideas and techniques from information theory and data compression.
such new methods are required in part  because of some defining characteristics of microarray-based studies: (i) the  very large number of genes contributing expression measures which far exceeds  the number of samples (observations) available and (ii) the fact that by virtue  of pathway/network relationships, the gene expression measures tend to be  highly correlated.
in this paper, we are querying for  fragments within a minimum and a maximum frequency in the dataset.
keywords: biosvm [cai2002supporta]  y.d.  cai, x.j. liu, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
results: we demonstrate the method  in detail on samples consisting of ovarian cancer tissues, normal ovarian  tissues, and other normal tissues.
nucleic acids res. , 26, 277?281, 1998), available at  http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcr/classaâ·unclassified/ keywords: fisher-kernel sequence-classification biosvm [guyon2002gene]  i. guyon, j. weston,  s. barnhill, and v. vapnik.
[1] and more recently by valdar et al.
nevertheless, these tools still make many  false positive predictions.
all four approaches pursued-support-vector machines (svm), artificial neural networks (ann), k nearest neighbor classification with ga-optimized feature selection (ga/knn), and recursive partitioning (rp)-proved capable of providing a reasonable discrimination.
we compare a simple nearest neighbor approach (blast), methods based on multiple alignments generated by a statistical profile hidden markov model (hmm), and methods, including support vector machines (svms), that transform protein sequences into fixed-length feature vectors.
availability: the software system gems is available for download from http://www.gems-system.org for non-commercial use.
bioinformatics,  19(17):2294-2301, 2003.
keywords: biosvm methods for predicting protein function from structure are becoming more important as the rate at which structures are solved increases more rapidly than experimental knowledge.
health perspect., 112(12):1236-48, aug 2004.
[ bib | .pdf  |.pdf ] keywords: biosvm [model2001feature]   f. model, p. adorjan, a. olek, and c. piepenbrock.
[ bib | doi | http ] staging of prostate cancer is a mainstay of treatment decisions  and prognostication.
keywords: biosvm [kashima2004kernels]   h. kashima, k. tsuda, and a. inokuchi.
by comparing several feature selection methods we show that the right dimension reduction strategy is of crucial importance for the classification performance.
atypical region predictions for many eukaryotic  viruses, including the alpha-, beta- and gamma-herpesvirinae, and 123 archaeal  and bacterial genomes, have been made available online at  http://cbcsrv.watson.ibm.com/hgt_svm/. keywords: biosvm [tobita2005discriminant]   m. tobita, t. nishikawa, and r. nagashima.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003supportc]  y.d.  cai, k.y. feng, y.x. li, and k.c. chou.
gene selection from microarray  data for cancer classification-a machine learning approach.
we trained and tested our svm on a  data set constructed to include a significant number of both positive and  negative examples, directly addressing data imbalance issues.
availability: the svm classifier is available from the authors.
availability: the sirna design software tool can be  found in the website http://www.cs.hku.hk/ sirna/ contact: smyiu@cs.hku.hk keywords: biosvm [yap2005prediction]   c. w. yap and y. z. chen.
keywords: biosvm [xie2005locsvmpsi]  dan  xie, ao li, minghui wang, zhewen fan, and huanqing feng.
med., 33(1):17-29, 2003.
using simple attributes that can be calculated from any crystal structure, such  as secondary structure content, amino acid propensities, surface properties and  ligands, we describe each enzyme in a non-redundant set.
these encouraging results illustrate the  great potential of using conserved local motifs to tackle protein structure  predictions and possibly other important problems in biology.
the rna- and dna-binding svms demonstrate more diverse accuracy, ranging from approximately 76 the test results suggests the directions of improving the svms.
we propose that immunoglobulin-type beta-domains, which are found in approximate 400 functionally distinct forms in humans alone, provide the immense genetic variation within limited conformational changes that might facilitate the development of new computational tools.
these methods  generally give better accuracies than single svm classification systems, and  the performance of the pp-csvm method is slightly better than that of the  pm-csvm method.
however, the simultaneous classification across a heterogeneous set of tumor types has not been well studied yet.
supplementary information: http://bioinformatics.med.yale.edu/proteomics/biosupp1.html keywords: biosvm we introduce a computational method for classification of individual dna molecules measured by analpha -hemolysin channel detector.
the results of this initial study suggest that normal cells from heterozygous brca1 mutation carriers display a different gene expression profile from controls in response to dna damage.
ten folds  cross-validation support vector machine (svm) was used to establish the  diagnostic pattern.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the combination of 3d pharmacophore fingerprints and the support  vector machine classification algorithm has been used to generate robust models  that are able to classify compounds as active or inactive in a number of  g-protein-coupled receptor assays.
adaptations of this pilot result to other cell types could result in the development of a functional assay for brca1 mutation status.
most substances were either well-known hepatotoxicants or showed hepatotoxicity during preclinical testing.
keywords: biosvm [karchin2002classifying]   r. karchin, k. karplus, and d. haussler.
feature  selection for dna methylation based cancer classification.
when the local sequence length was 20-residue and the parameter d = 8, the svm method archived the best performance with the correct rate for the cis and trans forms reaching 70.4 and 69.7% for the independent testing dataset, 76.7 and 76.6% for the jackknife test, respectively.
in this paper we evaluate some of the widely-used sequence classification algorithms and develop a framework for modeling sequences in a fashion so that traditional machine learning algorithms, such as support vector machines, can be applied easily.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics motivation: data that characterize primary and tertiary structures of proteins are now accumulating at a rapid and accelerating rate and require automated computational tools to extract critical information relating amino acid changes with the spectrum of functionally attributes exhibited by a protein.
our results  suggest the importance of taking into account the characteristics in this data  which may also be relevant in other problems of a similar type.
conclusions: clustering 20 amino acids into a few  groups by the proposed greedy algorithm provides a new way to extract features  from protein sequences to cover more adjacent amino acids and hence reduce the  dimensionality of the input vector of protein features.
numerous methods for predicting beta-turns in proteins have been developed based on various computational schemes.
the support vector machine (svm) represents a new  approach to supervised pattern classification and has been successfully applied  to a wide range of pattern recognition problems.
we have tested our algorithm together with the  mpi principles and the existing tools.
profiled support vector machines for antisense oligonucleotide  efficacy prediction.
importantly, the most commonly used amino acid encoding method has the flaw that leads to large computational cost and recognition bias.
materials and methods: rna samples from 21 cell lines and 60 pathologically confirmed cases of sts, melanoma, and ccs/msp were examined using the u95a genechip (affymetrix, santa clara, ca).
[ bib | http | .pdf ] constantly improving gene expression profiling technologies are  expected to provide understanding and insight into cancer-related cellular  processes.
further structural characterization of this biomarkers  candidate was done by using cross-platform matrix-assisted laser  desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (maldi-ms) peptide mass fingerprinting  (pmf) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight/time of  flight (maldi-tof/tof) tandem mass spectrometry (ms/ms).
one particular classification method, a linear support vector machine, exhibited especially robust performance when the number of peaks was varied from four to thirteen, and when the peaks were selected from the training set alone.
we prepared a training set based on  the variant phenotypic annotation of the swiss-prot database and focused our  analysis on nssnps having homologous 3d structures.
however, proteasomal cleavage and transport by the transporter associated with antigen processing (tap) are essential steps in antigen processing as well.
we discuss in detail five of the steps in preprocessing the mass spectral data for biomarker discovery, as well as our criterion for choosing a small set of peaks for classifying the samples.
the selected gene sets from the proposed procedure appears to perform better than or comparable to several results reported in the literature using the univariate analysis without performing multivariate search.
this task, protein secondary structure prediction, is an open problem in biocomputing for which model combination appears to be an issue of central importance.
an integrated approach  utilizing proteomics and bioinformatics to detect ovarian cancer.
here, we have applied a support  vector machine (svm) trained on naturally occurring disordered and ordered  proteins to examine the contribution of various parameters (vectors) to  recognizing proteins that contain disordered regions.
keywords: biosvm [rudd2005eclair]   s. rudd and i. v. tetko.
conclusions modern feature selection and classification methods are powerful techniques for both the identification of biomarker candidates and the related problem of building predictive models from protein mass spectrometric profiles.
compounds that were tested with both a  24 and 48 h exposure are included.
two types of kernels are presented.
high prediction accuracy can be helpful in a better understanding of protein coding from nucleotide sequences.
the algorithm was applied to the dataset provided by park and kanehisa and we obtained prediction accuracies for the different classes ranging from 87.7%-97.0% with an overall accuracy of 93.1%.
keywords: biosvm given a nascent protein sequence, how can one predict its signal peptide or "zipcode" sequence?
support vector machine (svm) is a useful method for such classification, which may involve proteins with diverse sequence distribution.
the results obtained through this study indicated that the svm method would become a powerful tool for predicting peptidyl prolyl cis/trans isomerization.
[ bib | .ps.gz  |.pdf ] keywords: biosvm [jaakkola2000discriminative]  t. jaakkola, m. diekhans, and d. haussler.
as much as 97% of the predicted  patches had an overlap with the true interface patch while only 22% of the  surface residues were included in an average predicted patch.
keywords: biosvm [ben-hur2005kernel]   a. ben-hur and w.
svmprot shows a  certain degree of capability for the classification of distantly related  proteins and homologous proteins of different function and thus may be used as  a protein function prediction tool that complements sequence alignment methods.
the aim of this study was to assess various  classification methods that can potentially handle genetic interactions.
we present promising results on the prediction of the protein network for the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae from four types of widely available data: gene expressions, protein interactions measured by yeast two-hybrid systems, protein localizations in the cell and protein phylogenetic profiles.
as a result, protein structures now  frequently lack functional annotations.
the improvement of  speed is mainly related to the vertical data representation, p-tree,patents are  pending on the p-tree technology.
we  identify and analyse a subset of genes from the ovarian dataset whose  expression is highly differentiated between the types of tissues.
progression  from pt2 to pt3 prostate cancer is correlated with complex changes of the  epithelial cells in terms of volume fraction, of surface area, and of  second-order stereological properties.
on this basis,  these sequences represent a model system for development of strategies to  recognize the small subset of function-determining variations among the much  larger number of primary structure diversifications introduced during  evolution.
our main  theoretical result is the positive definiteness of any kernel thus defined.
based on over 30 different validation sets, the svm can predict up to 96 molecules correctly, averaging 81.5 of equal numbers of cns positive and negative molecules.
we report experiments on two benchmark scop datasets, where we show that the mismatch kernel used with an svm classifier performs competitively with state-of-the-art methods for homology detection, particularly when very few training examples are available.
the braf gene was found to be mutated in 42 samples (69 seven  samples (11 using support vector machines, we have built a classifier that  differentiates between melanoma cell lines based on braf mutation status.
the svms can save cpu time and avoid the overfitting problem compared with the neural network method.
false positives could be removed by a  variety of filters including minimum number of co-occurrences, removal of  sentences containing a negation and the classification of sentences based on  their semantic fields by a support vector machine.
keywords: biosvm [byvatov2003comparison]   e. byvatov, u. fechner, j. sadowski, and g. schneider.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: microarrays are capable of determining the  expression levels of thousands of genes simultaneously.
we propose a general method for constructing a kernel following the syntactic structure of the data, as defined by its type signature in a higher-order logic.
this study demonstrates the feasibility of predicting the tissue origin of a  carcinoma in the context of multiple cancer classes.
a discriminant model  constructed by the support vector machine method for herg potassium channel  inhibitors.
second, we analyzed how amino acid positions support (or prevent) the formation of beta-turns based on the "multivariable" classification model of a linear svm.
the classification of  protein quaternary structure based on the primary sequences can provide some  useful information for the biologists.
protein secondary structure prediction is a key step in prediction of protein tertiary structure.
subsets of informative descriptors are identified with genetic algorithm feature selection coupled to the appropriate classification algorithm.
the networks were trained to predict the enantiomeric excess.
such new methods are required in part because of some defining characteristics of microarray-based studies: (i) the very large number of genes contributing expression measures which far exceeds the number of samples (observations) available and (ii) the fact that by virtue of pathway/network relationships, the gene expression measures tend to be highly correlated.
we  achieved the best cross validation error rate of 18.75 support vector machine  algorithm.
statistical tests were performed on experimental groups identified by cluster analysis, to find discriminating genes that could subsequently be applied in a support vector machine algorithm.
[ bib | http |  .pdf ] motivation: a promising way to make sense out of gene expression  profiles is to relate them to the activity of metabolic and signalling  pathways.
keywords: biosvm [listgarten2004predictive]   j. listgarten, s. damaraju, b. poulin, l. cook,  j. dufour, a. driga, j. mackey, d. wishart,  r. greiner, and b. zanke.
existing approaches are based on  dictionaries, rules and machine-learning.
the gain increases when the outputs of  the combiners are post-processed with a dp algorithm.
this representation for a protein is a vector, where each of the non-zero entries in the vector indicates a significant match between the sequence of interest and the sbase domain.
this classifier can be used for fast filtering of compound  libraries in virtual screening applications.
hyperkernels allow us to select and to  optimally combine the most relevant node attributes in our protein graphs.
additionally, an example is shown where a  hepatotoxic liability was correctly recognized in the absence of pathological  findings.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(205), 2004.
it is  desirable to extend the prediction range beyond compounds covered by the known  pharmacophore models.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] in an effort to facilitate drug discovery, computational methods  for facilitating the prediction of various adverse drug reactions (adrs) have  been developed.
a multiclass support vector machine was trained to recognize the gene expression phenotypes caused by these mutations.
[takaoka2003development]   y. takaoka, y. endo, s. yamanobe, h. kakinuma,  t. okubo, y. shimazaki, t. ota, s. sumiya, and  k. yoshikawa.
the overall accuracy of amino acid composition-based and dipeptide compositionbased classifiers were 82.6 and 97.5 that different subfamilies of nuclear receptors are predictable with considerable accuracy using amino acid or dipeptide composition.
availability: supplementary results and data are available at noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/maxent keywords: learning-kernel graph-kernel biosvm dna microarray technology provides useful tools for profiling global gene expression patterns in different cell/tissue samples.
syst., volume 17, pages 1433-1440.
keywords: biosvm [vinayagam2004applying]   a. vinayagam, r. könig, j. moormann, f. schubert,  r. eils, k.-h. glatting, and s. suhai.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: a major issue in computational biology is the  reconstruction of pathways from several genomic datasets, such as expression  data, protein interaction data and phylogenetic profiles.
in particular, we propose an svm kernel function that is explicitly heterogeneous.
pslip: svm  based protein subcellular localization prediction using multiple  physicochemical properties.
our detailed experimental evaluation shows that the svm-based approaches are able to achieve higher classification accuracy compared to the more traditional sequence classification algorithms such as markov model based techniques and k-nearest neighbor based approaches.
keywords: biosvm [lu2003expression]  y.j.  lu, d. williamson, r. wang, b. summersgill, s. rodriguez,  s. rogers, k. pritchard-jones, c. campbell, and j. shipley.
classification of protein quaternary structure with support vector machine.
the recent development of microarray technologies has enabled biologists to quantify gene expression of tens of thousands of genes in a single experiment.
in classifying different types of amine receptors using amino acid composition and dipeptide composition, the method achieved an accuracy of 89.8 and 96.4%, respectively.
keywords: biosvm liver cirrhosis is a worldwide health problem.
gene selection for cancer classification  using support vector machines.
the current approach, complemented with the powerful covariant discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo-amino acid composition that has incorporated quasi-sequence-order effect as recently proposed by k. c. chou (2001), may become a very useful high-throughput tool in the area of bioinformatics and proteomics.
the method out-performs support vector machines trained on amino  acid composition and has comparable performance to rule-based text classifiers.
predicting the  phosphorylation sites using hidden markov models and machine learning methods.
we report on the development of an efficient subgraph mining technique and its application to finding characteristic substructural patterns within protein structural families.
usa, 99(10):6562-6566, 2002.
biotechnol prog. , 19(3):1011-5, 2003.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] an attractive application of expression technologies is to  predict drug efficacy or safety using expression data of biomarkers.
keywords: biosvm [xue2004qsar]  c. x.  xue, r. s. zhang, h. x. liu, x. j. yao, m. c. liu,  z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
the results obtained by the  self-consistency test, jackknife test and independent dataset test are  encouraging, indicating that the current approach may serve as a powerful  complementary tool to other existing methods for predicting the types of  membrane proteins.
this  reveals that gene harvesting, without additional constraints, can yield  artifactual solutions.
prediction and analysis of  beta-turns in proteins by support vector machine.
biol., 330(4):771-783, 2003.
this work explored the use of a machine learning method, support vector machines (svm), for the prediction of rna-binding proteins directly from their primary sequence.
we report experiments on two benchmark scop  datasets, where we show that the mismatch kernel used with an svm classifier  performs competitively with state-of-the-art methods for homology detection,  particularly when very few training examples are available.
technical report 182, c.b.l.c., 1998.
analysis of these codon composition signals is instructive in  determining features that confer individuality to ribosomal protein genes.
we show that svms can beat the competing methods on a dataset  of 268 protein sequences to be classified into a set of 42 fold classes.
using  machine learning techniques such as support vector machines (svms), decision  trees, and naive bayes, we identified a subset of three snps as key  discriminators between breast cancer and controls.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: an increasing number of observations support the  hypothesis that most biological functions involve the interactions between many  proteins, and that the complexity of living systems arises as a result of such  interactions.
this suggests that svms should be well suited for these difficult  situations.
in this work we introduce svm and the pseudo-amino  acid composition, a collection of nonlinear features extractable from protein  sequence, to the field of protein function prediction.
in 3d, we consider similarity measures between histograms of pairwise distances between atom classes.
we briefly introduce the multicategory svm, which is a recently proposed extension of the binary svm, and apply it to multiclass cancer diagnosis problems results: its applicability is demonstrated on the leukemia data (golub et al., 1999) and the small round blue cell tumors of childhood data (khan et al., 2001).
for all techniques tested, the use of a consensus vote of the 13 different models derived improved the quality of the predictions in terms of accuracy, precision, recall, and f1 value.
a set as small as four retains  an accuracy of 84+/-2 general physicochemical properties rather than specific  amino acids are important factors contributing to protein disorder.
covariance kernels from bayesian generative models.
keywords: biosvm motivation: in the event of an outbreak of a disease caused by an initially unknown pathogen, the ability to characterize anonymous sequences prior to isolation and culturing of the pathogen will be helpful.
as a first step  toward this goal, it is important to investigate the amount of correlation  which exists between these data.
this  motivated us to develop a better method for the recognition of novel amine  receptors and for their further classification.
gpcrsclass: a web tool for the classification of amine type of  g-protein-coupled receptors.
methods for selecting important genes are,  therefore, of much significance in microarray data analysis.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2200-9, may 2005.
investigating this idea, we introduce a family of multi-class svms and assess them as ensemble methods on a real-world problem.
these unsupervised and supervised learning  methods identified three classes or subtypes of specimens, assigned tumor or  nontumor labels to new specimens and detected six potentially mislabeled  specimens.
we used a support vector machine to discover sequence information that could be used to distinguish real exons from pseudo exons.
locsvmpsi: a web  server for subcellular localization of eukaryotic proteins using svm and  profile of psi-blast.nucleic acids res., 33(web server issue):w105-10,  jul 2005.
attractive  features of our approach are its flexibility with respect to oligomer length  and position conservation.
when applied to secondary  structure prediction based on support vector machines, we obtain a  approximately 2% gain in q3 performance by incorporating cluster-derived data  into training and classification.
these potential markers highlight the importance of tissue biology in the etiology of cancer.
a structure template is selected to  determine neighbors in 3d space and a window size is used to determine the  neighbors in the sequence.
keywords: biosvm [guermeur2004kernel]   y. guermeur, a. lifschitz, and r. vert.
based on our data, we hypothesize that acceptors preferentially exhibit short helices at the splice site.
this article introduces the application of string kernels in classifying protein sequences into homogeneous families.
thus,  the need arises to predict structure from sequence without using time-consuming  experimental identification.
predicting cns permeability of drug molecules: comparison of neural network and  support vector machine algorithms.
chiral catalysts and additives  were encoded by their chirality codes and presented as input to neural  networks.
the mean relative error of  the training set, the validation set, and the testing set is 1.35%, 1.52%, and  2.23%, respectively, and the maximum relative error is less than 5.00%.
however, features of a protein nonlinear to the sequence may also be predictive to its function.
the expression levels of 16,063 genes and expressed  sequence tags were used to evaluate the accuracy of a multiclass classifier  based on a support vector machine algorithm.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(181), 2004.
43, 246-255;  correction (2001) proteins struct.
in absence of suitable data on non-binding nonapeptides we generated sequences randomly from a selected set of proteins from the protein data bank.
the best of our binary classifiers can eliminate over 75 spectra while losing only 10 regression can pick out spectra of modified peptides that can be identified by a de novo program but not by sequest.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] proteins are generally classified into the following 12  subcellular locations: 1) chloroplast, 2) cytoplasm, 3) cytoskeleton, 4)  endoplasmic reticulum, 5) extracellular, 6) golgi apparatus, 7) lysosome, 8)  mitochondria, 9) nucleus, 10) peroxisome, 11) plasma membrane, and 12) vacuole.
from the applied machine learning techniques  the rule learner part and support vector machines gave the best results,  although the differences between the learning algorithms are only marginal.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm we present a new approach to the induction of sars based on the generation of structural fragments and support vector machines (svms).
the overall  rate of correct prediction for 1939 secretary proteins and 1440 nonsecretary  proteins was over 91 may also serve as a useful tool for further investigating  many unclear details regarding the molecular mechanism of the zip code  protein-sorting system in cells.
the support vector machine method is performed based on the database derived from scop which is based upon domains of known structure and the evolutionary relationships and the principles that govern their 3d structure.
as a comparison, the best correlations of support vector machine classifiers trained on the same data were 0.40 and 0.30, respectively.
support vector machine method can be  referred to as a useful assistant technique for finding effective inhibitors of  hiv protease, which is one of the targets in designing potential drugs against  aids.
keywords: biosvm [furlanello2003entropy-based ]  c. furlanello, m. serafini, s. merler, and g. jurman.
owing to the amount and complexity of the generated experimental data, machine learning techniques provide a promising approach to investigate novel patterns in high-dimensional metabolic data which form the source for constructing classification rules with high discriminatory power.
keywords: biosvm, cgh [markowetz2003support]   f. markowetz, l. edler, and m. vingron.
the family of kernels generated generalizes the family of radial basis kernels.
classification models were developed using support vector  machine and partial least squares discriminant analysis.
this information helps to  reduce the number of binding sites which need to be identified for successful  predictions and to avoid problems of over-fitting.
based on our belief that this concept is implicit within the collective  experience of working chemists, we devised a data set to capture an intuitive  human understanding of both this characteristic and ease of synthesis, a second  key characteristic.
in this research, the  proteins are classified into the following eight groups: chloroplast,  cytoplasm, extracellular, golgi apparatus, lysosome, mitochondria, nucleus and  peroxisome.
thus, the need arises to predict structure from sequence without using time-consuming experimental identification.
each  of the sets of positively charged, negatively charged and small hydrophobic  residues, as well as codon bias, contribute to their distinctive codon  composition profile.
we identify and analyse a subset of genes from the ovarian dataset whose expression is highly differentiated between the types of tissues.
experimental results indicate that binding type can be predicted at significantly higher accuracy than using prosite patterns.
a fully automatic and reliable prediction system  for protein subcellular localization is needed, especially for the analysis of  large-scale genome sequences.
because of its high rate of self-consistency (299/299 = 100 and  correct prediction rate (55/63 = 87
comparative analysis of molecular profile data is proposed as a mechanism for predicting the physiological function of genes in instances when comparative sequence analysis proves uninformative, such as with human and yeast translationally controlled tumour protein.
protein  engineering, 2001, 14-2, 75-79) has made it possible to take into account the  coupling effect among some key subsites and hence can significantly enhance the  prediction quality of peptide cleavage site.
understanding hiv-1  protease specificity is important when designing hiv inhibitors and several  different machine learning algorithms have been applied to the problem.
according to the results, the q3  prediction accuracy of new tertiary classifier reaches 78.8 reported in the  literature.
to evaluate the performance of feature selection for biomarker identification we have applied the proposed methods to three data sets.
we evaluated and analysed the performance of this approach, and we present experimental results on three selected families from the scop (structural classification of proteins) database.
when predicting deltadeltag values associated with  mutations, the correlation of predicted with expected/experimental values is  0.71 (with a standard error of 1.30 kcal/mol) and 0.62 (with a standard error  of 1.45 kcal/mol) when structural or sequence information are respectively  adopted.
keywords: biosvm [rensing2005protein]   stefan a rensing, dana fritzowsky, daniel lang, and ralf reski.
verification of the  assignments with a manually annotated set of 1500 sentences yielded favorable  results of 92% precision at 50% recall, sufficient for inclusion in a  high-quality database.
multiclass cancer diagnosis using tumor gene  expression signatures.
the examination for the  self-consistency and the jackknife test of the svms method was tested for the  three sets: 2022 proteins, 2161 proteins, and 2319 proteins.
the classification scheme was based on identifying  gene subsets whose expression typifies each cancer class, and we quantified the  extent to which these genes are characteristic of a specific tumor type by  accurately and confidently predicting the anatomical site of tumor origin for  90 including 9 of 12 metastatic lesions.
the examination for the self-consistency and the jackknife test of the svms method were tested for the training dataset (305 oligopeptides), the correct rate of self-consistency and jackknife test reaches 100 and 84.9 testing dataset (30 oligopeptides) was tested, the rate reaches 76.67%.
however, only a biological validation and identification of the underlying proteins will ultimately confirm the actual value and power of any computational predictions.
first of all, a  joint kernel is designed for complete data which include both visible and  hidden variables.
the new method is particularly useful when our focus is aimed  at proteins belonging to small subsets.
availability: supplementary data at www.cs.columbia.edu/compbio/hiclust.
recent advances in the theory of kernel methods have provided efficient algorithms to perform such combinations in a way that minimizes a statistical loss function.
subsets of  informative descriptors are identified with genetic algorithm feature selection  coupled to the appropriate classification algorithm.
we generated serum protein profiles from three groups of rats: (i) normal (n=8), (ii) thioacetamide-induced liver cirrhosis (n=22), and (iii) bile duct ligation-induced liver fibrosis (n=5) using a weak cation exchanger surface.
the resulting network of interactions shares an average protein connectivity characteristic in common with previous investigations reported in the literature, offering strong evidence supporting the biological feasibility of the hypothesized map.
however, late effects of treatment and management of relapse remain significant clinical problems.
for model fitting, we adopt the em algorithm (distinguished  from the em algorithm of dempster et al., 1977) based on the information  geometry of positive definite matrices.
when trained on strands from  proteins of known structure, using structure-based (dictionary of secondary  structure in proteins) strand assignments, both methods achieved mean  cross-validated, prediction accuracies of  78 strand assignments from  secondary structure prediction were used.
our results are in the same range of accuracy as other studies that classify protein-protein interactions from 3d complex structure obtained experimentally.
using the supervised learning procedure support vector machine, we  identified trios of cdnas that could be used to classify samples as normal or  tumor, based on single-array analysis.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] the ability to predict protein function from structure is  becoming increasingly important as the number of structures resolved is growing  more rapidly than our capacity to study function.
the results showed that (1) data mining techniques can be successfully applied to ovarian cancer detection with a reasonably high performance; (2) the classification using features selected by the genetic algorithm consistently outperformed those selected by statistical testing in terms of accuracy and robustness; (3) the discriminatory features (proteomic patterns) can be very different from one selection method to another.
the accuracy of the ann-based method  improved significantly, from 70.4 when evolutionary information was added to a  single sequence as a multiple sequence alignment obtained from psi-blast.
the tuning on hmms and svms enabled biophysical analysis of the captured molecule states and state transitions; structure revealed in the biophysical analysis was used for better feature selection.
the classification of protein sequences obtained from  patients with various immunoglobulin-related conformational diseases may  provide insight into structural correlates of pathogenicity.
http://web.kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp/ park/seqdata/ keywords: biosvm the solution of binary classification problems using the support vector machine (svm) method has been well developed.
gene expression  analysis: joint feature selection and classifier design.
keywords: featureselection biosvm [ aliferis2002machine]  c.f. aliferis, d.p. hardin, and p. massion.
complete  cross-validation on a diverse data set resulted in a root-mean-squared error =
keywords: biosvm [natt2004prediction]  n.k.  natt, h. kaur, and g.p. raghava.
j chem inf comput sci, 44(5):1630-8, 2004.
moreover, we identify a group of coordinately expressed genes related to the  separation of two distinct subgroups inside diffuse large b-cell lymphoma  (dlbcl), validating a previous alizadeh's hypothesis about the existence of two  distinct diseases inside dlbcl.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics one key element in understanding the molecular machinery of the cell is to understand the structure and function of each protein encoded in the genome.
localizing protein binding sites within genomic dna is of considerable importance, but remains difficult for protein families, such as transcription factors, which have loosely defined target sequences.
the method is  based on sequence alignment kernel, a function reflecting the quantitative  measure of match between two sequences.
bioinformatics, 19(9):1132-1139, 2003.
bmc  bioinformatics, 5(66):66, 2004.
we compared the performance of our method  with that of the sift algorithm, which is one of the best predictive methods to  date.
this motivated us to develop a better method for the recognition of novel amine receptors and for their further classification.
the first algorithm is based on a multilayer perceptron neural network and the second algorithm uses a support vector machine.
the svms performed maximally among predictive models, achieving 69 power in distinguishing between the two groups, compared with a 50 baseline predictive power obtained from the data after repeated random permutation of class labels (individuals with cancer or controls).
in 1d, we consider string kernels based on smiles strings.
we also show how sets of  specificity rules can be generated from the resulting linear classifiers.
further, we find that svm-i-sites outperforms sequence-based methods such as psi-blast, sam, and svm-fisher while achieving a comparable performance with svm-pairwise.
nucleic acids res , 33(web server issue):w724-7, jul 2005.
rankgene:  identification of diagnostic genes based on expression data.
first, we propose to modify the label of eachvertex by automatically adding information about its environment with the useof the morgan algorithm.
for the opsins and olfactory subfamilies of class a and other minor families (classes b, c, frizzled and smoothened), the binding g-protein is predicted with high accuracy using the hmm.
the representation of all these signals is sensitively  detected, combined and augmented by the svms to perform an accurate  classification.
for each  protein, a vector of terms is generated from medline abstracts in which the  protein/gene's name or synonym occurs.
we used the support  vector machine (svm) and the neural network (nn) learning methods as base  classifiers.
in conclusion, the results show that, despite some  variability, robust gene expression changes were consistent between sites.
in addition, prediction performance of  locsvmpsi was evaluated with 5-fold cross validation test on the pk7579 data  set
results: to find optimal design scoring functions, we introduce two geometric  views and propose a formulation using a mixture of non-linear gaussian kernel  functions.
cesh is independent of selecting sequences for interrogation and is a  simple, rapid, and widely accessible approach to identify clinically useful  differential expression.
bioinformatics,  16(9):799-807, 2000.
j chem inf comput sci, 44(2):669-77, 2004.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] statistical learning methods have been used in developing  filters for predicting inhibitors of two p450 isoenzymes, cyp3a4 and cyp2d6.
tight turn has long been recognized as one of the three important features of proteins after the alpha-helix and beta-sheet.
pre-mrna alternative splicing greatly increases the complexity of gene expression.
keywords: biosvm [lodhi2000text]   h. lodhi, j. shawe-taylor, n. cristianini, and c. j.  c. h. watkins.
we show that our profile  kernel results are comparable to cluster kernels while providing much better  scalability to large datasets.
this representation, combined with a discriminative classification algorithm known as the support vector machine (svm), provides a powerful means of detecting subtle structural and evolutionary relationships among proteins.
we found that svm based on local sequences or global amino acid compositions yielded similar prediction accuracies for the data set comprising 4136 cysteine-containing segments extracted from 969 nonhomologous proteins.
prebind and textomy -  mining the biomedical literature for protein-protein interactions using a  support vector machine.
even at the level of exon definition, pseudo exons defined by such false splices sites outnumber real exons by an order of magnitude.
conclusions machine learning methods are useful as tools to direct  interaction and pathway database back-filling; however, this potential can only  be realized if these techniques are coupled with human review and entry into a  factual database such as bind.
bioinformatics,  21:575-581, mar 2005.
this method uses the support vector machines trained by multiple feature vectors based on n-peptide compositions.
we challenge that our system may constitute the most general and precise method for tagging protein names.
the effectiveness of  marginalized kernels is illustrated in the task of classifying bacterial gyrase  subunit b (gyrb) amino acid sequences.
several papers have been published where nonlinear machine learning algorithms, e.g. artificial neural networks, support vector machines and decision trees, have been used to model the specificity of the hiv-1 protease and extract specificity rules.
bioinformatics,  20(17):3055-3063, 2004.
we consider the problem of inferring gene functional  classifications from a heterogeneous data set consisting of dna microarray  expression measurements and phylogenetic profiles from whole-genome sequence  comparisons.
technical report 0206055, arxiv physics, 2002.
in b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 71-92.
proteins, 60(3):353-66, aug 2005.
[ bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [tsuda2004learning]   k. tsuda and w.s. noble.
we present an approach to predict subcellular localization for gram-negative bacteria.
the subset is split into two functional groupings, enzymes and non-enzymes.
the moss physcomitrella patens is an emerging plant model system due to its high rate of homologous recombination, haploidy, simple body plan, physiological properties as well as phylogenetic position.
data mining research suggests that the use of frequent patterns has good performance in aiding the development of accurate and efficient classification algorithms.
based on a variant of  kernel canonical correlation analysis, its originality is in the formalization  of the protein network inference problem as a supervised learning problem, and  in the integration of heterogeneous genomic data within this framework.
gene discovery in  bladder cancer progression using cdna microarrays.
in this paper,  stimulated by the concept of using the pseudo-amino acid composition to  incorporate the sequence-order effects, the spectral analysis technique is  introduced to represent the statistical sample of a protein.
availability: supplementary data at http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/sdp-svm keywords: biosvm kernel methods provide a principled framework in which to represent many types of data, including vectors, strings, trees and graphs.
using this data set, we devised binary classifiers with an artificial neural network and a support vector machine.
experiments with remote homology detection and fold recognition problems show that these kernels are capable of producing results that are substantially better than those produced by all of the existing state-of-the-art svm-based methods.
genomic analysis identified potential targets for the development of therapeutic strategies in the treatment of this disease.
however, such approaches lead to a loss of contextual information.
finally, we identified genes with  altered linear correlation when their expression in normal and tumor samples  were compared.
integrated modeling of the major  events in the mhc class i antigen processing pathway.
the method can be applied iteratively to build a kernel on a infinite set from kernels involving generators of the set.
even at the level of exon definition, pseudo exons defined  by such false splices sites outnumber real exons by an order of magnitude.
we found that rf outperforms other  methods in the analysis of ms data.
the classification accuracy appears to degrade very rapidly as the number of classes increases.
two consensus support vector  machine (csvm) methods, "positive majority" (pm-csvm) and  "positive probability" (pp-csvm), were used in this work.
the diagnostic pattern combined with 7 potential biomarkers could differentiate crc patients from cra patients with a specificity of 83 the diagnostic pattern combined with 4 potential biomarkers could differentiate crc patients from hp with a specificity of 92 sensitivity of 89
quantitative modelling results in a nonlinear, seven-descriptor model  based on svms with root mean-square errors of 0.107 and 0.136 for training and  prediction sets, respectively.
each compound was represented by calculated structural descriptors that encode constitutional, topological, geometrical, electrostatic, and quantum-chemical features.
a companion website can be accessed at http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home5/pg02776030/lsbound/. the website contains: (1) the source code of the gene selection algorithm; (2) the complete set of tables and figures regarding the experimental study; (3) proof of the inequality (9).
an optimal subset of genes is selected according to a two-strata model evaluation procedure: modeling is replicated by an external stratified-partition resampling scheme, and, within each run, an internal k-fold cross-validation is used for e-rfe ranking.
the methods are evaluated using a  microarray-based study of cardiomyopathy in transgenic mice.
functional  annotation of these genes reveals unequal distribution among taxonomic groups  and intriguing putative functions such as cytotoxicity and nucleic acid repair.
current  developments in techniques related to the svm approach are reviewed which might  become relevant for future functional genomics and chemogenomics projects.
analysis of molecular  profile data using generative and discriminative methods.
accurate prediction of protein backbone torsion angles will substantially improve modeling procedures for local structures of protein sequence segments, especially in modeling loop conformations that do not form regular structures as in alpha-helices or beta-strands.
in the 5-fold cross-validation, the data set was randomly partitioned into five equal sets and evaluated five times on each distinct set while keeping the remaining four sets for training.
genome biol., 5(r11), 2004.
it currently covers 54 functional families and additional families will be added in the near future.
selecting 79 optimal gene markers, we generated a quantitative-pcr  low-density array, allowing the assay of both fresh-frozen and formalin-fixed  paraffin-embedded (ffpe) tissue.
this work explored the  use of a machine learning method, support vector machines (svm), for the  prediction of rna-binding proteins directly from their primary sequence.
results we have developed an in silico classification system entitled hodoco (homology modeling, docking and classification oracle), in which protein residue potential interaction profiles (rpips) are used to summarize protein-protein interaction characteristics.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] tight turns play an important role in globular proteins from  both the structural and functional points of view.
a computational ensemble pharmacophore model has recently been used  for the prediction of p-gp substrates with a promising accuracy of 63%.
these  findings indicate that incorporating structural information is critical to  achieving good prediction accuracy when sufficient evolutionary information is  not available.
svms avoid several problems associated with unsupervised clustering methods, such as hierarchical clustering and self-organizing maps.
analysis of the annotation  of the most significant genes revealed the relevance of critical genes and  pathways during bladder cancer progression, including the overexpression of  oncogenic genes such as dek in superficial tumors or immune response genes such  as cd86 antigen in invasive disease.
in combination with classification methods, this technology can be useful to support clinical management decisions for individual patients, e.g. in oncology.
we show classification with better than 99 hairpin molecules that differ only in their terminal watson-crick basepairs.
whole-proteome  interaction mining.
to demonstrate and validate our concept on a biochemically well-defined case, we analyze e. coli translation initiation sites in order to show that we can find biologically relevant signals.
however, little progress has been made in understanding the specificity because  nonlinear and overly complex models have been used.
in a  comparative study, we developed neural network and svm models to identify small  organic molecules that potentially modulate the function of g-protein coupled  receptors.
in this paper, we introduce a support vector machine (svm) approach to prediction and analysis of beta-turns.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] treatment of wilms tumor has a high success rate, with some 85  of patients achieving long-term survival.
this framework  relied on a gene's nucleotide composition, obviated the need for knowledge of  codon boundaries and database searches, and was shown to perform very well  across a wide range of archaeal and bacterial genomes when compared with  previously published approaches, such as codon adaptation index and c + g  content.
correlation and prediction of  gene expression level from amino acid and dipeptide composition of its protein.
this paper is a comparative  study of feature selection in drug discovery.
improved method for predicting beta-turn using support vector machine.
the rules for  predicting tap binding regions in an antigenic sequence were derived from the  above analysis.
[ bib ] the support vector machine (svm) approach represents a  data-driven method for solving classification tasks.
the cases were classified by learning  vector quantization and support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [hochreiter2004gene]   s. hochreiter and k. obermayer.
in common with most other methods, only non-synonymous changes in protein coding regions of the genome are considered.
prediction of regulatory networks: genome-wide identification  of transcription factor targets from gene expression data.
histopathology and clinical chemistry data were used to  anchor the transcript profiles to an established endpoint (steatosis,  cholestasis, direct acting, peroxisomal proliferation or nontoxic/control).
support vector machine applications in computational biology.
focusing attention on a small subset of genes is useful not only because it produces a classifier with good generalization capacity, but also because this set of genes may provide insights into the mechanisms responsible for the disease itself.
in the third step, support vector machines are employed to recognize true pases from a large number of candidates.
[ bib ] cancer diagnosis is a major clinical applications area of gene  expression microarray technology.
they also outperform the  decomposition approaches based on bi-class svms.
several recognition methods have been trained and tested on positive data set, consisting of 669 sigma70-promoter regions with known transcription startpoints of escherichia coli and two negative data sets of 709 examples each, taken from coding and non-coding regions of the same genome.
[ bib | .html |  .pdf ] we present novel kernels that measure similarity of two rna  sequences, taking account of their secondary structures.
statistical tests were  performed on experimental groups identified by cluster analysis, to find  discriminating genes that could subsequently be applied in a support vector  machine algorithm.
this shows that the performance of our method is comparable to  that of the netchop method, which is currently considered to be the best method  for proteasome cleavage site prediction.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background we apply a new machine learning method, the so-called  support vector machine method, to predict the protein structural class.
nucleic acids res,  33(database issue):d223-5, jan 2005.
keywords: biosvm a new method for peptidyl prolyl cis/trans isomerization prediction based on the theory of support vector machines (svm) was introduced.
examinations for self-consistency and jackknife testing of the svms method were conducted for three sets consisting of 1,911, 2,044, and 2,191 proteins.
yet, abstracts  remain the focus of many publicly available literature data mining tools.
the subcellular location of a protein can provide valuable information about its function.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the ability to identify protein-protein interaction  sites and to detect specific amino acid residues that contribute to the  specificity and affinity of protein interactions has important implications for  problems ranging from rational drug design to analysis of metabolic and signal  transduction networks.
this work tries to look for the effective  methods of extracting attribute and the algorithm for classifying the  quaternary structure from the primary sequences.
in this paper, support vector machines (svms),  a new machine learning method, is applied to approach this problem.
verification of the assignments with a manually annotated set of 1500 sentences yielded favorable results of 92% precision at 50% recall, sufficient for inclusion in a high-quality database.
the majority of information in the biological  literature resides in full text articles, instead of abstracts.
the dataset of 180 proteins  used in this study is also available via the same web site.
one approach is to assign functional family of a protein to provide useful hint  about its function.
icann?02, number  2415 in lncs, pages 329-336.
if we include this extra  information into our graph model, our classifier yields significantly higher  accuracy levels than the vector models.
both improve prediction accuracy by 14?110
kernel methods in  computational biology.
keywords: biosvm [liu2004using]  huiqing  liu, hao han, jinyan li, and limsoon wong.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics elucidation of the interaction of proteins with different molecules is of significance in the understanding of cellular processes.
the svmpsi method, which uses support vector machines (svms), and the position-specific scoring matrix (pssm) generated from psi-blast have been applied to achieve better prediction accuracy of the relative solvent accessibility.
we show that the microarray svm classifier was capable of  making high confidence predictions in 11 of 13 cases.
we applied this algorithm to published sirnas, and could classify effective and ineffective sirnas with 90.6%, 86.2% accuracy, respectively.
we hypothesized that the formidable  task-size of backfilling the database could be reduced by using support vector  machine technology to first locate interaction information in the literature.
we show that the problem is much easier than what has previously been reported and that linear classifiers like the simple perceptron or linear support vector machines are at least as good predictors as nonlinear algorithms.
the present  study has identified molecular biomarkers of potential clinical significance  and critical molecular targets associated with bladder cancer progression.
the correlation (r = 0.80) was obtained between the predicted and  experimental measured values by using sequence-based svm.
conclusions: three main conclusions can be formulated based on the performances on independent test sets.
the ann used in this study is a feed-forward neural network with a standard back-propagation training algorithm.
however, measuring those parameters is an expensive task, and finding them in the literature is very laborious.
a tutorial on support vector regression, neurocolt  technical report nc-tr-98-030, royal holloway college, university of london,  uk) and the application of the trained system to previously unseen pairs,  estimating their propensity for interaction.
finally, we identified genes with altered linear correlation when their expression in normal and tumor samples were compared.
when information gain was used to select the features, svm was  much less sensitive to the reduction of feature space.
keywords: biosvm [wang2004support]  m-l.  wang, w-j. li, m-l. wang, and w-b. xu.
one approach for function prediction is to classify a protein into functional family.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] the prediction of protein secondary structure is an important  step in the prediction of protein tertiary structure.
we found that rf outperforms other methods in the analysis of ms data.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics based on the 639 non-homologous proteins with 2910 cysteine-containing segments of well-resolved three-dimensional structures, a novel approach has been proposed to predict the disulfide-bonding state of cysteines in proteins by constructing a two-stage classifier combining a first global linear discriminator based on their amino acid composition and a second local support vector machine classifier.
many tools for localizing these boundaries on dna sequences have been developed and are available to researchers through the internet.
networks based on nucleotide composition were 80-90 for bacteria and 90-99  achieved a significant improvement in accuracy by combining these predictions  with those obtained using a second set of parameters consisting of known rna  sequence motifs and the calculated free energy of folding.
we propose methods based on non-linear svm with polynomial and gaussian kernels, and output coding (oc) ensembles of learning machines to separate normal from malignant tissues, to classify different types of lymphoma and to analyse the role of sets of coordinately expressed genes in carcinogenic processes of lymphoid tissues.
these studies indicate that there are many  unidentified rnas in simple genomes that can be predicted computationally as a  precursor to experimental study.
keywords: biosvm [roegnvaldsson2004why]   thorsteinn rögnvaldsson and liwen you.
proteins, 55(4):1036-1042, 2004.
we have applied this technology to build a clinically robust site of origin classifier with the ultimate aim of applying it to determine the origin of cancer of unknown primary (cup).
[ bib | http | .pdf ] we introduce a computational method for classification of  individual dna molecules measured by analpha -hemolysin channel detector.
the prediction accuracy for  nonsubstrates of p-gp is 79.2% using 5-fold cross-validation.
selecting 79 optimal gene markers, we generated a quantitative-pcr low-density array, allowing the assay of both fresh-frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (ffpe) tissue.
furthermore, they predicted the correct class of  hepatotoxicant in most cases.
our method uses a window of multiple alignment profiles to represent each  instance and support vector machines with a polynomial kernel as the learning  algorithm.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ yu2003fine-grained]  c.s. yu, j.y. wang, j.m. yang, p.c. lyu, c.j. lin, and  j.k. hwang.
qsar models for the prediction of binding  affinities to human serum albumin using the heuristic method and a support  vector machine.
however, these methods had relatively low accuracies for the  localization of extracellular proteins.
these methods were trained and tested on a  nonredundant data set of 16 proteins, and performance was evaluated using  "leave one out cross-validation" (loocv).
bmc genomics, 6(1):43,  mar 2005.
this method yielded an  optimal subset of 14 representative features, which were all related to energy  and sequence motifs.
the most promising results are for combined document retrieval and go term assignment, which calls for the integration of methods developed in biocreative task 1 and task 2.
we know subcellular localization is a typical classification problem; consequently, a one-against-one (1-v-1) multi-class support vector machine was introduced to construct the classifier.
in russ b. altman, a. keith  dunker, lawrence hunter, kevin lauerdale, and teri e. klein, editors, proceedings of the pacific symposium on biocomputing 2002, pages 564-575,  singapore, 2002.
we  have laid the foundation for a protein function prediction system that  integrates protein information from various sources efficiently and  effectively.
in addition, the experiments show that these kernels, even when used in the absence of profiles, produce results that are better than those produced by existing non-profile-based schemes.
results: a wrapper-based feature subset selection algorithm using a support  vector machine or a naive bayes prediction method was evaluated against the  traditional method for selecting features relevant for splice site prediction.
because the function of a protein is closely correlated with its subcellular location, with the rapid increase in new protein sequences entering into databanks, it is vitally important for both basic research and pharmaceutical industry to establish a high throughput tool for predicting protein subcellular location.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machines (svm), as a novel type of learning machine, were used to develop a quantitative structure-mobility relationship (qsmr) model of 58 aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic acids based on molecular descriptors calculated from the structure alone.
here, we introduced a novel system that combines a pre-processing dictionary- and rule-based filtering step with several separately trained support vector machines (svms) to identify protein names in the medline abstracts.
bioinformatics,  20(15):2429-2437, 2004.
only one in 100 to 200 potential binders actually binds to a certain mhc molecule, therefore a good prediction method for mhc class i binding peptides can reduce the number of candidate binders that need to be synthesized and tested.
as an initial  step, we describe here an approach based on support vector machine (svm)  technology to identify amino acid variations that contribute to the functional  attribute of pathological self-assembly by some human antibody light chains  produced during plasma cell diseases.
the svm based algorithm did not perform as well.
analysis and prediction of beta-turns in particular and tight turns in general are very useful for the design of new molecules such as drugs, pesticides, and antigens.
new methods for splice-site recognition.
these kernels can be  computed efficiently and are applied to problems of classification and  prediction of mutagenicity, toxicity and anti-cancer activity on three publicly  available datasets.
keywords: biosvm to identify gene expression changes along progression of bladder cancer, we compared the expression profiles of early-stage and advanced bladder tumors using cdna microarrays containing 17,842 known genes and expressed sequence tags.
so far, attention has not been sufficiently paid to the development of methods for the prediction of serious adrs that occur less frequently.
in particular,  this method can distinguish transmembrane proteins from soluble proteins with  an accuracy of approximately 99 helix prediction methods and can be used for  consensus analysis of entire proteomes.
keywords: biosvm [camps-valls2004profiled]   g. camps-valls, a.m. chalk, a.j. serrano-lopez, j.d. martin-guerrero, and  e.l. sonnhammer.
here, we describe a method that can assign function from structure without the use of algorithms reliant upon alignments.
however, further experiments will have to confirm  that this is a viable approach to inducing sars.
results: both of the support  vector machine (svm) and the covariant discriminant algorithms have been first  introduced to predict quaternary structure properties from the protein primary  sequences.
in a cross-validated comparison using known yeast interactions, the attraction-repulsion method performs better than several competing techniques.
as high-throughput technology  for snps improves and as more snps are identified, it is likely that much  higher predictive accuracy will be achieved and a useful clinical tool  developed.
protein remote homology detection is a central  problem in computational biology.
analysis  and prediction of beta-turns in particular and tight turns in general are very  useful for the design of new molecules such as drugs, pesticides, and antigens.
we compared the classification  performance of active learning with that of passive learning.
from the applied machine learning techniques the rule learner part and support vector machines gave the best results, although the differences between the learning algorithms are only marginal.
j biomol screen,  10(3):197-205, apr 2005.
it is  tailored for bio-chemical databases, where the examples are two-dimensional  descriptions of chemical compounds.
however, the method is faster than the traditional techniques, and  scales better to datasets described by a large number of features.
keywords: biosvm [bhasin2005pcleavage]   m. bhasin and g. p. s. raghava.
our study indicates that multiclass classification problem is much more difficult than the binary one for the gene expression datasets.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] motivation:
world scientific, 2002.
keywords: biosvm [li2004data]  l. li,  h. tang, z. wu, j. gong, m. gruidl, j. zou,  m. tockman, and r.a. clark.
one strategy is to first identify the protein-protein interactions in a proteome, then determine pathways and overall structure relating these interactions, and finally to statistically infer functional roles of individual proteins.
we aim to solve a simplified protein sequence design problem.
results: we demonstrate that svms with selective kernel scaling are an effective tool in discriminating between benign and pathologic human immunoglobulin light chains.
completion of many genomes is being followed rapidly by major efforts to identify interacting protein pairs experimentally in order to decipher the networks of interacting, coordinated-in-action proteins.
domain prediction is based on an evaluation of database search results in comparison with a 'similarity network' of inter-sequence similarity scores, using support vector machines trained on similarity search results of known domains.
moreover, the proportion of  the positive examples and negative examples in the training set may not  represent the real-world data distribution, which causes concept drift.
we  used a support vector machine to discover sequence information that could be  used to distinguish real exons from pseudo exons.
availability:  datasets, model selection results, our predictions and additional experimental  results are available at http://www.fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/ raetsch/rase  contact: gunnar.raetsch@tuebingen.mpg.de supplementary information:
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] a quantitative structure-enantioselectivity relationship was  established for a combinatorial library of enantioselective reactions performed  by addition of diethyl zinc to benzaldehyde.
recently, results have been presented in the literature suggesting that it is possible to construct a prediction rule from only a few genes such that it has a negligible prediction error rate.
computational experiments performed using yeast genome-wide datasets, including amino acid sequences, hydropathy profiles, gene expression data and known protein-protein interactions, demonstrate the utility of this approach.
additionally, efficient methods to handle unbalanced data and a new optimization strategy for maximizing the q3 measure were developed.
a system named p2sl  that infer protein subcellular targeting was developed through this  computational kernel.
we used a supervised machine-learning  approach (based on support vector machines) to assign protein function and  select passages that support the assignments.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ liao2003combining]  l. liao and w.s. noble.
availability: software  and data available upon request.
the reason for this was 2-fold, first to establish whether feature  selection can indeed improve performance, which in our case it did not seem to  confirm, but more importantly to acquire a small list of potentially  interesting biomarkers.
the same problem may arise for homologous proteins of different functions if one is newly discovered and the other is the only known protein of similar sequence.
in the present study, 50 pt2n0 and 28 pt3n0 prostatic adenocarcinomas were characterized by gleason grading, comparative genomic hybridization (cgh), and histological texture analysis based on principles of stereology and stochastic geometry.
we apply our methods to predict the function of every currently unclassified protein in the protein data bank.
other advantages of feature selection include the ability of the classification system to attain good or even better solutions using a restricted subset of features, and a faster classification.
our main theoretical result is the positive definiteness of any kernel thus defined.
the 125 genes at the union of the top 50s are plausible markers for a prototype decision support system.
it was observed that some residues (like ala, gly, arg and val) have significant positive correlation (r > 0.20) and some other residues (like asp, leu, asn and ser) have negative correlation (r 85% in both promoter and non-promoter identification.
protein sci.,  14:2132-2140, jun 2005.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] motivation: data that characterize primary and tertiary  structures of proteins are now accumulating at a rapid and accelerating rate  and require automated computational tools to extract critical information  relating amino acid changes with the spectrum of functionally attributes  exhibited by a protein.
in absence of suitable data on non-binding nonapeptides we  generated sequences randomly from a selected set of proteins from the protein  data bank.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: the diffusion kernel is a general method for computing pairwise distances among all nodes in a graph, based on the sum of weighted paths between each pair of nodes.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ ambroise2002selection]  c. ambroise and g.j. mclachlan.
we show that other machine learning methods also perform  comparably to the svm on many of those datasets.
this approach exploits the fact that interface residues tend to form clusters in the primary amino acid sequence.
a two-stage classifier for  identification of protein-protein interface residues.
here, we present gene expression data of 34 adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) patients (affymetrix u133a microarrays).
species-specific, sensitive and selective splice site prediction for physcomitrella has been developed using a dataset of 368 donor and acceptor sites, utilizing a support vector machine.
using a three-step approach, we classified sera from rats with liver cirrhosis  following different treatment insults.
it was found that different  subfamilies of nuclear receptors were quite closely correlated in terms of  amino acid composition as well as dipeptide composition.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] sixteen dedifferentiated and pleomorphic liposarcomas were  analyzed by comparative genomic hybridization (cgh) to genomic microarrays  (matrix-cgh), cdna-derived microarrays for expression profiling, and by  quantitative pcr.
we  show classification with better than 99 hairpin molecules that differ only in  their terminal watson-crick basepairs.
the reliability of prediction was further improved by cascade svm that uses features of amino acids along with sequence.
the three snp sites most useful in  this model were (a) the +4536t/c site of the aldosterone synthase gene cyp11b2  at amino acid residue 386 val/ala (t/c) (rs4541); (b) the +4328c/g site of the  aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase cyp1b1 at amino acid residue 293 leu/val (c/g)  (rs5292); and (c) the +4449c/t site of the transcription factor bcl6 at amino  acid 387 asp/asp (rs1056932).
datasets, model selection results, our predictions and additional experimental results are available at http://www.fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/ raetsch/rase contact: gunnar.raetsch@tuebingen.mpg.de supplementary information: http://www.fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/raetsch/rase.
we have analyzed 472 amino acid indices and selected  the four amino acid indices as the examples, which have the best performance.
c-rich sequences were also found in a region  extending to 80 nt downstream of exons, along with g-triplet motifs.
profile-based string kernels for remote  homology detection and motif extraction.
in this paper, we present two  methods to identify omps based on frequent subsequences and test them on all  gram-negative bacterial proteins whose localizations have been determined by  biological experiments.
the  examination for the self-consistency and the jackknife test of the svms method  were tested for the training dataset (305 oligopeptides), the correct rate of  self-consistency and jackknife test reaches 100 and 84.9 testing dataset (30  oligopeptides) was tested, the rate reaches 76.67%.
the high sensitivity and selectivity indicates that n-mer  frequencies along with non-linear time series descriptors, such as lyapunov  component stability and tsallis entropy, and supervised machine-learning  methods, such as svms, can be useful in the identification of pol ii promoters.
for each application, the molecular structures were described using either the physicochemical parameters or molecular descriptors.
the data set consists of 70 proteins of human antibody 1 light chains, each represented by aligned sequences of 120 amino acids.
to evaluate the performance  of feature selection for biomarker identification we have applied the proposed  methods to three data sets.
omegaf has slightly higher accuracy rates than  omegat. the overall predicted accuracies are above 70 external crossvalidation;  the two gene sets omegat and omegaf performed equally well.
keywords: biosvm classification models are generated to predict in vitro cytogenetic results for a diverse set of 383 organic compounds.
p2sl hybrid computational system achieved approximately 81% of  prediction accuracy rate over er targeted, cytosolic, mitochondrial and nuclear  protein localization classes.
in proceedings of ijcnn 2004, pages 1904-1910, 2004.
mit press, cambridge, ma, 2005.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [valentini2002gene]   g. valentini.
synovial sarcomas, round-cell/myxoid liposarcomas,  clear-cell sarcomas and gastrointestinal stromal tumors displayed remarkably  distinct and homogenous gene expression profiles.
as hidden markov models (hmms) can be  used to generate one model for one cluster of aligned protein sequences, the  aim in this study is to use hmms to extract features from amino acid sequences,  where sequence clusters are determined using available biological knowledge.
prediction by  support vector machines and analysis by z-score of poly-l-proline type ii  conformation based on local sequence.
this technique has been used  successfully, in conjunction with kernel-based learning methods, to draw  inferences from several types of biological networks.
the results showed  that naïve bayesian benefited significantly from the feature selection,  while svm performed better when all features were used.
to effectively carry out this computationally intensive search process, we employ sequential forward search and sequential forward floating search algorithms.
results:  we compute the correlation between expression of a gene and amino acid  composition of its protein.
in particular there has been an intensive investigation into the named entity (ne) task as a core technology in all of these tasks which has been driven by the availability of high volume training sets such as the genia v3.02 corpus.
using fewer features will of course also improve the prediction speed of the system.
learning to predict  protein-protein interactions from protein sequences.
a fully automatic and reliable prediction system for protein subcellular localization is needed, especially for the analysis of large-scale genome sequences.
this makes a reduction of the data dimensionality necessary.
the method out-performs support vector machines trained on amino acid composition and has comparable performance to rule-based text classifiers.
previous research has demonstrated that this technology  can be useful in the classification of cancers.
we have shown that multiple snp sites from different genes over distant parts of the genome are better at identifying breast cancer patients than any one snp alone.
availability: softwares are  available upon request.
keywords: biosvm proteomics [ pochet2004systematic]  n. pochet, f. de smet, j. a. k.  suykens, and b. l. r. de moor.
thus, for the distinction of these types of liposarcomas,  genomic profiling appears to be more advantageous than rna expression analysis.
ftp.uni-koeln.de/institute/biochemie/pub/brenda/info/diseasesupp.pdf.
a comparative study on feature selection  methods for drug discovery.
tdp involves multiple mechanisms and svm is a method suitable for  such a problem.
keywords: biosvm [chow2001identifying]   m. l. chow, e. j. moler, and i. s. mian.
prediction of beta-turns with  learning machines.
keywords: biosvm [kuang2004profile-based]   r. kuang, e. ie, k. wang, k. wang, m. siddiqi,  y. freund, and c. leslie.
we discuss the generality of the method and its potential application to a variety of biological classification problems.
dna cell biol., 23(10):607-614, 2004.
it was found that different subfamilies of nuclear receptors were quite closely correlated in terms of amino acid composition as well as dipeptide composition.
algorithms that can reliably predict the efficacy  of candidate oligos can greatly reduce the cost of knockdown experiments, but  previous attempts to predict the efficacy of antisense oligos have had limited  success.
three most predictive models, barnard chemical information (bci)-fingerprint/svm, mdl-keyset/svm, and topological indices/rp, correctly classified 249, 248, and 236 compounds of 291 noninhibitors and 135, 137, and 147 compounds of 179 inhibitors in the validation set.
keywords: biosvm [warmuth2002active]   m. k. warmuth, g. rätsch, m. mathieson, l. liao, and  c. lemmen.
discovering  sequence-structure motifs from protein segments and two applications.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machines (svms) are used to estimate aqueous  solubility of organic compounds.
results: to find optimal design scoring functions, we introduce two geometric views and propose a formulation using a mixture of non-linear gaussian kernel functions.
these points are called translation initiation sites (tis).
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [logan2001study]   b. logan, p. moreno, b. suzek, z. weng, and s. kasif.
in the present study, a new criterion, called ls bound measure, is proposed to address the gene selection problem.
novel species- or clade-specific sequences may have no counterpart within existing databases and remain ambiguous features.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003supporta]  y.d.  cai, s.l. lin, and k.c. chou.
the biomolecular interaction network database (bind) seeks to capture  these data in a machine-readable format.
however, the number of dimensions of gene expression data is often very high, e.g., in the hundreds or thousands.
as an initial step, we describe here an approach based on support vector machine (svm) technology to identify amino acid variations that contribute to the functional attribute of pathological self-assembly by some human antibody light chains produced during plasma cell diseases.
however, in these results the test error or the leave-one-out cross-validated error is calculated without allowance for the selection bias.
membrane protein types by using functional domain composition.
results  obtained on a dataset of hydrolase-inhibitor complexes demonstrate that the  combination of all four methods yield improved predictions over the individual  methods.
in this study, a novel method has been developed for  classifying the subfamilies of nuclear receptors.
the classifier is even applied for the prediction of cardio vascular adverse effects to achieve about 70% accuracy.
properties of the activity score and applications are discussed.
we introduced an algorithm for performing active learning with support vector machine and applied the algorithm to gene expression profiles of colon cancer, lung cancer, and prostate cancer samples.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ ben-dor2000tissue]  a. ben-dor, l. bruhn, n. friedman,  i. nachman, m. schummer, and z. yakhini.
keywords: biosvm [qian2003prediction]   j. qian, j. lin, n. m. luscombe, h. yu, and
[ bib | http |  .pdf ] motivation: in this paper we address the problem of the  determination of developmental age of an embryo from its segmentation gene  expression patterns in drosophila.
keywords: biosvm [degroeve2002feature]   s. degroeve, b. de baets, y. van de peer, and  p. rouze.
keywords: biosvm [bazzani2001svm]   a. bazzani, a. bevilacqua, d. bollini, r. brancaccio,  r. campanini, n. lanconelli, a. riccardi, and d. romani.
this study demonstrates the feasibility of predicting the tissue origin of a carcinoma in the context of multiple cancer classes.
the data of spectra were analyzed by bioinformatics tools like  artificial neural network (ann) and support vector machine (svm).
in our approach, annotation was provided through gene ontology terms by applying multiple support vector machines (svm) for the classification of correct and false predictions.
bioinformatics , 20(suppl.
a  variety of methods has been designed to annotate sequences on a large scale.
keywords: biosvm [yao2004comparative]   x. j. yao, a. panaye, j. p. doucet, r. s. zhang, h. f.  chen, m. c. liu, z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
using a cut-off threshold of 15 of exposed and buried residues), this method was able to achieve a prediction accuracy of 70.1 for multiple alignment sequence input, respectively.
we designed a support vector machine (svm) kernel well suited for the task of classifying sequences with motifs having positional preferences.
a detailed  analysis based on empirical evidence shows the contribution of various feature  sets to performance.
conclusion we have confirmed  the reliability and potential value of classifying proteins via their predicted  interactions.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] many sophisticated methods are currently available to perform  protein secondary structure prediction.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the function of an unknown biological sequence can  often be accurately inferred if we are able to map this unknown sequence to its  corresponding homologous family.
we have tested our algorithm together with the mpi principles and the existing tools.
this flexibility makes rankgene a useful tool in gene expression analysis and feature selection.
it has been  observed that an optimal selection of a large number of features is often an  indication for overfitting.
results: we report on two different approaches to assessing  spectral quality prior to identification: binary classification, which predicts  whether or not sequest will be able to make an identification, and statistical  regression, which predicts a more universal quality metric involving the number  of b- and y-ion peaks.
the svm prediction accuracies of p-gp and hia are substantially increased and  that of tdp remains unchanged by rfe.
availability: http://www.genome.ad.jp/sit/ploc.html supplementary information:
the primary goal of this study was to develop machine learning models that  classify non-small lung cancers according to histopathology types and to  compare several machine learning methods in this learning task.
keywords: biosvm accurate splice site prediction is a critical component of any computational approach to gene prediction in higher organisms.
support vector machines for predicting
we find  that it performs significantly better than an svm method that uses blast or  smith-waterman similarity scores as features.
a program for the prediction method, that uses nna called  functional class prediction based on functional domains (fcpfd) is available  and can be obtained by contacting y.d.cai at y.cai@umist.ac.uk keywords: biosvm [zhou2005ls]  xin zhou and  k. z. mao.
the programs for computing the various kernel functions are available on request from the authors.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of learning machine, for the first time, was used to develop a quantitative structure-property relationship (qspr) model of the heat capacity of a diverse set of 182 compounds based on the molecular descriptors calculated from the structure alone.
previous  work using the support vector machine supervised learning algorithm with  microarray data suggests that higher-order features, such as pairwise and  tertiary correlations across multiple experiments, may provide significant  benefit in learning to recognize classes of co-expressed genes.
supplementary information: http://www.ngri.re.kr/proteo/supplementary.doc keywords: biosvm [kim2004predictiona]   h. kim and h. park.
a large number of papers have been published on analysis of microarray data with particular emphasis on normalization of data, detection of differentially expressed genes, clustering of genes and regulatory network.
spot ranking analysis using a support vector machine algorithm and unsupervised classification methods identified 32 protein spots essential for the classification.
the ls bound measure is derived from leave-one-out procedure of ls-svms (least squares support vector machines), and as the upper bound for leave-one-out classification results it reflects to some extent the generalization performance of gene subsets.
comparing the prediction accuracy of each molecule, it seems to be easier to predict interaction sites for stable complexes.
we proposed that gene expression profiling in soft tissue sarcoma would identify a genomic-based classification scheme that is useful in diagnosis.
discriminative supervised machine learning approaches provide good performance, but simplicity and computational efficiency of training and prediction are also important concerns.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] coronary heart disease (chd) is a complex genetic disease  involving gene-environment interaction.
on a core promoter  dataset our results are comparable with the state-of-the-art mcpromoter.
the kernel representation is both flexible and efficient, and can be applied to many different types of data.
we show that the dataset used in  these studies is linearly separable and that it is a misuse of nonlinear  classifiers to apply them to this problem.
we provide an example showing that a predictive model built on transcript profiles from one rat strain can successfully classify profiles from another rat strain.
protein remote homology detection is a central problem in computational biology.
in such cases, these few target features are insufficient to distinguish which of the different models best describes real world networks of interest; moreover, it is not clear a priori that any of the presently-existing algorithms for network generation offers a predictive description of the networks inspiring them.
chembiochem , 6(3):558-66, mar 2005.
both the transcriptome  representation (including a blast and retrieval service) and splice site  prediction have been made available on http://www.cosmoss.org, setting the  basis for assembly and annotation of the physcomitrella genome, of which draft  shotgun sequences will become available in 2005.
it was observed that a  good amino acid grouping leads to an increase in prediction performance.
this work shows that svm provide a promising alternative to standard statistical classification and prediction methods in functional genomics.
bioinformatics, 21(supp 1):i495-i501, jun  2005.
keywords: biosvm the generation of cytotoxic t lymphocyte (ctl) epitopes from an antigenic sequence involves number of intracellular processes, including production of peptide fragments by proteasome and transport of peptides to endoplasmic reticulum through transporter associated with antigen processing (tap).
we  assess the quality of the dictionary by studying its protein name recognition  performance in full text.
our method is a first step towards systematizing network models and assessing their predictability, and we anticipate its usefulness for a number of communities.
the root-mean-square (rms) errors in bde predictions for the training, test, and overall data sets were 3.808, 3.320, and 3.713 bde units (kj mol(-1)), respectively.
a new protein secondary  structure prediction method, svmpsi, was developed to improve the current level  of prediction by incorporating new tertiary classifiers and their jury decision  system, and the psi-blast pssm profiles.
finally, we propose that codon composition be used in combination with other attributes in gene/protein classification by supervised machine learning algorithms.
using cross-validation, we demonstrate that svms can be trained on relatively small data sets to provide prediction more accurate than those based on previously published methods or on mhc binding.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(2):667-673,  2003.
yeast carrying mutations in genes encoding components of these machineries were examined using microarrays to measure changes in both pre-mrna and mrna levels.
feature subset selection for splice site prediction.
the performance of svms depends critically on the kernel  function used to quantify the similarity between sequences.
for this reason  there has been great interest in the task of text mining to aid in fact  extraction, document screening, citation analysis, and linkage with large gene  and gene-product databases.
we describe a method to automatically annotate enzyme classes with disease-related information extracted from the biomedical literature for inclusion in such a database.
currently, we are facing two critical challenges in this area: first, how to take into account the extremely complicated sequence-order effects, and second, how to deal with the highly uneven sizes of the subsets in a training dataset.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] rational design of epitope-driven vaccines is a key goal of  immunoinformatics.
we used these measurements as a  quantitative phenotype to ask how steps in the gene expression pathway are  functionally connected.
names encountered particularly frequently in drosophila, such as  white, wing and bizarre, constitute an obvious limitation of nlprot.
inproceedings of the  fifth annual international conference on computational biology, pages  249-255, 2001.
in classifying different types of amine  receptors using amino acid composition and dipeptide composition, the method  achieved an accuracy of 89.8 and 96.4%, respectively.
here, we  introduce a new method of beta-turn prediction that uses the support vector  machine (svm) algorithm together with predicted secondary structure  information.
the  size of the sample (n = 2,671) indicates that this approach is robust and may  have widespread applicability beyond restricted families of receptor types.
supplementary information: http://www.public.iastate.edu/ chhyan/ismb2004/list.html keywords: biosvm motivation: an increasing number of observations support the hypothesis that most biological functions involve the interactions between many proteins, and that the complexity of living systems arises as a result of such interactions.
bioinformatics , 19(13):1650-1655, 2003.
support vector machines (svms) have achieved state-of-the-art performance in several classification tasks.
all four approaches  pursued-support-vector machines (svm), artificial neural networks (ann), k  nearest neighbor classification with ga-optimized feature selection (ga/knn),  and recursive partitioning (rp)-proved capable of providing a reasonable  discrimination.
keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics [ doniger2002predicting]  s. doniger, t. hofmann, and j. yeh.
the datasets used are available at http://www.hh.se/staff/bioinf/ keywords: biosvm [ratsch2004accurate]   g. rätsch and s. sonnenburg.
results: by replacing kernel functions of support vector machines (svms) with amino acid similarity measurement matrices, we have modified svms, a new type of pattern recognition algorithm for analysing protein sequences, particularly for proteolytic cleavage site prediction.
the method was trained and tested on 167 proteins of  amine subfamily of g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs).
these include genes already known to interact with brca1 such as cdkn1b, atr, and rad51.
computational methods have been developed for the prediction of protein-protein interactions.
the prediction results are in good agreement with the  experimental value of heat capacity; also, the results reveal the superiority  of the svm over mlr and rbfnns models.
as increasing numbers of large datasets of small molecules become available, it is necessary to develop computational methods that can deal with molecules of variable size and structure and predict their physical, chemical and biological properties.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] predicting protein-protein interfaces from a three-dimensional  structure is a key task of computational structural proteomics.
in r.h. lathtop, k. nakai, s. miyano,  t. takagi, and m. kanehisa, editors,genome informatics 2002,  pages 112-122.
we conclude that gene copy numbers as measured by array cgh are, collectively, an excellent indicator of histological subtype.
as a result, the  correct rate of self-consistency and jackknife test reaches 91 and 82 73 rate  was tested by the three independent testing datasets containing 2240 proteins,  2513 proteins, and 2591 proteins.
machine  learning models for lung cancer classification using array comparative genomic  hybridization.
contact: beerenwinkel@mpi-sb.mpg.de keywords: hiv, antiretroviral therapy, drug resistance, svm regression, therapy optimization, sequence space search.
world j.  gastroenterol., 10(21):3127-3131, 2004.
but few studies have been made to predict ppii secondary structures computationally.
several known frnas not included in the training datasets were identified as well as several hundred predicted novel rnas.
leave-one-out cross validation with receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve is used for evaluation and comparison of cancer detection performance.
we present an approach to recognize named entities in full text.
given profiling data from two types of samples, genes that most distinguish the samples (marker genes) are good candidates for subsequent in-depth experimental studies and developing decision support systems for diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring.
the number of available protein structures still lags far behind the number of known protein sequences.
unlike most conventional learning methods where the training set used to derive the model remains static, the classifier can actively choose the training data and the size of training set increases.
compared with previous robert garian's investigation, the performance of svm is almost equal to that of the decision tree models, and the methods of extracting feature vector from the primary sequences are superior to robert's binning function method.
using both types of descriptors together does not improve the derived models.
keywords: biosvm background kernel-based learning algorithms are among the most advanced machine learning methods and have been successfully applied to a variety of sequence classification tasks within the field of bioinformatics.
our approach includes  a visualization method for transparent representation of characteristic  sequence features.
in this  article, we present a remote homolog detection method called svm-hmmstr that  overcomes the reliance on detectable sequence similarity by transforming the  sequences into strings of hidden markov states that represent local folding  motif patterns.
experiments reveal that the best performing  features are orthographic features with f score of 72.6.
the effectiveness of marginalized kernels is illustrated in the task of classifying bacterial gyrase subunit b (gyrb) amino acid sequences.
current methods for predicting protein function are mostly reliant on identifying a similar protein of known function.
keywords: biosvm [lanckriet2004statistical]   g. r. g. lanckriet, t. de bie, n. cristianini,  m. i. jordan, and w. s. noble.
proteins, 54(4):738-743, 2004.
in  this study, six training datasets consisting of different length local sequence  respectively were used.
keywords: biosvm [pan2004comprehensive]  fei  pan, baoying wang, xin hu, and william perrizo.
we also demonstrate that a combined use of different classification and  feature selection approaches makes it possible to select relevant genes with  high confidence.
overall, partial least squares  discriminant analysis (pls-da) and support vector machines (svm) outperform all  other methods.
remote homolog  detection using local sequence-structure correlations.
application of support vector machines for  t-cell epitopes prediction.
by scanning over single est confirmed exons we identified 215 potential alternatively spliced exons.
multiple models differentiating inhibitors (ic(50) <3
the data of spectra were analyzed by bioinformatics tools like artificial neural network (ann) and support vector machine (svm).
in the present study, two different data sets were evaluated.
supplementary information: data for 203 synthesized peptides is available at http://linus.nci.nih.gov/data/lau203_peptide.pdf keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics vertebrate pre-mrna transcripts contain many sequences that resemble splice sites on the basis of agreement to the consensus, yet these more numerous false splice sites are usually completely ignored by the cellular splicing machinery.
med., 33(2):125-37, feb 2005.
profiling data were further analyzed by a recursive support vector machine algorithm to select a panel of statistically significant biomarkers for class prediction.
this chapter reviews the state of the art with respect to svm applications in  computational biology.
a list of our predictions for human gpcrs is available at http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcrâ·hg/classâ·results.
we demonstrate the application of the support vector machine (svm) learning algorithm to this functional inference task.
synovial sarcomas, round-cell/myxoid liposarcomas, clear-cell sarcomas and gastrointestinal stromal tumors displayed remarkably distinct and homogenous gene expression profiles.
[ bib ] we introduce novel profile-based string kernels for use with  support vector machines (svms) for the problems of protein classification and  remote homology detection.
support  vector machine method is performed based on the database derived from scop, in  which protein domains are classified based on known structures and the  evolutionary relationships and the principles that govern their 3-d structure.
qsar study of ethyl  2-[(3-methyl-2,5-dioxo(3-pyrrolinyl))amino]-4-(trifluoromethyl)  pyrimidine-5-carboxylate: an inhibitor of ap-1 and nf-kappa b mediated gene  expression based on support vector machines.
based on a variant of kernel canonical correlation analysis, its originality is in the formalization of the protein network inference problem as a supervised learning problem, and in the integration of heterogeneous genomic data within this framework.
we apply our method to predict physical interactions in yeast using data from the bind database.
keywords: biosvm motivation: defining regulatory networks, linking transcription factors (tfs) to their targets, is a central problem in post-genomic biology.
while averaged codon bias is the same in physcomitrella and  arabidopsis, the distribution pattern is different, with 15% of moss genes  being unbiased.
protein sci.,  12(10):2348-2359, 2003.
the svm's performance is usually better than that of traditional machine learning approaches.
in a comparative study, we developed neural network and svm models to identify small organic molecules that potentially modulate the function of g-protein coupled receptors.
one classifier follows an association rule approach,  while the other is based on support vector machines (svms).
the rna- and dna-binding svms demonstrate more  diverse accuracy, ranging from approximately 76 the test results suggests the  directions of improving the svms.
false positives could be removed by a variety of filters including minimum number of co-occurrences, removal of sentences containing a negation and the classification of sentences based on their semantic fields by a support vector machine.
when tested in combination with svm on their ability to recognize scop  superfamilies on a benchmark dataset, the new kernels outperform  state-of-the-art methods for remote homology detection.
we proposed a systematic approach for determining the discriminatory genes and revealing the biological phenomena of hcc with cdna microarray data.
results: this paper presents a new method to infer  protein networks from multiple types of genomic data.
we predict functional class membership of enzymes and non-enzymes using graph kernels and support vector machine classification on these protein graphs.
we  propose a new method of gene selection utilizing support vector machine methods  based on recursive feature elimination (rfe).
kernel methods for predicting  protein-protein interactions.
the probability parameters of the three classes were utilized to  develop a novel gene relevance, ranking, and selection method.
cancer res., 65(10):4031-40, may 2005.
in this research, the proteins are classified into the following 12 groups: (1) chloroplast, (2) cytoplasm, (3) cytoskeleton, (4) endoplasmic reticulum, (5) extracall, (6) golgi apparatus, (7) lysosome, (8) mitochondria, (9) nucleus, (10) peroxisome, (11) plasma membrane, and (12) vacuole, which have covered almost all the organelles and subcellular compartments in an animal or plant cell.
the dataset consists of expression experiment results for 97802 cdnas for each tissue.
bioinformatics, 20(16):2626-2635, 2004.
these state strings are transformed into fixed-dimension  feature vectors for input to a support vector machine.
we used support vector machines (svms) to identify the  probable origin of sequences.
accordingly, we propose an alternative, locally constrained diffusion kernel, and we demonstrate that the resulting kernel allows for more accurate support vector machine prediction of protein functional classifications from metabolic and protein?protein interaction networks.
sensitivity and specificity of  classification using the selected protein marker set were higher than 92%.
keywords: biosvm classification of human tumors according to their primary anatomical site of origin is fundamental for the optimal treatment of patients with cancer.
based on the knowledge of known rna-binding and non-rna-binding proteins, an svm system was trained to recognize rna-binding proteins.
the  interaction sites of residue units were predicted using support vector machines  (svm) and the profiles of sequentially/spatially neighboring residues, plus  additional information.
this illustrates the extensibility of the traditional named entity task to special domains with large-scale terminologies such as those in medicine and related disciplines.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the function of a protein that has no sequence homolog of known  function is difficult to assign on the basis of sequence similarity.
[ bib ] during the past three years, the support vector machine learning  algorithm has been extensively applied within the field of computational  biology.
this kernel function is further used in  dual svm, which performs the recognition.
proteins,  56(1):11-18, 2004.
the  polynomial support vector machine models perform the best among all learning  methods in ranking the articles as evaluated by area under the receiver  operating curve and 11-point average recall precision.
results: we show that computing the diffusion kernel is equivalent to maximizing the von neumann entropy, subject to a global constraint on the sum of the euclidean distances between nodes.
in order to improve the prediction accuracy, much attention has been paid to the improvement of the performance of the algorithms used, few is for solving the fundamental issue, namely, amino acid encoding as most existing pattern recognition algorithms are unable to recognize amino acids in protein sequences.
the important motifs observed are highly  consistent with those reported in literature.
our results suggest the importance of exploiting prior information about the heterogeneity of the data.
in a first phase, we have individually benchmarked 13 different descriptor types in fold identification experiments in a highly diverse set of protein sequences.
to our best knowledge, this mcc value is the highest achieved so far  for predicting beta-turn.
results: these methods are successfully tested  on their ability to recognize operons in the escherichia coli genome, from the  comparison of three datasets corresponding to functional relationships between  genes in metabolic pathways, geometrical relationships along the chromosome,  and co-expression relationships as observed by gene expression data.
the original datasets for  protein dispensability analysis and prediction, together with related scripts,  are available at http://digbio.missouri.edu/ ychen/prodispen/. keywords: biosvm [capriotti2005i-mutant]   e. capriotti, p. fariselli, and r. casadio.
springer berlin, 2002.
we proposed that gene expression profiling in soft  tissue sarcoma would identify a genomic-based classification scheme that is  useful in diagnosis.
thereby importance of features can be measured in terms of  discriminative strength with respect to classification of the underlying  sequences.
results: we have developed a two-stage method consisting of a support vector machine (svm) and a bayesian classifier for predicting surface residues of a protein that participate in protein-protein interactions.
based on the method, a web server, pcleavage, has also been developed.
j zhejiang  univ sci b, 6(4):227-31, apr 2005.
by means of these two parameters oligo kernels can easily be adapted to different biological problems.
our software (eclat) has achieved a classification accuracy of 93.1 vulgare and b. graminis, which is a significant improvement compared to pf-ind (prediction accuracy of 81.2 est sequences with at least 50 nt of coding sequence can be classified by eclat with high confidence.
cooperativity of the oxidization of cysteines in globular  proteins.
given the explosive growth of biomedical data as well as the literature describing results and findings, it is getting increasingly difficult to keep up to date with new information.
based on the mpi (max-planck-institute) basic principles, a number of sirna design tools have been developed recently.
use of a support vector machine classifier, feature selection, and test evaluation using cross-validation led to identification of a generalizable expression signature, a small subset of genes whose expression potentially can be used to predict tumor outcome in new samples.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics we have used microarray gene expression profiling and machine learning to predict the presence of braf mutations in a panel of 61 melanoma cell lines.
the polynomial support vector machine models perform the best among all learning methods in ranking the articles as evaluated by area under the receiver operating curve and 11-point average recall precision.
we present evidence that computationally predicted secondary structure of moderate length pre-mrna subsequencies contains information that can be exploited to improve acceptor splice site prediction beyond that possible with conventional sequence-based approaches.
here, we demonstrate that codon composition, a fusion of codon usage bias and amino acid composition signals, can accurately discriminate, in the absence of sequence homology information, cytoplasmic ribosomal protein genes from all other genes of known function in saccharomyces cerevisiae, escherichia coli and mycobacterium tuberculosis using an implementation of support vector machines, svmlight.
we found that svm based on local sequences or  global amino acid compositions yielded similar prediction accuracies for the  data set comprising 4136 cysteine-containing segments extracted from 969  nonhomologous proteins.
oncogene, 23(23):4060-4067, may  2004.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: the function of an unknown biological sequence can often be accurately inferred if we are able to map this unknown sequence to its corresponding homologous family.
conclusions without a decrease of classification accuracy, e-rfe allows a speed-up factor of 100 with respect to standard rfe, while improving on alternative parametric rfe reduction strategies.
the parameters of the scoring function were determined by a generalized least square optimization (lsm) and alternatively by the support vector machine (svm).
neural network and support vector machine were applied to predict protein dispensability through high-throughput data.
keywords: biosvm [guermeur2004combining]   y. guermeur, g. pollastri, a. elisseeff, d. zelus,  h. paugam-moisy, and p. baldi.
although the two methods rely on different cellular mechanisms, these methods share the common property that not all oligonucleotides (oligos) are equally effective.
generalized fingerprints are derived by counting in different ways subpaths contained in the graph of bonds, using depth-first searches.
biol.,  10(6):857-868, 2003.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machine (svm), which is one class of learning  machines, was applied to predict the subcellular location of proteins by  incorporating the quasi-sequence-order effect (chou [2000] biochem.
this makes it important  to predict which residues participate in protein-protein interactions using  only sequence information.
the preliminary results demonstrate that very high classification accuracy can be attained by identified composite classifiers with several biomarkers.
keywords: biosvm [liu2004quantitative]   h. x. liu, c. x. xue, r. s. zhang, x. j. yao, m. c.  liu, z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
inpakdd '02: proceedings of the 6th pacific-asia  conference on advances in knowledge discovery and data mining, pages  417-431.
we also present results obtained using the two-stage classifier on an independent test set of seven capri (critical assessment of predicted interactions) targets.
biol., 308(2):397-407, april 2001.
for example, hierarchical clustering can  be applied to expression profiles of genes across multiple experiments,  identifying groups of genes that share similiar expression profiles.
in this review, the theory and main  principles of the svm approach are outlined, and successful applications in  traditional areas of bioinformatics research are described.
mc-svms outperform other popular machine learning algorithms such as k-nearest neighbors, backpropagation and probabilistic neural networks, often to a remarkable degree.
the method outperformed all the  generative-based methods and is comparable with the svm-fisher method.
keywords: biosvm motivation: cancer diagnosis is one of the most important emerging clinical applications of gene expression microarray technology.
comparative study of  qsar/qspr correlations using support vector machines, radial basis function  neural networks, and multiple linear regression.
this method is applicable to any structure as it does not require the identification of sequence or structural similarity to a protein of known function.
[ bib | .pdf  ] keywords: biosvm [hou2003efficient]   y. hou, w. hsu, m. l. lee, and c. bystroff.
the translation initiation site (tis) prediction problem is about how to correctly identify tis in mrna, cdna, or other types of genomic sequences.
environ health perspect, 112(4):439-48, mar  2004.
this representation, combined with a discriminative classification  algorithm known as the support vector machine (svm), provides a powerful means  of detecting subtle structural and evolutionary relationships among proteins.
the results  demonstrate that mammalian viral genome types differ in their amino acid  preference.
these results demonstrate that a fully automatic pattern recognition algorithm  can meet or exceed the performance of hand-crafted approaches.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] by using an in-house data set of small-molecule structures,  encoded by ghose-crippen parameters, several machine learning techniques were  applied to distinguish between kinase inhibitors and other molecules with no  reported activity on any protein kinase.
whereas introns in the moss are larger on average than in the seed plant arabidopsis thaliana, position and amount of introns are approximately the same.
svm correctly assigns 72 pairs in the second group, suggesting that it is potentially useful for facilitating functional study of novel proteins.
most substances were either well-known  hepatotoxicants or showed hepatotoxicity during preclinical testing.
accurate splice site detection for  caenorhabditis elegans.
genotypes were  transformed to a numerical vector by giving scores based on difference between  the genotypes of each subject and the reference genotypes, which represent the  healthy normal population.
keywords: biosvm [wang2004weighted-support]   m. wang, j. yang, g.-p. liu, z.-j. xu, and k.-c. chou.
our web interface allows the selection of a predictive mode that  depends on the availability of the protein structure and/or sequence.
the strength of the ls bound measure is that it provides gene subsets leading to more accurate classification results than the filter method while its computational complexity is at the level of the filter method.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the t-cell receptor, a major histocompatibility  complex (mhc) molecule, and a bound antigenic peptide, play major roles in the  process of antigen-specific t-cell activation.
this indicates that our findings are indeed  significant.
for example, the time needed to run psi-blast in order to build the pro- files is significantly longer than both the kernel computation time and the svm training time.
the server is available for free use by all academic users at the url http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/pcleavage/ or http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/mirror/pcleavage/. keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics the receptors of amine subfamily are specifically major drug targets for therapy of nervous disorders and psychiatric diseases.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ liu2004comparative]  y. liu.
for this problem, the new method performs better than a previously-described markov random field method, and better than the svm trained on any single type of data.
a total of 4011 rna-binding and 9781 non-rna-binding proteins was used to train and test the svm classification system, and an independent set of 447 rna-binding and 4881 non-rna-binding proteins was used to evaluate the classification accuracy.
when tested on interactions between nearly  all human and yeast bzip proteins, our method identifies 70 strong interactions  while maintaining that 92 correct.
keywords: biosvm [wang2005protein]   j. wang, w.-k. sung, a. krishnan, and k.-b. li.
together, these results support the useful application of toxicogenomics in raising alerts for adverse effects and generating mechanistic hypotheses that can be followed up by confirmatory experiments.
they are the focus of a  significant amount of current pharmaceutical research because they play a key  role in many diseases.
the case studies of drug-likeness, agrochemical-likeness, and enzyme inhibition  predictions.
keywords: biosvm [krishnan2003comparative]   v. g. krishnan and d. r. westhead.
this has been followed by an increased interest in developing computational techniques to automatically classify these large volumes of sequence data into various categories corresponding to either their role in the chromosomes, their structure, and/or their function.
an estimate of the generalization performance of the  classifier was derived from 10-fold cross-validation, which indicated expected  upper bounds on precision of 80 one such organism is the enteric pathogen  campylobacter jejuni, in which comprehensive machine learning prediction of all  possible pairwise protein-protein interactions was performed.
keywords: biosvm motivation:
sci.,  8(7):297-301, 2002.
results: we have developed a two-stage method consisting  of a support vector machine (svm) and a bayesian classifier for predicting  surface residues of a protein that participate in protein-protein interactions.
the main part of griffin includes a hierarchical svm classifier using the feature vectors, which is useful for class a gpcrs, the major family.
data are available at:  http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/sppi contact: asa@gs.washington.edu.
the most complex and accurate model is the ordered triple amino acid preference  model (3-aap), which is based on ordered triples of amino acids.
as an unrelated laboratory, we demonstrate that gene  signatures defined for childhood all were also capable of stratifying distinct  subtypes in our cohort of adult all patients.
this was non-trivial given that most of the known experimental information is only for positives.
we propose that immunoglobulin-type beta-domains, which  are found in approximate 400 functionally distinct forms in humans alone,  provide the immense genetic variation within limited conformational changes  that might facilitate the development of new computational tools.
extensive benchmark experiments demonstrate  that both methods have improved the prediction accuracy rate over the  previously published methods for conformation state prediction when using an  alphabet of three or four states.
in a  section of independent interest, we discuss intensity normalization of mass  spectra.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] eukaryotic gene expression requires the coordinated activity of  many macromolecular machines including transcription factors and rna  polymerase, the spliceosome, mrna export factors, the nuclear pore, the  ribosome and decay machineries.
keywords: biosvm [burbidge2001drug]   r. burbidge, m. trotter, b. buxton, and s. holden.
misclassification  rates are lower when both the training and test sets are used to select the  peaks used in classification versus when only the training set is used.
technical report crl 2001/05, compaq  cambridge research laboratory, june 2001.
keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics two different machine-learning algorithms have been used to predict the blood-brain barrier permeability of different classes of molecules, to develop a method to predict the ability of drug compounds to penetrate the cns.
contact: beerenwinkel@mpi-sb.mpg.de keywords: hiv, antiretroviral  therapy, drug resistance, svm regression, therapy optimization, sequence space  search.
the optimal regression function was then used for the  prediction of the gene expression based age of embryos in which the precise age  has not been measured by membrane morphology.
to investigate the performance of this algorithm, variants of the beta-lactamase enzyme were created in silico using simulations of both mutagenesis and recombination protocols.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] based on the 639 non-homologous proteins with 2910  cysteine-containing segments of well-resolved three-dimensional structures, a  novel approach has been proposed to predict the disulfide-bonding state of  cysteines in proteins by constructing a two-stage classifier combining a first  global linear discriminator based on their amino acid composition and a second  local support vector machine classifier.
the model is efficient to compute and scales well to very large collections of data.
however, further experiments will have to confirm that this is a viable approach to inducing sars.
we find that this network has a delocalized structure with respect to chromosomal positioning, with a given transcription factor having targets spread fairly uniformly across the genome.
when  considering partially tagged names as errors, nlprot still reached a precision  of 75% at a recall of 76%.
in this paper, a new concept, the so-called "functional domain  composition" is introduced.
when  applied to local tertiary structure prediction, we achieve approximately 60%  accuracy with a novel dynamic programming algorithm.
protocols for disease  classification from mass spectrometry data.
some of these descriptors are specifically designed for the study of a particular type of properties or agents, and their use for other properties or agents might generate noise and affect the prediction accuracy of a statistical learning system.
positive and negative peptides were more readily distinguished in training set  data acquired on a qtof, compared to an ion trap mass spectrometer.
keywords: biosvm a variety of new procedures have been devised to handle the two-sample comparison (e.g., tumor versus normal tissue) of gene expression values as measured with microarrays.
the computed accuracy for protein family classification is found to be in the range of 69.1-99.6%.
keywords: biosvm support vector machines (svms) were used to develop qsar models that correlate molecular structures to their toxicity and bioactivities.
predicting protein-protein interactions  from primary structure.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2185-90, may 2005.
different coding schemes of protein sequences were explored, and their performances were assessed by crossvalidation tests.
our high accuracy not  only demonstrates the feasibility of our method, but also indicates that there  might be "amino acid" patterns around tis in cdna and mrna sequences.
the results are comparable to those  previously obtained.
for our estimate of sustained performance, we considered partially identified names as false positives.
supplementary information: http://www.esat.kuleuven.ac.be/ npochet/bioinformatics/ keywords: biosvm microarray
the software that generated the results reported in this  paper is available upon requirement, and will appear at  http://www.pami.sjtu.edu.cn/wm.
an online web server (current version is 1.3) based on this  method has been developed and is freely available to both academic and  commercial users, which can be accessed by at  http://bioinformatics.ustc.edu.cn/locsvmpsi/locsvmpsi.php.
tight turns play an important role in globular proteins from both the structural and functional points of view.
one approach to predicting interactions in silico is to produce from first principles a detailed model of a candidate interaction.
acting as a classifier, i-mutant2.0 correctly predicts (with a cross-validation procedure) 80% or 77% of the data set, depending on the usage of structural or sequence information, respectively.
correct prediction of stage from primary tumor  data was possible with an accuracy of 74-80 of prediction was similar when the  gleason score was used as input variable, when stereological data were used, or  when a combination of cgh data and stereological data was used.
these  datasets were from studies using microarray technologies and had either two or  more classes.
keywords: biosvm [krishnapuram2004joint]   b. krishnapuram, l. carin, and a. hartemink.
results: this manuscript presents a novel publicly available splice site prediction tool named splicemachine that (i) shows state-of-the-art prediction performance on arabidopsis thaliana and human sequences, (ii) performs a computationally fast annotation, and (iii) can be trained by the user on its own data.
for lung cancer classification, to achieve 96 only 31 labeled examples were needed in active learning whereas in passive learning 174 labeled examples were required.
we  introduced an algorithm for performing active learning with support vector  machine and applied the algorithm to gene expression profiles of colon cancer,  lung cancer, and prostate cancer samples.
their expression patterns were significantly associated with pathological stage, tumor grade, and altered retinoblastoma (rb) expression.
protein eng.,  16(8):553-560, aug 2003.
in the first step, new features are generated using k-gram nucleotide acid or amino acid patterns.
the parameter of svm kernel function was an important factor to the performance of this method.
[ bib | doi | .pdf  ] diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl), the most common lymphoid  malignancy in adults, is curable in less than 50 models based on pre-treatment  characteristics, such as the international prognostic index (ipi), are  currently used to predict outcome in dlbcl.
most of the current predictive computer methods rely on comparing features that are essentially linear to the protein sequence.
we applied support vector machines to sequences in order to generate a classification of all protein residues into those that are part of a protein interface and those that are not.
in this study, the proteins are classified into the following 12 groups: (1) chloroplast, (2) cytoplasm, (3) cytoskeleton, (4) endoplasmic reticulum, (5) extracellular, (6) golgi apparatus, (7) lysosome, (8) mitochondria, (9) nucleus, (10) peroxisome, (11) plasma membrane, and (12) vacuole, which account for most organelles and subcellular compartments in an animal or plant cell.
bioinformatics, 21:i468-i477, 2005.
res., 4:67-81,  2003.
the results show 2  classifiers when compared with the instances in which the classical orthogonal  matrix is used.
the prediction accuracies are better than, or comparable to, those obtained by other methods such as neural networks, bayesian classification, multiple linear regression, and information theory.
we have therefore developed a novel method for  dimensionality reduction and tested on a published ovarian high-resolution  seldi-tof dataset.
classification by use of cesh profiles was shown to be similar in performance to previous microarray expression studies and highlighted regions for further investigation.
available est data was clustered and assembled, and provided the basis for a genome-wide analysis of protein encoding genes.
in cross-validation  experiments, it is demonstrated that objective measurements of prediction error  rate and rank-ordering statistics are competitive with those of several other  investigations, most of which depend on three-dimensional structural data.
this  indicates the potential of svm in facilitating the prediction of tdp-causing  risk of small molecules and perhaps other adrs that involve multiple mechanisms.
in this paper, we present an in silico method to predict translation initiation sites in vertebrate cdna or mrna sequences.
in this article  we apply them to the identification and semantic annotation of scientific and  technical terminology in the domain of molecular biology.
cross-validation and randomization are essential tools that must be performed carefully in order not to bias the results unfairly.
signal classification was done in silico  to establish performance metrics (i.e., where train and test data were of known  type, via single-species data files).
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] the immense volume of data which is now available from  experiments in molecular biology has led to an explosion in reported results  most of which are available only in unstructured text format.
rna samples from 51 pathologically confirmed cases,  representing nine different histological subtypes of adult soft tissue sarcoma,  were examined using the affymetrix u95a genechip.
molecular classification of cancer types from microarray data  using the combination of genetic algorithms and support vector machines.
i major histocompatibility complex scored with linear  functions and support vector machines.
each compound is represented by calculated molecular structure descriptors encoding the topological, electronic, geometrical, or polar surface area aspects of the structure.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] it is well established that recognition between exposed edges of  beta-sheets is an important mode of protein-protein interaction and can have  pathological consequences; for instance, it has been linked to the aggregation  of proteins into a fibrillar structure, which is associated with a number of  predominantly neurodegenerative disorders.
this technique has been used successfully, in conjunction with kernel-based learning methods, to draw inferences from several types of biological networks.
testing the quality of regression on the training set showed good  prediction accuracy.
t-cell recognition was long  considered exquisitely specific.
studies are  conducted on a number of protein classes including rna-binding proteins;  protein homodimers, proteins responsible for drug absorption, proteins involved  in drug distribution and excretion, and drug metabolizing enzymes.
multilinear regression, perceptrons, and support vector machines were also evaluated as modeling tools.
the heuristic approach yielded a 61 accuracy, while the  machine learning approach yielded an 89 accuracy.
keywords: biosvm [dror2005accurate]   g. dror, r. sorek, and r. shamir.
approximately 90 marker genes were pinpointed for use in understanding the basic biology of colon adenocarcinoma, defining targets for therapeutic intervention and developing diagnostic tools.
we report on the development of an efficient  subgraph mining technique and its application to finding characteristic  substructural patterns within protein structural families.
the framework of encoding local structure into feature  vector is available upon request.
to  determine the significance of coherent protein subgraphs, we have conducted an  experimental study in which all coherent subgraphs were identified in several  protein structural families annotated in the scop database (murzin et al,  1995).
on this basis, these sequences represent a model system for development of strategies to recognize the small subset of function-determining variations among the much larger number of primary structure diversifications introduced during evolution.
structure-based classification of  protein-protein interfaces has been described initially by ponstingl et al.
we know subcellular localization is a typical classification  problem; consequently, a one-against-one (1-v-1) multi-class support vector  machine was introduced to construct the classifier.
extracting active pathways from gene expression data.
source code is available from the author  upon request.
we performed multi-class classification by combining the outputs of binary classifiers.
in the current study we use advanced machine learning  methods to generate robust alternative exons classifier.
we are seeking to develop a system for cancer  diagnostic model creation based on microarray data.
peptides, 24(5):665-669, 2003.
however, little has been done on protein classification based on the prediction of protein-protein complexes obtained from homology modeling and docking simulation.
the algorithm classified two categories of patients with very  different five-year overall survival rates (70 within specific ipi risk  categories who were likely to be cured or to die of their disease.
contact:  yvsae@gengenp.rug.ac.be keywords: biosvm [qin2003kernel]   j. qin, d. p. lewis, and w. s. noble.
model selection and solution  multiplicity issues are also discussed.
structural environment  parameters derived from the 3d homologous structure as well as evolutionary  information derived from the multiple sequence alignment were used as  predictors.
the predictor is located at http://genet.imb.uq.edu.au/predictors/svmtm.
the subset is split into two functional groupings,  enzymes and non-enzymes.
if it is possible to identify a small set of genes that is indeed capable of providing complete discrimination, inexpensive diagnostic assays might be widely deployable in clinical settings.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: defining regulatory networks, linking transcription  factors (tfs) to their targets, is a central problem in post-genomic biology.
we describe 1178 high-resolution proteins in a structurally non-redundant subset of the protein data bank using simple features such as secondary-structure content, amino acid propensities, surface properties and ligands.
[ bib | .ps | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [jaakkola1999using]   t. s. jaakkola, m. diekhans, and d. haussler.
experimental  comparisons using kernel classifiers demonstrate both parsimonious feature  selection and excellent classification accuracy on a range of synthetic and  benchmark data sets.
we find that the best results are  found using the sbase-a database and the nna, namely 72% accuracy for 79%  coverage.
the correlation of r = 0.65 was obtained between experimentally determined and predicted binding affinity by using a quantitative matrix.
the svm classifier gets slightly better results than the mlp one (az value of 0.963 against 0.958) in the presence of a high number of training data; the improvement becomes much more evident (az value of 0.952 against 0.918) in training sets of reduced size.
thus, robust methods for fast feature selection are of key importance in  extracting knowledge from complex biological data.
our training sets include networks generated from 17 models either drawn from the literature or introduced in this work.
we describe a method for combining multiple kernel representations in an optimal fashion, by formulating the problem as a convex optimization problem that can be solved using semidefinite programming techniques.
next, a 2000-gene subset was used to simulate a whole genome approach.
svmprot classification system is trained from representative proteins of a  number of functional families and seed proteins of pfam curated protein  families.
the identification of protein-protein interaction sites is essential for the mutant design and prediction of protein-protein networks.
in conclusion, our results demonstrate the utility of quantitative proteomic analysis for molecular diagnosis and classification of lung cancer cells.
genes of interest that discriminate ccs/msp included  those encoding melanocyte differentiation antigens, mitf, sox10, erbb3, and  fgfr1.
in this paper, we propose a general framework to incorporate feature (gene) selection into pattern recognition in the process to identify biomarkers.
we use the method to create a protein name dictionary from a set of 80,528 full text articles.
input can be pubmed/medline  identifiers, authors, titles and journals, as well as collections of abstracts,  or entire papers.
this is not  necessarily true, and non-additive effects have already been experimentally  demonstrated in a small number of cases.
we also discuss how to develop protein folding scoring function.
i-mutant2.0 can be used both as a classifier for predicting the sign of the protein stability change upon mutation and as a regression estimator for predicting the related deltadeltag values.
numerous methods for predicting beta-turns in  proteins have been developed based on various computational schemes.
these  methods were first tested for the prediction of inhibitors of cyp3a4 and cyp2d6
it was then performed in solution to assay real mixtures of dna hairpins.
although huge amounts of genomic data are at hand, current  experimental protein interaction assays must overcome technical problems to  scale-up for high-throughput analysis.
however, late effects of treatment  and management of relapse remain significant clinical problems.
on the basis of the suitably normalized data, we identified specific genes involved in histological subtype of hcc.
using information gain with a naïve bayesian classifier, removal of up to 96% of the features yielded an improved classification accuracy measured by sensitivity.
for two test sets, our discriminant models achieved 90%  and 95% accuracy, respectively.
our scoring function discriminates perfectly a set of 440 native proteins from 14 million sequence decoys.
based on our belief that this concept is implicit within the collective experience of working chemists, we devised a data set to capture an intuitive human understanding of both this characteristic and ease of synthesis, a second key characteristic.
subsequently, the system utilizes support vector machine (svm)  classifiers to learn the boundaries between structural protein classes.
we present a method to assess systematically which of a set of proposed network generation algorithms gives the most accurate description of a given biological network.
predicting the subcellular localization of proteins  is important for determining the function of proteins.
the moss physcomitrella patens is an emerging plant  model system due to its high rate of homologous recombination, haploidy, simple  body plan, physiological properties as well as phylogenetic position.
proteomic  signatures for histological types of lung cancer.
furthermore, a proper choice of a subset of complementary support vector  machines constructed by different features of proteins maximizes the prediction  accuracy.
experimental evidence highlights the gain in quality resulting from combining some of the most widely used prediction methods with our svms rather than with the ensemble methods traditionally used in the field.
the results of the model for 6022 tetrapeptides indicate that the rates of self-consistency for beta-turn types i, i', ii, ii', vi and viii and non-beta-turns are 99.92 98.02 training data, the rate of correct prediction by the svms for a given protein: rubredoxin (54 residues.
for each data set, 70% of the data were  used for training, and the remainder were used to assess the generalization  performance.
we present evidence  that computationally predicted secondary structure of moderate length pre-mrna  subsequencies contains information that can be exploited to improve acceptor  splice site prediction beyond that possible with conventional sequence-based  approaches.
prediction of membrane protein types has become one of the growing hot topics in bioinformatics.
logistic regression analysis led to superior classification rules (sensitivity >96.8 to all investigated algorithms.
to determine  whether the diagnosis of multiple common adult malignancies could be achieved  purely by molecular classification, we subjected 218 tumor samples, spanning 14  common tumor types, and 90 normal tissue samples to oligonucleotide microarray  gene expression analysis.
from the estimated distribution of the algorithm, a feature ranking is derived.
the results underline the fact that, even in the presence of significant deformation, non-additive effects may involve only a limited number of dinucleotide steps.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics feature selection is frequently used as a preprocessing step to machine learning.
availability: we have set up a web server for gpcr  subfamily classification based on hierarchical multi-class svms at  http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcr-subclass.
high-throughput and high-resolution mass  spectrometry instruments are increasingly used for disease classification and  therapeutic guidance.
more than 130 transcripts are not present in seed  plants but can be found in other kingdoms.
when a kernel matrix is derived from such data, we have to leave the entries for unavailable samples as missing.
we show  computational experiments for mck using 74 sets of human trna sequence data:  (i) kernel principal component analysis (pca) for visualizing trna  similarities, (ii) supervised classification with support vector machines  (svms).
the recall of the extracellular site and overall recall of our predictor reach 86.0% and 89.8%, respectively, in 5-fold cross-validation.
bioinformatics,  19(suppl.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] in our attempts to understand cellular function at the molecular  level, we must be able to synthesize information from disparate types of  genomic data.
by comparing the results of training and testing datasets with different sequence identities, we suggest that the performance of this method correlates with the sequence identity of dataset.
several less informative features help  to slightly increase the performance of the classifier.
res. commun.,  4(4):230-234, 2000.
although the two  methods rely on different cellular mechanisms, these methods share the common  property that not all oligonucleotides (oligos) are equally effective.
predicting enzyme class from protein structure  without alignments.
this paper presents the use of support vector machines (svms) for prediction and analysis of antisense oligonucleotide (ao) efficacy.
we use the support vector machine-learning algorithm to develop models that are capable of assigning the protein class.
bioinformatics, 20(4):467-476, 2004.
in this study, the proteins are classified into the  following 12 groups: (1) chloroplast, (2) cytoplasm, (3) cytoskeleton, (4)  endoplasmic reticulum, (5) extracellular, (6) golgi apparatus, (7) lysosome,  (8) mitochondria, (9) nucleus, (10) peroxisome, (11) plasma membrane, and (12)  vacuole, which account for most organelles and subcellular compartments in an  animal or plant cell.
labeling was  dependent on atp and the atp recycling system, on the proteasome inhibitor  mg132 and the ubiquitin protease inhibitor ubiquitin aldehyde, and was  inhibited by iodoacetamide.
further structural characterization of this biomarkers candidate was done by using cross-platform matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (maldi-ms) peptide mass fingerprinting (pmf) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight/time of flight (maldi-tof/tof) tandem mass spectrometry (ms/ms).
we refer to the modified svms as bio-support vector machine.
including novel constellations of metabolites into the models, the positive predictive value could be strongly increased (pku 71.9 54.6 clearly prove that the mined data confirm the known and indicate some novel metabolic patterns which may contribute to a better understanding of newborn metabolism.
a system named p2sl that infer protein subcellular targeting was developed through this computational kernel.
however, little has been done  on protein classification based on the prediction of protein-protein complexes  obtained from homology modeling and docking simulation.
keywords: biosvm several studies using microarrays have shown that changes in gene expression provide information about the mechanism of toxicity induced by xenobiotic agents.
keywords: biosvm [cuturi2004mutual]   m. cuturi and j.-p. vert.
the  boundaries among the classes were then determined with a set of support vector  machines.
we demonstrate the application of the support vector machine (svm)  learning algorithm to this functional inference task.
results obtained employing such constraints motivate the use of regularized regression procedures such as the lasso, least angle regression, and support vector machines.
we demonstrate that the  cesh profiles have characteristic patterns in tumor groups and were also able  to distinguish subgroups of rhabdomyosarcoma.
distinguishing enzyme structures from non-enzymes  without alignments.
the results obtained by svm were compared with  those obtained by the heuristic method.
however, the fine-grained assignment of folds, such as those defined in the structural classification of proteins (scop) database, presents a challenge due to the larger amount of folds available.
these models represent the first use of pattern recognition methods to discriminate between substrates and nonsubstrates of human drug metabolizing enzymes and the first thorough assessment of three classification algorithms using multiple metabolic data sets.
here, two  different machine-learning methods, decision trees and support vector machines  (svms), are applied for the first time to this problem.
an essential part focuses on solving a large number of  parameterized differential equations.
amino acids , 28(4):395-402, jun 2005.
prediction of transmembrane regions of  beta-barrel proteins using ann- and svm-based methods.
prediction of mechanisms of action of  antibacterial compounds by gene expression profiling.
these unsupervised and supervised learning methods identified three classes or subtypes of specimens, assigned tumor or nontumor labels to new specimens and detected six potentially mislabeled specimens.
a feature relevance expert implements an algorithm that calculates how well a gene distinguishes samples, reorders genes according to this relevance measure, and uses a supervised learning method
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: high-density dna microarray measures the activities of several thousand genes simultaneously and the gene expression profiles have been used for the cancer classification recently.
classifying noisy protein sequence data: a case study of  immunoglobulin light chains.
in r. greiner and  d. schuurmans, editors,proceedings of the twenty-first international  conference on machine learning (icml 2004), pages 552-559.
keywords: biosvm [takeuchi2005bio-medical]   koichi takeuchi and nigel collier.
in the best case the algorithm achieved accuracy of 76% for all lesion types and 90% for masses only.
the principle of the support vector machine method can also be applied to  analyzing the specificity of other multisubsite enzymes.
except for three drugs, all error estimates ranged between 7.25 and 15.5 percent.
the svm prediction accuracies of p-gp and hia are substantially increased and that of tdp remains unchanged by rfe.
the reason for this was 2-fold, first to establish whether feature selection can indeed improve performance, which in our case it did not seem to confirm, but more importantly to acquire a small list of potentially interesting biomarkers.
we illustrate svms capabilities using a sample of 100 journal abstracts texts taken from the human, blood cell, transcription factor domain of medline.
identifying the interface between two interacting proteins provides important clues to the function of a protein and can reduce the search space required by docking algorithms to predict the structures of complexes.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ teramoto2005prediction]  reiji teramoto, mikio aoki, toru kimura, and masaharu  kanaoka.
in a first phase, we have individually  benchmarked 13 different descriptor types in fold identification experiments in  a highly diverse set of protein sequences.
in this paper, a new concept, the so-called "functional domain composition" is introduced.
in the discovery of new drugs, lead identification and optimization have assumed critical importance given the number of drug targets generated from genetic, genomics, and proteomic technologies.
to predict phenotypic drug resistance from genotype,  they applied two machine learning techniques: decision trees and linear support  vector machines.
keywords: featureselection biosvm array cgh is a recently introduced technology that measures changes in the gene copy number of hundreds of genes in a single experiment.
these representations were processed using binary kernel  discrimination, similarity searching, substructural analysis, support vector  machine, and trend vector analysis, with the effectiveness of the methods being  judged by the extent to which active test set molecules were clustered toward  the top of the resultant rankings.
a mutual information kernel for strings.
keywords: biosvm motivation: remote homology detection between protein sequences is a central problem in computational biology.
more than 130 transcripts are not present in seed plants but can be found in other kingdoms.
the method is strong in recognizing name  variants not found in swissprot.
engineering support vector machine  kernels that recognize translation initiation sites.
high success rates are obtained by both the self-consistency and jackknife tests.
genomics, 5(2):99-111, mar 2001.
however, a  small number of data sets showed either equivalent or better predictability  using plsda, which may indicate relatively linear relationships in these data  sets.
in order to achieve a higher accuracy for this method, we should choose image features that are better suited for analysing digital mammograms than the currently used ones.
with such a novel representation for a protein, the support vector machine (svm) algorithm is introduced for predicting protein subcellular location.
availability: this software may be obtained from the authors.
to select relevant genes involved in different types of  cancer remains a challenge.
the overall cesh profiles in favorable-histology wilms tumors were found to correlate with subsequent clinical behavior.
notably, a subset of malignant fibrous histiocytomas, a controversialhistological subtype, was identified as a distinct genomic group.
support vector machines for prediction of protein  signal sequences and their cleavage sites.
interestingly, svms using reduced sets of amino acids based on chemical similarity preserve high recognition accuracy.
keywords: biosvm [yuan2004svmtm]   z. yuan, j.s. mattick, and r.d. teasdale.
this new approach promises to give better therapeutic measurements to cancer patients by diagnosing cancer types with improved accuracy.
studies are conducted on a number of protein classes including rna-binding proteins; protein homodimers, proteins responsible for drug absorption, proteins involved in drug distribution and excretion, and drug metabolizing enzymes.
in a second step we examine the performance of svms if the embedding is varied from frequencies of single amino acids to frequencies of tripletts of amino acids.
in an effort to identify genes involved in chemosensitivity and to evaluate the functional relationships between genes and anticancer drugs acting by the same mechanism, a supervised machine learning approach called support vector machine (svm) is used to associate genes with any of five predefined anticancer drug mechanistic categories.
we propose two extensions of these graph kernels, with the double goal toreduce their computation time and increase their relevance as measure ofsimilarity between graphs.
naive bayes, a specialized adaboost algorithm, and linear and polynomial support vector machines were applied to identify these articles.
in s. becker,  s. thrun, and k. obermayer, editors,adv.
proteins, 54(3):557-562, feb 2004.
a key goal of genomics is to assign function to  genes, especially for orphan sequences.
the  classification accuracy appears to degrade very rapidly as the number of  classes increases.
through the use of the chromosome regions identified as variables, support vector machine analysis was applied to assess classification potential, and feature selection (recursive feature elimination) was used to identify the best discriminatory regions.
data generated using both quantitative pcr and  microarray were subsequently used to train and validate a cross-platform svm  model with high prediction accuracy.
a number of the genes identified by the jcfo in our  experiments are already in use as clinical markers for cancer diagnosis; some  of the remaining genes may be excellent candidates for further clinical  investigation.
sequence classification and annotation of species origin typically use an orthology-based approach and require access to large portions of either genome, or a close relative.
the mc-svm techniques by crammer and singer, weston and watkins, and one-versus-rest were found to be the best methods in this domain.
the expression levels of 16,063 genes and expressed sequence tags were used to evaluate the accuracy of a multiclass classifier based on a support vector machine algorithm.
typically, candidate selection relies on the prediction of mhc-peptide binding only, as this is known to be the most selective step in the mhc class i antigen processing pathway.
the binary kernel discrimination approach  yielded consistently superior rankings and would appear to have considerable  potential for chemical screening applications.
support vector machine approach for protein  subcellular localization prediction.
the difficulty lies in the fact that the data are of high dimensionality and that the sample size is small.
several groups have employed a statistical learning method, support vector machines (svms), for predicting protein functional family directly from sequence irrespective of sequence similarity.
in this work, we consider one major form of alternative splicing, namely the exclusion of exons from the transcript.
model characteristics and data set features were studied in detail.
this classifier can be used for fast filtering of compound libraries in virtual screening applications.
the accuracy of the identification is estimated  using the standard leave-one-out procedure.
the aim of the present study was to determine if biological samples from rats treated with various compounds can be classified based on gene expression profiles.
drug discovery using support vector machines.
completion of many genomes is being followed rapidly by major  efforts to identify interacting protein pairs experimentally in order to  decipher the networks of interacting, coordinated-in-action proteins.
analysis and prediction of  affinity of tap binding peptides using cascade svm.protein sci.,
the accuracy of the ann-based method improved significantly, from 70.4 when evolutionary information was added to a single sequence as a multiple sequence alignment obtained from psi-blast.
these prediction accuracies are comparable to those of earlier studies derived from a selective set of descriptors.
with  heterogeneous cross-validation, where we trained the svm on transient complexes  to predict on obligate complexes (and vice versa), we still achieved comparable  success rates to the leave-one-out cross-validation suggesting that sufficient  properties are shared between transient and obligate interfaces.
protein network inference  from multiple genomic data: a supervised approach.
as increasing numbers of large  datasets of small molecules become available, it is necessary to develop  computational methods that can deal with molecules of variable size and  structure and predict their physical, chemical and biological properties.
toward this end, we  propose a means of representing proteins using pairwise sequence similarity  scores.
fundamentals of this theory and the theory of reproducing kernel hilbert spaces are reviewed and applied in establishing the validity of the method.
on the other hand, by means of the kernel trick we can provide a general learning algorithm for that high-dimensional representation because all required statistics can be computed without performing an explicit feature space mapping of the sequences.
the support vector machine algorithm was used to classify proteins from different families under the binary classification scheme.
the svm represents a new approach  to supervised pattern classification and has been successfully applied to a  wide range of pattern recognition problems.
keywords: biosvm [statnikov2004methods]   alexander statnikov, constantin f aliferis, and ioannis tsamardinos.
keywords: biosvm knowledge of the polyprotein cleavage sites by hiv protease will refine our understanding of its specificity, and the information thus acquired is useful for designing specific and efficient hiv protease inhibitors.
combined  with the above mentioned features we were able to identify 85.2% of skipped  exons within known introns at a false positive rate of 1%.
in particular, the accuracy was very low regardless of the  choices of the methods for large-class datasets (e.g. nci60 and gcm).
leave-one-out cross-validation experiments show that prediction accuracy reaches 64%.
we demonstrate that two-stage svms perform better than single-stage svm techniques for pss prediction using two datasets and report a maximum accuracy of 79.5%.
in an effort to identify genes related to the cell line  chemosensitivity and to evaluate the functional relationships between genes and  anticancer drugs acting by the same mechanism, a supervised machine learning  approach called support vector machine was used to label genes into any of the  five predefined anticancer drug mechanistic categories.
for example, a few genes were found to be involved in the biological process triggered by the drugs (e.g. dna polymerase epsilon was the direct target for the drugs from dna antimetabolites category).
in this study, six training datasets consisting of different length local sequence respectively were used.
a statistical learning  algorithm trained from all of these data to recognize particular classes of  proteins-membrane proteins and ribosomal proteins-performs significantly better  than the same algorithm trained on any single type of data.
the prediction results are in good agreement with the experimental value of heat capacity; also, the results reveal the superiority of the svm over mlr and rbfnns models.
the support vector machine (svm) method is used to predict the bonding states of cysteines.
as a result, our approach could be a powerful tool for high-dimensional gene expression data analysis.
analysis of these gene profiles using the svm may be an important diagnostic tool.
the evolution of drug-resistant genetic variants in  response to therapy plays a key role in treatment failure and finding a new  potent drug combination after therapy failure is considered challenging.
classifying "kinase  inhibitor-likeness" by using machine-learning methods.
each compound was represented by calculated  structural descriptors that encode constitutional, topological, geometrical,  electrostatic, and quantum-chemical features.
availability: the overall network of  the relationships is available on the web at  http://bioinfo.mbb.yale.edu/expression/echipchip keywords: biosvm [pham2003prediction]   tho hoan pham, kenji satou, and tu bao ho.
combining pairwise sequence  similarity and support vector machines for detecting remote protein  evolutionary and structural relationships.
in particular,  the high-throughput generation of protein-protein interaction data from a few  organisms makes such an approach very important towards understanding the  molecular recognition that make-up the entire protein-protein interaction  network.
using self-organizing map, the expression profile  of these cdnas allowed perfect separation of malignant and non-malignant  samples.
however, class prediction based on these patterns is an under-determined  problem, due to the extreme high dimensionality of the data compared to the  usually small number of available samples.
contact:  booch@cse.ucsc.edu keywords: biosvm [cai2000support]  y.d. cai,  x.j. liu, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
results: we extracted  several hundred local sequence features of constitutive as well as alternative  exons.
we find that a svm that  incorporates only amino acid composition has a recognition accuracy of 87+/-2  composition alone is sufficient to accurately recognize disorder.
recently presented "cluster kernels" give general semi-supervised methods for improving svm protein classification performance.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the enormous amount of protein sequence data  uncovered by genome research has increased the demand for computer software  that can automate the recognition of new proteins.
it has been demonstrated in the literature that biomarkers can be  identified to distinguish normal individuals from cancer patients using ms  data.
availability: matlab scripts are available on request.
these approaches include: data mining using support vector machines, threading through protein structures, prediction of conserved residues on the protein surface by analysis of phylogenetic trees, and the conservatism of conservatism method of mirny and shakhnovich.
the high accuracy is due to the combination of a knn majority voting approach and a local support vector machine approach that makes optimal decisions at the local level.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] classification of gene function remains one of the most  important and demanding tasks in the post-genome era.
the algorithm is an  extension of recent state-of-the-art sparse bayesian classifiers, which in turn  can be seen as bayesian counterparts of support vector machines.
for a clinical data set, we determine the optimal search depth and show that the scoring scheme is predictive of therapeutic outcome.
the accuracies for classification of substrates and nonsubstrates of cyp3a4, cyp2d6, and cyp2c9 are 98.2 and 90.9%, 96.6 and 94.4%, and 85.7 and 98.8%, respectively.
keywords: biosvm the combination of 3d pharmacophore fingerprints and the support vector machine classification algorithm has been used to generate robust models that are able to classify compounds as active or inactive in a number of g-protein-coupled receptor assays.
the tuning on hmms and svms enabled biophysical analysis of the  captured molecule states and state transitions; structure revealed in the  biophysical analysis was used for better feature selection.
j chem inf model,  45(4):1122-1133, jul 2005.
keywords: biosvm male wistar rats were treated with various model compounds or the appropriate vehicle controls in order to create a reference database for toxicogenomics assessment of novel compounds.
the svm classification system was further tested on a small class of snrna-binding proteins with only 60 available sequences.
the parameters of the scoring function were determined by a  generalized least square optimization (lsm) and alternatively by the support  vector machine (svm).
the root-mean-square errors in absolute mobility predictions  for the whole data set given by mlr, rbfnns, and svm were 1.530, 1.373, and  0.888 mobility units (10(-5) cm(2) s(-1) v(-1)), respectively, which indicated  that the prediction result agrees well with the experimental values of these  compounds and also revealed the superiority of svm over mlr and rbfnns models  for the prediction of the absolute mobility of carboxylic acids.
the use of psi-blast profiles can be seen as a  semi-supervised learning technique, since psi-blast leverages unlabeled data  from a large sequence database to build more informative profiles.
44, 60), but also may greatly stimulate the development of this area.
the following algorithms were used: knn, decision tree induction, support vector machines and feed-forward neural networks.
in this  communication, we apply the support vector machine (svm) method, using a  combination of protein descriptors based on the properties derived from the  composition of n-peptide and jury voting, to the fine-grained fold prediction,  and are able to achieve an overall prediction accuracy of 69.6 the same  independent set-significantly higher than the previous results.
systems  biology aims at the computational simulation of complex systems, up to whole  cell simulations.
one major challenge is the large number of genes relative to the number of samples.
on a  dataset of alternatively spliced exons we outperform a previous approach.
keywords: biosvm this paper brings together two strands of machine learning of increasing importance: kernel methods and highly structured data.
our main selection strategy is based on the maximum margin  hyperplane-generated by "support vector machines".
one might imagine one could readily determine these networks through inspection  of gene expression data.
text classification using string kernels.
we present  cross-validated results on identifying human proteins and their interactions by  training and testing on a set of approximately 1000 manually-annotated medline  abstracts that discuss human genes/proteins.
applying these new guidelines, our program appeared  to significantly out-perform other methods tagging protein names.
we demonstrate success rate of at  least 90 in tumor versus normal classification, using sets of selected genes,  with, as well as without, cellular-contamination-related members.
in most categories, the data-induced models have better or comparable  sensitivity, specificity, and precision than the clinical query filters.
in the present  study, a new criterion, called ls bound measure, is proposed to address the  gene selection problem.
our approach relies on novel probabilistic models for dna binding sites and modules of binding sites, on algorithms to study them from the data and on a support vector machine that uses the models studied to classify a set of sequences.
further, we show  the translation of a five-class classifier to a quantitative pcr-based  platform.
keywords: biosvm background protein-protein interactions play a critical role in protein function.
one is for rna sequences with known secondary structures, the other for those without known secondary structures.
the profiled svm produced the best results (r = 0.44, me = 0.022, and rmse= 0.278) and predicted high (>75 gene expression) and low efficacy ( or =3), 73.5 on the above approach, an online web server eslpred was developed, which is available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/eslpred/. keywords: biosvm nuclear receptors are key transcription factors that regulate crucial gene networks responsible for cell growth, differentiation, and homeostasis.
keywords: biosvm motivation: a promising way to make sense out of gene expression profiles is to relate them to the activity of metabolic and signalling pathways.
the analysis indicates a correlation  between the viral genome types dsdna, ssdna, ssrna positive strand, ssrna  negative strand, and retroid and amino acid preference.
neural network and  support vector machine were applied to predict protein dispensability through  high-throughput data.
the objective of this study was to apply machine  learning techniques to automatically identify high-quality, content-specific  articles for one time period in internal medicine and compare their performance  with previous boolean-based pubmed clinical query filters of haynes et al.
previous attempts to address this problem select genes with correlation techniques.
conclusions it is expected that the support vector machine method and the elegant component-coupled method, also named as the covariant discrimination algorithm, if complemented with each other, can provide a powerful computational tool for predicting the structural classes of proteins.
for all techniques tested, the use of a consensus vote  of the 13 different models derived improved the quality of the predictions in  terms of accuracy, precision, recall, and f1 value.
implicit motif distribution approach may be used as modus operandi for  bioinformatics problems that require specific motif extraction and search,  which is otherwise computationally prohibitive.
results: these methods are successfully tested on their ability to recognize operons in the escherichia coli genome, from the comparison of three datasets corresponding to functional relationships between genes in metabolic pathways, geometrical relationships along the chromosome, and co-expression relationships as observed by gene expression data.
the results show that svm may be applied to discriminate between  the primary sequences of homodimers and non-homodimers and the two protein  sequence descriptors can reflect the quaternary structure information.
multiple linear regression (mlr) and radial basis function  networks (rbfnns) were also utilized to construct quantitative linear and  nonlinear models to compare with the results obtained by svm.
keywords: biosvm [leslie2003mismatch]   c. leslie, e. eskin, j. weston, and w.s. noble.
this paper compares various feature selection methods as well as various state-of-the-art classification methods on various multiclass gene expression datasets.
we used a variety of machine learning methods to automatically develop information extraction systems for extracting information on gene/protein name, function and interactions from medline abstracts.
graph-driven features extraction from  microarray data using diffusion kernels and kernel cca.
using the svm model trained on structured abstracts to  predict unstructured abstracts yielded performance similar to that of models  trained with unstructured abstracts in 3 of the 4 types.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics motivation:
availability:  matlab source code is available at  http://www.kyb.tuebingen.mpg.de/bs/people/weston/kdd/kdd.html contact:  jason.weston@tuebingen.mpg.de supplementary information: supplementary material  is available at http://www.kyb.tuebingen.mpg.de/bs/people/weston/kdd/kdd.html.
combining text with protein amino-acid composition improves recall for some  sub-cellular locations.
keywords: biosvm a dna microarray can track the expression levels of thousands of genes simultaneously.
the task of feature selection is crucial given the presence of noisy or redundant features, and the well-known problem of the curse of dimensionality.
keywords: biosvm [sun2003identifying]  y.f.  sun, x.d. fan, and y.d. li.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machine, which is a novel algorithm from the machine learning community, was used to develop quantitation and classification models which can be used as a potential screening mechanism for a novel series of cox-2 selective inhibitors.
predicting the efficacy of short oligonucleotides in antisense  and rnai experiments with boosted genetic programming.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we performed proteomic studies on lung cancer cells to elucidate  the mechanisms that determine histological phenotype.
it is desirable to explore methods that are not based on sequence similarity.
eukaryotic pre-mrnas are spliced to form mature mrna.
a new protein secondary structure prediction method, svmpsi, was developed to improve the current level of prediction by incorporating new tertiary classifiers and their jury decision system, and the psi-blast pssm profiles.
svmprot shows a certain degree of capability for the classification of distantly related proteins and homologous proteins of different function and thus may be used as a protein function prediction tool that complements sequence alignment methods.
[ zhao2003application]  y. zhao, c. pinilla, d. valmori,  r. martin, and r. simon.
the svm classification system was further tested on a small class  of snrna-binding proteins with only 60 available sequences.
keywords: biosvm [mattfeldt2003classification ]  t. mattfeldt, h.w. gottfried, h. wolter, v. schmidt, h.a.  kestler, and j. mayer.
we suggested some guidelines for removing overly inadequate overlaps between training and testing sets.
two  well-known classification algorithms, naïve bayesian and support vector  machine (svm), were used to classify the chemical compounds.
by  scanning over single est confirmed exons we identified 215 potential  alternatively spliced exons.
in both studied cases, the predictive ability of the svm model is comparable or superior to those obtained by mlr and rbfnn.
biosvm references [mukherjee1998support]  s. mukherjee,  p. tamayo, j. p. mesirov, d. slonim, a. verri, and  t. poggio.
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [lin2002conserved]   k. lin, y. kuang, j. s. joseph, and p. r. kolatkar.
evaluation shows that our system achieves the best performance from among 10 systems with a balanced f-measure of 82.58 on the closed evaluation of the biocreative protein/gene name recognition task (task 1a).
this is ensured through an adaptation of a compression method known as the context-tree weighting algorithm.
ovarian cancer identification based on  dimensionality reduction for high-throughput mass spectrometry data.
but the linear model of the heuristic method is easier to  understand and ready to use for a chemist.
we argue that it is crucial  that more rigorous analysis of the factors that contribute to the model's  performance be applied to discover where the underlying limitations are and  what our future research direction should be.
analysis of these gene  profiles using the svm may be an important diagnostic tool.
however, proteasomal cleavage and  transport by the transporter associated with antigen processing (tap) are  essential steps in antigen processing as well.
t-cell recognition was long considered exquisitely specific.
an  svm classifier to separate false signals from microcalcifications in digital  mammograms.
our study suggests that molecular feature selection is useful for improving the speed and, in some cases, the accuracy of statistical learning methods for the prediction of pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of chemical agents.
we find that a svm that incorporates only amino acid composition has a recognition accuracy of 87+/-2 composition alone is sufficient to accurately recognize disorder.
based on the subsite coupling model, a kind of string kernels for protein sequence is introduced.
such a set-up, however, produces a large number of spectra, many of which are of too poor quality to be useful.
we show experimentally that the new  method results in a superior performance across a wide range of organisms and  that it improves even upon our own earlier method by an average of 10% across  all examined genomes.
bioinformatics , 19(12):1578-1579, 2003.
using top differentially expressed genes, hierarchical cluster and  principal component analyses demonstrate that the genetically more  heterogeneous b-precursor all samples intercalate with bcr-abl-positive cases,  but were clearly distinct from t-all and mll profiles.
multiple linear regression  (mlr) and radial basis function neural networks (rbfnns) were also utilized to  construct the linear and the nonlinear model to compare with the results  obtained by svm.
extensions of marginalized graph kernels.
keywords: biosvm [yoon2003analysis]   y. yoon, j. song, s.h. hong, and j.q. kim.
current capabilities allow searching for  human, mouse and yeast protein-interaction information.
adaptations of this pilot  result to other cell types could result in the development of a functional  assay for brca1 mutation status.
class comparison and class prediction  analysis has shown that brca1 mutation carriers can be distinguished from  controls with high probability (approximately 85%).
the quantitative matrix was generated on the basis of  contribution of each position and residue in binding affinity.
in this paper, a previously described data mining approach to  prediction of protein-protein interactions (bock and gough, 2001,  bioinformatics, 17, 455-460) is extended to interaction mining on a  proteome-wide scale.
bioinformatics, 20(17):3080-3098,  2004.
support vector machines for separation  of mixed plant-pathogen est collections based on codon usage.
using a support vector  machine, a subset of five clones was identified as "class  discriminators."
in this study, we analyze 3468 genes of  saccharomyces cerevisiae obtained from holstege et al., (1998) to understand  the relationship between expression level and amino acid composition.
when applied to local tertiary structure prediction, we achieve approximately 60% accuracy with a novel dynamic programming algorithm.
when tested on interactions between nearly all human and yeast bzip proteins, our method identifies 70 strong interactions while maintaining that 92 correct.
combining qc and 2d descriptors (from previous work) using a consensus approach resulted in a statistically significant improvement in predictivity (to 84%) over both the qc and 2d models and the other methods of combining the descriptors.
to identify specific patterns of gene expression that are predictive of relapse, we used high-density (30 k) cdna microarrays to analyze rna samples from 27 favorable histology wilms tumors taken from primary nephrectomies at the time of initial diagnosis.
previous research has demonstrated that this technology can be useful in the classification of cancers.
dna from tumors of 37 patients (21 squamous carcinomas, and 16 adenocarcinomas) were extracted and hybridized onto a 452 bac clone array.
cancer lett., 190(2):199-211, feb 2003.
this map defines an input space for classification schemes which allow us to state unambiguously which models are most descriptive of a given network of interest.
putative retained genes exhibit possible functions that might  explain the peculiar physiological properties of mosses.
computational approaches to protein function prediction infer protein function by finding proteins with similar sequence, structure, surface clefts, chemical properties, amino acid motifs, interaction partners or phylogenetic profiles.
upon correction of this mistake and the removal of an outlier, perfect classification of tissues is achieved, but not with high confidence.
we compared the clustered functional domains in the sbase database to each protein sequence using blastp.
more than 90% tight turns are beta-turns.
the cases were classified by learning vector quantization and support vector machines.
[2] and mintseris et al.
several  interesting research directions are discussed.
by many criteria our system outperformed other  tagging methods significantly; in particular, it proved very reliable even for  novel names.
nineteen models were evaluated by internal 10-fold cross-validation and also by an independent test set.
simple two-dimensional descriptors were  used to capture chemical information.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] objective: to find new potential biomarkers and establish the  patterns for the detection of ovarian cancer.
results from analysis of transcription profiling data from tumor/nontumor colon adenocarcinoma samples support the general utility of the aforementioned approach.
genes chromosomes cancer,  41(1):65-79, sep 2004.
uses of the method lead to open problems involving the  theory of infinitely divisible positive definite functions.
we discuss misclassification with respect to biological function and similarity.
the model allowed the identification of potential new interfaces and the correction of mislabeled oligomeric states.
[ bib ] this paper presents a machine learning method to predict  polyadenylation signals (pases) in human dna and mrna sequences by analysing  features around them.
results: this manuscript presents a novel publicly  available splice site prediction tool named splicemachine that (i) shows  state-of-the-art prediction performance on arabidopsis thaliana and human  sequences, (ii) performs a computationally fast annotation, and (iii) can be  trained by the user on its own data.
we are seeking to develop a computer system for powerful and reliable cancer diagnostic model creation based on microarray data.
we present remote homology detection experiments based  on the scop database where we show that profile-based string kernels used with  svm classifiers strongly outperform all recently presented supervised svm  methods.
here we report support  vector machine (svm) and decision tree methods developed to classify edge  strands from central strands in a representative set of protein domains.
pre-mrna alternative splicing greatly increases the complexity of gene  expression.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] motivation:
[ bib | doi | http ] motivation:
[ bib | .html | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [vert2002support]  j.-p.  vert.
their performance is consistently superior to the performance of the  ensemble methods traditionally used in the field.
we show  that different duplication-mutation schemes best describe the e. coli genetic  network, the s. cerevisiae protein interaction network, and the c. elegans  neuronal network, out of a set of network models including a linear  preferential attachment model and a small-world model.
we extend a central  idea previously reported (bock, j. r., and gough, d. a. (2001)
the results indicate that solutions obtained by svm training seem to  be more robust with a smaller standard error compared to ann training.
the current progress in sequencing projects calls  for rapid, reliable and accurate function assignments of gene products.
we designed a support vector  machine (svm) kernel well suited for the task of classifying sequences with  motifs having positional preferences.
keywords: biosvm [kim2004prediction]   j. h. kim, j. lee, b. oh, k. kimm, and i. koh.  prediction of phosphorylation sites using svms.
proteomics, jul 2005.
reliable, noninvasive methods for early detection of liver cirrhosis are not available.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we report our results in classifying protein matrix-assisted  laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectra obtained from serum  samples into diseased and healthy groups.
results: we develop a genetic programming based prediction system that shows promising results on both antisense and sirna efficacy prediction.
this representation for a protein is a vector, where each of the non-zero  entries in the vector indicates a significant match between the sequence of  interest and the sbase domain.
two techniques are introduced specifically to tackle these problems: a feature selection method for unbalanced data and a classifier which adapts to the distribution of the the unlabeled test data (a so-called transductive method).
keywords: biosvm [degroeve2005splicemachine]   s. degroeve, y. saeys, b. de baets, p. rouze, and  y. van de peer.
in this context, the problem of inferring a global protein  network for a given organism, using all available genomic data about the  organism, is quickly becoming one of the main challenges in current  computational biology.
the dataset of 180 proteins used in this study is also available via the same web site.
of tenth  conference on advances in neural information processing systems, 1999.
compared to the  currently available annotation, we provided more than twice the number of  contigs with good quality annotation, and additionally we assigned a confidence  value to each predicted go term.
hidden markov models (hmms) were used with expectation/maximization for denoising and for associating a feature vector with the ionic current blockade of the dna molecule.
[ bib ] tight turn has long been recognized as one of the three  important features of proteins after the alpha-helix and beta-sheet.
bioinformatics,  20(11):1702-9, jul 2004.
that  meant over 82 the areas under the receiver operating characteristic (roc)  curves were over 0.81, while in passive learning the areas under the roc curves  were below 0.50.
[ bunescu2005comparative]  r. bunescu, r. ge, r. j. kate,  e. m. marcotte, r. j. mooney, a. k. ramani, and y. w. wong.
this set of discriminators was highly enriched in genes on 1q, indicating close agreement between data obtained from expression profiling with data from genomic copy number analyses.
in  two-fold cross-validation experiments testing recognition of gpcr subfamilies  that bind a specific ligand (such as a histamine molecule), the errors per  sequence at the minimum error point (mep) were 13.7 svms, 17.1 svm  classification, 25.5 and 49 kernel nearest neighbor (kernnn).
genome inform ser workshop genome  inform, 15(1):198-212, 2004.
a total of 4011  rna-binding and 9781 non-rna-binding proteins was used to train and test the  svm classification system, and an independent set of 447 rna-binding and 4881  non-rna-binding proteins was used to evaluate the classification accuracy.
using a support vector machine, a subset of five clones was identified as "class discriminators."
results:  by replacing kernel functions of support vector machines (svms) with amino acid  similarity measurement matrices, we have modified svms, a new type of pattern  recognition algorithm for analysing protein sequences, particularly for  proteolytic cleavage site prediction.
keywords: biosvm sixteen dedifferentiated and pleomorphic liposarcomas were analyzed by comparative genomic hybridization (cgh) to genomic microarrays (matrix-cgh), cdna-derived microarrays for expression profiling, and by quantitative pcr.
the svm represents a new approach to supervised pattern classification and has  been successfully applied to a wide range of pattern recognition problems.
comparative analysis of molecular profile data is proposed as a  mechanism for predicting the physiological function of genes in instances when  comparative sequence analysis proves uninformative, such as with human and  yeast translationally controlled tumour protein.
when trained on strands from proteins of known structure, using structure-based (dictionary of secondary structure in proteins) strand assignments, both methods achieved mean cross-validated, prediction accuracies of 78 strand assignments from secondary structure prediction were used.
the biomolecular interaction network database (bind) seeks to capture these data in a machine-readable format.
the amino acid composition and the auto-correlation functions based  on the amino acid index profile of the primary sequence have been taken into  account in the algorithms.
afterwards this ranking is used to iteratively discard features.
each pathway usually involves many genes, such as enzymes, which can  themselves participate in many pathways.
svms were compared to several other machine learning techniques and to a probabilistic algorithm (pf-ind, maor et al., 2003) for est classification also based on codon bias differences.
we  report encouraging experimental results on a range of real-world data sets.
the automotif server is available free for academic use at http://automotif.bioinfo.pl/ keywords: biosvm motivation:
keywords: biosvm motivation: discovery of host and pathogen genes expressed at the plant-pathogen interface often requires the construction of mixed libraries that contain sequences from both genomes.
eem-derived qc descriptors were shown to be both highly predictive and  computationally efficient.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] background: recent genomic and bioinformatic advances have  motivated the development of numerous network models intending to describe  graphs of biological, technological, and sociological origin.
we also discuss how to develop protein folding  scoring function.
ls bound based gene selection for dna microarray data.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm
using a leave-one-out cross-validation procedure, we were able to successfully predict the location of the binding site on 76% of our dataset made up of proteins with both transient and obligate interfaces.
by introducing a kernel parameter that controls the degree of position-dependency, our feature space representation can be tailored to the characteristics of the biological problem at hand.
this 3495 da protein was purified on-chip and  trypsin digested.
the method is benchmarked on a set  of proteins of known sub-cellular location from s. cerevisiae.
sar qsar environ res,  13(5):509-23, jul 2002.
overfitting is then the main risk, which cannot be overcome but with a strict complexity control of the combiner selected.
[elrod and chou (2002) protein eng., 15, 713-715].
this chapter reviews the state of the art with respect to svm applications in computational biology.
the results obtained with well-tuned rbf kernels are never worse and sometimes even statistically significantly better compared to results obtained with a linear kernel in terms of test set receiver operating characteristic and test set accuracy performances.
we demonstrate the applicability of our approach  to diverse instances, ranging from families of promoter sequences to a dataset  of intronic sequences flanking alternatively spliced exons.
the prediction results on the dataset of 426 non-homologous protein  chains by sevenfold cross-validation technique showed that our method is  superior to the other previous methods.
svms were compared to several other machine  learning techniques and to a probabilistic algorithm (pf-ind, maor et al.,  2003) for est classification also based on codon bias differences.
prediction of protein-protein interaction  sites using support vector machines.
our study suggests that molecular feature selection is useful for  improving the speed and, in some cases, the accuracy of statistical learning  methods for the prediction of pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of  chemical agents.
supplementary information:  http://bioinformatics.med.yale.edu/proteomics/biosupp1.html keywords: biosvm [winters-hilt2003highly]   s. winters-hilt, w. vercoutere, v.s. deguzman, d. deamer,  m. akeson, and d. haussler.
classification by use of cesh profiles was shown to be  similar in performance to previous microarray expression studies and  highlighted regions for further investigation.
svm is a technique for  pattern recognition which relies on the statistical learning theory.
the training and testing was done  on a non-redundant data set of 282 proteins obtained from the nucleardb data  base (1).
we demonstrate that two-stage svms  perform better than single-stage svm techniques for pss prediction using two  datasets and report a maximum accuracy of 79.5%.
the model trained on the remaining  compounds is able to recall 75% of the actives from the "new" lead  series while correctly classifying >99% of the 5000 inactives included in  the validation set.
analysis of these codon composition signals is instructive in determining features that confer individuality to ribosomal protein genes.
results obtained through 5-fold cross-validation tests showed an improvement in prediction accuracy over the algorithm based on the amino acid composition only.
highly accurate classification of  watson-crick basepairs on termini of single dna molecules.
although our approach can be applied to  any object, we particularly derive several marginalized kernels useful for  biological sequences (e.g., dna and proteins).
we present a new approach that combines sequential, structural and chemical information into one graph model of proteins.
the supervised machine learning approach has been widely applied to bioinformatics and gained a lot of success in this research area.
bioinformatics, 19(6):764-771, 2003.
at a false positive rate of 1% the classifier retrieves close to 80%  of a set of trusted interactions.
in conclusion, we showed gene expression profiling to be useful in classification and diagnosis, providing insights into pathogenesis and pointing to potential new therapeutic targets of soft tissue sarcoma.
the aim of  the present study was to determine if biological samples from rats treated with  various compounds can be classified based on gene expression profiles.
toxicol sci, 79(1):170-7, may 2004.
methods and material:
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm purpose:
prediction of membrane protein types  has become one of the growing hot topics in bioinformatics.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: alternative splicing is a major component of the  regulation acting on mammalian transcriptomes.
this system applied to a dataset of 64 proteins of  the death domain superfamily was used to classify each member into its proper  subfamily.
we have tested our method on several independent data sets, including two public ones and our own extracted sequences.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2496-501, may 2005.
inproceedings of the pacific symposium on  biocomputing 2002, pages 411-422, 2004.
adding a feature of relative sentence location  improved performance markedly for some models and overall increasing the  average roc to 0.95.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] small interfering rnas (sirnas) are becoming widely used for  sequence-specific gene silencing in mammalian cells, but designing an effective  sirna is still a challenging task.
the method is of interest for the computer-aided design of combinatorial libraries involving chiral compounds or enantioselective reactions.
keywords: biosvm [man2004evaluating]  m.z.  man, g. dyson, k. johnson, and b. liao.
we obtained 190 samples from 14 tumor classes and  generated a combined expression dataset containing 16063 genes for each of  those samples.
the  sequencing of complementary dna (cdna) libraries prepared from the biological  interface between two organisms provides an inexpensive way to identify the  novel genes that may be expressed as a cause or consequence of compatible or  incompatible interactions.
by computing  z-scores, we found that p and g were the two most important residues to ppii  structure conformation.
conventional kernels utilized so far do not provide an easy interpretation of the learnt representations in terms of positional and compositional variability of the underlying biological signals.
fundamentals of  this theory and the theory of reproducing kernel hilbert spaces are reviewed  and applied in establishing the validity of the method.
non-additivity in protein-dna binding.
support vector machines for prediction  of protein domain structural class.
we show that different duplication-mutation schemes best describe the e. coli genetic network, the s. cerevisiae protein interaction network, and the c. elegans neuronal network, out of a set of network models including a linear preferential attachment model and a small-world model.
results: in this paper, support vector machine  has been introduced to predict the subcellular localization of proteins from  their amino acid compositions.
sci.,  44(6):1936-1941, 2004.
nevertheless, these tools still make many false positive predictions.
both k-nearest neighbor and support vector machine models are developed.
the success of the predictions  is validated by examining the predictions in the context of the  three-dimensional structures of protein complexes.
to determine the significance of coherent protein subgraphs, we have conducted an experimental study in which all coherent subgraphs were identified in several protein structural families annotated in the scop database (murzin et al, 1995).
we conclude that mapping gene expression data into a high-dimensional feature space is only a good idea when combined with a learning algorithm, such as the support vector machine that does not suffer from the curse of dimensionality.
we present cross-validated results on identifying human proteins and their interactions by training and testing on a set of approximately 1000 manually-annotated medline abstracts that discuss human genes/proteins.
the molecular descriptors representing the structural features of  the compounds only included the constitutional and topological descriptors,  which can be obtained easily without optimizing the structure of the molecule.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm motivation: dna microarray experiments generating thousands of gene expression measurements, are being used to gather information from tissue and cell samples regarding gene expression differences that will be useful in diagnosing disease.
the trained svm classifier performed significantly better than previous cutoff-based methods at separating positive from negative peptides.
finally, we conduct a comprehensive prediction of a global enzyme network consisting of all enzyme candidate proteins of the yeast to obtain new biological findings.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] prediction of protein function is of significance in studying  biological processes.
in order to increase the power of predictive methods for protein-protein interaction sites, we have developed a consensus methodology for combining four different methods.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background recent technological advances in mass spectrometry  pose challenges in computational mathematics and statistics to process the mass  spectral data into predictive models with clinical and biological significance.
results: the task of finding tis can be modeled as a classification problem.
computing a rank score requires the accurate prediction of binding affinities between these ligands and the target.
a regularized learning scheme enables application even to biological problems for which only small sets of example sequences are available.
the predictor is located at  http://genet.imb.uq.edu.au/predictors/svmtm.
frequent-subsequence-based  prediction of outer membrane proteins.
seventeen directly ubiquitinated proteins or proteins associated with the ubiquitin system were identified.
these studies indicate that there are many unidentified rnas in simple genomes that can be predicted computationally as a precursor to experimental study.
effect of molecular descriptor feature selection in support  vector machine classification of pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties  of chemical agents.
results: in detailed cross-validation analysis, both learning methods are shown to compete well with existing methods, and to out-perform them in some key tests.
bioinformatics, 20(8):1292-300, may 2004.
this data set was  subsequently used for training and validation of a support vector machine (svm)  classifier, demonstrating 89% accuracy using a 13-class model.
availability:  http://www.genome.ad.jp/sit/ploc.html supplementary information:  http://web.kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp/ park/seqdata/ keywords: biosvm [nguyen2003multi-class]   minh n nguyen and jagath c rajapakse.
results in most categories, the data-induced models have better or comparable sensitivity, specificity, and precision than the clinical query filters.
entropy-based gene ranking without selection bias for the predictive  classification of microarray data.
enzyme names  for the 3901 enzyme classes in the brenda database, a repository for  quantitative and qualitative enzyme information, were identified in more than  100,000 abstracts retrieved from the pubmed literature database.
genomics , 4(2):109-126, dec 2000.
it is concluded that newly sequenced proteins, or those for which three-dimensional crystal structures are not easily obtained, can be rapidly analyzed for their binding potential against a library of ligands using this methodology.
we describe a method to automatically  annotate enzyme classes with disease-related information extracted from the  biomedical literature for inclusion in such a database.
we perform feature selection based on a first-order adaptive scaling algorithm, which confirms the importance of changes in certain amino acid positions and identifies other positions that are key in the characterization of protein function.
linear classifier performance was significantly worse than  the svm in all datasets.
keywords: biosvm proteomics [sarda2005pslip]   deepak sarda, gek huey chua, kuo-bin li, and arun krishnan.
three methods based on binary classifications: one-against-all (oaa), one-against-one (oao), and directed acyclic graph (dag), and two approaches for multi-class problem by solving one single optimization problem, are implemented to predict protein secondary structure.
the svmpsi produces the highest published q3 and sov94  scores on both the rs126 and cb513 data sets to date.
keywords: biosvm [hou2004remote]   y. hou, w. hsu, m. l. lee, and c. bystroff.
keywords: biosvm [xue2004accurate]   c. x. xue, r. s. zhang, h. x. liu, x. j. yao, m. c.  liu, z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 155-170. mit press, the mit press,  cambridge, massachussetts, 2004.
we briefly  introduce the multicategory svm, which is a recently proposed extension of the  binary svm, and apply it to multiclass cancer diagnosis problems results:
the result demonstrates the applicability of this novel method and provides comparable prediction performance compared with existing methods for the prediction of the oxidation states of cysteines in proteins.
keywords: biosvm a new method has been developed for prediction of transmembrane helices using support vector machines.
the second  consists of approximately equal to 100,000 clones, measured in 32 ovarian  samples (unpublished extension of data set described in schummer
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics herg
sequence models for all types of ptms are trained by support vector machine on short-sequence fragments of proteins in the current release of swiss-prot database (phosphorylation by various protein kinases, sulfation, acetylation, methylation, amidation, etc.).
to demonstrate and validate our concept on a biochemically  well-defined case, we analyze e. coli translation initiation sites in order to  show that we can find biologically relevant signals.
yet, abstracts remain the focus of many publicly available literature data mining tools.
gene selection techniques are shown to significantly improve classification performance.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] currently there is no successful computational approach for  identification of genes encoding novel functional rnas (frnas) in genomic  sequences.
we compare the  proposed methods with the state-of-the-art methods in the biological domain.
additionally, it recognized early-stage tumors showing gene  profiles similar to invasive disease.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] motivation: since the gap between sharply increasing known  sequences and slow accumulation of known structures is becoming large, an  automatic classification process based on the primary sequences and known  three-dimensional structure becomes indispensable.
in this work we introduce svm and the pseudo-amino acid composition, a collection of nonlinear features extractable from protein sequence, to the field of protein function prediction.
the program integrates into one system a variety of popular ranking criteria, ranging from the traditional t-statistic to one-dimensional support vector machines.
[ bib | www: ] positive definite kernels between labeled graphs have recently  been proposed.
the binary classifiers are combined in several ways to predict multi-class secondary structure.
data consist of 42 specimen samples, i.e., mass spectra divided in two big categories, stroke and control specimens.
bioinformatics, 19(18):2390-2396, 2003.
the software is available for academic and non-commercial institutions.
high success rates are obtained by the self-consistency  test, jackknife test, and independent dataset test, respectively.
using both types of descriptors together does  not improve the derived models.
by using a bayesian averaging framework with conjugate priors on a class of markovian models known as prob- abilistic suffix trees or context-trees, we compute the value of this kernel in linear time and space while only using the information contained in the spectrum of the considered strings.
identifying marker  genes in transcription profiling data using a mixture of feature relevance  experts.
the selected gene sets from the proposed procedure appears to perform  better than or comparable to several results reported in the literature using  the univariate analysis without performing multivariate search.
results: in detailed cross-validation analysis, both  learning methods are shown to compete well with existing methods, and to  out-perform them in some key tests.
in this chapter we survey some of the most prominent  applications published so far, highlighting the particular developments in  kernel methods triggered by problems in biology, and mention a few promising  research directions likely to expand in the future.
a support vector machine-based method is applied in this study, in  which statistical testing and genetic algorithm-based methods are used for  feature selection respectively.
results from analysis of transcription profiling data from  tumor/nontumor colon adenocarcinoma samples support the general utility of the  aforementioned approach.
the performance was further improved  by combining pssm profiles with the svm analysis.
results: for the first time we develop a support vector machine (svm) for t-cell epitope prediction with an mhc type i restricted t-cell clone.
we have investigated two aspects of  applying svm to the prediction and analysis of beta-turns.
these include  genes already known to interact with brca1 such as cdkn1b, atr, and rad51.
at small false positive ratios, our method outperforms the classical weight matrix method, indicating the current approach may at least serve as a powerful complemental tool to other existing methods for predicting the signal peptide cleavage site.
prediction of enantiomeric excess in a combinatorial library of catalytic  enantioselective reactions.
support-vector machines,  followed by the ga/knn combination, outperformed the other techniques when  comparing the average of individual models.
the resulting  network of interactions shares an average protein connectivity characteristic  in common with previous investigations reported in the literature, offering  strong evidence supporting the biological feasibility of the hypothesized map.
this machine learning tool  led to the definition of potential branch points, an extended polypyrimidine  tract, and c-rich and tg-rich motifs in a region limited to 50 nt upstream of  constitutively spliced exons.
this kernel can be used in combination with any kernel method, in particular support vector machines for string classi- fication, with notable applications in proteomics.
however, these methods require resolving a much larger  optimization problem and are applicable to small datasets.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: the diffusion kernel is a general method for  computing pairwise distances among all nodes in a graph, based on the sum of  weighted paths between each pair of nodes.
one important issue frequently ignored in the literature is the redundancy in evaluation sets.
bioinformatics , 21:1383-1388, 2005.
our analysis  results are more comprehensive and easier to use than previously published  analysis results.
virtual screening mandates a reliable procedure for automatic ranking of structurally distinct ligands in compound library databases.
[ bib |  .pdf | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ zavaljevski2002support]  n. zavaljevski, f.j. stevens, and  j. reifman.
however, only a  biological validation and identification of the underlying proteins will  ultimately confirm the actual value and power of any computational predictions.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] background subcellular localization of a new protein sequence is  very important and fruitful for understanding its function.
we obtain average classification  accuracies of 87 on a four-group classification problem using a two-stage  linear svm-based procedure and just 13 peaks, with other methods performing  comparably.
simple two-dimensional descriptors were used to capture chemical information.
at a false positive rate of 1% the classifier retrieves close to 80% of a set of trusted interactions.
keywords: biosvm a high-performance method was developed for protein secondary structure prediction based on the dual-layer support vector machine (svm) and position-specific scoring matrices (pssms).
to the best of our knowledge, these are the most accurate results for predicting subcellular localization in gram-negative bacteria.
we observed that samples carrying nras mutations lie somewhere between those with or without braf mutations.
in  addition, it was shown that combinations of three bases within the splice donor  consensus sequence were more effective than consensus values in distinguishing  real from pseudo splice sites; two-way base combinations were optimal for  distinguishing 3' splice sites.
peptide binding at class
these kernels measure sequence similarity based on shared occurrences of fixed-length patterns in the data, allowing for mutations between patterns.
wapp thus predicts peptides that are cleaved by the  proteasome at the c terminus, transported by tap, and show significant affinity  to mhc class i molecules.
to select the correct sequences and to guide the search process, a design scoring function is critically important.
the svm represents a new approach to supervised pattern classification and has been successfully applied to a wide range of pattern recognition problems.
several recognition methods have been  trained and tested on positive data set, consisting of 669 sigma70-promoter  regions with known transcription startpoints of escherichia coli and two  negative data sets of 709 examples each, taken from coding and non-coding  regions of the same genome.
keywords: biosvm [waring2004interlaboratory]   jeffrey f waring, roger g ulrich, nick flint, david morfitt, arno  kalkuhl, frank staedtler, michael lawton, johanna m beekman, and laura  suter.
instead of searching for explicit motifs, our approach finds the distribution of implicit motifs and uses as a feature for classification.
this indicates the potential of svm in facilitating the prediction of tdp-causing risk of small molecules and perhaps other adrs that involve multiple mechanisms.
the machine learning methods nearest neighbour algorithm (nna) and support vector machines are used for predicting protein functional classes from this information.
results esub8 was developed to predict protein subcellular localizations for eukaryotic proteins based on amino acid composition.
we have  developed a method based on support vector machines (svms).
because of its high rate of self-consistency (299/299 = 100 and correct prediction rate (55/63 = 87
this new approach promises to  give better therapeutic measurements to cancer patients by diagnosing cancer  types with improved accuracy.
a slightly more complex model is the ordered pair amino acid preference model (2-aap), which characterizes genomes of different viral genome types by the frequency of ordered pairs of amino acids.
the abundance of each amino acid from p1 to p9 positions in high-, intermediate-, and low-affinity tap binders were examined.
[ yamanishi2005supervised]  y. yamanishi, j.-p. vert, and m. kanehisa.
results: to estimate the activity of a drug combination against a particular viral strain, we develop a scoring function whose independent variables describe a set of antiviral agents and viral dna sequences coding for the molecular targets of the respective drugs.
supplementary information: http://www.ngri.re.kr/proteo/supplementary.doc keywords: biosvm the prediction of protein relative solvent accessibility gives us helpful information for the prediction of tertiary structure of a protein.
the codes and curated dataset are available at http://compbio.utmem.edu/snp/dataset/ keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm
finally, we conduct a  comprehensive prediction of a global enzyme network consisting of all enzyme  candidate proteins of the yeast to obtain new biological findings.
results: in the present work we will use theoretically estimated  binding energies as a basis for overcoming this problem.
methods: sixty one serum samples including 32 ovarian cancer patients and 29 healthy people were detected by surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (seldi-ms).
keywords: biosvm the mathematical modeling and description of complex biological processes has become more and more important over the last years.
[gomez2003learning]   s. m. gomez, w. s. noble, and a. rzhetsky.
a  multiclass svm architecture was designed to place less discriminatory load on  weaker discriminators, and novel svm kernels were used to boost discrimination  strength.
marginalized kernels for  biological sequences.bioinformatics, 18:s268-s275, 2002.
applying support vector  machines for gene ontology based gene function prediction.
the majority of experimentally verified molecular interaction and biological pathway data are present in the unstructured text of biomedical journal articles where they are inaccessible to computational methods.
bioinformatics, 21(9):2059-66, may 2005.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] a modular framework is proposed for modeling and understanding  the relationships between molecular profile data and other domain knowledge  using a combination of generative (here, graphical models) and discriminative  [support vector machines (svms)] methods.
both methods predict inhibitors of cyp3a4 and cyp2d6 at a similar level of accuracy as those of earlier studies.
a list of our predictions for human  gpcrs is available at  http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcrâ·hg/classâ·results.
we illustrate svms capabilities using a sample of 100  journal abstracts texts taken from the human, blood cell, transcription factor  domain of medline.
in addition to its superior classification accuracy, the algorithm is designed to automatically identify a small subset of genes (typically around twenty in our experiments) that are capable of providing complete discriminatory information for diagnosis.
in l. k. saul,  y. weiss, and l. bottou, editors,adv.
this is quite  favorable when compared with the neural network's average performance of 75.7  the svm algorithm are very encouraging and suggest that a classification tool  like this one will prove to be a valuable prediction approach.
a preliminary evaluation of the number of modulated genes uncovered striking differences between the five different sites.
supervised machine learning techniques  for the classification of metabolic disorders in newborns.
this property makes wn-svm particularly suitable for studying  small-size genomes, similar to those of viruses, as well as the typically  larger archaeal and bacterial genomes.
j theor biol, 234(3):351-61, jun 2005.
results: we present a method for detecting remote homology that is based on the presence of discrete sequence motifs.
furthermore, this  analysis was performed to explore classification methods that may be applied to  molecular-epidemiological evaluation.
in addition we investigate the optimal parameter settings for these programs and give an exemplary interpretation of the derived models.
chem., 29(1):37-46, feb 2005.
the prediction of  three and more states of solvent accessibility was also studied and compared  with other methods.
keywords: biosvm [prados2004mining]   j. prados, a. kalousis, j.c. sanchez, l. allard,  o. carrette, and m. hilario.
this method consists of three sequential  steps as follows.
cesh analysis was performed on a total of 104 tumors with a diagnosis of rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, prostate cancer, and favorable-histology wilms tumors.
keywords: biosvm support vector machines (svms) which is one kind of learning machines, was applied to predict the specificity of galnac-transferase.
the best solution on this dataset is achieved using a linear classifier like the simple perceptron or the linear support vector machine, and it is straightforward to extract rules from these linear models.
the results show that the support  vector machine outperforms the neural network.
finally, this system was applied to a  real-world curation problem and its use was found to reduce the task duration  by 70 days.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003supportd]  y.d. cai  and s.l. lin.
for example, the time needed to run psi-blast in order to build the  pro- files is significantly longer than both the kernel computation time and  the svm training time.
the sensitivities for all types of  short lfms are in the range of 70%.
the correct prediction rates reach 82, 75, and 73 2591 proteins, respectively.
two different svm algorithms were tested, and the models obtained were validated with a compound-based external cross-validation approach.
availability: the software is  available from the authors upon request.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: protein backbone torsion angle prediction provides  useful local structural information that goes beyond conventional three-state  (alpha, beta and coil) secondary structure predictions.
results: the average three-state prediction accuracy per protein (q3) is estimated by cross-validation to be 77.07 +/- 0.26
based on the  expression profile of the 32 spots, the isolated cancer cells were categorized  into three histological groups: the squamous cell carcinoma group, the  adenocarcinoma group, and a group of carcinomas with other histological types.
the representation of all these signals is sensitively detected, combined and augmented by the svms to perform an accurate classification.
only 8.3% of the names in this dictionary match swissprot description lines.
the trained svm classifier performed significantly better than  previous cutoff-based methods at separating positive from negative peptides.
whereas introns in the moss are larger on average than in the seed plant  arabidopsis thaliana, position and amount of introns are approximately the  same.
keywords: biosvm [wang2004predicting]   long-hui wang, juan liu, yan-fu li, and huai-bei zhou.
the results evaluated by curators were modest, and quite variable for different problems: in many cases we have relatively good assignment of go terms to proteins, but the selected supporting text was typically non-relevant (precision spanning from 3% to 50%).
contrary to arabidopsis, where cds contain on average 44% g/c, in  physcomitrella the average g/c content is 50%.
compared to prediction of mhc binding only, we report an increased overall accuracy and a lower rate of false positive predictions for the hla-a*0201, hla-b*2705, hla-a*01, and hla-a*03 alleles using wapp.
in this study, svm is used as a machine learning tool for the prediction of secondary structure and several encoding schemes, including orthogonal matrix, hydrophobicity matrix, blosum62 substitution matrix, and combined matrix of these, are applied and optimized to improve the prediction accuracy.
the results demonstrate that our methods are better both in terms of accurately  identifying omps and providing biological insights that increase our  understanding of the structures and functions of these important proteins.
examination of the highest-weighted patterns learned by the svm classifier recovers biologically important motifs in protein families and superfamilies.
[ bib  |.pdf ] motivation: kernel methods such as support vector machines  require a kernel function between objects to be defined a priori.
kernel methods in computational biology.
conclusions: clustering 20 amino acids into a few groups by the proposed greedy algorithm provides a new way to extract features from protein sequences to cover more adjacent amino acids and hence reduce the dimensionality of the input vector of protein features.
however, the svm method based on multiple feature vectors (combining local sequences and global amino acid compositions) significantly improves the prediction accuracy, from 80 cysteine state sequences, svm based on multiple feature vectors yields 90 coefficient, around 10 obtained by svm based on local sequence information.
we  suggested some guidelines for removing overly inadequate overlaps between  training and testing sets.
matthew's correlation coefficients for the jackknife test could reach about 0.5.
the recent trend of  secondary structure prediction studies is mostly based on the neural network or  the support vector machine (svm).
different techniques including standard t-test, single-gene logistic regression, and support vector machine algorithms were applied to identify relevant genes involved in bladder cancer progression.
the classifier achieves a true positive rate of 50 positive rate of 0.5 alternatively spliced exons in exon databases that are believed to be dominated by constitutive exons.
moreover, the  models we proposed could also provide some insight into what structural  features are related to the absolute mobility of aliphatic and aromatic  carboxylic acids.
keywords: biosvm, breastcancer the optimal treatment of patients with cancer depends on establishing accurate diagnoses by using a complex combination of clinical and histopathological data.
for example, a few genes were found to be involved in the  biological process triggered by the drugs (e.g. dna polymerase epsilon was the  direct target for the drugs from dna antimetabolites category).
the simplest amino acid preference  model, 1-aap, is a normalized description of the frequency of amino acids in  genomes of a viral genome type.
the primary goal of this study was to develop machine learning models that classify non-small lung cancers according to histopathology types and to compare several machine learning methods in this learning task.
keywords: biosvm microarray
in this  paper, we address the problem of selection of a small subset of genes from  broad patterns of gene expression data, recorded on dna micro-arrays.
the prediction results are in very good agreement with the experimental values.
for the opsins and  olfactory subfamilies of class a and other minor families (classes b, c,  frizzled and smoothened), the binding g-protein is predicted with high accuracy  using the hmm.
availability: i-sites server is  accessible through the web at http://www.bioinfo.rpi.edu.
the accuracy of the identification is estimated using the standard leave-one-out procedure.
we compared the clustered  functional domains in the sbase database to each protein sequence using blastp.
the most basic step in  the research direction is binary sample classification, which has been studied  extensively over the past few years.
as the number of  new genomes has dramatically increased over recent years, a reliable and  efficient system to predict protein subcellular location is urgently needed.
methods: one hundred and eighty-two  serum samples including 55 from colorectal cancer (crc) patients, 35 from  colorectal adenoma (cra) patients and 92 from healthy persons (hp) were  detected by surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry  (seldi-ms).
support vector machine method can be referred to as a useful assistant technique for finding effective inhibitors of hiv protease, which is one of the targets in designing potential drugs against aids.
examination of the  highest-weighted patterns learned by the svm classifier recovers biologically  important motifs in protein families and superfamilies.
matrix-cgh revealed copy number gains of numerous oncogenes, i.e., ccnd1, mdm2, gli, cdk4, myb, esr1, and aib1, several of which correlate with a high level of transcripts from the respective gene.
we tested our  method on several public data sets as well as our own extracted data sets.
contact: samson@fn.csa.ru keywords: gene expression patterns; development; embryo staging; support vector regression; segmentation genes; drosophila.
prediction of torsade-causing potential of drugs by support vector  machine approach.
one is for rna sequences with known secondary structures, the  other for those without known secondary structures.
this structure plays vital roles in many  biological processes.
in this work, we describe an attraction-repulsion model, in which the interaction between a pair of proteins is represented as the sum of attractive and repulsive forces associated with small, domain- or motif-sized features along the length of each protein.
thirty lung cancer cell lines with three different histological backgrounds (squamous cell carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) were subjected to two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2-d dige) and grouped by multivariate analyses on the basis of their protein expression profiles.
when scores of  multiple parameter datasets are combined, majority voting reduces noise and  increases recognition accuracy.
the predicted residues covered 86-87 (96-97 appeared to be slightly higher than a previously reported study.
we compare a simple nearest neighbor  approach (blast), methods based on multiple alignments generated by a  statistical profile hidden markov model (hmm), and methods, including support  vector machines (svms), that transform protein sequences into fixed-length  feature vectors.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] two different machine-learning algorithms have been used to  predict the blood-brain barrier permeability of different classes of molecules,  to develop a method to predict the ability of drug compounds to penetrate the  cns.
here we develop several new classes of kernels for small molecules  using their 1d, 2d and 3d representations.
various  eem-derived qc molecular descriptors were calculated for known ugt substrates  and nonsubstrates.
the test for the independent testing dataset and the  jackknife test were both carried out.
our results show that the proposed  two-stage classifier outperforms previously published sequence-based methods  for predicting interface residues.
these graph kernels are obtained by marginalizing a kernel  betweenpaths with respect to a random walk model on the graph vertices along  theedges.
leave-one-out cross-validations yielded  accuracies of 87.93 the eight-class and 85.19 outperforming the results derived  from previously published methods.
chem.,  23(2):267-274, 2002.
the prediction accuracy is 40.0 and 99.9 a need for a sufficient number of proteins to train svm.
in contrast with the  baseline method, our method eliminates gene redundancy automatically and yields  better and more compact gene subsets.
our prediction is 14 than that of the recently developed multimodular psort-b.  because of its simplicity, this approach can be easily extended to other  organisms and should be a useful tool for the high-throughput and large-scale
availability: weka machine learning package: www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ ml/weka  and statistical software package ade-4: http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/ade-4 keywords: biosvm proteomics [ yap2004prediction]  c. w. yap, c. z. cai, y. xue, and y. z.  chen.
results: we propose a reasonable way of designing a kernel when objects are generated from latent variable models (e.g., hmm).
further investigation concerning the function of these genes  could contribute to the understanding of gastric carcinogenesis and may prove  useful in molecular diagnostics.
bioinformatics , 20(17):2985-2996, 2004.
the second stage evaluated the performance of the predictors (overall correlation coefficient between observed and predicted efficacy, r; mean error, me; and root-mean-square-error, rmse) using 8-fold and minus-one-rna cross-validation methods.
but its capability for assignment of distantly related proteins and homologous proteins of different functions has not been critically and adequately assessed.
in this paper we try to identify potential biomarkers for early stroke diagnosis using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry coupled with analysis tools from machine learning and data mining.
was used to identify the best discriminatory regions.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: the metabolic network is an important biological  network which relates enzyme proteins and chemical compounds.
overall classification accuracy  was 78 poorly differentiated cancers resulted in low-confidence predictions and  could not be accurately classified according to their tissue of origin,  indicating that they are molecularly distinct entities with dramatically  different gene expression patterns compared with their well differentiated  counterparts.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics [ bock2003whole-proteome]  j. r. bock and d. a. gough.
it is likely that eem-derived qc properties will be  generally useful for predicting admet and physicochemical properties during  drug discovery.
accurate classification of protein structural families  using coherent subgraph analysis.
local alignment kernels for biological  sequences.
application of subgraph mining to proteins is challenging for a number reasons: (1) protein graphs are large and complex, (2) current protein databases are large and continue to grow rapidly, and (3) only a small fraction of the frequent subgraphs among the huge pool of all possible subgraphs could be significant in the context of protein classification.
keywords: biosvm many sophisticated methods are currently available to perform protein secondary structure prediction.
recent advances in  the theory of kernel methods have provided efficient algorithms to perform such  combinations in a way that minimizes a statistical loss function.
in the first one we  simply applied a number of different machine learning algorithms; in the second  one we have chosen the best performing algorithm as it was determined from the  first phase and coupled it with a number of different feature selection  methods.
we have applied this technology to build  a clinically robust site of origin classifier with the ultimate aim of applying  it to determine the origin of cancer of unknown primary (cup).
we compared the classification performance of active learning with that of passive learning.
these results  are insensitive to the exact selection mechanism, over a certain range.
syst., pages 1449-1456.
we then evaluate the utility of the kernel hierarchical clustering algorithm using both internal and external validation.
based on these  observations, we present an alternative method for svm-based protein  classification.
with the generalized lsm impaired data for learning with a small set of binding peptides and a large set of non-binding peptides can be treated in a balanced way rendering lsm more successful than svm, while for symmetric data sets svm has a slight advantage compared to lsm.
the authors have developed geno2pheno, an  intelligent system that uses the information encoded in the viral genomic  sequence to predict resistance or susceptibility of the virus to 13  antiretroviral agents.
in the present study, two different data sets were  evaluated.
in the third step, a  classification model is built to recognize true tiss by applying support vector  machines or ensembles of decision trees to the selected features.
among dozens of unequivocally categorized genes, many were known to be causally related to the drug mechanisms.
correspondingly, several methods  have been recently proposed for addressing these issues.
this set of discriminators was highly  enriched in genes on 1q, indicating close agreement between data obtained from  expression profiling with data from genomic copy number analyses.
functional annotation currently relies almost exclusively on inter-species  sequence comparison and is restricted in cases of limited data from related  species and widely divergent sequences with no known homologs.
these are then coupled with high-dimensional classification methods to assess the classification power of complete expression profiles.
these results demonstrate that a fully automatic pattern recognition algorithm can meet or exceed the performance of hand-crafted approaches.
although huge amounts of genomic data are at hand, current experimental protein interaction assays must overcome technical problems to scale-up for high-throughput analysis.
availability: http://genomics10.bu.edu/yangsu/rankgene contact: murali@bu.edu keywords: biosvm [sorich2003comparison]   m. j. sorich, j. o. miners, r. a. mckinnon, d. a. winkler,  f. r. burden, and p. a. smith.
using string kernel to predict  signal peptide cleavage site based on subsite coupling model.
keywords: biosvm [rice2005mining]   simon b rice, goran nenadic, and benjamin j stapley.
when only sequence information was used, prediction  performance was highest using the feature vectors, sequentially neighboring  profiles and predicted interaction site ratios, which were calculated by svm  regression using amino acid compositions.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] background protein-protein interactions play a critical role in  protein function.
the classification of protein quaternary structure based on the primary sequences can provide some useful information for the biologists.
this tumor displays  characteristic features of soft tissue sarcoma (sts), including deep soft  tissue primary location and a characteristic translocation, t(12;22)(q13;q12),  involving ews and atf1 genes.
active  learning avoids these problems.
keywords: biosvm [kashima2003marginalized]   h. kashima, k. tsuda, and a. inokuchi.
the  method is applied to the problem of predicting yeast protein functional  classifications using a support vector machine (svm) trained on five types of  data.
using only those features that are  relevant for constructing a splice site prediction system might improve the  system and might also provide us with useful biological knowledge.
it was then performed in solution to  assay real mixtures of dna hairpins.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: the subcellular location of a protein is closely  correlated to its function.
it is a hard  computational problem with no approach that works well in all cases.
support vector machine applications in  bioinformatics.
this machine learning tool led to the definition of potential branch points, an extended polypyrimidine tract, and c-rich and tg-rich motifs in a region limited to 50 nt upstream of constitutively spliced exons.
gene expression data is also expected to significantly aid in the development of efficient cancer diagnosis and classification platforms.
results: the task of finding tis can be modeled as a  classification problem.
the comp attribute data set is composed of amino acid composition, and the fasg, nisk, wols and kytj attribute data sets are composed of the amino acid composition and the auto-correlation functions of the corresponding amino acid residue index.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] support vector machines and kernel methods are increasingly  popular in genomics and computational biology, due to their good performance in  real-world applications and strong modularity that makes them suitable to a  wide range of problems, from the classification of tumors to the automatic  annotation of proteins.
these signals are mainly characterized by  occurrences of adenine in a region of about 4 nucleotides next to the start  codon.
first, we developed  a new svm method, called btsvm, which predicts beta-turns of a protein from its  sequence.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] objective finding the best scientific evidence that applies to a  patient problem is becoming exceedingly difficult due to the exponential growth  of medical publications.
the result demonstrates the  applicability of this novel method and provides comparable prediction  performance compared with existing methods for the prediction of the oxidation  states of cysteines in proteins.
we are  seeking to develop a computer system for powerful and reliable cancer  diagnostic model creation based on microarray data.
results: the interaction mining approach was  demonstrated by building a learning system based on 1,039 experimentally  validated protein-protein interactions in the human gastric bacterium  helicobacter pylori.
j biomed  inform, 37(4):240-8, aug 2004.
results: by applying support vector  regression we have developed a fast method for automated staging of an embryo  on the basis of its gene expression pattern.
kernels can be built from hidden markov random fields, generalized regular expressions, pair-hmms, or anova decompositions.
as high-throughput technology for snps improves and as more snps are identified, it is likely that much higher predictive accuracy will be achieved and a useful clinical tool developed.
keywords: biosvm microarray motivation: the subcellular location of a protein is closely correlated to its function.
among the stroke specimens two further categories exist that correspond to ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke; in this paper we limit our data analysis to discriminating between control and stroke specimens.
overall, we found that 63 confirmed through cross-validation.
microm) and  noninhibitors were generated using various machine-learning algorithms  (recursive partitioning [rp], bayesian classifier, logistic regression,  k-nearest-neighbor, and support vector machine
two hundred ninety-nine oligopeptides  were chosen for the training set, while the other 63 oligopeptides were taken  as a test set.
keywords: biosvm [liu2004qsar]  h. x.  liu, r. s. zhang, x. j. yao, m. c. liu, z. d. hu, and  b. t. fan.
support vector machines  (svms) were used as discriminators, and were the focus of off-line training.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 171-192. mit press, 2004.
cross-validation studies with four selected proteins yielded misclassification  rates in the 10-15 for all the classification methods.
fibroblast cultures were irradiated, and their expression  profile was compared using intensity ratios of the cdna microarrays  representing 5603 image clones.
we base our experiments on a proven  state-of-the-art model, support vector machines using a high quality subset of  100 annotated medline abstracts.
dorronsoro, editor,proc.
mismatch string kernels for discriminative protein classification.
to answer question (2), we additionally used svm-based predictions to recognize acceptor and donor splice sites.
conclusions we developed a consensus method for predicting  protein-protein interface residues by combining sequence and structure-based  methods.
these methods employ a variety of molecular descriptors to  characterize structural and physicochemical properties of molecules.
using information gain with a naïve bayesian classifier, removal of up to  96% of the features yielded an improved classification accuracy measured by  sensitivity.
we investigated two  new methods: the unique one-against-others and the all-against-all methods.
1):i38-i46, jun  2005.
however, these methods can either only be applied for specific subsets, or  their results are not formalised, or they do not provide precise confidence  estimates for their predictions.
the resulting models are relatively easy to interpret and usable for predictive as well as for explanatory purposes.
hence a filter that eliminates poor spectra before the database search can  significantly improve throughput and robustness.
thus, the kernels provide a biologically well-motivated way to compare protein sequences without relying on family-based generative models such as hidden markov models.
by predicting phosphorylation sites and their kinases from primary protein sequences, we can obtain much valuable information that can form the basis for further research.
the test for the independent testing dataset and the jackknife test were both carried out.
in  addition to its superior classification accuracy, the algorithm is designed to  automatically identify a small subset of genes (typically around twenty in our  experiments) that are capable of providing complete discriminatory information  for diagnosis.
this file was generated by bibtex2html 1.94.
keywords: biosvm [beerenwinkel2003methods]   n. beerenwinkel, t. lengauer, m. daumer, r. kaiser,  h. walter, k. korn, d. hoffmann, and j. selbig.
we test the method on two remote homology detection tasks: prediction of a previously unseen scop family and prediction of an enzyme class given other enzymes that have a similar function on other substrates.
in the second step, a number of important features are selected by an  entropy-based algorithm.
using feature selection methods we find seven attributes that are  dominant for the task of classification.
reliable,  noninvasive methods for early detection of liver cirrhosis are not available.
we have developed prototype svms for binary classification of rrna-, rna-, and dna-binding proteins.
our scoring  function discriminates perfectly a set of 440 native proteins from 14 million  sequence decoys.
investigating applicability of the bci/svm model found a strong correlation between the predictive performance and the structural similarity to the training set.
finally, by analyzing the models constructed by support vector machines we produced a small set of 13 features that could be used as potential biomarkers, and which exhibited good performance both in terms of sensitivity, specificity and model stability.
keywords: biosvm [arodz2005pattern]  tomasz  arodź, marcin kurdziel, erik o d sevre, and david a yuen.
testing results using this independent evaluation set show a prediction accuracy of 94.1 proteins, and 98.7 and non-trna-binding proteins, respectively.
we show that the dataset used in these studies is linearly separable and that it is a misuse of nonlinear classifiers to apply them to this problem.
the objective of this study was to apply machine learning techniques to automatically identify high-quality, content-specific articles for one time period in internal medicine and compare their performance with previous boolean-based pubmed clinical query filters of haynes et al.
despite advances in high-throughput methods for  discovering protein-protein interactions, the interaction networks of even  well-studied model organisms are sketchy at best, highlighting the continued  need for computational methods to help direct experimentalists in the search  for novel interactions.
the variability in position and composition we found  for that signal is in accordance with previous biological knowledge.
during the past three years, the support vector machine learning algorithm has been extensively applied within the field of computational biology.
correspondingly, several methods have been recently proposed for addressing these issues.
in particular, the high-throughput generation of protein-protein interaction data from a few organisms makes such an approach very important towards understanding the molecular recognition that make-up the entire protein-protein interaction network.
[3], from complex structures that have been solved experimentally.
as a result, the correct rate of self-consistency and jackknife test reaches 91 and 82 73 rate was tested by the three independent testing datasets containing 2240 proteins, 2513 proteins, and 2591 proteins.
[ bib | doi |  http | .pdf ] the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of learning  machine, was used to develop a quantitative structure-property relationship  (qspr) model of the o-h bond dissociation energy (bde) of 78 substituted  phenols.
methods programs biomed.,  79(2):135-49, aug 2005.
furthermore, cross-validation testing shows  that including the bzip experimental data significantly improves performance.
availability: programs are available on request from the  authors.
several groups have employed a statistical learning method,  support vector machines (svms), for predicting protein functional family  directly from sequence irrespective of sequence similarity.
many association studies between single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) of candidate genes and chd have been reported.
despite advances in high-throughput methods for discovering protein-protein interactions, the interaction networks of even well-studied model organisms are sketchy at best, highlighting the continued need for computational methods to help direct experimentalists in the search for novel interactions.
results: this paper presents a new method to infer protein networks from multiple types of genomic data.
it is estimated that over half of all human genes have more than one splice variant.
the initial results  suggest that our approach can also mine annotations from text even when an  explicit statement relating a protein to a go term is absent.
further investigation of this effect  revealed that it could be explained by a significant reduction in the accuracy  of standard secondary structure prediction methods for edge strands, in  comparison with central strands.
furthermore, we provide evidence that the in vivo  moa of hexachlorophene does not match the moa predicted from in vitro data, a  situation frequently faced in drug discovery.
there have emerged many methods based on machine learning techniques, such as neural networks (nn) and support vector machine (svm) etc., to focus on the prediction of the secondary structures.
overall, 144 proteins were identified by peptides predicted to be correctly sequenced, and 113 were identified by at least three peptides or one or two peptides with at least an 80 identified proteins included 22 proteasome subunits or associated proteins, 18 e1, e2 or e3 ubiquitin system enzymes or related proteins, and four ubiquitin domain proteins.
although the brill tagger trained in-domain on the genia v3.02p pos corpus gives the best overall performance of any pos tagger, at an f score of 68.6, this is still significantly below the orthographic features.
furthermore, we obtain improved performance by combining several sequence-based kernels based on k-mer frequency, motif and domain content and by further augmenting the pairwise sequence kernel with features that are based on other sources of data.
the root-mean-square errors in absolute mobility predictions for the whole data set given by mlr, rbfnns, and svm were 1.530, 1.373, and 0.888 mobility units (10(-5) cm(2) s(-1) v(-1)), respectively, which indicated that the prediction result agrees well with the experimental values of these compounds and also revealed the superiority of svm over mlr and rbfnns models for the prediction of the absolute mobility of carboxylic acids.
this is the reason why we  investigate the implementation of support vector machines to perform the task.
furthermore, the models were evaluated by a 10 compound  external test set, yielding r2 of 0.71 and 0.89 and rms error of 0.430 and  0.222.
keywords: biosvm this paper presents a machine learning method to predict polyadenylation signals (pases) in human dna and mrna sequences by analysing features around them.
keywords: biosvm image [ arimoto2005development]  rieko arimoto, madhu-ashni prasad, and eric m  gifford.
we have also  implemented a web server to predict protein localization across the six classes  (available at http://pslip.bii.a-star.edu.sg).
however, extraction efforts have been frustrated by the lack of conventions for describing human genes and proteins.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] a new method support vector machine (svm) and the heuristic  method (hm) were used to develop the nonlinear and linear models between the  capacity factor (logk) and seven molecular descriptors of 75 peptides for the  first time.
bmc bioinformatics, 4(54), 2003.
in our method,  protein structures are represented by graphs where the nodes are residues and  the edges connect residues found within certain distance from each other.
first, we propose a fair scheme to compare existing design tools based on real data in the literature.
contact:  westhead@bmb.leeds.ac.uk supplementary information:  http://www.bioinformatics.leeds.ac.uk/ppi-pred/supp-material.
finally, we applied our svm classifiers to  13 cases of cup.
the first one involves an application of svm to the development of a qsar model for the prediction of toxicities of 153 phenols, and the second investigation deals with the qsar model between the structures and the activities of a set of 85 cyclooxygenase 2 (cox-2) inhibitors.
with this learning approach researchers first develop a large training set, which is a time-consuming and costly process.
computing a rank score requires  the accurate prediction of binding affinities between these ligands and the  target.
a kernel for protein  secondary structure prediction.
geno2pheno: interpreting genotypic hiv drug resistance tests.
this method seems to perform slightly better than two profile based methods, syfpeithi and hla_bind.
we tested the ability of svm, in comparison with well-known neural network techniques, to predict drug-likeness and agrochemical-likeness for large compound collections.
keywords: biosvm proteomics [ segal2003classification]  n. h. segal, p. pavlidis, w. s. noble,  c. r. antonescu, a. viale, u. v. wesley, k. busam,  h. gallardo, d. desantis, m. f. brennan, c. cordon-cardo,  j. d. wolchok, and a. n. houghton.
bioinformatics, 2005.
these methods exploit semidefinite programming techniques to reduce the problem of finding optimizing kernel combinations to a convex optimization problem.
first, a 50-gene subset was  used to simulate a candidate gene approach when it might not be practical to  measure a large number of genes/biomarkers.
although most recent  computational studies on alternative splicing apply only to exons which are  conserved among two species, our method only uses information that is available  to the splicing machinery, i.e. the dna sequence itself.
keywords: biosvm, cgh knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of a protein is essential for describing and understanding its function.
we have developed a large-scale  annotation system that tackles all of these shortcomings.
due to the complexity of proteomic profiling, a higher order analysis  such as data mining is needed to uncover the differences in complex proteomic  patterns.
predicting the subcellular localization of proteins is important for determining the function of proteins.
keywords: biosvm membrane proteins are generally classified into the following five types: (1) type i membrane proteins, (2) type ii membrane proteins, (3) multipass transmembrane proteins, (4) lipid chain-anchored membrane proteins and (5) gpi-anchored membrane proteins.
availability: we have set up a web server for gpcr subfamily classification based on hierarchical multi-class svms at http://www.soe.ucsc.edu/research/compbio/gpcr-subclass.
based on our data, we hypothesize  that acceptors preferentially exhibit short helices at the splice site.
understanding protein dispensability through  machine-learning analysis of high-throughput data.
the use of  13 features, including four new parameters, significantly improved the  separation between positive and negative peptides.
comparison of  statistical methods for classification of ovarian cancer using mass  spectrometry data.
we test several  svms that use different similarity metrics, as well as some other supervised  learning methods, and find that the svms best identify sets of genes with a  common function using expression data.
interestingly, rules generated by the decision tree method are in close  agreement with our knowledge of protein structure and are potentially useful in  a number of different biological applications.
several less informative features help to slightly increase the performance of the classifier.
the removal of irrelevant and redundant information often improves the performance of learning algorithms.
applying this system to known gpcr sequences, each binding g-protein is predicted with high sensitivity and specificity (>85% on average).
results obtained through  5-fold cross-validation tests showed an improvement in prediction accuracy over  the algorithm based on the amino acid composition only.
both decision tree and support vector machine classifiers, using folding energy and structure metrics characterizing helix formation near the splice site, achieve a 5-10 a human data set.
for each expert, a gene subset consisting of the top 50 genes distinguished all from aml samples as completely as all 7,070 genes.
we observed that samples carrying nras mutations lie  somewhere between those with or without braf mutations.
our experiments indicate that multi-class svm methods are more suitable for protein secondary structure (pss) prediction than the other methods, including binary svms, because their capacity to solve an optimization problem in one step.
prognostic classification of  relapsing favorable histology wilms tumor using cdna microarray expression  profiling and support vector machines.
bioinformatics, 21 suppl 1:i387-i393, jun 2005.
in the process of splicing sites prediction, the statistical information of rna secondary structure in the vicinity of splice sites, e.g. donor and acceptor sites, is introduced in order to compare recognition ratio of true positive and true negative.
an in-silico method for prediction  of polyadenylation signals in human sequences.
this method fails when a similar protein cannot be identified, or when any similar proteins identified also lack reliable annotations.
we also show how sets of specificity rules can be generated from the resulting linear classifiers.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 299-317.
this method consists of three sequential steps of feature  manipulation: generation, selection and integration of features.
the aim of this  paper is to systematically benchmark the role of non-linear versus linear  techniques and dimensionality reduction methods.
tissue classification  with gene expression profiles.
ieee  intelligent systems, 6(6):35-41, 2001.
the binary classifiers are combined in several  ways to predict multi-class secondary structure.
however such protein localization programs are currently least  accurate when predicting omps, and so there is a current need for the  development of a better omp classifier.
methods and material: three serum  seldi ms data sets were used in this research to identify serum proteomic  patterns that distinguish the serum of ovarian cancer cases from non-cancer  controls.
using support vector machines, we attempted to predict phosphorylation sites and the type of kinase that acts at each site.
further a support vector  machine (svm)-based method has been developed to model the tap binding affinity  of peptides.
various parameters from the svm have been adjusted to achieve optimal prediction performance.
while our classification scheme does not take directly into  account sequence information our results are in agreement with functional and  sequence based classification of death domain family members.
pleomorphic tumors were  heterogeneous.
these methods employ a variety of molecular descriptors to characterize structural and physicochemical properties of molecules.
protein secondary structure  prediction is a key step in prediction of protein tertiary structure.
in a.j. smola, p.l. bartlett,  b. schölkopf, and d. schuurmans, editors,advances in large  margin classifiers, pages 39-50.
this paper proposes a new and effective method for drug design and screening.
keywords: biosvm we introduce novel profile-based string kernels for use with support vector machines (svms) for the problems of protein classification and remote homology detection.
our study suggests the potential of svm as a useful tool for facilitating the prediction of protein-rna interactions.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003supportb]  y.d.  cai, x.j. liu, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
keywords: biosvm, breastcancer [ li2004comparative]  t. li, c. zhang, and m. ogihara.
as the number of new genomes has dramatically increased over recent years, a reliable and efficient system to predict protein subcellular location is urgently needed.
j chem inf comput sci,  44(4):1257-66, 2004.
classification models were developed using support vector machine and partial least squares discriminant analysis.
j chem inf  comput sci, 44(1):161-7, 2004.
it is found in this work that (1) this method provides  much better prediction accuracy than the use of hmms only for prediction, and  (2) the support vector machines (svms) algorithm outperforms decision trees and  neural network algorithms when they are constructed on the features extracted  using the trained hmms.
the key issue now is how to organise and manage the huge amount of novel information to facilitate access to this useful and important biological information.
high-throughput and high-resolution mass spectrometry instruments are increasingly used for disease classification and therapeutic guidance.
j. pathol., 163(2):691-700, aug 2003.
keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics [ dubey2005support]  anshul dubey, matthew j realff, jay h lee, and  andreas s bommarius.
a new method to estimate ligand-receptor energetics.
we refer to the modified svms as  bio-support vector machine.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(2):469-74, 2003.
the prediction result of the svm model is better than that of heuristic method.
the predictive accuracies of models using molfea derived descriptors is approximately 10-15%age points higher than those using molecular properties alone.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: unsupervised analysis of microarray gene expression  data attempts to find biologically significant patterns within a given  collection of expression measurements.
recently supervised methods such as decision trees, dot-product support vector machines (svm) and multi-layer perceptrons (mlp) have been applied in order to classify normal and tumoural tissues.
our training sets include networks generated from 17  models either drawn from the literature or introduced in this work.
this work proposes a mixture of feature relevance experts as a method for identifying marker genes and illustrates the idea using published data from samples labeled as acute lymphoblastic and myeloid leukemia (all, aml).
a web service, tappred (http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/tappred/ or http://bioinformatics.uams.edu/mirror/tappred/), has been developed based on this approach.
then a marginalized kernel for visible data is obtained by  taking the expectation with respect to hidden variables.
keywords: biosvm [cai2002supportb]  y.d.  cai, x.j. liu, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
based on this study, we  have developed a web server, tbbpred, for predicting transmembrane beta-barrel  regions in proteins (available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/tbbpred).
contact: borgwardt@dbs.ifi.lmu.de.
therefore, when using data mining techniques, the discrimination of cancer from normal does not depend solely upon the identity and origination of cancer-related proteins.
in addition, prediction performance of locsvmpsi was evaluated with 5-fold cross validation test on the pk7579 data set and the prediction results were consistently better than the previous method based on several svms using composition of both amino acids and amino acid pairs.
for both kinds of data, svm outperforms various neural networks using the same set of descriptors.
the classification was  achieved on the basis of amino acid and dipeptide composition from a sequence  of receptors using support vector machines.
we  compare the svm classifier with an mlp (multi-layer perceptron) in the  false-positive reduction phase of our detection scheme: a detected signal is  considered either microcalcification or false signal, according to the value of  a set of its features.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] remote homology detection refers to the detection of structural  homology in proteins when there is little or no sequence similarity.
by computing z-scores, we found that p and g were the two most important residues to ppii structure conformation.
two well-known classification algorithms, naïve bayesian and support vector machine (svm), were used to classify the chemical compounds.
results from literature on beta-lactamase were used to test the accuracy of this method.
j comb chem, 7(2):298-301, 2005.
the present release of the sbase a library of protein domain sequences contains 972,397 protein sequence segments annotated by structure, function, ligand-binding or cellular topology, clustered into 8547 domain groups.
when applied to secondary structure prediction based on support vector machines, we obtain a approximately 2% gain in q3 performance by incorporating cluster-derived data into training and classification.
keywords: biosvm staging of prostate cancer is a mainstay of treatment decisions and prognostication.
keywords: biosvm motivation: classification of proteins sequences into functional and structural families based on sequence homology is a central problem in computational biology.
appl bioinformatics, 2(2):67-77, 2003.
mismatch kernel software is available upon request.
this global constraint allows for high variance in the pairwise distances.
keywords: biosvm transcription profiling experiments permit the expression levels of many genes to be measured simultaneously.
text mining has spurred huge interest in the domain of biology.
availability: softwares are available upon request.
we apply a new machine learning method, the so-called support vector machine method, to predict the protein structural class.
learning to  discriminate between ligand-bound and disulfide-bound cysteines.
of special mention is an obvious outlier, yeast gene rpl22b,  highly homologous to rpl22a
results: when applied to publicly available expression data the method is able to extract biologically relevant expression patterns, as well as pathways with related activity.
licensing agreements are available for  commercial interests.
keywords: biosvm motivation: alternative splicing is a major component of the regulation acting on mammalian transcriptomes.
a comparative study of  machine-learning methods to predict the effects of single nucleotide  polymorphisms on protein function.
the results of this initial study suggest that normal cells from  heterozygous brca1 mutation carriers display a different gene expression  profile from controls in response to dna damage.
the prebind system described here is available  to the public at http://bind.ca.
here, we  demonstrate that codon composition, a fusion of codon usage bias and amino acid  composition signals, can accurately discriminate, in the absence of sequence  homology information, cytoplasmic ribosomal protein genes from all other genes  of known function in saccharomyces cerevisiae, escherichia coli and  mycobacterium tuberculosis using an implementation of support vector machines,  svmlight.
development of cyp3a4 inhibition models: comparisons of  machine-learning techniques and molecular descriptors.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2525-7, may 2005.
our results show that the proposed two-stage classifier outperforms previously published sequence-based methods for predicting interface residues.
moreover, spectra judged to be  of high quality, but that cannot be identified by database search, are prime  candidates for still more computationally intensive methods, such as de novo  sequencing or wider database searches including post-translational  modifications.
we used the support vector machine (svm) and the neural network (nn) learning methods as base classifiers.
this paper introduces the jcfo, a novel algorithm that uses a sparse bayesian approach to jointly identify both the optimal nonlinear classifier for diagnosis and the optimal set of genes on which to base that diagnosis.
weighted-support vector machines for predicting membrane protein types based on  pseudo-amino acid composition.
keywords: biosvm [yu2005classifying]   c. yu, n. zavaljevski, f. j. stevens, k. yackovich, and  j. reifman.
regression  approaches for microarray data analysis.
uses of the method lead to open problems involving the theory of infinitely divisible positive definite functions.
svms converges fast and leads to high accuracy.
mhc-peptide complexes are potential tools for diagnosis and  treatment of pathogens and cancer, as well as for the development of peptide  vaccines.
the drug activity profiles are used as training examples to train the svm and then the gene expression profiles are used as test examples to predict their associated mechanistic categories.
the best models gave an overall correlation between predicted  and observed efficacy of 0.46 on both antisense and sirna data.
the study was carried out at the  genome level as well as two shorter sequence levels: short (300 amino acids)  and medium length (660 amino acids).
the principal origin of non-additivity involves the so-called indirect component of protein-dna recognition which is related to the sequence dependence of dna deformation induced during complex formation.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: during the past decade, the new focus on genomics  has highlighted a particular challenge: to integrate the different views of the  genome that are provided by various types of experimental data.
overall, we find the agreement between our results and these experiments is comparable to the agreement (albeit low) between the two experiments.
results for the  adaboost classifier method are promising, especially for classifying mass-type  lesions.
keywords: biosvm proteomics motivation: during the bavarian newborn screening programme all newborns have been tested for about 20 inherited metabolic disorders.
this suggests that svms should be well suited for these difficult situations.
this global constraint allows for high variance in the pairwise  distances.
keywords: biosvm [byvatov2003support]   e. byvatov and g. schneider.
nevertheless, the issue of whether gene expression profiles  are reproducible across different laboratories remains to be determined.
no single snp site on its own could achieve more  than 60 predictive accuracy.
hepatotoxic compounds in the database were either known hepatotoxicants or showed hepatotoxicity during preclinical testing.
decision  trees performed poorer than the other methods in this learning task and  dataset.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 209-230.
keywords: biosvm motivation: despite some progress with antiretroviral combination therapies, therapeutic success in the management of hiv-infected patients is limited.
keywords: biosvm using endogenous human cellular ubiquitin system enzymes and added his-tagged ubiquitin, atp, and an atp-regenerating system, we labelled cellular proteins with hexahistidine tagged ubiquitin in vitro.
in most instances, cancer cases occur sporadically, suggesting that environmental influences are critical in determining cancer risk.
the new method is particularly useful when our focus is aimed at proteins belonging to small subsets.
these signals are mainly characterized by occurrences of adenine in a region of about 4 nucleotides next to the start codon.
bioinformatics,  20:i363-i370, 2004.
protein backbone angle  prediction with machine learning approaches.
we have developed a new method to analyse this kind of data  using support vector machines (svms).
nucleic acids res, 32(web server issue):w634-7, jul 2004.
the results also give a broad picture of the relative strengths of a wide variety of methods when tested on a reasonably large human-annotated corpus.
programs are available upon request for academics.
[  bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [pavlidis2002learning]   p. pavlidis, j. weston, j. cai, and w.s. noble.
in most cases the  success of a model has been evaluated by how well it reproduces a few key  features of the real-world data, such as degree distributions, mean geodesic  lengths, and clustering coefficients.
the combination of seldi with bioinformatics tools could find new biomarkers and establish patterns with high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of ovarian cancer.
availability: i-sites server is accessible through the web at http://www.bioinfo.rpi.edu.
in this study we focused on classifying protein family members based on their protein-protein interaction distinctiveness.
in  this paper, the missing entries are completed by exploiting an auxiliary kernel  matrix derived from another information source.
the latter employs  stochastic context-free grammar (scfg) for estimating the secondary structure.
then a marginalized kernel for visible data is obtained by taking the expectation with respect to hidden variables.
we find that this network has a delocalized structure with respect  to chromosomal positioning, with a given transcription factor having targets  spread fairly uniformly across the genome.
in addition to gene expression analysis using microarrays, a complete serum chemistry profile and liver and kidney histopathology were performed.
in this study, 409 peptides that bind to human tap transporter with varying affinity were analyzed to explore the selectivity and specificity of tap transporter.
source code is available from the author upon request.
supervised learning algorithms based on support vector machines are currently one of the most effective methods for remote homology detection.
keywords: biosvm support vector machine (svm) and artificial neural network (ann) systems were applied to a drug/nondrug classification problem as an example of binary decision problems in early-phase virtual compound filtering and screening.
in the latter case, the precision at recall = 50 test set and  >20 30 closest sequentially/spatially neighboring on the interaction site  residues.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] background:
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm the development of new statistical methods for use in molecular epidemiology comprises the building and application of appropriate classification rules.
keywords: biosvm currently there is no successful computational approach for identification of genes encoding novel functional rnas (frnas) in genomic sequences.
discovery of differentially expressed genes  related to histological subtype of hepatocellular carcinoma.
this paper investigates the next step-multiclass classification of samples based on gene expression.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] statistical-learning methods have been developed for  facilitating the prediction of pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of  chemical agents.
keywords: biosvm [leslie2004mismatch]   c. s. leslie, e. eskin, a. cohen, j. weston, and w. s.
recently supervised methods such as decision trees,  dot-product support vector machines (svm) and multi-layer perceptrons (mlp)  have been applied in order to classify normal and tumoural tissues.
its  applicability is demonstrated on the leukemia data (golub et al., 1999) and the  small round blue cell tumors of childhood data (khan et al., 2001).
existing  approaches generally use sequence-based models that capture local dependencies  among nucleotides in a small window around the splice site.
however, the robustness of subtype-specific gene expression signatures has to be proven on independent patient samples.
because these new micro-array devices  generate bewildering amounts of raw data, new analytical methods must be  developed to sort out whether cancer tissues have distinctive signatures of  gene expression over normal tissues or other types of cancer tissues.
in  most cases, we achieved better validation results than those reported  previously on the same data sets.
genes implicated in dlbcl outcome included some that regulate responses to b-cell?receptor signaling, critical serine/threonine phosphorylation pathways and apoptosis.
svm correctly assigns 72  pairs in the second group, suggesting that it is potentially useful for  facilitating functional study of novel proteins.
cytokeratin 20, neuropilin-2, p21, and p33ing1 were selected among the top  ranked molecular targets differentially expressed and validated by  immunohistochemistry using tissue microarrays (n = 173).
bmc bioinformatics, 6 suppl 1:s7, 2005.
based on the subsite coupling  model, a kind of string kernels for protein sequence is introduced.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] dna micro-arrays now permit scientists to screen thousands of  genes simultaneously and determine whether those genes are active, hyperactive  or silent in normal or cancerous tissue.
our method  is a first step towards systematizing network models and assessing their  predictability, and we anticipate its usefulness for a number of communities.
a companion  website can be accessed at http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home5/pg02776030/lsbound/. the  website contains: (1) the source code of the gene selection algorithm; (2) the  complete set of tables and figures regarding the experimental study; (3) proof  of the inequality (9).
keywords: biosvm microarray, cgh motivation: the t-cell receptor, a major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecule, and a bound antigenic peptide, play major roles in the process of antigen-specific t-cell activation.
in this paper we present a general method for characterizing a set of sequences by their recurrent motifs.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] objective:
keywords: biosvm [saetrom2004predicting]   p. saetrom.
finally, the setting of the  svm classifier is much easier than the mlp one.
chem.,  29(2):95-100, apr 2005.
our studies shed some lights on global characteristics of protein dispensability and evolution.
in suzanna becker, sebastian thrun, and  klaus obermayer, editors,advances in neural information processing systems  15.
the results showed that all blindly  applied classification methods had a slightly smaller misclassification rate  than a random classification.
we were able to achieve predictive accuracies up to 78% for 10-fold cross-validation.
keywords: biosvm immunoinformatics a method for identifying the positions in the amino acid sequence, which are critical for the catalytic activity of a protein using support vector machines (svms) is introduced and analysed.
support-vector machines, followed by the ga/knn combination, outperformed the other techniques when comparing the average of individual models.
we also  find evidence for signals downstream of the start codon, previously introduced  as transcriptional enhancers.
we have benchmarked the descfold method against several other state-of-the-art fold recognition algorithms for the 172 livebench-8 targets, and we concluded that it was able to add value to the existing techniques by providing a confident hit for at least 10 known methods.
a set of svms was trained to predict the subcellular location of a given protein based on its amino acid, amino acid pair, and gapped amino acid pair compositions.
support vector machines with selective kernel scaling for  protein classification and identification of key amino acid positions.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] subcellular location of a protein is one of the key functional  characters as proteins must be localized correctly at the subcellular level to  have normal biological function.
the recall of the  extracellular site and overall recall of our predictor reach 86.0% and 89.8%,  respectively, in 5-fold cross-validation.
in this article, based on the concept of using the functional domain composition to define a protein, the support vector machine algorithm is developed for predicting the membrane protein type.
various eem-derived qc molecular descriptors were calculated for known ugt substrates and nonsubstrates.
the results show that our method performs well and achieves 16.5 data and 18.6 data.
support vector regression is used for predicting peptides  transported by tap.
rna, 10(3):355-368, 2004.
the theory of svm and ann training is briefly reviewed.
from each of the original datasets, two subsets were generated to  simulate two scenarios in biomarker applications.
this predictive model  was subsequently used to assess compounds with regard to a potential  hepatotoxic liability.
however, class prediction based on these patterns is an under-determined problem, due to the extreme high dimensionality of the data compared to the usually small number of available samples.
using a correlation-based feature selector combined with machine learning algorithms such as decision trees, naïve bayes and support vector machines, we show that classification performance at least as good as published results can be obtained on acute leukemia and diffuse large b-cell lymphoma microarray data sets.
combining protein secondary structure  prediction models with ensemble methods of optimal complexity.
p2sl additionally offers the distribution  potential of proteins among localization classes, which is particularly  important for proteins, shuttle between nucleus and cytosol.
one approach for function prediction is to classify a  protein into functional family.
pediatric acute  lymphoblastic leukemia (all) gene expression signatures classify an independent  cohort of adult all patients.
marginalized kernels  between labeled graphs.
on the cb513 data set, the three-state overall per-residue accuracy, q3, reached 75.2 to 80.0 74.0 has been constructed and is available at http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/pmsvm.
our prediction is 14 than that of the recently developed multimodular psort-b. because of its simplicity, this approach can be easily extended to other organisms and should be a useful tool for the high-throughput and large-scale analysis of proteomic and genomic data.
in several cases, unexpected phenotype assignments by the computer revealed functional roles for specific factors at multiple steps in the gene expression pathway.
however, these methods typically encode  sequence information into their feature vectors and ignore the structure  information.
though multi-class classification is typically solved by combining several binary classifiers, recently, several multi-class methods that consider all classes at once have been proposed.
including novel constellations of metabolites into the models, the  positive predictive value could be strongly increased (pku 71.9 54.6 clearly  prove that the mined data confirm the known and indicate some novel metabolic  patterns which may contribute to a better understanding of newborn metabolism.
convolution kernels on discrete structures.
mit press, cambridge, ma, 2000.
[ bib ] a new method for peptidyl prolyl cis/trans isomerization  prediction based on the theory of support vector machines (svm) was introduced.
this illustrates the  extensibility of the traditional named entity task to special domains with  large-scale terminologies such as those in medicine and related disciplines.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics herg [ tang2005discovering]  thomas tang, jinbo xu, and ming li.
we present specific biological examples of two  subnetworks of protein-protein interactions in c. jejuni resulting from the  application of this approach, including elements of a two-component signal  transduction systems for thermoregulation, and a ferritin uptake network.
bioinformatics, 18(suppl.
with considerable accuracy using amino acid or dipeptide composition.
the method is available online through our prediction  server at http://www-bs.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/wapp.
protein  sci., 42(2):431-444, 2005.
the first difficulty to overcome when  combining prediction methods is overfitting.
keywords: biosvm [weston2003feature]   j. weston, f. pérez-cruz, o. bousquet, o. chapelle,  a. elisseeff, and b. schölkopf.
we recommend using 10-fold rather than leave-one-out cross-validation, and  concerning the bootstrap, we suggest using the so-called .632+ bootstrap error  estimate designed to handle overfitted prediction rules.
we present specific biological examples of two subnetworks of protein-protein interactions in c. jejuni resulting from the application of this approach, including elements of a two-component signal transduction systems for thermoregulation, and a ferritin uptake network.
the machine learning methods nearest neighbour  algorithm (nna) and support vector machines are used for predicting protein  functional classes from this information.
one core problem in classifying  biological information is the annotation of new protein sequences with  structural and functional features.
in  this novel method, hmms are first constructed using functional sequences only.
it is a hard computational problem with no approach that works well in all cases.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] support vector machines (svms) which is one kind of learning  machines, was applied to predict the specificity of galnac-transferase.
seventeen directly ubiquitinated proteins or proteins associated with  the ubiquitin system were identified.
finally, by analyzing the models constructed by support vector  machines we produced a small set of 13 features that could be used as potential  biomarkers, and which exhibited good performance both in terms of sensitivity,  specificity and model stability.
we have developed a four-step strategy for data  preprocessing based on: (1) binning, (2) kolmogorov-smirnov test, (3)  restriction of coefficient of variation and (4) wavelet analysis.
molecular descriptors  calculated from the structure alone were used to represent molecular  structures.
the braf gene was found to be mutated in 42 samples (69 seven samples (11 using support vector machines, we have built a classifier that differentiates between melanoma cell lines based on braf mutation status.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] this study aimed to evaluate in silico models based on quantum  chemical (qc) descriptors derived using the electronegativity equalization  method (eem) and to assess the use of qc properties to predict chemical  metabolism by human udp-glucuronosyltransferase (ugt) isoforms.
the svms performed maximally  among predictive models, achieving 69 power in distinguishing between the two  groups, compared with a 50 baseline predictive power obtained from the data  after repeated random permutation of class labels (individuals with cancer or  controls).
the preliminary results demonstrate that very high  classification accuracy can be attained by identified composite classifiers  with several biomarkers.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] motivation: there has been great expectation that the knowledge  of an individual's genotype will provide a basis for assessing susceptibility  to diseases and designing individualized therapy.
in contrast to  geometrically distinct small molecule binding sites, protein-protein interface  are notoriously difficult to predict.
keywords: biosvm [segal2003classificationa]   n. h. segal, p. pavlidis, c. r. antonescu, r. g. maki,  w. s. noble, d. desantis, j. m. woodruff, j. j. lewis,  m. f. brennan, a. n. houghton, and c. cordon-cardo.
it has been shown to produce lower prediction error compared to classifiers based on other methods like artificial neural networks, especially when large numbers of features are considered for sample description.
one consists of 50 enzymes that have no homolog of known function from psi-blast search of protein databases.
comparison of support vector machine and artificial neural network systems for  drug/nondrug classification.
[svm]) with structural  fingerprints and topological indices.
here we present wapp, a method combining prediction of proteasomal cleavage, tap transport, and mhc binding into a single prediction system.
p2sl additionally offers the distribution potential of proteins among localization classes, which is particularly important for proteins, shuttle between nucleus and cytosol.
in particular, the accuracy was very low regardless of the choices of the methods for large-class datasets (e.g. nci60 and gcm).
nanobioscience,  3(4):265-271, 2004.
on 10-fold cross-validation, we obtained a prediction accuracy of 65.3 sequence-coding schemes can significantly improve the fine-grained fold prediction.
sel., 17(6):509-516,  2004.
in addition, a  number of genes were found differentially expressed in dedifferentiated and  pleomorphic liposarcomas.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm
bioinformatics, 17(8):721-728,  2001.
class comparison and class prediction analysis has shown that brca1 mutation carriers can be distinguished from controls with high probability (approximately 85%).
we assumed that common haplotype implicit in genotypes will differ between  cases and controls, and that this will allow svm-derived patterns to be  classifiable according to subject genotypes.
this has been followed by an increased  interest in developing computational techniques to automatically classify these  large volumes of sequence data into various categories corresponding to either  their role in the chromosomes, their structure, and/or their function.
keywords: biosvm [serra2003development]   j.r. serra, e.d. thompson, and p.c. jurs.
no single snp site on its own could achieve more than 60 predictive accuracy.
they can be used to probe biological systems and to  discover new drugs and other useful compounds.
keywords: biosvm [zernov2003drug]   v. v. zernov, k. v. balakin, a. a. ivaschenko, n. p.  savchuk, and i. v. pletnev.
genome res., 11(11):1878-1887, 2001.
keywords: biosvm [yu2005ovarian]  j. s.  yu, s. ongarello, r. fiedler, x. w. chen, g. toffolo,  c. cobelli, and z. trajanoski.
furthermore, kernel functions derived from different  types of data can be combined in a straightforward fashion.
multidimensional analysis confirmed these clusters and more importantly, it separated carcinoma in situ from papillary superficial lesions and subgroups within early-stage and invasive tumors displaying different overall survival.
we trained and tested our svm on a data set constructed to include a significant number of both positive and negative examples, directly addressing data imbalance issues.
the methods are applied to ovarian cancer and control serum samples from the national ovarian cancer early detection program clinic at northwestern university hospital.
the initial results suggest that our approach can also mine annotations from text even when an explicit statement relating a protein to a go term is absent.
in contrast, the practitioner is frequently faced with the problem of  combining a given set of pre-trained classifiers, with highly correlated  errors, using only a small training sample.
in an effort to identify genes related to the cell line chemosensitivity and to evaluate the functional relationships between genes and anticancer drugs acting by the same mechanism, a supervised machine learning approach called support vector machine was used to label genes into any of the five predefined anticancer drug mechanistic categories.
the current progress in sequencing projects calls for rapid, reliable and accurate function assignments of gene products.
using two published  data sets, we demonstrate that when correction is made for the selection bias,  the cross-validated error is no longer zero for a subset of only a few genes.
conclusion we show that this  technique proves to be more robust than the traditional use of estimation of  distribution algorithms for feature selection: instead of returning a single  best subset of features (as they normally do) this method provides a dynamical  view of the feature selection process, like the traditional sequential wrapper  methods.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] gene expression profiling offers a promising new technique for  the diagnosis and prognosis of cancer.
supervised graph inference.
this  expectation was validated for various statistical discrimination methods when  thirteen peaks were used in cross-validation studies.
systems biology aims at the computational simulation of complex systems, up to whole cell simulations.
results: we present a  heuristic method based on estimation of distribution algorithms to select  relevant subsets of features for splice site prediction in arabidopsis  thaliana.
[ bib  ] keywords: biosvm [vert2004local]  j.-p.  vert, h. saigo, and t. akutsu.
here svm is tested for functional family assignment of two groups of enzymes.
to address this question, several members of the hepatotoxicity working group of the international life sciences institute health and environmental sciences institute evaluated the liver gene expression profiles of rats treated with methapyrilene (mp).
hyperkernels allow us to select and to optimally combine the most relevant node attributes in our protein graphs.
the method was  trained and tested on a data set derived from protherm, which is presently the  most comprehensive available database of thermodynamic experimental data of  free energy changes of protein stability upon mutation under different  conditions.
several works have been done to derive kernels from probability distributions, e.g., the fisher kernel.
however, the choice of an appropriate combiner appears to be an issue in its own right.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] background this paper presents the use of support vector  machines (svms) for prediction and analysis of antisense oligonucleotide (ao)  efficacy.
support vector machines for learning to identify the  critical positions of a protein.
these kernels use probabilistic profiles, such as  those produced by the psi-blast algorithm, to define position-dependent  mutation neighborhoods along protein sequences for inexact matching of k-length  subsequences ("k-mers") in the data.
we show that svms can beat the competing methods on a dataset of 268 protein sequences to be classified into a set of 42 fold classes.
to address this problem, we propose a support vector machine  (svm)-based classifier that combines sequence and 3d structural averaging  information.
our goal is a fully automatic pattern recognition system for a family of sequences, which simultaneously discovers the base signals, their spatial relationships and a classifier based upon them.
keywords: biosvm [han2004predicting]  l.y.  han, c.z. cai, z.l. ji, z.w. cao, j. cui, and y.z. chen.
however, additional data analysis  demonstrated that these differences had an effect on the absolute gene  expression results but not on the outcome of the study.
in addition we investigate the  optimal parameter settings for these programs and give an exemplary  interpretation of the derived models.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] herg attracts attention as a risk factor for arrhythmia, which  might trigger torsade de pointes.
in general, the most predictive models were generated with the support vector machine.
bioinformatics,  4(1):45-52, 2005.
we evaluated the relative performance of  several classification methods by using leave-one-out cross-validation and  bootstrap cross-validation.
measurements the machine learning models  were compared in each category with each other and with the clinical query  filters using area under the receiver operating characteristic curves, 11-point  average recall precision, and a sensitivity/specificity match method.
the ls bound measure is derived from leave-one-out  procedure of ls-svms (least squares support vector machines), and as the upper  bound for leave-one-out classification results it reflects to some extent the  generalization performance of gene subsets.
on the  cb513 data set, the three-state overall per-residue accuracy, q3, reached 75.2  to 80.0 74.0 has been constructed and is available at  http://www.bioinfo.tsinghua.edu.cn/pmsvm.
the specific information described by the heuristic linear model could  give some insights into the factors that are likely to govern the binding  affinity of the compounds and be used as an aid to the drug design process;  however, the prediction results of the nonlinear svm model seem to be better  than that of the hm.
with a  jackknife test on the rh2427 data set, locsvmpsi achieved a high overall  prediction accuracy of 90.2%, which is higher than the prediction results by  subloc and eslpred on this data set.
gene expression data is also expected to significantly aid in the  development of efficient cancer diagnosis and classification platforms.
the support vector machine algorithm supported a genomic basis for diagnosis,  with both high sensitivity and specificity.
keywords: biosvm [kramer2002fragment]   s. kramer, e. frank, and c. helma.
in addition, seven other b-precursor  all cases not bearing t(9;22) or t(11q23)/mll chromosomal aberrations were  analyzed.
keywords: biosvm [saigo2004protein]   h. saigo, j.-p. vert, n. ueda, and t. akutsu.
prediction of sirna functionality using generalized string kernel and  support vector machine.
our experiments indicate that multi-class svm methods are  more suitable for protein secondary structure (pss) prediction than the other  methods, including binary svms, because their capacity to solve an optimization  problem in one step.
keywords: biosvm [bordner2005statistical]   andrew j bordner and ruben abagyan.
identification of interface  residues in protease-inhibitor and antigen-antibody complexes: a support vector  machine.
bioinformatics, 19(1):125-134, 2003.
wn-svm uses a one-class support-vector machine and can learn using rather small  training sets.
here, we have applied a support vector machine (svm) trained on naturally occurring disordered and ordered proteins to examine the contribution of various parameters (vectors) to recognizing proteins that contain disordered regions.
the use of psi-blast profiles can be seen as a semi-supervised learning technique, since psi-blast leverages unlabeled data from a large sequence database to build more informative profiles.
results: six machine learning techniques have been investigated for their classification accuracy focusing on two metabolic disorders, phenylketo nuria (pku) and medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency (mcadd).
availability: programs are available on request from the authors.
for a standard data set comprising 1443 proteins, the  overall prediction accuracy reaches 89 highest prediction rate ever reported.
we have combined a support vector machine (svm) approach with surface patch analysis to predict protein-protein binding sites.
technical report  ucsc-crl-99-10, uc santa cruz, 1999.
support vector machines-based quantitative  structure-property relationship for the prediction of heat capacity.
keywords: biosvm motivation: the large amount of available annotated arabidopsis thaliana sequences allows the induction of splice site prediction models with supervised learning algorithms (see haussler (1998) for a review and references).
the support vector machine (svm) represents a new approach to supervised pattern classification and has been successfully applied to a wide range of pattern recognition problems.
in the coarse-grained fold assignment of major protein classes, such as all-alpha, all-beta, alpha + beta, alpha/beta proteins, one can easily achieve high prediction accuracy from primary amino acid sequences.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] in order to understand the molecular machinery of the cell, we  need to know about the multitude of protein-protein interactions that allow the  cell to function.
the results derived using cross-validation methods are state-of-the-art.
this kernel can be  used in combination with any kernel method, in particular support vector  machines for string classi- fication, with notable applications in proteomics.
their performance is consistently superior to the performance of the ensemble methods traditionally used in the field.
in 2d, we introduce several similarity kernels based  on conventional or generalized fingerprints.
taken together, these results demonstrate the feasibility of accurate, multiclass molecular cancer classification and suggest a strategy for future clinical implementation of molecular cancer diagnostics.
ccs/msp also has typical melanoma features, including immunoreactivity for s100 and hmb45, pigmentation, mitf-m expression, and a propensity for regional lymph node metastases.
the quantitative matrix was generated on the basis of contribution of each position and residue in binding affinity.
we show that no linear scoring function can succeed in this  task.
comparison of linear and nonlinear  classification algorithms for the prediction of drug and chemical metabolism by  human udp-glucuronosyltransferase isoforms.
functional clusters of other proteins included redox enzymes, proteins associated with endocytosis, cytoskeletal proteins, dna damage or repair related proteins, calcium binding proteins, and splicing factor and related proteins, suggesting that in vitro ubiquitination is not random, and that these functions may be regulated by the ubiquitin system.
bmc bioinformatics, 2(3):3, 2001.
using a leave-one-out cross-validation procedure, we were able  to successfully predict the location of the binding site on 76% of our dataset  made up of proteins with both transient and obligate interfaces.
positive and negative peptides were more readily distinguished in training set data acquired on a qtof, compared to an ion trap mass spectrometer.
the classification was achieved on the basis of amino acid and dipeptide composition from a sequence of receptors using support vector machines.
in earlier work, we introduced and discussed a generalized computational framework for identifying horizontal transfers.
keywords: biosvm hereditary predisposition and causative environmental exposures have long been recognized in human malignancies.
[ bib  |http | .pdf ] motivation: novel methods, both molecular and statistical, are  urgently needed to take advantage of recent advances in biotechnology and the  human genome project for disease diagnosis and prognosis.
instead of searching for explicit motifs, our approach finds the  distribution of implicit motifs and uses as a feature for classification.
(3) when  performing kernel principal component analysis (kernel pca) before  classification, using an rbf kernel for kernel pca tends to result in  overfitting, especially when using supervised feature selection.
keywords: biosvm [zaki2005application]   n. m. zaki, s. deris, and r. illias.
combined data from pmf and ms/ms spectra of two tryptic peptides suggested that this 3495 da protein shared homology to a histidine-rich glycoprotein.
in addition, we demonstrate that the predictive models identify nonresponders and are able to discriminate between gene changes related to pharmacology and toxicity.
results  cross-validation estimated the support vector machine's test-set precision,  accuracy and recall for classifying abstracts describing interaction  information was 92 would be able to recall up to 60 present in another  yeast-protein interaction database.
keywords: biosvm by using an in-house data set of small-molecule structures, encoded by ghose-crippen parameters, several machine learning techniques were applied to distinguish between kinase inhibitors and other molecules with no reported activity on any protein kinase.
among its unique attractive features, the present svm method avoids overtraining and compresses information and provides a predicted reliability index.
predictions by our approach are robust to errors in the protein n-terminal sequences.
support vector machine (svm) and linear classifier models were generated and evaluated on cross-validated data.
a single cdna  microarray platform was used to profile 229 primary and metastatic tumors  representing 14 tumor types and multiple histologic subtypes.
additionally, it recognized early-stage tumors showing gene profiles similar to invasive disease.
results in this paper we  present a novel method for feature subset selection applied to splice site  prediction, based on estimation of distribution algorithms, a more general  framework of genetic algorithms.
we will report promising results on  bacteria clustering experiments using two marker sequences: 16s and gyrb. keywords: biosvm
the mean relative error of the training set, the validation set, and the testing set is 1.35%, 1.52%, and 2.23%, respectively, and the maximum relative error is less than 5.00%.
furthermore, in this paper, we argue that it is feasible to extend the prediction accuracy by adding a second-stage multi-class svm to capture the contextual information among secondary structural elements and thereby further improving the accuracies.
availability:  http://gpcr.biocomp.unibo.it/cgi/predictors/i-mutant2.0/i-mutant2.0.cgi.
[ bib | doi | http | www: ] support vector machine (svm), which is one kind of learning  machines, was applied to predict the subcellular location of proteins from  their amino acid composition.
many association studies between single  nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) of candidate genes and chd have been reported.
with a jackknife test on the rh2427 data set, locsvmpsi achieved a high overall prediction accuracy of 90.2%, which is higher than the prediction results by subloc and eslpred on this data set.
[1]  and more recently by valdar et al.
here we present wapp, a method combining  prediction of proteasomal cleavage, tap transport, and mhc binding into a  single prediction system.
results we propose a kernel-based  approach to datamining on biological sequences.
when predicting deltadeltag values associated with mutations, the correlation of predicted with expected/experimental values is 0.71 (with a standard error of 1.30 kcal/mol) and 0.62 (with a standard error of 1.45 kcal/mol) when structural or sequence information are respectively adopted.
these concerns are exacerbated in the regression setting,  where the objective is to relate gene expression, simultaneously for multiple  genes, to some external outcome or phenotype.
this method is applicable to any structure  as it does not require the identification of sequence or structural similarity  to a protein of known function.
for proteins that are highly dissimilar or are only similar  to proteins also lacking functional annotations, these methods fail.
availability: lsbsp1 and the nn algorithm have been implemented in prism.1, which is available from www.columbia.edu/ ay1/. supplementary information: supplementary data for the svm method can be downloaded from the website www.cs.columbia.edu/compbio/backbone.
methods: binary svms are trained to discriminate between two structural classes.
international conference on artificial neural networks ?
potential applications and limitations are discussed.
we compare the proposed methods with the state-of-the-art methods in the biological domain.
we demonstrate the applicability of support vector machines for this task, and show how to incorporate prior biological knowledge by engineering an appropriate kernel function.
prodispen/. keywords: biosvm i-mutant2.0 is a support vector machine (svm)-based tool for the automatic prediction of protein stability changes upon single point mutations.
the pace in searching for the proper inhibitors of hiv protease will be greatly expedited if one can find an accurate, robust, and rapid method for predicting the cleavage sites in proteins by hiv protease.
five chemists assigned a pair of scores to each of 3980 diverse compounds, with the component scores of each pair corresponding to drug-likeness and ease of synthesis, respectively.
the predicted residues covered 86-87 (96-97 appeared to be slightly  higher than a previously reported study.
in the discovery of new drugs, lead identification and  optimization have assumed critical importance given the number of drug targets  generated from genetic, genomics, and proteomic technologies.
results: a systematic benchmarking study is performed by comparing linear versions of standard classification and dimensionality reduction techniques with their non-linear versions based on non-linear kernel functions with a radial basis function (rbf) kernel.
lead  hopping using svm and 3d pharmacophore fingerprints.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] objective:
the same data were employed to identify markers that  distinguish samples based on their labels of t cell/b cell, peripheral  blood/bone marrow, and male/female.
this makes it a very practical solution for classification tasks that can be solved using a relatively small amount of discriminative features (or feature dependencies), but where the initial set of potential discriminative features is rather large.
additionally, efficient methods to  handle unbalanced data and a new optimization strategy for maximizing the q3  measure were developed.
a large number of  metabolic pathways remain unknown nowadays, and many enzymes are missing even  in known metabolic pathways.
j chem inf comput sci,  43(4):1288-96, 2003.
availability: software is available on  request from the authors.
results obtained on a dataset of hydrolase-inhibitor complexes demonstrate that the combination of all four methods yield improved predictions over the individual methods.
in this paper, a new method was proposed based on svm.
assoc., 12(2):207-16, 2005.
the identification of relevant biological features in large and complex datasets is an important step towards gaining insight in the processes underlying the data.
methods for multi-category cancer diagnosis from gene expression data: a  comprehensive evaluation to inform decision support system development.
two gene sets are considered: the gene set omegaf formed by the anova f-test, and a gene set omegat formed by the union of one-versus-all t-tests.
this server accepts protein sequences in any standard format and present results in a user-friendly format.
moreover, where information about the physicochemical properties of amino acids has been used, the methods employed to exploit that information are less than optimal and could use the information more effectively.
the algorithm was also shown to be able to predict critical  positions that can tolerate two different amino acids and retain function.
our results show that this wrapper approach selects features that improve the  performance against the use of all features and against the use of the features  selected by the traditional method.
in other words, the pattern selection and its classification efficiency are highly classifier dependent.
discriminative supervised machine learning approaches  provide good performance, but simplicity and computational efficiency of  training and prediction are also important concerns.
we present an information extraction system that was designed to locate  protein-protein interaction data in the literature and present these data to  curators and the public for review and entry into bind.
bioinformatics,  19(15):1875-1881, 2003.
in this study, a new method to estimate the free binding energy between a ligand and receptor is proposed.
tdp involves multiple mechanisms and svm is a method suitable for such a problem.
existing approaches are based on dictionaries, rules and machine-learning.
tests using the structural classification of proteins (scop) 1.53 data set show that the svm-hmmstr gives a significant improvement over several current methods.
the left-out active compounds comprised approximately 40% of the actives.
mining protein  function from text using term-based support vector machines.
we finally conduct a comprehensive prediction of the protein network for all proteins of the yeast, which enables us to propose protein candidates for missing enzymes in a biosynthesis pathway.
an online web server (current version is 1.3) based on this method has been developed and is freely available to both academic and commercial users, which can be accessed by at http://bioinformatics.ustc.edu.cn/locsvmpsi/locsvmpsi.php.
bioinformatics,  17:349-358, 2001.
the prediction results on the dataset of 426 non-homologous protein chains by sevenfold cross-validation technique showed that our method is superior to the other previous methods.
methods and material: three serum seldi ms data sets were used in this research to identify serum proteomic patterns that distinguish the serum of ovarian cancer cases from non-cancer controls.
using t-statistics, we identified  80 cdnas whose expression in normal and tumor samples differed more than 3.5  sample standard deviations.
[  bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [xue2004prediction]   y. xue, c. w. yap, l. z. sun, z. w. cao, j. f. wang,  and y. z. chen.
current methods for  predicting protein function are mostly reliant on identifying a similar protein  of known function.
structural genomics projects are beginning to produce protein structures with unknown function, therefore, accurate, automated predictors of protein function are required if all these structures are to be properly annotated in reasonable time.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] the identification of the genes that participate at the  biological interface of two species remains critical to our understanding of  the mechanisms of disease resistance, disease susceptibility and symbiosis.
a number of prediction algorithms have been developed  based on amino acid compositions or on the n-terminal characteristics (signal  peptides) of proteins.
the approach uses heavy-tailed priors to promote sparsity in the utilization of both basis functions and features; these priors act as regularizers for the likelihood function that rewards good classification on the training data.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003svm-prot]   c. z. cai, l. y. han, z. l. ji, x. chen, and y. z.  chen.
this research  shows that, using machine learning methods, it is possible to automatically  build models for retrieving high-quality, content-specific articles using  inclusion or citation by the acp journal club as a gold standard in a given  time period in internal medicine that perform better than the 1994 pubmed  clinical query filters.
another interesting observation was that transcript  profiles indicate toxicologically relevant changes at an earlier timepoint than  routinely used methods.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm p-glycoproteins (p-gp) actively transport a wide variety of chemicals out of cells and function as drug efflux pumps that mediate multidrug resistance and limit the efficacy of many drugs.
keywords: biosvm microarray keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm we introduce a new method of constructing kernels on sets whose elements are discrete structures like strings, trees and graphs.
the results are then compared to several other methods.
a very successful means of inferring the structure or function of a  previously unannotated protein is via sequence similarity with one or more  proteins whose structure or function is already known.
in the first step, candidate features are generated using  k-gram amino acid patterns.
bioinformatics, in press) that uses simple descriptors to represent biomolecules as input examples to train a support vector machine (smola, a. j., and scholkopf, b. (1998)
machine learning methods, for instance the support vector machines (svms), are particularly suitable for exploiting such features.
each of the sets of positively charged, negatively charged and small hydrophobic residues, as well as codon bias, contribute to their distinctive codon composition profile.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] a support vector machine learning system has been trained to  predict protein solvent accessibility from the primary structure.
keywords: biosvm microarray, cgh
the classifier achieves  a true positive rate of 50 positive rate of 0.5 alternatively spliced exons in  exon databases that are believed to be dominated by constitutive  exons.
keywords: biosvm [gartner2004kernels]   t. gärtner, j.w. lloyd, and p.a. flach.
beta edge  strands in protein structure prediction and aggregation.
we also compared the ls bound measure with other evaluation  criteria, including the well-known fisher's ratio and mahalanobis class  separability measure, and other published gene selection algorithms, including  weighting factor and svm recursive feature elimination.
a support vector machine (svm) is used  to automatically partition the term space and to thus discriminate the textual  features that define sub-cellular location.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm this paper explores the utility of data mining and machine learning algorithms for the induction of mutagenicity structure-activity relationships (sars) from noncongeneric data sets.
interlaboratory evaluation of rat hepatic gene expression changes  induced by methapyrilene.
conclusions it is  expected that the support vector machine method and the elegant  component-coupled method, also named as the covariant discrimination algorithm,  if complemented with each other, can provide a powerful computational tool for  predicting the structural classes of proteins.
griffin (http://griffin.cbrc.jp/) is freely available and allows users to easily execute this reliable prediction of g-proteins.
information: http://www.stat.ohio-state.edu/ yklee/msvm.html contact:  yklee@stat.ohio-state.edu keywords: biosvm [lee2003discovery]   dongkwon lee, sang wook choi, myengsoo kim, jin hyun park, moonkyu  kim, jungchul kim, and in-beum lee.
genome inform ser  workshop genome inform, 14:218-27, 2003.
keywords: biosvm [ruepp2005assessment]   s. ruepp, f. boess, l. suter, m. c. de vera,  g. steiner, t. steele, t. weiser, and s. albertini.
genomic analysis  identified potential targets for the development of therapeutic strategies in  the treatment of this disease.
[ bib | .pdf | .pdf ] we present an automatic method to classify the sub-cellular  location of proteins based on the text of relevant medline abstracts.
predicting protein  secondary structure by a support vector machine based on a new coding scheme.
nucleic acids res, 33(web server issue):w202-7,  jul 2005.
its prediction accuracy was evaluated by using an  independent set of agents and by comparison with results obtained from other  commonly used classification methods using the same dataset and optimization  procedure.
as an unrelated laboratory, we demonstrate that gene signatures defined for childhood all were also capable of stratifying distinct subtypes in our cohort of adult all patients.
we  have also developed an svm-based method using a primary sequence as input and  achieved an accuracy of 77.4 by adding 36 physicochemical parameters to the  amino acid sequence information.
keywords: biosvm [xue2004effect]   y. xue, z. r. li, c. w. yap, l. z. sun, x. chen, and  y. z. chen.
the local sequence preferences of short segments around ptm residues are described here as linear functional motifs (lfms).
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] the support vector machine approach was introduced to predict  the beta-turns in proteins.
results thorough  cross-validation studies and randomization tests are performed on a prostate  cancer dataset with over 300 patients, obtained at the eastern virginia medical  school using seldi-tof mass spectrometry.
this paper is a comparative study of feature selection in drug discovery.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(6):1855-9, 2003.
this is an important step in genomic analysis to determine protein coding from nucleotide sequences.
[shi2005building]  lei shi and fabien campagne.
to select  the correct sequences and to guide the search process, a design scoring  function is critically important.
using only those features that are relevant for constructing a splice site prediction system might improve the system and might also provide us with useful biological knowledge.
the  classification experiments were performed using pyml available at  http://pyml.sourceforge.net.
thus there is a need to  develop tools for facilitating the prediction of these adrs.
in this paper, we are querying for fragments within a minimum and a maximum frequency in the dataset.
[ bib |  .pdf ] array cgh is a recently introduced technology that measures  changes in the gene copy number of hundreds of genes in a single experiment.
keywords: biosvm support vector machine (svm), which is one class of learning machines, was applied to predict the subcellular location of proteins by incorporating the quasi-sequence-order effect (chou [2000] biochem.
toxicol., 16(2):153-163, 2003.
recently  presented "cluster kernels" give general semi-supervised methods for  improving svm protein classification performance.
the predictors based on these different compositions were then combined using a voting scheme.
bmc bioinformatics, 4(1):11, mar 2003.
such mechanisms are unfavorable in the interior of a beta-sheet.
we present a kernel method for predicting  protein-protein interactions using a combination of data sources, including  protein sequences, gene ontology annotations, local properties of the network,  and homologous interactions in other species.
we compute the correlation between expression of a gene and amino acid composition of its protein.
keeping  databases synchronized with current knowledge is a time-consuming and expensive  task-one which can be alleviated by automatically gathering findings from the  literature using linguistic approaches.
keywords: biosvm proteomics motivation: microarrays are capable of determining the expression levels of thousands of genes simultaneously.
the method is strong in recognizing name variants not found in swissprot.
keywords: biosvm [liao2002combining]   l. liao and w. s. noble.
we have applied a new method to analyze such relationships using support vector  machines (svms), which is one of the methods for artificial neuronal network.
this svm system  gave a prediction accuracy of at least 81.2% for p-gp substrates based on two  different evaluation methods, which is substantially improved against that  obtained from the multiple-pharmacophore model.
results here, we present a novel approach, svmhc, based on support  vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to mhc class i molecules.
we propose a new method of gene selection utilizing support vector machine methods based on recursive feature elimination (rfe).
bioinformatics,  18:s276-s284, 2002.
our system classifies full text documents regarding the question whether or not they contain appropriate data using a support vector machine.
bioinformatics, 19(15):1978-1984, 2003.
active learning with support vector machine applied to gene  expression data for cancer classification.
i-mutant2.0 predictions are performed starting either from the protein structure or, more importantly, from the protein sequence.
the software is  available for academic and non-commercial institutions.
application of dedicated clustering algorithms revealed that both tumor subtypes are clearly separated by the genomic profiles but only with a lesser power by the expression profiles.
these studies showed that svm prediction accuracy is at a level useful for functional family assignment.
materials and methods: rna  samples from 21 cell lines and 60 pathologically confirmed cases of sts,  melanoma, and ccs/msp were examined using the u95a genechip (affymetrix, santa  clara, ca).
in several  cases, unexpected phenotype assignments by the computer revealed functional  roles for specific factors at multiple steps in the gene expression pathway.
both csvm methods are potentially useful as filters for  predicting inhibitors and substrates of p450 isoenzymes.
interestingly, moss orthologs of  arabidopsis genes show a significant drift of codon fraction usage, towards the  seed plant.
pleomorphic tumors were heterogeneous.
the svm classification systems trained in this work were added to our  web-based protein functional classification software svmprot, at  http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm [fong2004predicting]   j. h. fong, a. e. keating, and m. singh.
this makes it important to predict which residues participate in protein-protein interactions using only sequence information.
[here, support vector machines (svms)] to determine the generalization performances of different nested gene subsets.
the training parameters include molecular weight, lipophilicity, hydrogen bonding, and other variables that govern the ability of a molecule to diffuse through a membrane.
support vector machines for the estimation  of aqueous solubility.
both methods predict  inhibitors of cyp3a4 and cyp2d6 at a similar level of accuracy as those of  earlier studies.
we  discuss misclassification with respect to biological function and similarity.
in this study, we developed an algorithm for  predicting sirna functionality by using generalized string kernel (gsk)  combined with support vector machine (svm).
results: we demonstrate the method in detail on samples consisting of ovarian cancer tissues, normal ovarian tissues, and other normal tissues.
this is quite favorable when compared with the neural network's average performance of 75.7 the svm algorithm are very encouraging and suggest that a classification tool like this one will prove to be a valuable prediction approach.
to identify the histological subtype-specific genes of hcc, we analyzed the gene expression profile of 10 hcc patients by means of cdna microarray.
[ bib ] we present a novel method for clustering short protein segments  having strong sequence-structure correlations, and demonstrate that these  clusters contain useful structural information via two applications.
in order to  improve the prediction accuracy, much attention has been paid to the  improvement of the performance of the algorithms used, few is for solving the  fundamental issue, namely, amino acid encoding as most existing pattern  recognition algorithms are unable to recognize amino acids in protein  sequences.
we show that the  problem is much easier than what has previously been reported and that linear  classifiers like the simple perceptron or linear support vector machines are at  least as good predictors as nonlinear algorithms.
results: for the first time we  develop a support vector machine (svm) for t-cell epitope prediction with an  mhc type i restricted t-cell clone.
in biology, where structures or processes are described by a large number of features, the elimination of irrelevant and redundant information in a reasonable amount of time has a number of advantages.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] in the coarse-grained fold assignment of major protein classes,  such as all-alpha, all-beta, alpha + beta, alpha/beta proteins, one can easily  achieve high prediction accuracy from primary amino acid sequences.
genes differentially expressed between the relapsing and nonrelapsing tumor classes were identified by statistical scoring (t test).
our method is available both as an internet server and as a program for download (http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/services/nlprot/).
previous studies have shown that alternatively spliced exons possess several features that distinguish them from constitutively spliced ones.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] methods for predicting protein function from structure are  becoming more important as the rate at which structures are solved increases  more rapidly than experimental knowledge.
[ bib | doi | http | www: ] knowledge of the polyprotein cleavage sites by hiv protease will  refine our understanding of its specificity, and the information thus acquired  is useful for designing specific and efficient hiv protease inhibitors.
the overall self-consistency rate by the  re-substitution test for the training or learning dataset reached 100 were  taken from chou [j. pept.
in each iteration a comparatively small batch of compounds is  screened for binding activity toward this target.
in patients with leukemia our method discovered 2 genes that yield zero leave-one-out error, while 64 genes are necessary for the baseline method to get the best result (one leave-one-out error).
febs lett., 521:109-114, 2002.
here we present a web-service, eclair, which  utilizes support vector machines for the classification of the origin of  expressed sequence tags stemming from mixed host cdna libraries.
biosci., 185(2):111-122, 2003.
we present remote homology detection experiments based on the scop database where we show that profile-based string kernels used with svm classifiers strongly outperform all recently presented supervised svm methods.
keywords: biosvm [lind2003support]   p. lind and t. maltseva.
high-throughput  experimental screening assays have been complemented recently by "virtual  screening" approaches to identify and filter potential ligands when the  characteristics of a target receptor structure of interest are known.
the  predictive features have been selected through iterative svms/gas, and  recursive feature elimination post-processing steps, leading to a very compact  cancer-related predictive gene set.
the profiled svm produced the best  results (r = 0.44, me = 0.022, and rmse= 0.278) and predicted high (>75 gene  expression) and low efficacy ( or =3), 73.5 on the above approach, an online web server eslpred was  developed, which is available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/eslpred/. keywords: biosvm [bhasin2004classification]   m. bhasin and g. p. s. raghava.
owing to  the amount and complexity of the generated experimental data, machine learning  techniques provide a promising approach to investigate novel patterns in  high-dimensional metabolic data which form the source for constructing  classification rules with high discriminatory power.
the experimental results achieved are better  than those reported previously using the same data sets.
the rules for predicting tap binding regions in an antigenic sequence were derived from the above analysis.
testing results using this independent evaluation set show a prediction  accuracy of 94.1 proteins, and 98.7 and non-trna-binding proteins,  respectively.
a support vector machine (svm) is used to automatically partition the term space and to thus discriminate the textual features that define sub-cellular location.
so far, attention has not been sufficiently paid to the  development of methods for the prediction of serious adrs that occur less  frequently.
[ bib ] introduction:
[ aires-de-sousa2005prediction]  j. aires-de sousa and j. gasteiger.
keeping databases synchronized with current knowledge is a time-consuming and expensive task-one which can be alleviated by automatically gathering findings from the literature using linguistic approaches.
keywords: biosvm nlp
high-throughput experimental screening assays have been complemented recently by "virtual screening" approaches to identify and filter potential ligands when the characteristics of a target receptor structure of interest are known.
svm is a new machine learning technology that has been successfully applied in solving problems in the field of bioinformatics.
labeled proteins were affinity extracted in  quadruplicate and tryptic peptides identifed by 2d capillary lc/ms/ms comb9ined  with sequest and medusa analyses.
in such cases, these few target features are insufficient  to distinguish which of the different models best describes real world networks  of interest; moreover, it is not clear a priori that any of the  presently-existing algorithms for network generation offers a predictive  description of the networks inspiring them.
in b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p.  vert, editors,kernel methods in computational biology, pages 277-298.
generally, the svm classifier yielded slightly higher prediction accuracy than  ann, irrespective of the type of descriptors used for molecule encoding, the  size of the training data sets, and the algorithm employed for neural network  training.
contact: cyu@bioanalysis.org.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background
the combination of seldi with  bioinformatics tools could help find new biomarkers and establish patterns with  high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of crc.
keywords: biosvm [xue2004study]  c. x.  xue, r. s. zhang, m. c. liu, z. d. hu, and b. t. fan.
this data set was subsequently used for training and validation of a support vector machine (svm) classifier, demonstrating 89% accuracy using a 13-class model.
keywords: biosvm a number of medically important disease-causing bacteria (collectively called gram-negative bacteria) are noted for the extra "outer" membrane that surrounds their cell.
for this reason there has been great interest in the task of text mining to aid in fact extraction, document screening, citation analysis, and linkage with large gene and gene-product databases.
integrating  the biologically relevant prior knowledge, the constructed string kernels can  thus be used by any kernel-based method.
the proteasomal cleavage site prediction employs a  new matrix-based method that is based on experimentally verified proteasomal  cleavage sites.
furthermore, based on above approach, an online web service, nrpred, was  developed, which is available at www.imtech.res.in/raghava/nrpred.
to evaluate the performance of various classification methods for building predictive models, we applied these methods on six expression datasets.
bioinformatics , 21(7):897-901, apr 2005.
keywords: biosvm microarray background:
this model is  more general than the other ones of previous statistical methods.
support vector machines for predicting rrna-, rna-, and  dna-binding proteins from amino acid sequence.
with  independent test sets, predictions of enantiomeric excess could be made with an  average error as low as 6% ee.
this predictive model was subsequently used to assess compounds with regard to a potential hepatotoxic liability.
results: we considered 12 subcellular locations in eukaryotic cells: chloroplast, cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, endoplasmic reticulum, extracellular medium, golgi apparatus, lysosome, mitochondrion, nucleus, peroxisome, plasma membrane, and vacuole.
we found that hierarchical clustering analysis and principal component analysis divided the cell lines according to their original histology.
biol., 221(1):115-120,  2003.
pcleavage: an svm based method  for prediction of constitutive proteasome and immunoproteasome cleavage sites  in antigenic sequences.
the methods described in this paper use only primary sequence  information to make their predictions.
keywords: biosvm objective:
contact: roded@tau.ac.il.
we demonstrate that machine learning approaches using support vector machines and maximum entropy are able to identify human proteins with higher accuracy than several previous approaches.
in the current study we use advanced machine learning methods to generate robust alternative exons classifier.
by  comparing several feature selection methods we show that the right dimension  reduction strategy is of crucial importance for the classification performance.
using gene expression data from "lymphochip", a  specialised dna microarray developed at stanford university school of medicine,  we show that svm can correctly separate normal from tumoural tissues, and oc  ensembles can be successfully used to classify different types of lymphoma.
the total prediction accuracies reach 91.4 in prokaryotic organisms and 79.4 organisms.
[ tothill2005expression-based]  richard w tothill, adam kowalczyk, danny  rischin, alex bousioutas, izhak haviv, ryan k van laar, paul m  waring, john zalcberg, robyn ward, andrew v biankin, robert l  sutherland, susan m henshall, kwun fong, jonathan r pollack, david  d l bowtell, and andrew j holloway.
by  converting our kernel to a distance pseudo-metric for 1-nearest neighbour, we  were able to improve the best accuracy from the literature on the diterpene  data set by more than 10%.
[ bib | .pdf ] aim: to find new potential biomarkers and to establish patterns  for early detection of colorectal cancer.
these techniques performed learning on more than 400 genotype-phenotype pairs for each drug.
often pairs of models can reproduce these features with indistinguishable fidelity despite being generated by vastly different mechanisms.
the same data were employed to identify markers that distinguish samples based on their labels of t cell/b cell, peripheral blood/bone marrow, and male/female.
in this article we apply them to the identification and semantic annotation of scientific and technical terminology in the domain of molecular biology.
leave-one-out cross-validations yielded accuracies of 87.93 the eight-class and 85.19 outperforming the results derived from previously published methods.
proteomics, 4(10):3235-45, oct 2004.
keywords: biosvm [bao2005identifying]  lei  bao.
the present study has identified molecular biomarkers of potential clinical significance and critical molecular targets associated with bladder cancer progression.
two of these machines are used to combine some of the current best protein secondary structure prediction methods.
classification of clear-cell  sarcoma as a subtype of melanoma by genomic profiling.
for inferences about complete proteomes in which the number of pairwise  non-interactions is expected to be much larger than the number of actual  interactions, we anticipate that the sensitivity will remain the same but  precision may decrease.
in the present study, 50 pt2n0 and 28 pt3n0 prostatic  adenocarcinomas were characterized by gleason grading, comparative genomic  hybridization (cgh), and histological texture analysis based on principles of  stereology and stochastic geometry.
keywords: biosvm motivation: a powerful proteomics methodology couples high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) with tandem mass spectrometry and database-search software, such as sequest.
our approach enables  us to study the full combinatorial set of sequences for a variety of  dna-binding proteins, make a detailed analysis of non-additive effects and  exploit this information to improve binding site predictions using either  weight matrices or support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [burckin2005exploring]   t. burckin, r. nagel, y. mandel-gutfreund, l. shiue,  t. a. clark, j.-l. chong, t.-h. chang, s. squazzo, g. hartzog,  and m. ares.
a large number of papers have been published on  analysis of microarray data with particular emphasis on normalization of data,  detection of differentially expressed genes, clustering of genes and regulatory  network.
this map of cellular ubiquitinated proteins and their interacting  proteins will be useful for further studies of ubiquitin system function.
the software that generated the results reported in this paper is available upon requirement, and will appear at http://www.pami.sjtu.edu.cn/wm.
of tight turns, beta-turns and gamma-turns have been extensively studied, but alpha-turns were little investigated.
results: here we introduce an approach based on support vector machines (svms) to predict the targets of a transcription factor by identifying subtle relationships between their expression profiles.
keywords: biosvm [raghava2005correlation]   gajendra p s raghava and joon h han.
the results of classification by learning vector quantization were slightly better than those by support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [peng2003molecular]   s. peng, q. xu, x.b. ling, x. peng, w. du, and  l. chen.
the results of  classification by learning vector quantization were slightly better than those  by support vector machines.
it is shown that the prediction accuracy of the network reconstruction consistently improves owing to the introduction of chemical constraints, the use of a supervised approach and the weighted integration of multiple datasets.
p2sl hybrid computational system achieved approximately 81% of prediction accuracy rate over er targeted, cytosolic, mitochondrial and nuclear protein localization classes.
finally, to combine the results of the six svm binary  classifiers, a new tertiary classifier which combines the results of  one-versus-one binary classifiers is introduced and the performance is compared  with those of existing tertiary classifiers.
we demonstrate that  machine learning approaches using support vector machines and maximum entropy  are able to identify human proteins with higher accuracy than several previous  approaches.
gene selection for sample classifications in microarray experiments.
virtual  screening mandates a reliable procedure for automatic ranking of structurally  distinct ligands in compound library databases.
keywords: biosvm microarray keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm molecular portraits, such as mrna expression or dna methylation patterns, have been shown to be strongly correlated with phenotypical parameters.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: one of the most important issues in computational  proteomics is to produce a prediction model for the classification or  annotation of biological function of novel protein sequences.
notably, a subset of malignant fibrous histiocytomas, a  controversialhistological subtype, was identified as a distinct genomic group.
keywords: biosvm tight turns play an important role in globular proteins from both the structural and functional points of view.
in b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 319-355.
both the transcriptome representation (including a blast and retrieval service) and splice site prediction have been made available on http://www.cosmoss.org, setting the basis for assembly and annotation of the physcomitrella genome, of which draft shotgun sequences will become available in 2005.
through analyses of high-throughput data in yeast saccharomyces cerevisia, we found that a protein's dispensability had significant correlations with its evolutionary rate and duplication rate, as well as its connectivity in protein-protein interaction network and gene-expression correlation network.
encouraging classification results are reported on a  standard protein homology detection experiment, showing that the context-tree  kernel performs well with respect to other state-of-the-art methods while using  no biological prior knowledge.
datasets available from  http://www.igb.uci.edu/servers/servers.html contact: pfbaldi@ics.uci.edu.
a novel tool to  predict protein subcellular localizations in eukaryotic organisms.
we also provide suggested subfamily classification for 18 sequences previously  identified as unclassified class a (rhodopsin-like) gpcrs in gpcrdb (horn et  al. ,
also, the optimal window length for six svm binary classifiers is established by testing different window sizes and our new encoding scheme is tested based on this optimal window size via sevenfold cross validation tests.
in this  study we focused on classifying protein family members based on their  protein-protein interaction distinctiveness.
although the string kernel approach makes no use of prior  biological knowledge, it still captures sufficient biological information to  enable it to outperform some of the state-of-the-art methods.
the best classification results are found using svms: the accuracy for training and test sets is 91.2% and 88.2%, respectively.
(2) even for classification with linear classifiers like ls-svm with linear kernel, using regularization is very important.
we have clustered and assembled physcomitrella patens est and cds data in order to represent the transcriptome of this non-seed plant.
in this study, a new method to estimate the free  binding energy between a ligand and receptor is proposed.
there is no allowance because the rule is either tested on tissue samples that  were used in the first instance to select the genes being used in the rule or  because the cross-validation of the rule is not external to the selection  process; that is, gene selection is not performed in training the rule at each  stage of the cross-validation process.
keywords: biosvm image [hua2001novel]   s. hua and z. sun.
the majority of methods for predicting protein function are reliant upon identifying a similar protein and transferring its annotations to the query protein.
keywords: biosvm [sonnenburg2002new]   s. sonnenburg, g. rätsch, a. jagota, and k.-r. müller.
in comparison with the individual psi-blast-based descriptor, the rate of remote homology identification increased from 33.7 was able to identify the true remote homolog for nearly every sixth sequence at the 95 psi-blast search.
to derive discriminative classifiers, we construct a mapping from the set of all graphs to a high-dimensional (in principle infinite-dimensional) "word space".
our detailed experimental evaluation shows that the svm-based  approaches are able to achieve higher classification accuracy compared to the  more traditional sequence classification algorithms such as markov model based  techniques and k-nearest neighbor based approaches.
results: we describe a generalization of the hierarchical clustering algorithm that efficiently incorporates these higher-order features by using a kernel function to map the data into a high-dimensional feature space.
among the stroke specimens two  further categories exist that correspond to ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke; in  this paper we limit our data analysis to discriminating between control and  stroke specimens.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is one of the most common human  malignancies in the world.
we apply this technique to the problem of splice  site prediction, and show how it can be used to gain insight into the  underlying biological process of splicing.
analysis of the annotation of the most significant genes revealed the relevance of critical genes and pathways during bladder cancer progression, including the overexpression of oncogenic genes such as dek in superficial tumors or immune response genes such as cd86 antigen in invasive disease.
qsar and classification models of a novel series of cox-2  selective inhibitors: 1,5-diarylimidazoles based on support vector machines.
we analyzed the expression of 6,817 genes in diagnostic  tumor specimens from dlbcl patients who received cyclophosphamide, adriamycin,  vincristine and prednisone (chop)-based chemotherapy, and applied a supervised  learning prediction method to identify cured versus fatal or refractory  disease.
while  increasing the number of samples is a plausible solution to the problem of  accuracy degradation, it is important to develop algorithms that are able to  analyze effectively multiple-class expression data for these special datasets.
comparing the prediction accuracy of  each molecule, it seems to be easier to predict interaction sites for stable  complexes.
supervised learning algorithms based on  support vector machines are currently one of the most effective methods for  remote homology detection.
taken together, these results demonstrate the feasibility of  accurate, multiclass molecular cancer classification and suggest a strategy for  future clinical implementation of molecular cancer diagnostics.
measurements the machine learning models were compared in each category with each other and with the clinical query filters using area under the receiver operating characteristic curves, 11-point average recall precision, and a sensitivity/specificity match method.
multidimensional scaling was used to visualize the relationship between a braf mutation signature and that of a generalized mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) activation (either braf or nras mutation) in the context of the discriminating gene list.
we propose  methods based on non-linear svm with polynomial and gaussian kernels, and  output coding (oc) ensembles of learning machines to separate normal from  malignant tissues, to classify different types of lymphoma and to analyse the  role of sets of coordinately expressed genes in carcinogenic processes of  lymphoid tissues.
experiments reveal that the best performing features are orthographic features with f score of 72.6.
when the local sequence length was  20-residue and the parameter d = 8, the svm method archived the best  performance with the correct rate for the cis and trans forms reaching 70.4 and  69.7% for the independent testing dataset, 76.7 and 76.6% for the jackknife  test, respectively.
keywords: biosvm using cdna fragments from the fapesp/licr cancer genome project, we constructed a cdna array having 4512 elements and determined gene expression in six normal and six tumor gastric tissues.
for all users, unsupervised algorithms showed that gene expression allows the distinction of the high dose of mp from controls and low dose.
our system uses a transformation that converts protein domains to fixed-dimension representative feature vectors, where each feature records the sensitivity of each protein domain to a previously learned set of ?protein motifs?
the results obtained by the self-consistency test, jackknife test and independent dataset test are encouraging, indicating that the current approach may serve as a powerful complementary tool to other existing methods for predicting the types of membrane proteins.
these methods generally give better accuracies than single svm classification systems, and the performance of the pp-csvm method is slightly better than that of the pm-csvm method.
the overall prediction accuracy qtotal was 77.3%, which is the best among the existing prediction methods.
sequence classification and annotation of species  origin typically use an orthology-based approach and require access to large  portions of either genome, or a close relative.
our approach should be useful in structure prediction and modeling.
inproceedings of the  seventh international conference on intelligent systems for molecular biology , pages 149-158.
we combine the predictions of one-class versus one-class support vector machine models to make overall assignments of ec number to an accuracy of 35 to 60 the utility of simple structural attributes in protein function prediction and shed light on the link between structure and function.
keywords: biosvm [gururaja2003multiple]   t. gururaja, w. li, w.s. noble, d.g. payan, and d.c. anderson.
the quantum chemical parameters involved in the model are kier and hall index (order3) (khi3), information content (order 0) (ic0), yz shadow (yzs) and max partial charge for an n atom (maxpcn), min partial charge for an n atom (minpcn).
we also report results obtained with two new kernel functions based on similarity matrices.
since they are frequently based on different principles, and different knowledge sources, significant benefits can be expected from combining them.
one problem with discriminant analysis of dna  microarray data is that each sample is represented by quite a large number of  genes, and many of them are irrelevant, insignificant or redundant to the  discriminant problem at hand.
a set of 201 chemical compounds, including 116 substrates and 85 nonsubstrates of p-gp, was used to train and test a svm classification system.
since it is not known how many and which nucleotides are relevant for splice site prediction, the set of features is chosen large enough such that the probability that all relevant information sources are in the set is very high.
we find that the best results are found using the sbase-a database and the nna, namely 72% accuracy for 79% coverage.
because the function of a protein is closely correlated with its subcellular  location, with the rapid increase in new protein sequences entering into  databanks, it is vitally important for both basic research and pharmaceutical  industry to establish a high throughput tool for predicting protein subcellular  location.
unlike previous methods, ours considers the order information of protein sequences by a different method.
we present a complete automated annotation system that overcomes many of the usual problems by applying a controlled vocabulary of gene ontology and an established classification method on large and well-described sequence data sets.
in this paper, we address the problem of selection of a small subset of genes from broad patterns of gene expression data, recorded on dna micro-arrays.
structural environment parameters derived from the 3d homologous structure as well as evolutionary information derived from the multiple sequence alignment were used as predictors.
chem., 25(5):632, 6 2004.
in 2d, we introduce several similarity kernels based on conventional or generalized fingerprints.
several interesting research directions are discussed.
[ bib | http |  .pdf ] motivation: the large amount of available annotated arabidopsis  thaliana sequences allows the induction of splice site prediction models with  supervised learning algorithms (see haussler (1998) for a review and  references).
the probability parameters of the three classes were utilized to develop a novel gene relevance, ranking, and selection method.
using the svm classification, the  overall accuracies to predict 55 samples into one of the nine treatments are  above 80 crossvalidation.
leave-one-out cross validation with receiver  operating characteristic (roc) curve is used for evaluation and comparison of  cancer detection performance.
as  few as 83 genes are able to discriminate between braf mutant and braf wild-type  samples with clear separation observed using hierarchical clustering.
the dipeptide composition  based method predicted 67.6% of protein sequences with an accuracy of 100% with  a reliability index > or =5.
we have combined a support vector  machine (svm) approach with surface patch analysis to predict protein-protein  binding sites.
toward this end, we propose a means of representing proteins using pairwise sequence similarity scores.
(2) how can we identify yet unidentified exons within known introns?
it enables the classification system to achieve good or  even better solutions with a restricted subset of features, allows for a faster  classification, and it helps the human expert focus on a relevant subset of  features, hence providing useful biological knowledge.
compared  with previous robert garian's investigation, the performance of svm is almost  equal to that of the decision tree models, and the methods of extracting  feature vector from the primary sequences are superior to robert's binning  function method.
keywords: biosvm a support vector machine learning system has been trained to predict protein solvent accessibility from the primary structure.
in this novel method, hmms are first constructed using functional sequences only.
cesh analysis was performed on a total of 104 tumors with  a diagnosis of rhabdomyosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, prostate cancer, and  favorable-histology wilms tumors.
unlike most conventional learning methods where  the training set used to derive the model remains static, the classifier can  actively choose the training data and the size of training set increases.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: feature subset selection is an important  preprocessing step for classification.
in conclusion, our results demonstrate the utility of quantitative proteomic  analysis for molecular diagnosis and classification of lung cancer cells.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the support vector machine, as a novel type of learning machine,  for the first time, was used to develop a qsar model of 57 analogues of ethyl  2-[(3-methyl-2,5-dioxo(3-pyrrolinyl))amino]-4-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate  (epc), an inhibitor of ap-1 and nf-kappa b mediated gene expression, based on  calculated quantum chemical parameters.
in comparison with the individual  psi-blast-based descriptor, the rate of remote homology identification  increased from 33.7 was able to identify the true remote homolog for nearly  every sixth sequence at the 95 psi-blast search.
results we propose a kernel-based approach to datamining on biological sequences.
protein subcellular localization is an important  determinant of protein function and hence, reliable methods for prediction of  localization are needed.
this compares favorably with about three-four times more misclassifications when optimal linear functions reported in the literature are used.
eclair-a web service for unravelling species  origin of sequences sampled from mixed host interfaces.
keywords: biosvm background
but the linear model of the heuristic method is easier to understand and ready to use for a chemist.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm we present a method for predicting protein-protein interactions mediated by the coiled-coil motif.
results we have  developed an in silico classification system entitled hodoco (homology  modeling, docking and classification oracle), in which protein residue  potential interaction profiles (rpips) are used to summarize protein-protein  interaction characteristics.
the study was carried out at the genome level as well as two shorter sequence levels: short (300 amino acids) and medium length (660 amino acids).
neural computation, 14(10):2397-2414, 2002.
a family of multi-class svms is introduced.
introduction of the so-called -3,-1, +1 coupling model (chou, k. c.: protein engineering, 2001, 14-2, 75-79) has made it possible to take into account the coupling effect among some key subsites and hence can significantly enhance the prediction quality of peptide cleavage site.
they enable the application of kernel methods, such as support  vectormachines, to the analysis and classification of graphs, for example,  chemicalcompounds.
yeast carrying mutations in genes encoding  components of these machineries were examined using microarrays to measure  changes in both pre-mrna and mrna levels.
based on the novel concept, the representation  for a protein can be defined as a vector in a high-dimensional space, where  each of the clustered functional domains derived from the protein universe  serves as a vector base.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: short interfering rnas (sirnas) can be used to  suppress gene expression and possess many potential applications in therapy,  but how to design an effective sirna is still not clear.
supervised enzyme network inference from the integration of genomic data and  chemical information.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003prediction]  y.d.  cai, x.j. liu, y.x. li, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
they were then applied to the prediction of  inhibitors of cyp2c9 and substrates of the three enzymes.
each position in the sequence is described by the properties of the amino acid at that position and the properties of its neighbors in 3d space or in the sequence.
there is a need to understand why particular genes/proteins express more in particular conditions.
results: when applied  to publicly available expression data the method is able to extract  biologically relevant expression patterns, as well as pathways with related  activity.
identification of sentence types may be helpful for providing context to end  users or other text summarization techniques.
gene selection techniques can significantly improve classification performance of both mc-svms and other non-svm learning algorithms.
but its capability for assignment of distantly related proteins and  homologous proteins of different functions has not been critically and  adequately assessed.
it is estimated that over half  of all human genes have more than one splice variant.
the overall classification  success rate for a k-nearest neighbor classifier built with just six  topological descriptors is 81.2 and 86.5 success rate for a three-descriptor  support vector machine model is 99.7 and 83.8% for an external prediction set.
appl., 5(2):168-179, 2002.
we tested an assigning function based on searching for interpro  sequence motifs and by taking the most significant blast match within the  dataset.
development of a method for evaluating drug-likeness and  ease of synthesis using a data set in which compounds are assigned scores based  on chemists' intuition.
our high accuracy not only demonstrates the feasibility of our method, but also indicates that there might be "amino acid" patterns around tis in cdna and mrna sequences.
a statistical framework for genomic  data fusion.
usa, 97(1):262-7, jan 2000.
the svm classifier gets slightly better results than the  mlp one (az value of 0.963 against 0.958) in the presence of a high number of  training data; the improvement becomes much more evident (az value of 0.952  against 0.918) in training sets of reduced size.
the quality of classification  was tested by cross-validation.
chem.,  277(48):45765-45769, 2002.
networks based on nucleotide composition were 80-90 for bacteria and 90-99 achieved a significant improvement in accuracy by combining these predictions with those obtained using a second set of parameters consisting of known rna sequence motifs and the calculated free energy of folding.
we evaluated and analysed the performance of this approach, and we  present experimental results on three selected families from the scop  (structural classification of proteins) database.
experiments with the samples randomly assigned to the two classes confirmed that misclassification rates were significantly higher in such cases than those observed with the true data.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machine approach was introduced to predict the beta-turns in proteins.
the propensities of  residues located at different positions were also analyzed.
by scanning predicted  peptides found in the human genome with the svmtree server, we have identified  a large number of genes that encode gpcrs.
the method is based on the theory of support vector machines (svms).
thus, computational prediction of subcellular  locations from the amino acid sequence information would help annotation and  functional prediction of protein coding genes in complete genomes.
contact: yoshi@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp keywords: biosvm motivation: novel methods, both molecular and statistical, are urgently needed to take advantage of recent advances in biotechnology and the human genome project for disease diagnosis and prognosis.
support vector regression is a statistical method for creating regression functions of arbitrary type from a set of training data.
these features do not comprise any direct information about the  three-dimensional structures of ligand or target.
tags and character-level orthographic features, and makes a comparison of how  these variations influence performance.
[ bib | doi | .pdf ] the large amount of data generated by dna microarrays was  originally analysed using unsupervised methods, such as clustering or  self-organizing maps.
keywords: biosvm [deshpande2002evaluation]   m. deshpande and g. karypis.
we have analyzed 472 amino acid indices and selected the four amino acid indices as the examples, which have the best performance.
the construction of this activity score involves (1) predicting phenotypic drug resistance from genotypes for each drug individually, (2) probabilistic modeling of predicted resistance values and integration into a score for drug combinations, and (3) searching through the mutational neighborhood of the considered strain in order to estimate activity on nearby mutants.
to address this problem, we propose a support vector machine (svm)-based classifier that combines sequence and 3d structural averaging information.
so a fully automatic and reliable  classification system is needed.
work is in progress to make the method available on-line and to integrate the svm predictions into the psipred server.
this results in a decrease in false positive rates compared to mhc binding prediction alone.
eclat allows training of classifiers for any  host-pathogen combination for which there are sufficient classified training  sequences.
evaluating methods for  classifying expression data.
to show  robustness of the svm method, two previously published datasets from other  types of tissues or cells are analysed.
the results showed that all blindly applied classification methods had a slightly smaller misclassification rate than a random classification.
if it is possible to identify a small set of genes that is  indeed capable of providing complete discrimination, inexpensive diagnostic  assays might be widely deployable in clinical settings.
svms trained to discriminate nontumor from tumor specimens using only the 50-200 top-ranked genes had the same or better generalization performance than the full repertoire of 1,988 genes.
results: two methods for prediction of  molecular bioactivity for drug design are introduced and shown to perform well  in a data set previously studied as part of the kdd (knowledge discovery and  data mining) cup 2001.
keywords: biosvm microarray male rats were treated with various model compounds or the appropriate vehicle controls.
this approach exploits the fact that interface residues tend to form clusters  in the primary amino acid sequence.
as a  comparison, the best correlations of support vector machine classifiers trained  on the same data were 0.40 and 0.30, respectively.
availability: lsbsp1 and the nn algorithm  have been implemented in prism.1, which is available from  www.columbia.edu/ ay1/. supplementary information: supplementary data for  the svm method can be downloaded from the website  www.cs.columbia.edu/compbio/backbone.
the fwe approach controls the probability of the number of one or more false positives at a prespecified level.
esub8 also provides excellent results: the total prediction accuracies are 100 87 a different approach for predicting protein subcellular localization and achieved a satisfactory result; furthermore, we believe esub8 will be a useful tool for predicting protein subcellular localizations in eukaryotic organisms.
finally, we propose that codon composition  be used in combination with other attributes in gene/protein classification by  supervised machine learning algorithms.
the good results indicate that the structural class of a protein is considerably correlated with its amino acid composition.
there is, therefore, an incentive to develop methods to reconstruct the unknown parts of the metabolic network and to identify genes coding for missing enzymes.
we also demonstrate that a combined use of different classification and feature selection approaches makes it possible to select relevant genes with high confidence.
as hidden markov models (hmms) can be used to generate one model for one cluster of aligned protein sequences, the aim in this study is to use hmms to extract features from amino acid sequences, where sequence clusters are determined using available biological knowledge.
it is possible that unique serum proteomic patterns could be used to discriminate cancer samples from non-cancer ones.
the results show that the support vector machine outperforms the neural network.
the test data consist of 209 proteins of human antibody immunoglobulin light chains, each represented by aligned sequences of 120 amino acids.
in order to achieve a higher accuracy for this method, we should choose image  features that are better suited for analysing digital mammograms than the  currently used ones.
[ bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [vert2005kernel]  j.-p.  vert.
three of these proteins  or protein fragments are down-regulated and one up-regulated in lung cancer,  the disease under consideration in this data set.
results: we show that  computing the diffusion kernel is equivalent to maximizing the von neumann  entropy, subject to a global constraint on the sum of the euclidean distances  between nodes.
the multi-category support vector machine techniques by crammer and singer, weston and watkins, and one-versus-rest were found to be the best methods and they outperform other learning algorithms such as k-nearest neighbors and neural networks often to a remarkable degree.
based on such a  framework, the weighted support vector machine (svm) algorithm is applied.
in this  latter case, the web server requires only pasting of a protein sequence in a  raw format.
a sensitive, support-vector-machine  method for the detection of horizontal gene transfers in viral, archaeal and  bacterial genomes.
all these results indicate that locsvmpsi is a  powerful tool for the prediction of eukaryotic protein subcellular  localization.
keywords: biosvm adult soft tissue sarcomas are a heterogeneous group of tumors, including well-described subtypes by histological and genotypic criteria, and pleomorphic tumors typically characterized by non-recurrent genetic aberrations and karyotypic heterogeneity.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics the support vector machine (svm), as a novel type of a learning machine, for the first time, was used to develop a qspr model that relates the structures of 35 amino acids to their isoelectric point.
we found closely matching masses in a database for protein expression in lung cancer for three of the four proteins we used to classify lung cancer.
in the colon cancer database, using only 4 genes our method is 98%  accurate, while the baseline method is only 86% accurate.
keywords: biosvm shotgun tandem mass spectrometry-based peptide sequencing using programs such as sequest allows high-throughput identification of peptides, which in turn allows the identification of corresponding proteins.
availability: upon request from the authors.
in this paper, support vector machines (svms), a new machine learning method, is applied to approach this problem.
these kernels can be computed efficiently and are applied to problems of classification and prediction of mutagenicity, toxicity and anti-cancer activity on three publicly available datasets.
we also show how we can use the learned svm classifier to extract  "discriminative sequence motifs" - short regions of the original  profile that contribute almost all the weight of the svm classification score -  and show that these discriminative motifs correspond to meaningful structural  features in the protein data.
svm is a new machine learning  technology that has been successfully applied in solving problems in the field  of bioinformatics.
when tested in combination with svm on their ability to recognize scop superfamilies on a benchmark dataset, the new kernels outperform state-of-the-art methods for remote homology detection.
keywords: biosvm [watkins2000dynamic]   c. watkins.
text mining has spurred huge interest in the domain  of biology.
recognition of protein/gene names from text using an ensemble of  classifiers.
molecular descriptors calculated from the structure alone were used to represent molecular structures.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ mcknight2003categorization]  larry mcknight and padmini srinivasan.
[ bib | .pdf ] functional annotation of newly sequenced genomes is an important  challenge for computational biology systems.
although svm outperformed the ann classifiers with regard  to overall prediction accuracy, both methods were shown to complement each  other, as the sets of true positives, false positives (overprediction), true  negatives, and false negatives (underprediction) produced by the two  classifiers were not identical.
biol., 12(2):175-82, feb  2005.
our svm classification system used a set of linear solvation energy relationship (lser) descriptors and was optimized by leave-one-out cross validation procedure.
the new approach has remarkable power in dealing with the bias caused by the situation when one subset in the training dataset contains many more samples than the other.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2370-4, may 2005.
of tight turns, beta-turns  and gamma-turns have been extensively studied, but alpha-turns were little  investigated.
by many criteria our system outperformed other tagging methods significantly; in particular, it proved very reliable even for novel names.
mit press, the mit press, cambridge,  massachussetts, 2004.
the set of all known pathways can therefore be represented by a complex network of genes.
the support vector machine algorithm supported a genomic basis for diagnosis, with both high sensitivity and specificity.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm background subcellular localization of a new protein sequence is very important and fruitful for understanding its function.
[ bib ] keywords: biosvm [haussler1999convolution]   d. haussler.
the best performance method can predict the transmembrane helices with sensitivity of 93.4 of 92.0 given to show the strength of transmembrane signal and the prediction reliability.
keywords: biosvm [xue2004support]   c. x. xue, r. s. zhang, h. x. liu, m. c. liu, z. d.  hu, and b. t. fan.
an extremely good correlation (r = 0.88) was obtained between measured and predicted values, when the cascade svm-based method was evaluated through jackknife testing.
we have developed  prototype svms for binary classification of rrna-, rna-, and dna-binding  proteins.
subsequently,  support vector machines were used for classification.
ensemble classifiers do not generally improve performance of the best non-ensemble models.
for the first time evolutionary information  was used as one of the attributes and this inclusion of evolutionary importance  rankings improves the classification.
we constructed a data set of proteins with known locations from the  swiss-prot database.
different from the existing methods, this method takes into account of the physical-chemical properties and structure properties of amino acids.
the  prediction system used-predphospho-can be applied to the functional study of  proteins, and can help predict the changes in phosphorylation sites caused by  amino acid variations at intra- and interspecies levels.
a set as small as four retains an accuracy of 84+/-2 general physicochemical properties rather than specific amino acids are important factors contributing to protein disorder.
the application of bootstrapping techniques to hierarchical  clustering segregated early-stage and invasive transitional carcinomas into two  main clusters.
although our approach can be applied to any object, we particularly derive several marginalized kernels useful for biological sequences (e.g., dna and proteins).
the algorithm is based on some new observations on the  secondary structure, which we have verified by ai techniques (decision trees  and support vector machines).
contact:  roded@tau.ac.il.
functional annotation currently relies almost exclusively on inter-species sequence comparison and is restricted in cases of limited data from related species and widely divergent sequences with no known homologs.
taking consensus of the 3 best models yielded a  further improvement in predictive capability, kappa = 0.65 and accuracy = 83%.
we demonstrate experimentally that the genes selected by our techniques yield better classification performance and are biologically relevant to cancer.
keywords: biosvm [meireles2003differentially]  s.i. meireles, a.f. carvalho, r. hirata, a.l. montagnini, w.k. martins,  f.b. runza, b.s. stolf, l. termini, c.e. neto, r.l. silva, f.a. soares,  e.j. neves, and l.f. reis.
labeled proteins were affinity extracted in quadruplicate and tryptic peptides identifed by 2d capillary lc/ms/ms comb9ined with sequest and medusa analyses.
proteins resident in this membrane (outer membrane proteins, or omps) are of primary research interest for antibiotic and vaccine drug design as they are on the surface of the bacteria and so are the most accessible targets to develop new drugs against.
it is desirable to extend the prediction range beyond compounds covered by the known pharmacophore models.
rfe significantly reduces the number of descriptors for each of these properties thereby increasing the computational speed for their classification.
we propose a two-stage strategy to develop an optimal model: (1) feature selection using correlation analysis, mutual information, and svm-based recursive feature elimination (svm-rfe), and (2) ao prediction using standard and profiled svm formulations.
our method is tested in three subcellular localization predictions for  prokaryotic proteins and four subcellular localization predictions for  eukaryotic proteins on reinhardt's dataset.
the proteins corresponding to the spots were identified by mass spectrometry.
keywords: biosvm motivation: protein dispensability is fundamental to understanding of gene function and evolution.
we used these measurements as a quantitative phenotype to ask how steps in the gene expression pathway are functionally connected.
chromosomal aberration and other data support the prediction that the three genes at the intersection of the top 50s, cystatin c, azurocidin, and adipsin, are good targets for investigating the basic biology of all/aml.
svms are supported  by an efficient learning algorithm and can utilize some prior knowledge about  the structure of the problem.
keywords: biosvm motivation: in this paper we address the problem of the determination of developmental age of an embryo from its segmentation gene expression patterns in drosophila.
endpoints used are the labels clastogenic or nonclastogenic according to an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay with chinese hamster lung cells.
biologists  have begun collecting gene expression for a large number of samples.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] background:
a new algorithm for the  evaluation of shotgun peptide sequencing in proteomics: support vector machine  classification of peptide ms/ms spectra and sequest scores.
the set of candidates reported by these tools is  usually large and often contains ineffective sirnas.
we combine the predictions of  one-class versus one-class support vector machine models to make overall  assignments of ec number to an accuracy of 35 to 60 the utility of simple  structural attributes in protein function prediction and shed light on the link  between structure and function.
it is  generally assumed that protein affinity for dna involves additive contributions  from successive nucleotide pairs within the target sequence.
a multiclass support vector machine was trained to  recognize the gene expression phenotypes caused by these mutations.
[ bib | http |  .pdf ] motivation: dna microarray experiments generating thousands of  gene expression measurements, are being used to gather information from tissue  and cell samples regarding gene expression differences that will be useful in  diagnosing disease.
we  present promising results on the prediction of the protein network for the  yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae from four types of widely available data: gene  expressions, protein interactions measured by yeast two-hybrid systems, protein  localizations in the cell and protein phylogenetic profiles.
to keep a realistic perspective on clinical applications we focus on multicategory diagnosis.
experimental comparisons using kernel classifiers demonstrate both parsimonious feature selection and excellent classification accuracy on a range of synthetic and benchmark data sets.
this work examines to what extent the reduction of this noise can  improve the prediction accuracy of a statistical learning system.
in this paper we investigate the feasibility of using an svm (support vector machine) classifier in our automatic system for the detection of clustered microcalcifications in digital mammograms.
med., 8(1):68-74, 2002.
in russ b.  altman, a. keith dunker, lawrence hunter, kevin lauerdale, and  teri e. klein, editors,proceedings of the pacific symposium on  biocomputing 2002, pages 374-385.
such mechanisms are  unfavorable in the interior of a beta-sheet.
we tested our method on several public data sets as well as our own extracted data sets.
we have  applied a machine learning algorithm, called the support vector machine, to  discriminate between correctly and incorrectly identified peptides using  sequest output.
overall, recognition  systems achieve 56 accuracy on a protein test dataset, where most of the  proteins have below 25 information: the protein parameter datasets used in this  paper are available online (http://www.nersc.gov/ cding/protein).
the results show that our method performs well and  achieves 16.5 data and 18.6 data.
keywords: biosvm motivation: both small interfering rnas (sirnas) and antisense oligonucleotides can selectively block gene expression.
while much progress has been made towards scalingup experimental methods for functional assignment to putative genes, most current genomic annotation systems rely on computational solutions for homology modeling via sequence or structural similarity.
using the fisher  kernel method to detect remote protein homologies.
results here, we present a novel approach, svmhc, based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to mhc class i molecules.
keywords: biosvm [statnikov2005comprehensive]  a. statnikov, c. f. aliferis, i. tsamardinos, d. hardin,  and s. levy.
this work explores the use of different statistical learning methods for predicting inhibitors of these enzymes and an additional p450 enzyme, cyp2c9, and the substrates of the three p450 isoenzymes.
keywords: biosvm it is well established that recognition between exposed edges of beta-sheets is an important mode of protein-protein interaction and can have pathological consequences; for instance, it has been linked to the aggregation of proteins into a fibrillar structure, which is associated with a number of predominantly neurodegenerative disorders.
keywords: biosvm sbase (http://www.icgeb.trieste.it/sbase) is an online resource designed to facilitate the detection of domain homologies based on sequence database search.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] this paper adopts a bayesian approach to simultaneously learn  both an optimal nonlinear classifier and a subset of predictor variables (or  features) that are most relevant to the classification task.
three-state prediction results provide a 64.5 approach has successfully been applied for solvent accessibility prediction by considering long-range interaction and handling unbalanced data.
0.39 psipred prediction method on a  non-homologous test set of 121 proteins despite being trained on substantially  fewer examples.
using a three-step approach, we classified sera from rats with liver cirrhosis following different treatment insults.
genes chromosomes cancer,  38(3):207-214, 2003.
a primer on kernel methods.
the training parameters include molecular weight,  lipophilicity, hydrogen bonding, and other variables that govern the ability of  a molecule to diffuse through a membrane.
to address these  challenges, we have developed an information theoretic model called coherent  subgraph mining.
sbase b contains 169,916 domain sequences clustered into 2526 less  well-characterized groups.
it was observed that a good amino acid grouping leads to an increase in prediction performance.
1):i359-i368, jun 2005.
bmc bioinformatics , 5(26), 2004.
this method of correlating drugs and genes provides a strategy for finding novel biologically significant relationships for molecular pharmacology.
keywords: biosvm a new method support vector machine (svm) and the heuristic method (hm) were used to develop the nonlinear and linear models between the capacity factor (logk) and seven molecular descriptors of 75 peptides for the first time.
when applied to the prediction of hiv protease cleavage sites, the new method has shown a remarkable advantage in reducing the model complexity and enhancing the model robustness.
we have laid the foundation for a protein function prediction system that integrates protein information from various sources efficiently and effectively.
for this problem, the new method performs better than a  previously-described markov random field method, and better than the svm  trained on any single type of data.
this latter task, to the best of our knowledge, is exploited for the first time.
keywords: biosvm microarray small interfering rnas (sirnas) are becoming widely used for sequence-specific gene silencing in mammalian cells, but designing an effective sirna is still a challenging task.
all svm models showed predictive ability (>60% of test set predicted  correctly) and five out of the 12 test sets showed excellent prediction  (>80% prediction accuracy).
few molecular prognostic markers  for wilms tumor are currently defined, though previous studies have linked  allele loss on 1p or 16q, genomic gain of 1q, and overexpression from 1q with  an increased risk of relapse.
testing accuracy for the classification of these protein classes is found to be in the range of 84-96 usefulness of svm in the classification of protein functional classes and its potential application in protein function prediction.
keywords: biosvm, breastcancer [ ramaswamy2001multiclass]  s. ramaswamy, p. tamayo, r. rifkin,  s. mukherjee, c.h. yeang, m. angelo, c. ladd, m. reich,  e. latulippe, j.p. mesirov, t. poggio, w. gerald, m. loda,  e.s. lander, and t.r. golub.
the  performance and predictive ability of svm are investigated and compared with  other methods such as multiple linear regression and radial basis function  neural network methods.
proteins, 50(4):531, 6 2003.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] we propose a new kernel for strings which borrows ideas and  techniques from information theory and data compression.
in this paper we propose a new method for recognition of prokaryotic promoter regions with startpoints of transcription.
remote homology detection: a motif based  approach.
the six descriptors calculated solely from the molecular structures of  compounds selected by forward stepwise regression were used as inputs for the  svm model.
data from additional samples, increased experience with the  performance of various preprocessing techniques, and affirmation of the  biological roles of the proteins that help in classification, will strengthen  our conclusions in the future.
second, we suggest a modification of the random  walkmodel to prevent the walk from coming back to a vertex that was just  visited.
complete cross-validation on a diverse data set resulted in a root-mean-squared error = 0.62 and r(2) = 0.88.
these models were found to efficiently eliminate compounds that are not drug-like and/or hard-to-synthesize derivatives, demonstrating the suitability of these models for use as compound acquisition filters.
keywords: biosvm classification of gene function remains one of the most important and demanding tasks in the post-genome era.
we investigated three different models of amino acid preference.
the majority of methods for predicting  protein function are reliant upon identifying a similar protein and  transferring its annotations to the query protein.
the most basic step in the research direction is binary sample classification, which has been studied extensively over the past few years.
nlprot was so  successful due to the svm-building blocks that succeeded in utilizing the local  context of protein names in the scientific literature.
multiple functional categories of proteins identified in an in vitro cellular  ubiquitin affinity extract using shotgun peptide sequencing.
small molecules play a fundamental role in organic chemistry and biology.
the percentage of true positives recognized before the first false positive was 65 both svm methods, 13 for kernnn.
comparable classification accuracy shown in the applications and its flexibility render the msvm a viable alternative to other classification methods supplementary information: http://www.stat.ohio-state.edu/
keywords: biosvm motivation: phosphorylation is involved in diverse signal transduction pathways.
a machine learning approach to mining protein function predictions from text can yield good performance only if sufficient training data is available, and significant amount of supporting data is used for prediction.
the results can be used for a variety of intelligent language processing applications.
oncol.,  21(9):1775-1781, may 2003.
enzyme inhibitors and found that the prediction quality of our svm model is  better than that reported earlier for conventional qsar.
cytokeratin 20, neuropilin-2, p21, and p33ing1 were selected among the top ranked molecular targets differentially expressed and validated by immunohistochemistry using tissue microarrays (n = 173).
for splice site prediction, the features we  consider in this study are the presence or absence of certain nucleotides in  close proximity to the splice site.
in addition, the use of a  supervised analysis method (support vector machines) made it possible to  correctly classify samples.
there is, therefore, an incentive to develop  methods to reconstruct the unknown parts of the metabolic network and to  identify genes coding for missing enzymes.
the experiments demonstrate that the kernel representation  itself is insufficient to provide improved clustering performance.
protein homology  detection using string alignment kernels.
approximately 90 marker genes were pinpointed for  use in understanding the basic biology of colon adenocarcinoma, defining  targets for therapeutic intervention and developing diagnostic tools.
at present, discriminative methods such as svm-fisher and svm-pairwise, which combine support vector machine (svm) and sequence similarity, are recognized as the most accurate methods, with svm-pairwise being the most accurate.
these extensions are then tested on benchmark experiments of chemicalcompounds classification, with promising results.
classifying g-protein  coupled receptors with support vector machines.
the amino acid sequences of the variants of a  protein, created by inducing mutations, along with their fitness are required  as input data by the method to predict its critical positions.
high prediction accuracy can be helpful in a better understanding of  protein coding from nucleotide sequences.
support vector machine analyais of the mass  spectrometry data allowed prediction of correct matches between mass  spectrometry data and peptide sequences.
based on these observations, we present an alternative method for svm-based protein classification.
we show that our profile kernel results are comparable to cluster kernels while providing much better scalability to large datasets.
these results are insensitive to the exact selection mechanism, over a certain range.
the principal origin of non-additivity  involves the so-called indirect component of protein-dna recognition which is  related to the sequence dependence of dna deformation induced during complex  formation.
the techniques are demonstrated by methylation pattern based discrimination  between acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia.
the results obtained by gaussian-kernel svm were  much better than those obtained by multiple linear regression, radial basis  function neural networks, linear-kernel svm, and other qspr approaches.
the implementation of svmhc is quite simple and does not involve any manual steps, therefore as more data become available it is trivial to provide prediction for more mhc types.
these kernels use probabilistic profiles, such as those produced by the psi-blast algorithm, to define position-dependent mutation neighborhoods along protein sequences for inexact matching of k-length subsequences ("k-mers") in the data.
results with e-rfe, we speed up  the recursive feature elimination (rfe) with svm classifiers by eliminating  chunks of uninteresting genes using an entropy measure of the svm weights  distribution.
we have shown that multiple snp sites from  different genes over distant parts of the genome are better at identifying  breast cancer patients than any one snp alone.
while modest inhibitors are partly characterized by properties linked to global  structure of a molecule including hydrophobicity and diameter, strong  inhibitors are exclusively characterized by properties linked to substructures  of a molecule.
one strategy is to first identify the protein-protein interactions in a  proteome, then determine pathways and overall structure relating these  interactions, and finally to statistically infer functional roles of individual  proteins.
as classification features, we  used a protein's co-occurring terms that were automatically extracted from  documents.
the fwe approach controls the probability of the number of one  or more false positives at a prespecified level.
[ bib | doi | .pdf | .pdf ] the support vector machine (svm) method is used to predict the  bonding states of cysteines.
an automated prediction system can help reduce resources  necessary to carry out this task.
we show experimentally that the new method results in a superior performance across a wide range of organisms and that it improves even upon our own earlier method by an average of 10% across all examined genomes.
our predictive models were able to discriminate between hepatotoxic and nonhepatotoxic compounds.
it has been shown that alternatively spliced exons have certain properties that distinguish them from constitutively spliced exons.
for a new kp480 set, the  prediction accuracy of svmpsi was q3 = 78.5 for 136 non-redundant protein  sequences which do not contain homologues of training data sets were q3 =
in vitro experiments and a dog study confirmed the correctness of the  toxicogenomics alert.
a number of tests have been carried out to evaluate the  accuracy of these two algorithms under different circumstances.
these results provide critical information regarding the consistency of microarray results across different laboratories and shed light on the strengths and limitations of expression profiling in drug safety analysis.
prediction of the  isoelectric point of an amino acid based on ga-pls and svms.
1):i47-i56, jun 2005.
the overall prediction accuracy of this hybrid classifier for the disulfide-bonding state of cysteines in proteins has scored 84.1 on cysteine and protein basis using the rigorous jack-knife procedure, respectively.
the support vector machine algorithm was used to classify proteins from  different families under the binary classification scheme.
availability: http://cubic.bioc.columbia.edu/services/nlprot/ keywords: biosvm nlp [mika2004nlprot]  sven  mika and burkhard rost.
combined with the above mentioned features we were able to identify 85.2% of skipped exons within known introns at a false positive rate of 1%.
bioinformatics , 21(suppl.
we examined many issues involved with large  number of classes, including dependencies of prediction accuracy on the number  of folds and on the number of representatives in a fold.
support vector machines  for protein fold class prediction.
keywords: biosvm subcellular location of a protein is one of the key functional characters as proteins must be localized correctly at the subcellular level to have normal biological function.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] there is growing interest in the application of machine learning  techniques in bioinformatics.
the most  promising results are for combined document retrieval and go term assignment,  which calls for the integration of methods developed in biocreative task 1 and  task 2.
chem., 26(1):4-15, december 2001.
[ bib ] the development of new statistical methods for use in molecular  epidemiology comprises the building and application of appropriate  classification rules.
initial results compare  favorably against manual classification performed by experts and indicate the  capability of svms to capture the underlying structure of the data.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics
contact:  fabian.model@epigenomics.com keywords: biosvm [hua2001support]   s. hua and z. sun.
one core problem in classifying biological information is the annotation of new protein sequences with structural and functional features.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf  ] a dna microarray can track the expression levels of thousands of  genes simultaneously.
keywords: biosvm [krishnapuram2004gene]   b. krishnapuram, l. carin, and a. hartemink.
testing  accuracy for the classification of these protein classes is found to be in the  range of 84-96 usefulness of svm in the classification of protein functional  classes and its potential application in protein function prediction.
keywords: biosvm [zien2000engineering]   a. zien, g. rätsch, s. mika, b. schölkopf,  t. lengauer, and k.-r. müller.
the training set is composed of embryos for which the  precise developmental age was determined by measuring the degree of membrane  invagination.
in this article, a support  vector machine is applied to predict the cleavability of oligopeptides by  proteases with multiple and extended specificity subsites.
we have developed and evaluated a variety of learned information extraction systems for identifying human protein names in medline abstracts and subsequently extracting information on interactions between the proteins.
text  categorization models for high-quality article retrieval in internal medicine.
for the complete set of 525  descriptors cross-validated classification by svm yielded 82% correct  predictions (matthews cc = 0.63), whereas ann reached 80% correct predictions  (matthews cc = 0.58).
j. , 84(5):3257-3263, 2003.
given the explosive growth of biomedical data as  well as the literature describing results and findings, it is getting  increasingly difficult to keep up to date with new information.
public access to our rna gene predictions and  an interface for user predictions is available via the web.
most literature mining tools rely on pre-existing lexicons of biological names, often extracted from curated gene or protein databases.
the foundation for the model is a sample of text annotated by a domain expert according to an ontology of concepts, properties and relations.
the results obtained through the self-consistency test, jack-knife test, and independent dataset test have indicated that the current method and the elegant component-coupled algorithm developed by chou and co-workers, if effectively complemented with each other, may become a powerful tool for predicting the structural class of protein domains.
we discuss the generality of the method and its  potential application to a variety of biological classification problems.
in the discussion  that follows, we present such a method, wn-svm, and show that it exhibits a  very significant improvement in sensitivity compared with earlier approaches.
the methodology is applied to the classification of protein  sequences collected from patients with and without amyloidosis, and indicates  that the proposed modified classifiers are more robust to sequence variability  than standard svm classifiers, improving classification error between 5 and 25%  and sensitivity between 9 and 17%.
the findings, nevertheless, suggest that snp data might be useful for the classification of individuals into categories of high or low risk of diseases.
genes differentially expressed between the relapsing  and nonrelapsing tumor classes were identified by statistical scoring (t test).
we further assessed the performance of our regulatory network identifications by comparing them with the results from two recent genome-wide chip-chip experiments.
contact: fabian.model@epigenomics.com keywords: biosvm motivation: subcellular localization is a key functional characteristic of proteins.
selection bias in  gene extraction on the basis of microarray gene-expression data.
the mc-svm techniques by crammer and singer, weston and watkins, and  one-versus-rest were found to be the best methods in this domain.
efficient  remote homology detection using local structure.
the training and testing was done on a non-redundant data set of 282 proteins obtained from the nucleardb data base (1).
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] we present a machine learning method to discriminate between  cysteines involved in ligand binding and cysteines forming disulfide bridges.
in particular, we used svms to  predict the regulatory targets for 36 transcription factors in the  saccharomyces cerevisiae genome based on the microarray expression data from  many different physiological conditions.
j chem inf  model, 45(4):982-92, 2005.
using gene expression data from "lymphochip", a specialised dna microarray developed at stanford university school of medicine, we show that svm can correctly separate normal from tumoural tissues, and oc ensembles can be successfully used to classify different types of lymphoma.
improved prediction of protein-protein binding sites using a support vector  machines approach.
in  this study, svm is used as a machine learning tool for the prediction of  secondary structure and several encoding schemes, including orthogonal matrix,  hydrophobicity matrix, blosum62 substitution matrix, and combined matrix of  these, are applied and optimized to improve the prediction accuracy.
filtering of ineffective sirnas and improved  sirna design tool.
the classification results might also suggest possible mechanisms for the propensity of immunoglobulin light chains to amyloid formation.
this indicates that the structural class of a protein inconsiderably  correlated with its amino and composition, and the support vector machine can  be referred as a powerful computational tool for predicting the structural  classes of proteins.
keywords: biosvm [cai2003support]  y.-d.  cai, g.-p. zhou, and k.-c.
keywords: biosvm summary:
finally, we use svms to predict functional roles for uncharacterized yeast orfs based on their expression data.
rna samples from 51 pathologically confirmed cases, representing nine different histological subtypes of adult soft tissue sarcoma, were examined using the affymetrix u95a genechip.
the performance of these methods depends on how the  protein sequences are modeled and on the method used to compute the kernel  function between them.
mass spectrometry (ms) holds great promise for biomarker identification and genome-wide protein profiling.
while prediction methods exist for the individual steps, no method has yet offered an integrated prediction of all three major processing events.
experimental design: high-density cdna microarray technology was used to identify differential responses to dna damage in fibroblasts from nine heterozygous brca1 mutation carriers compared with five control samples without personal or family history of any cancer.
together, these results support the useful application  of toxicogenomics in raising alerts for adverse effects and generating  mechanistic hypotheses that can be followed up by confirmatory experiments.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: phosphorylation is involved in diverse signal  transduction pathways.
we have developed a system for predicting the subcellular localization  of proteins for gram-negative bacteria based on amino acid subalphabets and a  combination of multiple support vector machines.
this tumor displays characteristic features of soft tissue sarcoma (sts), including deep soft tissue primary location and a characteristic translocation, t(12;22)(q13;q12), involving ews and atf1 genes.
the examination for the self-consistency and the jackknife test of the svms method was tested for the three sets: 2022 proteins, 2161 proteins, and 2319 proteins.
using top differentially expressed genes, hierarchical cluster and principal component analyses demonstrate that the genetically more heterogeneous b-precursor all samples intercalate with bcr-abl-positive cases, but were clearly distinct from t-all and mll profiles.
multiple linear regression (mlr) and radial basis function neural networks (rbfnns) were also utilized to construct the linear and the nonlinear model to compare with the results obtained by svm.
a supervised svm learning  approach further validated this finding and provided a user-independent  approach to diagnosis.
our  experiments suggest that this technique performs well relative to several other  remote homology methods for the majority of protein domains in scop 1.37 pdb90.
the mixture of three feature relevance experts examined implement two existing and one novel feature relevance measures.
sequence identification requires  high-throughput and reliable classification of genome origin.
this is a limitation, because such databases have low coverage of the many name variants which are used to refer to biological entities in the literature.
this prediction method  is available via the internet.
the set is split  according to enzyme classification (ec) number.
design the selection criteria of the acp journal club for articles in internal medicine were the basis for identifying high-quality articles in the areas of etiology, prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment.
in the latter case, the precision at recall = 50 test set
universal academic press, 2002.
results cross-validation estimated the support vector machine's test-set precision, accuracy and recall for classifying abstracts describing interaction information was 92 would be able to recall up to 60 present in another yeast-protein interaction database.
accurate and efficient classification of such  high-dimensional data remains a contemporary challenge.
experimental design:  high-density cdna microarray technology was used to identify differential  responses to dna damage in fibroblasts from nine heterozygous brca1 mutation  carriers compared with five control samples without personal or family history  of any cancer.
although the brill  tagger trained in-domain on the genia v3.02p pos corpus gives the best overall  performance of any pos tagger, at an f score of 68.6, this is still  significantly below the orthographic features.
svm-prot: web-based support vector machine software for functional  classification of a protein from its primary sequence.
in this paper, support vector machines (svms), a new machine learning method, is proposed for predicting the alpha-turn types in proteins.
to effectively carry out this  computationally intensive search process, we employ sequential forward search  and sequential forward floating search algorithms.
results esub8 was developed to predict protein subcellular localizations for  eukaryotic proteins based on amino acid composition.
we train and evaluate our system on a previously published database of antisense efficacies and our own database of sirna efficacies collected from the literature.
anderson, w. li, d.g. payan, and w.s. noble.
bioinformatics, 21(suppl.
our analysis results are more comprehensive and easier to use than previously published analysis results.
we show that the diagnostic classification accuracy of the proposed algorithm is superior to a number of current state-of-the-art methods in a full leave-one-out cross-validation study of five widely used benchmark datasets.
the prediction  models for these mhc types are implemented in a public web service available at  http://www.sbc.su.se/svmhc/. conclusions prediction of mhc class i binding  peptides using support vector machines, shows high performance and is easy to  apply to a large number of mhc class i types.
a support vector machines (svm) is  thus built to predict the cleavage site of signal peptides from the protein  sequences.
this paper introduces the jcfo, a novel algorithm that uses a sparse bayesian  approach to jointly identify both the optimal nonlinear classifier for  diagnosis and the optimal set of genes on which to base that diagnosis.
these prediction accuracies are  comparable to those of earlier studies derived from a selective set of  descriptors.
sel.,  17(2):165-173, feb 2004.
[ bib | doi | arxiv | http | .pdf ] membrane proteins are generally classified into the following  five types: (1) type i membrane proteins, (2) type ii membrane proteins, (3)  multipass transmembrane proteins, (4) lipid chain-anchored membrane proteins  and (5) gpi-anchored membrane proteins.
we test several svms that use different similarity metrics, as well as some other supervised learning methods, and find that the svms best identify sets of genes with a common function using expression data.
we also report results obtained with two new kernel functions based  on similarity matrices.
we generated a large nonredundant data set of 1494 true protein-protein interfaces using biological symmetry annotation where necessary.
availability: eclat is freely available on the internet  (http://mips.gsf.de/proj/est) or on request as a standalone version.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] gram-negative bacteria have five major subcellular localization  sites: the cytoplasm, the periplasm, the inner membrane, the outer membrane,  and the extracellular space.
current capabilities allow searching for human, mouse and yeast protein-interaction information.
svms trained to  discriminate nontumor from tumor specimens using only the 50-200 top-ranked  genes had the same or better generalization performance than the full  repertoire of 1,988 genes.
these methods were first tested for the prediction of inhibitors of cyp3a4 and cyp2d6 by using a significantly higher number of inhibitors and noninhibitors than that used in earlier studies.
a steatotic and a non-hepatotoxic 5ht(6) receptor  antagonist compound from the same series were successfully discriminated by  this toxicogenomics model.
j chem inf comput sci, 44(5):1693-700, 2004.
the results show that our filtering  algorithm is effective.
this map defines an input space for classification schemes which  allow us to state unambiguously which models are most descriptive of a given  network of interest.
in addition, we incorporate three post-processing  modules, including an abbreviation resolution module, a protein/gene name  refinement module and a simple dictionary matching module, into the system to  further improve the performance.
a comprehensive evaluation of multicategory classification  methods for microarray gene expression cancer diagnosis.
keywords: biosvm [warmuth2003active]   m. k. warmuth, j. liao, g. rätsch, m. mathieson,  s. putta, and c. lemmen.
based on our assumption that whole structural segments of ligands,  gpcrs and g-proteins are essential to determine gpcr and g-protein coupling,  various quantitative features were selected for ligands, gpcrs and g-protein  complex structures, and those parameters that are the most effective in  selecting g-protein type were used as feature vectors in the svm.
we applied support vector machines to sequences in order to generate a  classification of all protein residues into those that are part of a protein  interface and those that are not.
similar methods were used to identify genes that are differentially expressed between tumors with and without genomic 1q gain.
as such, these methods are useful for drawing inferences about biological phenomena.
keywords: biosvm motivation: a major issue in computational biology is the reconstruction of pathways from several genomic datasets, such as expression data, protein interaction data and phylogenetic profiles.
fivefold cross validation verifies the high sensitivity and selectivity of the model.
the models have been tested against progressively more challenging validation sets where steps are taken to ensure that compounds in the validation set are chemically and structurally distinct from the training set.
using this framework, we develop three feature wrappers that search through the space of feature subsets using the classification error as measure of goodness for a particular feature subset being "wrapped around": linear discriminant analysis, logistic regression, and support vector machines.
leave-one-out cross-validation  experiments show that prediction accuracy reaches 64%.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the generation of cytotoxic t lymphocyte (ctl) epitopes from an  antigenic sequence involves number of intracellular processes, including  production of peptide fragments by proteasome and transport of peptides to  endoplasmic reticulum through transporter associated with antigen processing  (tap).
the large amount of data generated by dna microarrays was originally analysed using unsupervised methods, such as clustering or self-organizing maps.
the automotif server is  available free for academic use at http://automotif.bioinfo.pl/ keywords: biosvm [oflanagan2005non]   r. a. o'flanagan, g. paillard, r. lavery, and a. m.  sengupta.
we applied our trained  classification system to xenopus laevis sequences, yielding functional  annotation for more than half of the known expressed genome.
the accuracy and  matthews correlation coefficient (mcc) value of svm, ann, and combined method  are 78.5 and 0.64, respectively.
however, the robustness of  subtype-specific gene expression signatures has to be proven on independent  patient samples.
this work confirms the  hypothesis that compound classification based on gene expression data is  feasible.
using available training examples from cancer and normal patients, we build a classifier suitable for genetic diagnosis, as well as drug discovery.
these results guided the construction of a software system gems (gene expression model selector) that automates high-quality model construction and enforces sound optimization and performance estimation procedures.
but employing very different codon usage, perhaps  indicating a non-ribosomal function.
[ bib | http  |.pdf ] elucidation of the interaction of proteins with different  molecules is of significance in the understanding of cellular processes.
a database of this kind may facilitate the prioritization of novel antibacterial entities in drug discovery programs.
from the results of comparison, addition of structural information has brought no significant benefit for the recognition of splice sites and had even lowered the rate of recognition.
labeling was dependent on atp and the atp recycling system, on the proteasome inhibitor mg132 and the ubiquitin protease inhibitor ubiquitin aldehyde, and was inhibited by iodoacetamide.
current developments in techniques related to the svm approach are reviewed which might become relevant for future functional genomics and chemogenomics projects.
[ bib | doi | http |  .pdf ] classification analysis of microarray gene expression data has  been widely used to uncover biological features and to distinguish closely  related cell types that often appear in the diagnosis of cancer.
availability: supplementary results and data are available at  noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/maxent keywords: learning-kernel graph-kernel biosvm [tsai2004gene]  c.a. tsai, c.h. chen, t.c. lee, i.c. ho, u.c. yang, and j.j.  chen.
according to the f1 performance measure and the rate of false positive (rfp) measure, the string kernel method performs well in classifying protein sequences.
the parametric model of kernel matrices is created as a set of spectral variants of the auxiliary kernel matrix, and the missing entries are estimated by fitting this model to the existing entries.
keywords: biosvm [brown2000knowledge-based]   m. p. brown, w. n. grundy, d. lin, n. cristianini,  c. w. sugnet, t. s. furey, m. ares, and d. haussler.
we thus demonstrate the ability of our method to make accurate predictions despite the sizeable fraction of false positives that are known to exist in interaction databases.
finally, ann- and svm-based methods were  combined to utilize the full potential of both techniques.
the general performance of the system was benchmarked with a large  dataset.
generalized fingerprints are  derived by counting in different ways subpaths contained in the graph of bonds,  using depth-first searches.
however, additional data analysis demonstrated that these differences had an effect on the absolute gene expression results but not on the outcome of the study.
we therefore introduce i-mutant2.0 as a unique and valuable helper  for protein design, even when the protein structure is not yet known with  atomic resolution.
in combination these two  features types appear to interfere with each other and degrade performance  slightly to an f score of 72.3.
in this paper, a previously described data mining approach to prediction of protein-protein interactions (bock and gough, 2001, bioinformatics, 17, 455-460) is extended to interaction mining on a proteome-wide scale.
keywords: biosvm motivation: in drug discovery a key task is to identify characteristics that separate active (binding) compounds from inactive (non-binding) ones.
this study evaluated the use of machine learning techniques in the classification of sentence type.
as such, previously reported gene expression patterns identified by microarray technology are validated and confirmed on truly independent leukemia patient samples.
combining discriminant models with new multi-class svms.
moreover, where information about the physicochemical properties  of amino acids has been used, the methods employed to exploit that information  are less than optimal and could use the information more effectively.
[ bib | doi | http | www: ] i-mutant2.0 is a support vector machine (svm)-based tool for the  automatic prediction of protein stability changes upon single point mutations.
nevertheless, substantial differences in performance among the  methods were observed.
a detailed analysis based on empirical evidence shows the contribution of various feature sets to performance.
(2) even for classification with linear classifiers like  ls-svm with linear kernel, using regularization is very important.
the model allowed  the identification of potential new interfaces and the correction of mislabeled  oligomeric states.
results: we  considered 12 subcellular locations in eukaryotic cells: chloroplast,  cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, endoplasmic reticulum, extracellular medium, golgi  apparatus, lysosome, mitochondrion, nucleus, peroxisome, plasma membrane, and  vacuole.
the study is designed to develop a reliable prediction method using an alternative technique and to investigate the applicability of svms to this type of bioinformatics problem.
the database was used to build a predictor for the assignment of the  mechanisms of action (moas) of antibacterial compounds by the use of support  vector machines.
however, the svm method based on multiple feature  vectors (combining local sequences and global amino acid compositions)  significantly improves the prediction accuracy, from 80 cysteine state  sequences, svm based on multiple feature vectors yields 90 coefficient, around  10 obtained by svm based on local sequence information.
support vector machine (svm) is a useful method  for such classification, which may involve proteins with diverse sequence  distribution.
for 10 randomly selected such exons we  successfully performed biological verification experiments and confirmed three  novel alternatively spliced exons.
when scores of multiple parameter datasets are combined, majority voting reduces noise and increases recognition accuracy.
the construction of this activity  score involves (1) predicting phenotypic drug resistance from genotypes for  each drug individually, (2) probabilistic modeling of predicted resistance  values and integration into a score for drug combinations, and (3) searching  through the mutational neighborhood of the considered strain in order to  estimate activity on nearby mutants.
contact:  yoshi@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp keywords: biosvm [wu2003comparison]   b. wu, t. abbott, d. fishman, w. mcmurray, g. mor,  k. stone, d. ward, k. williams, and h. zhao.
keywords: biosvm motivation: kernel methods such as support vector machines require a kernel function between objects to be defined a priori.
however, clinical outcome models identify neither the molecular basis of clinical heterogeneity, nor specific therapeutic targets.
the results show 2 classifiers when compared with the instances in which the classical orthogonal matrix is used.
the ability to resolve gene expression pathway phenotypes provides insight into  how the major machineries of gene expression communicate with each other.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] the idea of performing model combination, instead of model  selection, has a long theoretical background in statistics.
the method supports a practical modeling scheme designed to avoid  the construction of classification rules based on the selection of too small  gene subsets (an effect known as the selection bias, in which the estimated  predictive errors are too optimistic due to testing on samples already  considered in the feature selection process).
we call the latter the marginalized count kernel (mck).
bioinformatics, 19(15):1964-1971, 2003.
in addition to providing an interface for the classification of sequences, users are presented with the opportunity to train a model to suit their preferred species pair.
introduction of the so-called -3,-1, +1 coupling model (chou, k. c.:
biol., 345(1):187-199, jan 2005.
overall, we find the agreement between our results and these  experiments is comparable to the agreement (albeit low) between the two  experiments.
thus the five attribute parameter data sets (comp, fasg, nisk, wols and kytj) were established from the protein primary sequences.
>20 30 closest sequentially/spatially neighboring on the interaction site residues.
thus, robust methods for fast feature selection are of key importance in extracting knowledge from complex biological data.
keywords: biosvm coronary heart disease (chd) is a complex genetic disease involving gene-environment interaction.
afterwards this ranking is used to  iteratively discard features.
satisfactory results indicated that the ga-pls approach is a very effective method for variable selection, and the support vector machine is a very promising tool for the nonlinear approximation.
this task, protein  secondary structure prediction, is an open problem in biocomputing for which  model combination appears to be an issue of central importance.
these predictions were  supported by comprehensive review of the patients' clinical histories.
proteins, 48(3):566-570,  2002.
syst., volume 14, pages 905-912, 2002.
keywords: biosvm [dobson2003distinguishing]   p.d. dobson and a.j. doig.
when  tested on the most popular dataset cb513, it achieved a q(3) accuracy of  0.7844, which illustrates that it is one of the top range methods for protein  of secondary structure prediction.
in two-fold cross-validation experiments testing recognition of gpcr subfamilies that bind a specific ligand (such as a histamine molecule), the errors per sequence at the minimum error point (mep) were 13.7 svms, 17.1 svm classification, 25.5 and 49 kernel nearest neighbor (kernnn).
we identify key residues in peptides that are efficiently  cleaved by the hiv-1 protease and list the most prominent rules, relating them  to experimental results for the hiv-1 protease.
a set  of 201 chemical compounds, including 116 substrates and 85 nonsubstrates of  p-gp, was used to train and test a svm classification system.
in order to solve the task (1), we combine the kernel with additional local sequence information, such as lengths of the exon and the flanking introns.
support vector machines (svms) were applied to stratify our samples based on given gene lists reported to predict mll, bcr-abl, and t-all, as well as mll and non-mll gene rearrangement positive pediatric all.
the most useful features for distinguishing enzymes from non-enzymes are secondary-structure content, amino acid frequencies, number of disulphide bonds and size of the largest cleft.
support vector machine analyais of the mass spectrometry data allowed prediction of correct matches between mass spectrometry data and peptide sequences.
eclair is freely available at http://eclair.btk.fi.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: localizing protein binding sites within genomic dna  is of considerable importance, but remains difficult for protein families, such  as transcription factors, which have loosely defined target sequences.
identification of sentence types may be helpful for providing context to end users or other text summarization techniques.
in general, the most  predictive models were generated with the support vector machine.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we introduce a new method for splicing sites prediction based on  the theory of support vector machines (svm).
we suggest that the number of binding peptides needed for svm training is at least 20 sequences.
the resulting models are relatively easy to interpret and  usable for predictive as well as for explanatory purposes.
for that case, our results  clearly show that the shine-dalgarno sequence is the most important signal  upstream a start codon.
we compare (i) a newly  developed algorithm (molfea) for the generation of descriptors (molecular  fragments) for noncongeneric compounds with traditional sar approaches  (molecular properties) and (ii) different machine learning algorithms for the  induction of sars from these descriptors.
fourteen snps of ten candidate genes in 86 chd patients and 119 controls were investigated.
this system applied to a dataset of 64 proteins of the death domain superfamily was used to classify each member into its proper subfamily.
in other words, the pattern selection and its  classification efficiency are highly classifier dependent.
svmhc currently contains  prediction for 26 mhc class i types from the mhcpep database or alternatively 6  mhc class i types from the higher quality syfpeithi database.
the proposed methods are tested and compared on their ability to infer the enzyme network of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae from four datasets for enzymes with assigned ec numbers: gene expression data, protein localization data, phylogenetic profiles and chemical compatibility information.
i major histocompatibility complex using a general linear scoring function that defines a separating hyperplane in the feature space of sequences.
we tested the ability of svm, in comparison with  well-known neural network techniques, to predict drug-likeness and  agrochemical-likeness for large compound collections.
keywords: biosvm remote homology detection refers to the detection of structural homology in proteins when there is little or no sequence similarity.
such a scoring function should be able to  characterize the global fitness landscape of many proteins simultaneously.
[ bib | doi | http ] computational models of cytochrome p450 3a4 inhibition were  developed based on high-throughput screening data for 4470 proprietary  compounds.
the escherichia coli genome was used for development, but we have applied this method to several other bacterial and archaeal genomes.
one important issue  frequently ignored in the literature is the redundancy in evaluation sets.
thus, a process for gene selection and error estimation is made practical, ensuring control of the selection bias, and providing additional diagnostic indicators of gene importance.
the recognition of novel amine type of receptors and their cognate ligands is of paramount interest for pharmaceutical companies.
the strength of the ls  bound measure is that it provides gene subsets leading to more accurate  classification results than the filter method while its computational  complexity is at the level of the filter method.
currently, we are  facing two critical challenges in this area: first, how to take into account  the extremely complicated sequence-order effects, and second, how to deal with  the highly uneven sizes of the subsets in a training dataset.
keywords: biosvm [riedesel2004peptide]   henning riedesel, björn kolbeck, oliver schmetzer, and ernst-walter knapp.
in this paper, we present two methods to identify omps based on frequent subsequences and test them on all gram-negative bacterial proteins whose localizations have been determined by biological experiments.
a computational  approach to identify genes for functional rnas in genomic sequences.
from  this, a machine learning algorithm is used to construct a classifier based on  these feature vectors.
in this study, we propose a family-wise error (fwe) rate approach to selection of discriminatory genes for two-sample or multiple-sample classification.
predicting  functional family of novel enzymes irrespective of sequence similarity: a  statistical learning approach.
combined data from pmf  and ms/ms spectra of two tryptic peptides suggested that this 3495 da protein  shared homology to a histidine-rich glycoprotein.
the results indicate that svm can be used as an alternative  powerful modeling tool for qsar studies.
as  such, these methods are useful for drawing inferences about biological  phenomena.
gpcrs are found in a wide  range of organisms and are central to a cellular signalling network that  regulates many basic physiological processes.
the prediction of three and more states of solvent accessibility was also studied and compared with other methods.
we have developed a new method to analyse this kind of data using support vector machines (svms).
j chem  inf comput sci, 44(6):1979-86, 2004.
we present a method to  assess systematically which of a set of proposed network generation algorithms  gives the most accurate description of a given biological network.
keywords: biosvm keywords: biosvm support vector machines and kernel methods are increasingly popular in genomics and computational biology, due to their good performance in real-world applications and strong modularity that makes them suitable to a wide range of problems, from the classification of tumors to the automatic annotation of proteins.
in silico biol.,  4(3):255-69, 2004.
keywords: biosvm [wagner2003protocols]   m. wagner, d. naik, and a. pothen.
here we report support vector machine (svm) and decision tree methods developed to classify edge strands from central strands in a representative set of protein domains.
overfitting is then the main risk,  which cannot be overcome but with a strict complexity control of the combiner  selected.
for a standard data set comprising 1443 proteins, the overall prediction accuracy reaches 89 highest prediction rate ever reported.
with our method it is possible to model and analyze positional variability of oligomers of any length in a natural way.
in  b. schölkopf, k. tsuda, and j.p. vert, editors,kernel  methods in computational biology, pages 231-259. mit press, 2004.
in a section of independent interest, we discuss intensity normalization of mass spectra.
usa, 98(26):15149-15154,  dec 2001.
we assumed that common haplotype implicit in genotypes will differ between cases and controls, and that this will allow svm-derived patterns to be classifiable according to subject genotypes.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ wang2005prediction]  ming-lei wang, hui yao, and wen-bo xu.
we show that the microarray svm classifier was capable of making high confidence predictions in 11 of 13 cases.
we compute the  kernels efficiently using a mismatch tree data structure, allowing us to  calculate the contributions of all patterns occurring in the data in one pass  while traversing the tree.
a web application based on the method can be found at http://www.bioinformatics.leeds.ac.uk/ppi_pred.
one major  challenge is the large number of genes relative to the number of samples.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we have employed two pattern recognition methods used commonly  for face recognition in order to analyse digital mammograms.
in biological data, it is often the case that observed data are available only for a subset of samples.
an expression-based site of  origin diagnostic method designed for clinical application to cancer of unknown  origin.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] male wistar rats were treated with various model compounds or  the appropriate vehicle controls in order to create a reference database for  toxicogenomics assessment of novel compounds.
these are then coupled  with high-dimensional classification methods to assess the classification power  of complete expression profiles.
the production of biological information has  become much greater than its consumption.
the success of the predictions is validated by examining the predictions in the context of the three-dimensional structures of protein complexes.
protein design aims to identify sequences compatible with a given protein fold but incompatible to any alternative folds.
keywords: sirna biosvm motivation:
using this framework, we develop three  feature wrappers that search through the space of feature subsets using the  classification error as measure of goodness for a particular feature subset  being "wrapped around": linear discriminant analysis, logistic  regression, and support vector machines.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ]
automatically extracting information from biomedical text holds the promise of easily consolidating large amounts of biological knowledge in computer-accessible form.
med., 33(2):139-55, feb 2005.
bioinformatics , 21(8):1429-1436, apr 2005.
we find that this  approach identifies spatial motifs unique to individual scop families and  affords excellent discrimination between families.
the model then learns to annotate unseen terms in new texts and contexts.
we demonstrate the applicability of our approach to diverse instances, ranging from families of promoter sequences to a dataset of intronic sequences flanking alternatively spliced exons.
fourteen snps of ten candidate  genes in 86 chd patients and 119 controls were investigated.
in t.g.  dietterich, s. becker, and z. ghahramani, editors,adv.
they are based on calculated molecular structure descriptors.
it has been shown to  produce lower prediction error compared to classifiers based on other methods  like artificial neural networks, especially when large numbers of features are  considered for sample description.
the proteins corresponding to  the spots were identified by mass spectrometry.
this strategy is particularly attractive for extracting data relevant to genes of the human genome from the 11 million abstracts in medline.
availability: the svm software  is available at http://www.cs.columbia.edu/ bgrundy/svm.
thus the five attribute parameter data sets (comp, fasg, nisk, wols and kytj)  were established from the protein primary sequences.
application of string  kernels in protein sequence classification.
the method is benchmarked on a set of proteins of known sub-cellular location from s. cerevisiae.
a profiled svm gives different weights to different parts of the training data to focus the training on the most important regions.
the best models gave an overall correlation between predicted and observed efficacy of 0.46 on both antisense and sirna data.
these datasets were from studies using microarray technologies and had either two or more classes.
the second consists of approximately equal to 100,000 clones, measured in 32 ovarian samples (unpublished extension of data set described in schummer et al. (1999)).
keywords: biosvm [cai2002prediction]  y.-d.  cai, x.-j. liu, x.-b. xu, and g.-p. zhou.
except  for three drugs, all error estimates ranged between 7.25 and 15.5 percent.
the six descriptors calculated solely from the molecular structures of compounds selected by forward stepwise regression were used as inputs for the svm model.
pre-mrna secondary structure  prediction aids splice site prediction.
focusing attention on a small subset of genes is useful not only  because it produces a classifier with good generalization capacity, but also  because this set of genes may provide insights into the mechanisms responsible  for the disease itself.
this was  non-trivial given that most of the known experimental information is only for  positives.
this method consists of three sequential steps of feature manipulation: generation, selection and integration of features.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] this paper proposes an ensemble of classifiers for biomedical  name recognition in which three classifiers, one support vector machine and two  discriminative hidden markov models, are combined effectively using a simple  majority voting strategy.
experiments with  the samples randomly assigned to the two classes confirmed that  misclassification rates were significantly higher in such cases than those  observed with the true data.
keywords: biosvm summary: rankgene is a program for analyzing gene expression data and computing diagnostic genes based on their predictive power in distinguishing between different types of samples.
an organism-wise cross-validation was performed to define confidence  estimates, resulting in an average precision of 80% for 74% of all test  sequences.
keywords: biosvm [collier2004comparison]   nigel collier and koichi takeuchi.
in the case of translation initiation sites we could clearly deduce the most discriminative motifs and their positional variation from example sequences.
we therefore introduce i-mutant2.0 as a unique and valuable helper for protein design, even when the protein structure is not yet known with atomic resolution.
support vector machines for predicting  the specificity of galnac-transferase.
their overall accuracies were 82%, 82%, and 81%, respectively.
two classification methods, fisher's discriminant analysis (fda) and support vector machine (svm), were used to evaluate the reliability of the selected genes and discriminate the histological subtypes of hcc.
here, two different machine-learning methods, decision trees and support vector machines (svms), are applied for the first time to this problem.
the method is shown to outperform other unsupervised protein network inference methods.
the classification of protein sequences obtained from patients with various immunoglobulin-related conformational diseases may provide insight into structural correlates of pathogenicity.
on one hand this is achieved by mapping the sequences to an  intuitive but high-dimensional feature space, well-suited for interpretation of  the learnt models.
keywords: biosvm [kondor2002diffusion]   r. i. kondor and j. lafferty.
theoretical issues such as choosing svm kernels and  their parameters, training and evaluating feature relevance experts, and the  impact of potentially mislabeled samples on marker identification (feature  selection) are discussed.
this indicates that our findings are indeed significant.
the originality of the methods is the introduction of chemical compatibility as a constraint for refining the network predicted by the network inference engine.
keywords: biosvm [atalay2005implicit]   v. atalay and r. cetin-atalay.
keywords: biosvm [liu2004active]   y. liu.
results and conclusions:
feature selection for splice site prediction: a new  method using eda-based feature ranking.
each peptide was characterized by sequest-calculated features  such as delta cn and xcorr, measurements such as precursor ion current and  mass, and additional calculated parameters such as the fraction of matched  ms/ms peaks.
previous works show several pairs of tumor types can be successfully distinguished by their gene expression patterns (golub et al. 1999, ben-dor et al. 2000, alizadeh et al. 2000).
for that case, our results clearly show that the shine-dalgarno sequence is the most important signal upstream a start codon.
support vector machines for predicting  hiv protease cleavage sites in protein.
for lung cancer  classification, to achieve 96 only 31 labeled examples were needed in active  learning whereas in passive learning 174 labeled examples were required.
this dictionary term lookup method  compares favourably to other published methods, supporting the significance of  our direct extraction approach.
prediction of the phenotypic effects of non-synonymous single  nucleotide polymorphisms using structural and evolutionary information.
on other hand there are only few studies on relation between expression level and composition of nucleotide/protein sequence, using expression data.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: cancer diagnosis is one of the most important  emerging clinical applications of gene expression microarray technology.
the model then learns to annotate unseen terms in new texts and  contexts.
most of the current  predictive computer methods rely on comparing features that are essentially  linear to the protein sequence.
in terms of detection performance and selected proteomic patterns.
thus, a process for gene  selection and error estimation is made practical, ensuring control of the  selection bias, and providing additional diagnostic indicators of gene  importance.
to show robustness of the svm method, two previously published datasets from other types of tissues or cells are analysed.
the accurate prediction of intron boundaries largely facilitates the correct  prediction of gene structure in nuclear genomes.
a novel method for  protein secondary structure prediction using dual-layer svm and profiles.
furthermore, in this paper, we argue that it is feasible  to extend the prediction accuracy by adding a second-stage multi-class svm to  capture the contextual information among secondary structural elements and  thereby further improving the accuracies.
results: the contribution of this paper is 2-fold.
bioinformatics,  21(10):2254-63, may 2005.
a novel method of protein secondary structure  prediction with high segment overlap measure: support vector machine approach.
many current scoring strategies require information about the target  three-dimensional structure.
this is the first example of a  quantitative structure-property relationship based on chirality codes.
this analysis consists of both  classification of the tissue samples, and an exploration of the data for  mis-labeled or questionable tissue results.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: protein dispensability is fundamental to  understanding of gene function and evolution.
generally, the svm classifier yielded slightly higher prediction accuracy than ann, irrespective of the type of descriptors used for molecule encoding, the size of the training data sets, and the algorithm employed for neural network training.
nlprot is a novel system that combines dictionary- and rule-based filtering with several support vector machines (svms) to tag protein names in pubmed abstracts.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machines (svms) method is proposed because it can reflect the sequence-coupling effect for a tetrapeptide in not only a beta-turn or non-beta-turn, but also in different types of beta-turn.
the data is characterized by very few positive examples,  a very large number of features (describing three-dimensional properties of the  molecules) and rather different distributions between training and test data.
investigating this idea, we introduce a family of multi-class svms  and assess them as ensemble methods on a real-world problem.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] in earlier work, we introduced and discussed a generalized  computational framework for identifying horizontal transfers.
recent advances in generating high-throughput data such as genomic sequence data, protein-protein interaction data, gene-expression data, and growth-rate data of mutants allow us to investigate protein dispensability systematically at the genome scale.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: automatically identifying protein names from the  scientific literature is a pre-requisite for the increasing demand in  data-mining this wealth of information.
bioinformatics , 19(15):1917-1926, 2003.
we have developed a method based on support vector machines (svms).
the focus is on aggressive dimensionality reduction.
the relevant descriptors were related to the fold class membership by using simple similarity measures in the descriptor spaces, such as the cosine angle.
both decision tree and support vector machine classifiers, using  folding energy and structure metrics characterizing helix formation near the  splice site, achieve a 5-10 a human data set.
the best performance method can predict the  transmembrane helices with sensitivity of 93.4 of 92.0 given to show the  strength of transmembrane signal and the prediction reliability.
our graph model, derivable from protein sequence and structure only, is competitive with vector models that require additional protein information, such as the size of surface pockets.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: subcellular localization is a key functional  characteristic of proteins.
this prediction method is available via the internet.
however, in these results the test error or the leave-one-out  cross-validated error is calculated without allowance for the selection bias.
the performance was further improved by combining pssm profiles with the svm analysis.
the chemical compatibility between two enzymes is obtained automatically from  the information encoded by their enzyme commission (ec) numbers.
svms are considered a supervised computer learning method because they exploit prior knowledge of gene function to identify unknown genes of similar function from expression data.
keywords: biosvm [ward2003secondary]   j. j. ward, l. j. mcguffin, b. f. buxton, and d. t. jones.
results: we develop a genetic programming based prediction system  that shows promising results on both antisense and sirna efficacy prediction.
when considering partially tagged names as errors, nlprot still reached a precision of 75% at a recall of 76%.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the concept of drug-likeness, an important characteristic for  any compound in a screening library, is nevertheless difficult to pin down.
for the complete set of 525 descriptors cross-validated classification by svm yielded 82% correct predictions (matthews cc = 0.63), whereas ann reached 80% correct predictions (matthews cc = 0.58).
results for the adaboost classifier method are promising, especially for classifying mass-type lesions.
further, we show the translation of a five-class classifier to a quantitative pcr-based platform.
we  finally conduct a comprehensive prediction of the protein network for all  proteins of the yeast, which enables us to propose protein candidates for  missing enzymes in a biosynthesis pathway.
we generated serum protein profiles from  three groups of rats: (i) normal (n=8), (ii) thioacetamide-induced liver  cirrhosis (n=22), and (iii) bile duct ligation-induced liver fibrosis (n=5)  using a weak cation exchanger surface.
we propose two extensions of these graph kernels, with the double  goal toreduce their computation time and increase their relevance as measure  ofsimilarity between graphs.
an algorithm (the phylogenetic bootstrap) is introduced,  which suggests traversal of a phenogram, interleaving rounds of computation and  experiment, to develop a knowledge base of protein interactions in  genetically-similar organisms.
recent data also indicate that it is highly flexible, and one receptor may recognize thousands of different peptides.
computational approaches to protein function  prediction infer protein function by finding proteins with similar sequence,  structure, surface clefts, chemical properties, amino acid motifs, interaction  partners or phylogenetic profiles.
furthermore, initial  experimental evidence suggests that their outputs could be processed by the  biologist to perform higher-level treatments.
support vector machine classification  and validation of cancer tissue samples using microarray expression data.
cancer res.,  62(11):2993-2998, 2002.
improved protein secondary  structure prediction using support vector machine with a new encoding scheme  and an advanced tertiary classifier.
several works  have been done to derive kernels from probability distributions, e.g., the  fisher kernel.
the classifier is even applied for the  prediction of cardio vascular adverse effects to achieve about 70% accuracy.
nevertheless, substantial differences in performance among the methods were observed.
this method of correlating the drugs and genes provides a strategy for finding novel biologically significant relationships for molecular pharmacology.
in this review, the theory and main principles of the svm approach are outlined, and successful applications in traditional areas of bioinformatics research are described.
med. , 26(3):281-304, nov 2002.
nlprot: extracting protein names and sequences from  papers.
the key issue now is how to organise  and manage the huge amount of novel information to facilitate access to this  useful and important biological information.
keywords: biosvm [cai2002supportc]  y.d.  cai, x.j. liu, x.b. xu, and k.c. chou.
by means of these two parameters oligo kernels can  easily be adapted to different biological problems.
the individual methods are combined in a filtering approach mimicking the natural processing pathway.
we predict functional class membership of enzymes and non-enzymes  using graph kernels and support vector machine classification on these protein  graphs.
that is, if mrna target sites are picked at random, many of the antisense or sirna oligos will not be effective.
we  were able to achieve predictive accuracies up to 78% for 10-fold  cross-validation.
a tree kernel to analyze phylogenetic profiles.
we argue that it is crucial that more rigorous analysis of the factors that contribute to the model's performance be applied to discover where the underlying limitations are and what our future research direction should be.
the specific information described by the heuristic linear model could give some insights into the factors that are likely to govern the binding affinity of the compounds and be used as an aid to the drug design process; however, the prediction results of the nonlinear svm model seem to be better than that of the hm.
two techniques are introduced specifically to tackle these problems: a feature  selection method for unbalanced data and a classifier which adapts to the  distribution of the the unlabeled test data (a so-called transductive method).
keywords: biosvm [xiong2001biomarker]   m. xiong, x. fang, and j. zhao.
however such protein localization programs are currently least accurate when predicting omps, and so there is a current need for the development of a better omp classifier.
mc-svms  outperform other popular machine learning algorithms such as k-nearest  neighbors, backpropagation and probabilistic neural networks, often to a  remarkable degree.
eclat allows training of classifiers for any host-pathogen combination for which there are sufficient classified training sequences.
2-d dige achieves more accurate quantification of protein expression by using highly sensitive fluorescence dyes to label the cysteine residues of proteins prior to two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
we challenge that our  system may constitute the most general and precise method for tagging protein  names.
svms show better generalization  performance, but decision trees have the advantage of generating interpretable  rules with robust estimates of prediction confidence.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(169), 2004.
when using single-pass cdna sequences difficulties arise from the short sequence length, the lack of sufficient taxonomically relevant sequence data in public databases and ambiguous sequence homology between plant and pathogen genes.
we analyzed the expression of 6,817 genes in diagnostic tumor specimens from dlbcl patients who received cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine and prednisone (chop)-based chemotherapy, and applied a supervised learning prediction method to identify cured versus fatal or refractory disease.
we identify key residues in peptides that are efficiently cleaved by the hiv-1 protease and list the most prominent rules, relating them to experimental results for the hiv-1 protease.
availability: the sirna design software tool can be found in the website http://www.cs.hku.hk/ sirna/ contact: smyiu@cs.hku.hk keywords: biosvm statistical learning methods have been used in developing filters for predicting inhibitors of two p450 isoenzymes, cyp3a4 and cyp2d6.
both functional and nonfunctional training sequences are then inputted into the trained hmms to generate functional and nonfunctional feature vectors.
bmc bioinformatics, 5(64),  2004.
our system classifies  full text documents regarding the question whether or not they contain  appropriate data using a support vector machine.
we present an  approach to recognize named entities in full text.
the implementation of svmhc is quite simple and does  not involve any manual steps, therefore as more data become available it is  trivial to provide prediction for more mhc types.
bio-medical entity extraction using support  vector machines.
in recent years, the poly-l-proline type ii (ppii) conformation has gained more and more importance.
the approach collects high  frequency terms in an article, and uses support vector machines (svm) to  identify biological entity names.
the svm software is available upon request from the authors.
these models represent the first use of pattern  recognition methods to discriminate between substrates and nonsubstrates of  human drug metabolizing enzymes and the first thorough assessment of three  classification algorithms using multiple metabolic data sets.
we examine the use of scoring methods, measuring separation of tissue type (e.g., tumors from normals) using individual gene expression levels.
bioinformatics 17, 455-460;
this svm system gave a prediction accuracy of at least 81.2% for p-gp substrates based on two different evaluation methods, which is substantially improved against that obtained from the multiple-pharmacophore model.
support vector machine method is performed based on the database derived from scop, in which protein domains are classified based on known structures and the evolutionary relationships and the principles that govern their 3-d structure.
a program for the prediction method, that uses nna called functional class prediction based on functional domains (fcpfd) is available and can be obtained by contacting y.d.cai at y.cai@umist.ac.uk keywords: biosvm motivation:
a total of 9 binary cancer classification problems, derived from 7 publicly available microarray datasets, and 20 randomizations of each problem are examined.
predicting the sub-cellular  location of proteins from text using support vector machines.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] one key element in understanding the molecular machinery of the  cell is to understand the structure and function of each protein encoded in the  genome.
keywords: biosvm owing to the importance of signal peptides for studying the molecular mechanisms of genetic diseases, reprogramming cells for gene therapy, and finding new drugs for healing a specific defect, it is in great demand to develop a fast and accurate method to identify the signal peptides.
data  mining and machine learning techniques for the identification of mutagenicity  inducing substructures and structure activity relationships of noncongeneric  compounds.
a bayesian approach to joint  feature selection and classifier design.
one particular  classification method, a linear support vector machine, exhibited especially  robust performance when the number of peaks was varied from four to thirteen,  and when the peaks were selected from the training set alone.
in  addition to gene expression analysis using microarrays, a complete serum  chemistry profile and liver and kidney histopathology were performed.
automatically extracting information from biomedical  text holds the promise of easily consolidating large amounts of biological  knowledge in computer-accessible form.
moreover, the models we proposed could also provide some insight into what structural features are related to the absolute mobility of aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic acids.
the svm method achieved excellent performance as measured by the matthews correlation coefficient (mcc = 0.45) using a 7-fold cross validation on a database of 426 non-homologous protein chains.
[  bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [koike2004prediction]   a. koike and t. takagi.
with such a novel representation for a protein, the  support vector machine (svm) algorithm is introduced for predicting protein  subcellular location.
availability: weka machine learning package: www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ ml/weka and statistical software package ade-4: http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/ade-4 keywords: biosvm proteomics
i-mutant2.0 can be used both as a classifier for predicting the  sign of the protein stability change upon mutation and as a regression  estimator for predicting the related deltadeltag values.
although various statistical methods have been utilized to identify biomarkers from ms data, there has been no systematic comparison among these approaches in their relative ability to analyze ms data.
it was observed that some residues (like ala, gly,  arg and val) have significant positive correlation (r > 0.20) and some other  residues (like asp, leu, asn and ser) have negative correlation (r 85% in both promoter and non-promoter identification.
1):i369-i377, jun 2005.
in the case of  translation initiation sites we could clearly deduce the most discriminative  motifs and their positional variation from example sequences.
application of subgraph mining to proteins is challenging for a number reasons:  (1) protein graphs are large and complex, (2) current protein databases are  large and continue to grow rapidly, and (3) only a small fraction of the  frequent subgraphs among the huge pool of all possible subgraphs could be  significant in the context of protein classification.
the important motifs observed are highly consistent with those reported in literature.
keywords: biosvm microarray [ yeang2001molecular]  c.h. yeang, s. ramaswamy, p. tamayo,  s. mukherjee, r.m. rifkin, m. angelo, m. reich, e. lander,  j. mesirov, and t. golub.
we introduce two classes of kernel functions  that are constructed by combining sequence profiles with new and existing  approaches for determining the similarity between pairs of protein sequences.
molecular classification of liver cirrhosis in a rat model by proteomics and  bioinformatics.
genome res., 13(12):2637-2650, 2003.
keywords: biosvm [carter2001computational]   r. j. carter, i. dubchak, and s. r. holbrook.
bioinformatics,  19(16):2097-2104, 2003.
in the meantime, bioinformatics approaches may help bridge the information gap required for inference of protein function.
our graph model, derivable from protein sequence and structure  only, is competitive with vector models that require additional protein  information, such as the size of surface pockets.
this is the first example of a quantitative structure-property relationship based on chirality codes.
[ bib  ] keywords: biosvm [vert2002tree]  j.-p. vert.
the model  is efficient to compute and scales well to very large collections of data.
an optimal subset of genes is selected according to a two-strata  model evaluation procedure: modeling is replicated by an external  stratified-partition resampling scheme, and, within each run, an internal  k-fold cross-validation is used for e-rfe ranking.
in patients with leukemia our method  discovered 2 genes that yield zero leave-one-out error, while 64 genes are  necessary for the baseline method to get the best result (one leave-one-out  error).
we conclude that analysis of chromosomal expression profiles can group, subgroup, and even predict clinical behavior of tumors to a level of performance similar to that of microarray analysis.
the feature set size was  reduced by 99%, while losing only a few percent in terms of sensitivity (from  58.7% to 52.5%) and specificity (from 98.4% to 97.2%).
[ bib | http | .pdf ] to identify gene expression changes along progression of bladder  cancer, we compared the expression profiles of early-stage and advanced bladder  tumors using cdna microarrays containing 17,842 known genes and expressed  sequence tags.
fine-grained protein fold assignment by support vector machines  using generalized npeptide coding schemes and jury voting from  multiple-parameter sets.
analysis of the moss transcriptome displays differences in gene structure, codon and splice site usage in comparison with the seed plant arabidopsis.
the feature set size was reduced by 99%, while losing only a few percent in terms of sensitivity (from 58.7% to 52.5%) and specificity (from 98.4% to 97.2%).
keywords: biosvm [patterson2002pre-mrna]   d.j. patterson, k. yasuhara, and w.l. ruzzo.
a number of protective mechanisms  have evolved in the edge strands of beta-sheets, preventing the aggregation and  insolubility of most natural beta-sheet proteins.
results: our prediction system was limited to phosphorylation sites  catalyzed by four protein kinase families and four protein kinase groups.
we show that this method performs a fast detection of relevant feature subsets using the technique of constrained feature subsets.
keywords: biosvm we investigate the following data mining problem from computer-aided drug design: from a large collection of compounds, find those that bind to a target molecule in as few iterations of biochemical testing as possible.
previous works focused  on predicting protein localization in gram-negative bacteria obtained good  results.
another interesting observation was that transcript profiles indicate toxicologically relevant changes at an earlier timepoint than routinely used methods.
methods for selecting important genes are, therefore, of much significance in microarray data analysis.
biometrical journal, 45(3):377-389,  2003.
the methodology is applied to the classification of protein sequences collected from patients with and without amyloidosis, and indicates that the proposed modified classifiers are more robust to sequence variability than standard svm classifiers, improving classification error between 5 and 25% and sensitivity between 9 and 17%.
unlike previous methods,  ours considers the order information of protein sequences by a different  method.
keywords: biosvm chemoinformatics objective finding the best scientific evidence that applies to a patient problem is becoming exceedingly difficult due to the exponential growth of medical publications.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] the mathematical modeling and description of complex biological  processes has become more and more important over the last years.
graph-driven features extraction from  microarray data.
the mixture  of three feature relevance experts examined implement two existing and one  novel feature relevance measures.
keywords: biosvm background:
[ bib | .html | .pdf ]
j proteome res , 2(394-404):394-404, 2003.
recent data also indicate that it is highly  flexible, and one receptor may recognize thousands of different peptides.
keywords: biosvm support vector machine (svm) is introduced as a method for the classification of proteins into functionally distinguished classes.
we applied this ls bound  measure for gene selection on two benchmark microarray datasets: colon cancer  and leukemia.
we propose a  general method for constructing a kernel following the syntactic structure of  the data, as defined by its type signature in a higher-order logic.
similar expression  signatures were observed for both heterogeneous b-precursor all and for  bcr-abl-positive cases.
availability: the overall network of the relationships is available on the web at http://bioinfo.mbb.yale.edu/expression/echipchip keywords: biosvm
few molecular prognostic markers for wilms tumor are currently defined, though previous studies have linked allele loss on 1p or 16q, genomic gain of 1q, and overexpression from 1q with an increased risk of relapse.
active learning with support vector machines  in the drug discovery process.
such a set-up, however, produces a  large number of spectra, many of which are of too poor quality to be useful.
we propose a two-stage  strategy to develop an optimal model: (1) feature selection using correlation  analysis, mutual information, and svm-based recursive feature elimination  (svm-rfe), and (2) ao prediction using standard and profiled svm formulations.
keywords: biosvm [wilton2003comparison]   d. wilton, p. willett, k. lawson, and g. mullier.
datasets available from http://www.igb.uci.edu/servers/servers.html contact: pfbaldi@ics.uci.edu.
cross-validation studies with four selected proteins yielded misclassification rates in the 10-15 for all the classification methods.
biol., 7(3-4):559-583, 2000.
genome inform ser workshop genome inform, 15(2):181-90, 2004.
predicting specificity  in bzip coiled-coil protein interactions.
the same  problem may arise for homologous proteins of different functions if one is  newly discovered and the other is the only known protein of similar sequence.
77.2  svmpsi results in casp5 illustrate that it is another competitive method to  predict protein secondary structure.
pathological changes in an organ or tissue may be  reflected in proteomic patterns in serum.
when cross-validation studies  are performed, care must be taken to ensure that the test set does not  influence the choice of the peaks used in the classification.
based on this study, we have developed a web server, tbbpred, for predicting transmembrane beta-barrel regions in proteins (available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/tbbpred).
the variability in position and composition we found for that signal is in accordance with previous biological knowledge.
interestingly, svms using reduced sets of amino acids based on chemical  similarity preserve high recognition accuracy.
two hundred ninety-nine oligopeptides were chosen for the training set, while the other 63 oligopeptides were taken as a test set.
[ bib ] the support vector machine, which is a novel algorithm from the  machine learning community, was used to develop quantitation and classification  models which can be used as a potential screening mechanism for a novel series  of cox-2 selective inhibitors.
other advantages of feature selection include  the ability of the classification system to attain good or even better  solutions using a restricted subset of features, and a faster classification.
the performance of the method was evaluated using 5-fold cross-validation.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] liver cirrhosis is a worldwide health problem.
we study this approach with new multi-class classification methods and examined many issues important for a practical recognition system.
this hyperplane  separates the current set of active from the inactive compounds and has the  largest possible distance from any labeled compound.
however, the majority of analytical  methods applied to gene expression data are not efficient for biomarker  identification and disease diagnosis.
in our method, protein structures are represented by graphs where the nodes are residues and the edges connect residues found within certain distance from each other.
next, lung cancer cells  isolated from tumor tissue by laser microdissection were classified on the  basis of the expression pattern of these 32 protein spots.
hidden markov models (hmms) were used with  expectation/maximization for denoising and for associating a feature vector  with the ionic current blockade of the dna molecule.
conclusions modern feature selection and classification methods are  powerful techniques for both the identification of biomarker candidates and the  related problem of building predictive models from protein mass spectrometric  profiles.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] motivation: in order to extract protein sequences from  nucleotide sequences, it is an important step to recognize points at which  regions start that code for proteins.
keywords: sirna biosvm [res2005evolution]   i. res, i. mihalek, and o. lichtarge.
more information available via  www.dbs.ifi.lmu.de/mitarbeiter/borgwardt.html.
the performance of all classifiers was evaluated using a 5-fold cross  validation test.
however, their tertiary structures remain largely  unsolved.
interaction profile-based protein  classification of death domain.
the classification experiments were performed using pyml available at http://pyml.sourceforge.net.
we compare (i) a newly developed algorithm (molfea) for the generation of descriptors (molecular fragments) for noncongeneric compounds with traditional sar approaches (molecular properties) and (ii) different machine learning algorithms for the induction of sars from these descriptors.
the protein fingerprint data were analyzed by bioinformatics tools.
our results revealed that the three best-performing sets of descriptors were the sequence-alignment-based descriptor using psi-blast e-values, the descriptors based on the alignment of secondary structural elements (ssea), and the descriptors based on the occurrence of prosite functional motifs.
these concerns are exacerbated in the regression setting, where the objective is to relate gene expression, simultaneously for multiple genes, to some external outcome or phenotype.
we present an approach  to predict subcellular localization for gram-negative bacteria.
toxicol lett, 151(1):291-9, jun 2004.
c-rich sequences were also found in a region extending to 80 nt downstream of exons, along with g-triplet motifs.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] genomics projects have resulted in a flood of sequence data.
we will report promising results on bacteria clustering experiments using two marker sequences: 16s and gyrb. keywords: biosvm
results: we propose  new kernels for strings adapted to biological sequences, which we call local  alignment kernels.
the enormous amount of protein sequence data uncovered by genome research has increased the demand for computer software that can automate the recognition of new proteins.
the performance of svms depends critically on the kernel function used to quantify the similarity between sequences.
statistical analysis and prediction of  protein-protein interfaces.
the overall accuracies of svm are 78.5, 87.5, 83.2, 81.7 and 81.9 and kytj data sets in jackknife test, which are 19.6, 7.8, 15.5, 13.1 and 15.8 algorithm in the same test.
results: a novel method is described, which is independent of the availability of homologous genes and relies on subtle differences in codon usage between plant and fungal genes.
for a clinical data set, we determine the  optimal search depth and show that the scoring scheme is predictive of  therapeutic outcome.
in this paper, we  propose a comprehensive vertical sample-based knn/lsvm classification approach  with weights optimized by genetic algorithms for high-dimensional data.
accordingly, we propose an alternative, locally constrained  diffusion kernel, and we demonstrate that the resulting kernel allows for more  accurate support vector machine prediction of protein functional  classifications from metabolic and protein?protein interaction networks.
the root-mean-square (rms) errors in heat capacity predictions for the whole data set given by mlr, rbfnns, and svm were 4.648, 4.337, and 2.931 heat capacity units, respectively.
an accurate qspr study of o-h bond  dissociation energy in substituted phenols based on support vector machines.
keywords: biosvm [vert2003graph-driven]   j.-p. vert and m. kanehisa.
we perform a thorough  comparative study of various other selection strategies on data sets provided  by dupont pharmaceuticals and show that the strategies based on the maximum  margin hyperplane clearly outperform the simpler ones.
these results demonstrated a  novel approach to discovery of new biomarkers for early detection of liver  cirrhosis and classification of liver diseases.
the support vector machine method is performed based on the database  derived from scop which is based upon domains of known structure and the  evolutionary relationships and the principles that govern their 3d structure.
as a result,  our approach could be a powerful tool for high-dimensional gene expression data  analysis.
the spectrum kernel: a string  kernel for svm protein classification.
the resulting svm-based classifier  achieves a true positive rate of 48.5% at a false positive rate of 1%.
keywords: biosvm the support vector machine (svm) approach represents a data-driven method for solving classification tasks.
the methods are evaluated using a microarray-based study of cardiomyopathy in transgenic mice.
keywords: biosvm [dobson2005predicting]   p.d. dobson and a.j. doig.
keywords: biosvm the automotif server allows for identification of post-translational modification (ptm) sites in proteins based only on local sequence information.
genetically, this progression is  accompanied by a significant global increase in losses and gains of dna, and  specifically by increased numerical aberrations on chromosome arms 1q, 7p, and  8p.
we show that no linear scoring function can succeed in this task.
tests using the structural  classification of proteins (scop) 1.53 data set show that the svm-hmmstr gives  a significant improvement over several current methods.
the set of all known pathways can  therefore be represented by a complex network of genes.
this work tries to look for the effective methods of extracting attribute and the algorithm for classifying the quaternary structure from the primary sequences.
the objectives of this paper are (1) to briefly review the  application of data mining techniques in proteomics for cancer  detection/diagnosis; (2) to explore a novel analytic method with different  feature selection methods; (3) to compare the results obtained on different  datasets and that reported by petricoin et al.
[ bib | .html  |.pdf ] keywords: biosvm microarray [ jaakkola1999exploiting]  t. s. jaakkola and d. haussler.
they are the focus of a significant amount of current pharmaceutical research because they play a key role in many diseases.
results: we propose new kernels for strings adapted to biological sequences, which we call local alignment kernels.
the model is discriminative, learning simultaneously from known interactions and from pairs of proteins that are known (or suspected) not to interact.
finally, the setting of the svm classifier is much easier than the mlp one.
estimates show that more than half of the human genes and at least one-third of the genes of less complex organisms, such as nematodes or flies, are alternatively spliced.
graphical models and svms hold promise as the foundations for developing decision support systems for diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring as well as inferring biological networks.
[ bib  |.ps.gz | .pdf ] keywords: biosvm [moler2000analysis]   e. j. moler, m. l. chow, and i. s. mian.
recently, results have  been presented in the literature suggesting that it is possible to construct a  prediction rule from only a few genes such that it has a negligible prediction  error rate.
keywords: biosvm [hu2004developing]   c. hu, x. li, and j. liang.
sequence  models for all types of ptms are trained by support vector machine on  short-sequence fragments of proteins in the current release of swiss-prot  database (phosphorylation by various protein kinases, sulfation, acetylation,  methylation, amidation, etc.).
gene profiling successfully classified bladder tumors based on their progression and clinical outcome.
keywords: biosvm the function of a protein that has no sequence homolog of known function is difficult to assign on the basis of sequence similarity.
prediction of mhc class i binding  peptides, using svmhc.bmc bioinformatics, 3(1):25, sep 2002.
in self-consistency and cross-validation tests, which measures the  success of learning and prediction, respectively, the rrna-binding svm has  consistently achieved >95
keywords: biosvm [saeh2005lead]   j. saeh, p. lyne, b. takasaki, and d. cosgrove.
it is shown that the inclusion of protein structure information produces more accurate methods, in agreement with other recent studies, and the effect of using predicted rather than actual structure is evaluated.
this map of cellular ubiquitinated proteins and their interacting proteins will be useful for further studies of ubiquitin system function.
the results showed that naïve bayesian benefited significantly from the feature selection, while svm performed better when all features were used.
while averaged codon bias is the same in physcomitrella and arabidopsis, the distribution pattern is different, with 15% of moss genes being unbiased.
acids res., 29(19):3928-3938, 2001.
protein function classification via support  vector machine approach.
evaluation shows that our system achieves the  best performance from among 10 systems with a balanced f-measure of 82.58 on  the closed evaluation of the biocreative protein/gene name recognition task  (task 1a).
names encountered particularly frequently in drosophila, such as white, wing and bizarre, constitute an obvious limitation of nlprot.
acids res.,  30(11):2599-2607, 2002.
a  consistently down-regulated 3495 da protein in cirrhosis samples was one of the  selected significant biomarkers.
we train and evaluate our system on a previously published database of  antisense efficacies and our own database of sirna efficacies collected from  the literature.
the simplest amino acid preference model, 1-aap, is a normalized description of the frequency of amino acids in genomes of a viral genome type.
selenoprotein w may discriminate t cells  from b cells.
the heuristic method was then used to search the descriptor space and select the descriptors responsible for activity.
toxicol appl  pharmacol, jun 2005.
the  accuracy of the predictions ranged from 83 to 95 kinase group level.
we demonstrate the applicability of support vector  machines for this task, and show how to incorporate prior biological knowledge  by engineering an appropriate kernel function.
acting as a  classifier, i-mutant2.0 correctly predicts (with a cross-validation procedure)  80% or 77% of the data set, depending on the usage of structural or sequence  information, respectively.
we  further assessed the performance of our regulatory network identifications by  comparing them with the results from two recent genome-wide chip-chip  experiments.
[ cai2004prediction]  yu-dong cai and andrew j doig.
these studies  showed that svm prediction accuracy is at a level useful for functional family  assignment.
the local sequence preferences of short segments around  ptm residues are described here as linear functional motifs (lfms).
the codes and curated dataset are available at  http://compbio.utmem.edu/snp/dataset/ keywords: biosvm [vert2006kernels]  j.-p.  vert, r. thurman, and w. s. noble.
besides using local descriptors such as the local  sequences, we include global information, such as amino acid compositions and  the patterns of the states of cysteines (bonded or nonbonded), or cysteine  state sequences, of the proteins.
the method is  shown to outperform other unsupervised protein network inference methods.
[ bib | .pdf  ] keywords: biosvm [shipp2002diffuse]   m. a. shipp, k. n. ross, p. tamayo, a. p. weng, j. l.  kutok, r. c. t. aguiar, m. gaasenbeek, m. angelo,  m. reich, g. a. pinkus, t. s. ray, m. a. koval, k. w.  last, a. norton, t. a. lister, j. mesirov, d. s. neuberg,  e. s. lander, j. c. aster, and t. r. golub.
the propensities of residues located at different positions were also analyzed.
a method is briefly sketched by which training of  neural networks can be adapted to unequal sample sizes per class.
[ bib  |.pdf ] during the past three years, the support vector machine learning  algorithm has been extensively applied within the field of computational  biology.
the predictive accuracies of models using  molfea derived descriptors is approximately 10-15%age points higher than those  using molecular properties alone.
since the generation of sequences, and experimental protein-protein  interactions increases faster than the 3d structure determination of protein  complexes, there is tremendous interest in developing in silico methods that  generate such structure for prediction and classification purposes.
multi-class protein fold recognition using  support vector machines and neural networks.
it can also be used to define kernels in  the form of joint gibbs probability distributions.
knowledge-based analysis of microarray gene expression data by using support  vector machines.
as a small-genome case study, we analyze the genome of  the human cytomegalovirus and demonstrate that wn-svm correctly identifies  regions that are known to be conserved and prototypical of all  beta-herpesvirinae, regions that are known to have been acquired horizontally  from the human host and, finally, regions that had not up to now been suspected  to be horizontally transferred.
[  bib | www: ] keywords: biosvm [kote-jarai2004gene]   zsofia kote-jarai, richard d williams, nicola cattini, maria copeland, ian  giddings, richard wooster, robert h tepoele, paul workman, barry  gusterson, john peacock, gerald gui, colin campbell, and ros eeles.
http://www.fml.tuebingen.mpg.de/raetsch/rase.
a support vector machines (svm) is thus built to predict the cleavage site of signal peptides from the protein sequences.
however, making use of theoretical results is ordinarily subject to the satisfaction of strong hypotheses (weak error correlation, availability of large training sets, possibility to rerun the training procedure an arbitrary number of times, etc.).
the quality of classification was tested by cross-validation.
the distributed encoding method is unable to code the biological content in sequences efficiently, whereas the bio-basis function method is a nonparametric method, which is often computationally expensive.
[ bib | http | .pdf ]
multilinear regression, perceptrons, and support  vector machines were also evaluated as modeling tools.
keywords: biosvm motivation: automatically identifying protein names from the scientific literature is a pre-requisite for the increasing demand in data-mining this wealth of information.
in a  cross-validated comparison using known yeast interactions, the  attraction-repulsion method performs better than several competing techniques.
an organism-wise cross-validation was performed to define confidence estimates, resulting in an average precision of 80% for 74% of all test sequences.
the prediction accuracy is better than those achieved with tools trained on arabidopsis data.
species-specific, sensitive and selective splice site  prediction for physcomitrella has been developed using a dataset of 368 donor  and acceptor sites, utilizing a support vector machine.
machine learning has not previously been used to predict sirna efficacy.
the authors compared the generalization  performance of the two families of models in leave-one-out experiments.
the correlation  of r = 0.65 was obtained between experimentally determined and predicted  binding affinity by using a quantitative matrix.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] summary: this paper studies the problem of building multiclass  classifiers for tissue classification based on gene expression.
comparison of ranking methods for virtual screening in lead-discovery programs.
for inferences about complete proteomes in which the number of pairwise non-interactions is expected to be much larger than the number of actual interactions, we anticipate that the sensitivity will remain the same but precision may decrease.
dna  repair-related genes were found to be enriched for about eight-fold in the  resulting gene set relative to the entire gene set.
in each iteration a comparatively small batch of compounds is screened for binding activity toward this target.
method: we present a method to  perform this task, which consists in encoding both the gene network and the set  of profiles into two kernel functions, and performing a regularized form of  canonical correlation analysis between the two kernels.
51 tetrapeptides) which includes 12 beta-turn type i tetrapeptides, 1 beta-turn type ii tetrapeptide and 38 non-beta-turns reached 82.4 of the svms implies that the formation of different beta-turn types or non-beta-turns is considerably correlated with the sequence of a tetrapeptide.
they were then applied to the prediction of inhibitors of cyp2c9 and substrates of the three enzymes.
results: in this paper we describe the results of analysis of  amino acid preference in mammalian viruses.
sequence alignment kernel for recognition  of promoter regions.
a svm equipped with a tanimoto similarity kernel estimates solubility with accuracy comparable to results from other reported methods where the same data sets have been studied.
the models have been tested against  progressively more challenging validation sets where steps are taken to ensure  that compounds in the validation set are chemically and structurally distinct  from the training set.
bioinformatics,  20(10):1612-1621, 2004.
the pssms were generated from psi-blast profiles, which contain important evolution information.
in cross-validation experiments, it is demonstrated that objective measurements of prediction error rate and rank-ordering statistics are competitive with those of several other investigations, most of which depend on three-dimensional structural data.
springer verlag, 2002.
on one hand this is achieved by mapping the sequences to an intuitive but high-dimensional feature space, well-suited for interpretation of the learnt models.
however, clinical outcome models  identify neither the molecular basis of clinical heterogeneity, nor specific  therapeutic targets.
we used support vector machines (svms) to identify the probable origin of sequences.
we present a machine learning method to discriminate between cysteines involved in ligand binding and cysteines forming disulfide bridges.
heterogeneous data  comparison and gene selection with kernel canonical correlation analysis.
the results derived using cross-validation methods are  state-of-the-art.
this is the first such system to be informed by a rigorous  comparative analysis of the available algorithms and datasets.
we show that it is possible to classify viral sequences by genome type (dsdna, ssdna, ssrna positive strand, ssrna negative strand, retroid) using amino acid distribution.
this  approach correctly identified all 20 experimentally verified promoters of human  chromosome 22.
we generated a large nonredundant data  set of 1494 true protein-protein interfaces using biological symmetry  annotation where necessary.
[ bib | .ps | .pdf ] we introduce a new method of constructing kernels on sets whose  elements are discrete structures like strings, trees and graphs.
we applied our trained classification system to xenopus laevis sequences, yielding functional annotation for more than half of the known expressed genome.
the prediction  accuracy is 40.0 and 99.9 a need for a sufficient number of proteins to train  svm.
the validation results show that the prediction performance was organism-independent and could reproduce the annotation of other automated systems as well as high-quality manual annotations.
rase: recognition of alternatively spliced exons in  c.elegans.
availability: predphospho is available at http://www.ngri.re.kr/proteo/predphospho.htm.
availability: the data and additional interactive graphs on the selected feature subsets are available at http://www.psb.rug.ac.be/gps contact: svgro@gengenp.rug.ac.be yvdp@gengenp.rug.ac.be keywords: biosvm proteins are generally classified into the following 12 subcellular locations: 1) chloroplast, 2) cytoplasm, 3) cytoskeleton, 4) endoplasmic reticulum, 5) extracellular, 6) golgi apparatus, 7) lysosome, 8) mitochondria, 9) nucleus, 10) peroxisome, 11) plasma membrane, and 12) vacuole.
keywords: biosvm protein structural annotation and classification is an important problem in bioinformatics.
the fragment generator finds all fragments  (i.e. linearly connected atoms) that satisfy user-specified constraints  regarding their frequency and generality.
implicit motif distribution approach may be used as modus operandi for bioinformatics problems that require specific motif extraction and search, which is otherwise computationally prohibitive.
svm is a technique for pattern recognition which relies on the statistical learning theory.
also, the optimal number of genes can be estimated according to the saturation of zipf's law profiles.
one might imagine one could readily determine these networks through inspection of gene expression data.
with heterogeneous cross-validation, where we trained the svm on transient complexes to predict on obligate complexes (and vice versa), we still achieved comparable success rates to the leave-one-out cross-validation suggesting that sufficient properties are shared between transient and obligate interfaces.
result: we run experiments on the structural classification of proteins 1.53 data set.
oligo  kernels for datamining on biological sequences: a case study on prokaryotic  translation initiation sites.
the sensitivities for all types of short lfms are in the range of 70%.
in this study, we propose a family-wise error (fwe) rate  approach to selection of discriminatory genes for two-sample or multiple-sample  classification.
this compares favorably with about  three-four times more misclassifications when optimal linear functions reported  in the literature are used.
the combination of seldi with bioinformatics tools could find new  biomarkers and establish patterns with high sensitivity and specificity for the  detection of ovarian cancer.
analysis of proteomic and genomic data.
we demonstrate that the cesh profiles have characteristic patterns in tumor groups and were also able to distinguish subgroups of rhabdomyosarcoma.
the first algorithm is based on a multilayer perceptron neural network and  the second algorithm uses a support vector machine.
we have generated a database of expression profiles carrying the transcriptional responses of the model organism bacillus subtilis following treatment with 37 well-characterized antibacterial compounds of different classes.
targeting-signal was modeled by the distribution of subsequence occurrences (implicit motifs) using self-organizing maps.
a pilot study on the application of  statistical classification procedures to molecular epidemiological data.
we provide evidence that  existing related methods (e.g. estscan) could profit from advanced tis  recognition.
however, extraction efforts have been frustrated by the  lack of conventions for describing human genes and proteins.
both methods were tested with a 5-fold cross-validation.
in r. b. altman, a. k. dunker,  l. hunter, k. lauerdale, and t. e. klein, editors, proceedings of the pacific symposium on biocomputing 2002, pages 649-660.