the foot-ground force gait data of 24 elderly participants were acquired using a strain gauge force platform during normal walking, and were analyzed with our proposed model.
keywords: data mining, association rules, weak-support mode,  ufp-tree, fp-forest title of the paper: automatic discovery of data resources in the  e-government grid download
as well as low level know-how, important part of  security team practices are also higher level statistical analyses for  pinpointing potential threats and trends.
in this paper we propose a model which traces design decisions and the possible alternatives.
apparently, the robustness of system bus plays an important role in the soc reliability.
in the second phase, the disjunctive normal form is computed to reduct features based on feature forest.
so, a relational database schema or a data warehouse prototype cannot be easily mapped and reused in multiple dss projects.
title of the paper: a sampling-based method for dynamic scheduling in distributed data mining environment download full pdf authors: jifang li
finally we will cover the pros and cons of our new solution, some conclusions and future work.
compression algorithms allow defining a similarity  measure based on the degree of common information, whereas clustering methods  allow clustering similar data without any previous knowledge.
the initial results indicate that the tissue volume change in the brain occurs predominantly in the hippocampus of the brain.
this paper investigated the application of an  advanced hybrid machine learning approach such as the combining kernel-based  principal component analysis (kpca) with support vector machine (svm) to  evaluate the change of gait symmetry quantitatively based on the basic idea  that the discrimination of the functional change of between human lower  extremities can be hypothesized as binary classification task.
consequently, too large of a solution space is formed to achieve hardware-software partitioning.
the crm collect  the customer’s queries, epr analyze and integrate the data and the  knowledge discovery gave predictions and advises for the betterment of an  organization.
in this work  the effectiveness of one of these measures is evaluated, namely the negative  slope coefficient (nsc) measure.
keywords: hypercube, flexible hypercube, mesh network, fault-tolerant, embedding title of the paper: τhe function block model in embedded control and automation from iec61131 to iec61499 download full pdf authors:
evaluating student performances always has been an important issue for academia.
as a  continuation of previous study by ismaili & golden [1], twenty  undergraduate psychology students from university of texas at dallas  participated in this study.
keywords: dynamical software, euclidean geometry, java, distance  education title of the paper: uml4odp: ocl 2.0 constraints specification  & uml modeling of interfaces in the computational metamodel download full pdf authors: oussama reda, bouabid el ouahidi, daniel bourget
the second problem is a directed acyclic graph (dag) problem.
keywords: mandelbrot, buddhabrot, fractal, algorithm, pickover stalks title of the paper: mining the body features to develop sizing  systems to improve business logistics and marketing using fuzzy clustering data  mining download full pdf authors: chih-hung hsu, tzu-yuan lee, hui-ming kuo abstract: business logistics have played an important role of business  operations of procurement, purchasing, inventory, warehousing, distribution,  transportation, customer support, financial and human resources.
finally,  statistical method namely t-test is performed for analysis of the results.
google scholar is the scientometric data base which can be consulted free of charge on the internet and which indexes academic papers, identifying also the afferent citations.
this reduction enables us to use efficient quantified  propositional decision procedures to perform generalized noninterference  checking.
and the same time, points the limitation of this algorithm.
it can resist most of the attacks by improving nonce-based mutual authentication mechanism, and ensure the security by dynamic session key.
keywords: natural image, independent component subspace, hierarchical  discriminant regression, recognition of face, robot navigation
the system is called generic interactive natural language interface to databases (ginlidb).
the first stage is a fast automatic multilevel  thresholding, which separates the bright objects from the grabbed nighttime  road scene images.
our scheme compared with  other related schemes for security efficiency.
furthermore, since these operators are additional parts to the original ga, the algorithm can be further improved by enhancing the operators, such as selection, crossover, and mutation.
the results of this study can provide an effective procedure of  identifying the clusters of human body type to establish the sizing systems for  integrating logistics operations internally with different functions inside the  organization and also externally with business partners.
in this paper we present a dynamic-balanced scheduler for grid computing that solves two typical kinds of problems of grid computing, using for them the cycles of some resources of the grid.
keywords: representation, information systems, information theory, information content, database design title of the paper: nighttime vehicle light detection on a moving vehicle using image segmentation and analysis
abstract: knowledge plays an  increasingly larger role in organizations and many consider it the most  important factor of production in a knowledge economy.
the  operation of ad-hoc networks depends on the cooperation among nodes to provide  connectivity and communication routes.
the experimental results on the medical datasets of uci  machine learning repository and a real liver cirrhosis dataset show that the  algorithms of this paper can efficiently reduce storage cost and improve the  classification performance.
this paper provides an overview of several different  approaches to image texture analysis and demonstrates their use on the problem  of land cover classification.
but we cannot use larger and  larger samples, because it’s not easy to understand large decision trees  and data overfitting problem can happen.
the successful application of the application system do show the efficiency of our ideas.
we used grey level co-occurrence matrix (glcm)  method to assistant the land cover classification and then compared and  evaluated all of the result of classifications.
this study intended to figure out the impacts that mobile technology has exerted on the educational system through the portfolio.
the component-based middleware systems should possess self-adjusting functions for adapt to internal and external environments variation.
keywords: c compiler, dynamic dataflow architecture, dynamic reconfigurable hardware, tagged-token, matching-data title of the paper: rotary-code: efficient mds array codes for raid-6 disk arrays download full pdf authors: yulin wang, guangjun li
the proposed matching method is robust against the fuzzy edges and tips.
in this paper, a c compiler to convert c into a dataflow graph and the graph implementation in vhdl is described.
keywords: normal vector, curvature, local geometric property, mesh  segmentation title of the paper: auction resource allocation mechanisms in grids  of heterogeneous computers download full pdf authors: timothy m. lynar, ric d. herbert, simon
results are promising  since with very limited computation and low sensitivity to the quality of prior  knowledge, potentially dangerous situations are successfully detected and  classified.
experiment on orl face database identity recognition shows that this method is featuring high recognition rate and low time consumption; meanwhile, another experiment is conducted on direction determination of intelligent robots autonomous navigation, also producing a good result.
while example sequences of sentences are given to our  program, the program transforms the example sequences to generate a procedure,  pg, to solve a problem.
the experimental results show that  the method is obviously superior to the corresponding algorithms with a  recognition rate of 97.
abstract: based on the applications of e-portfolios, a mobile system infrastructure was designed with the discussion of information flow scenarios.
title of the paper: activate the dynamic delegation process in x.509 certification via a new extension download full pdf authors: moutasem shafa'amry, nisreen alam aldeen abstract: the increasing number of clients and users of e-banking, e-government and e-application through digital communications, made it a must to develop new methods and solutions for authentications and secure access.
in general, the main objective of nlp research is to create an easy and friendly environment to interact with computers in the sense that computer usage does not require any programming language skills to access the data; only natural language (i.e. english) is required.
this is done by estimating all the benefits and costs during the life cycle.
an application on controller design for a  coupled system with three-degree-of-freedom is also elaborated.
based on the normal tensor voting, the feature  intensity of sample point is evaluated.
to increase performance, it was used a flexible mapping tool based on exhaustive generation of all k-bounded sub-circuits rooted in each node of the circuit.
keywords: placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp), continuous hopfield networks (chn), quadratic knapsack problem (qkp), combinatorial problems, satisfaction of the pecp constraints title of the paper: jea k-128: a novel encryption algorithm using vhdl download full pdf authors: jamal n. bani salameh
rlas integrates rfid tags, pocket pc (pdas) and a server to create a complete learning assessment system.
with a total of 5125 candidates registered respectively in 9 grades of taiwan united music grade test during 2000-2008.
keywords: texture defect detection, image deflection compensation, polar fourier transform, phase correlation analysis, gray level co-occurrence matrix title of the paper: fault-tolerant mapping of a mesh network in a flexible hypercube download
input sensors  based on biometrics and intelligent methods that learn from experience are used  to recognize terrorists or simply to detect an unusual behavior of regular  stuff.
cooperating with some restuarants, we also  develop a dynamic restaurant mobile location-based recommendation and discount  counpons pushing system.
keywords: erp systems, critical success factors, higher education, university management title of the paper: interactive natural language interface download full pdf authors:
google scholar is the scientometric data base which can be  consulted free of charge on the internet and which indexes academic papers,  identifying also the afferent citations.
we explore some issues regarding collaborative systems and propose  a portal-based it solution that sustains the km life cycle through a  distributed architecture.
the microscopic images of wastewater bacteria are analysed, and a scheme for classification and recognition for wastewater bacteria based on microscopic images analysis are put forward in the paper.
the iec to address these constraints proposed the 61499 standard that is an attempt to exploit object-orientation and the application-centric paradigm in the control and automation domain.
abstract: field survey is a traditional method in the process of land consolidation.
we show that parameterized interactions are of two main kinds; namely, primitives and compounds.
we show that parameterized interactions are of two main kinds; namely,  primitives and compounds.
taking the advantages of these three operators, the searching and optimizing speed can be increased.
at  the same time, the openness characteristic of wireless communication decide to  a radio channel can be easily tapped by illegal user.
in this  paper, we propose a lightweight signaling protocol of sender-initiated and  mobility-support reservation protocol (smrp) with crossover router (cor) as an  extension to smrp.
the conviction that we put forward here is ‘no representation  without information flow’, based upon which the efficacy and efficiency of  a representation system may be measurable.
the influence of expertise and web traversal behavior in deriving underlying knowledge structures is presented using kdc analysis.
a final refinement process adjusts the  position of located dominant points by a minimum integral square error  criterion.
abstract: an  efficient technique for ip address auto-configuration for nodes is an important  component in the manet setup.
this paper explains a performance analysis for a session and error management agent based on home network environment by using the rule-based devs(discrete event system specification) modeling and simulation techniques.
jea k-128 has a 64-bit word size, 4-rounds, and  128-bit is the length of the secret key.
we have developed software that enables us to analyze new properties of the mandelbrot set that can be seen when these new display methods are used.
starting from this, we have identified and analyzed differences for the case of universities regarding communication structure, management involvement, organization, implementation team competences, legacy systems, inter-department communication, user training, suppliers/ customers partnership, external consultants.
abstract: a lot of process models for software development such as waterfall model and so on are almost based on description of the relationship between the scale and complex of software project and technology tasks and methods in every phase of development as the main content.
we use ns2 java version network simulator to test it.
keywords: mobile, social networking, web 2.0, e-communities, social networks, social web issue 12, volume 8, december 2009
in the field of the computation, computer science and systems, the concept of profiles or users models has many meanings and connotations, its first and greater diffusion arise with the development and use of on-line increasing systems; however, they have gain great preponderance recently, not only to refer and/or to respond to the passive user who approaches the system, but for the possibility of taking care of a user stimulated and attracted by the system.
keywords: statistical methods, institutional repositories, open  access, marketing research, h index, scientometric indicators title of the paper: power-aware, depth-optimum and area  minimization mapping of k-lut based fpga
after presenting the landscape inspiring the study research  questions i conduct an investigation for evaluating aspects of knowledge  management practice in romanian software engineering industry and discuss the  major findings.
finally, some computational experiments solving the pecp are  included.
keywords: otrs, csirt, cert, security incident, metadata, issue  management, bayesian analysis, antispam, backscatter, statistics title of the paper: audit system at cesnet-certs download full pdf authors: pavel vachek
finally, the integration of conceptual design and detail design has been well realized.
human body type classifications are also very crucial issue for garment manufacturing.
this software  library, called o3l (object-oriented ontology library), provides a complete  representation of ontologies compliant with owl 2 w3c. o3l has not the goal to  be use for the creation and manipulation of ontologies, but provides a  simplified and efficient api for the realization of applications, that  interoperate through the use of shared ontologies, and allows: i) the use of  owl individuals as data of the applications, ii) the exchange of owl  individuals between applications, iii) the reasoning about owl individuals, and  iv) the classification of owl classes and properties.
this paper presents an approach that uses trace models and model transformations to facilitate incremental model synchronization.
an evolutionary algorithm called the multiple trajectory search (mts) is integrated with the svm training to tune the parameters for the svm and the window sizes for the predicted secondary structure and the pssm.
agents are considered as advanced tools for resolving complex issues in networking based on intelligent and dynamic features.
keywords: grid computing, dynamic-balanced scheduler, genetic  algorithm, optimization problem title of the paper: the software quality economics model for  software project optimization download full pdf authors: ljubomir lazic, amel kolasinac, dzenan avdic
abstract: this  paper describes a new rule discovery algorithm called distributed relational  inductive learning drila, which has been developed as part of ongoing research  of the inductive learning algorithm (ila)
it will cause alarms before  the defects will actually happen.
the authors  of this paper have implemented scalar multiplication, the most time consuming  operation in elliptic curve cryptography using binary non-adjacent form  algorithm.
abstract: this paper proposes a sim-paramesium genetic algorithm to enhance the searching and optimizing speed of classical genetic algorithms.
the algorithm used for our visual analysis is closely connected to  pickover stalks and buddhabrot method.
keywords: ambient intelligence, access control, event classification
in this paper, a extensive set of  complementary services via internet denominated ingerastm that provide rapid  and effective access to industrial machinery, supplied by the basque company  ingelectric s. a., is described.
additionally, developers must consider what we  call the quality profile of the final product.
midbscan outperforms som in execution time cost.
as far as this paper is concerned, we set out the broad  methodological lines of the research while stressing the integration of these  different approaches into one single unifying entity.
in this study we highlight latest trends and evolution of mobile social networking and online-communities.
resulting in the security of mobile payment are the two main problems of the  mobile terminal itself and the process of wireless communication.
based upon classical genetic algorithms, the sim-paramesium genetic algorithm  employs additional operators, such as asexual reproduction, competition, and  livability in the survival operation.
keywords: strips planning, block world, computational efficiency, linear programming title of the paper: hierarchical clustering of distributed object-oriented software systems: a generic solution for software-hardware mismatch
the experimental results showed that the testing accuracy of  distributed mode is higher than other models.
this was inspired by the ever increasing volume of multimedia traffic over the internet which demanding quality of service beyond the traditional best-effort.
mid can be modified for other e-commerce purposes; many of the functions serve as a reusable framework.
much rather we aim to define a method with which it is possible to assist the software engineer in evaluating design alternatives and adjusting design decisions in a systematic manner.
heis is a comprehensive information system that provides support for education  related processes taking place within a higher education institution.
the experimental results show  that our method outperforms ez stego and the methods proposed by fridrich and  wu et al.
keywords: internet data base original source (idbos), region data  content proxy (rdcp), odms, portal agent, global consistency, supply chain  management title of the paper: the c compiler generating a source file in vhdl  for a dynamic dataflow machine being executed direct into a hardware download full pdf authors: jorge luiz e. silva, kelton a. p. da costa, valentin obac roda
the optimization process is found sensitive to the step taken by the network in its way to the global minimum.
keywords: artificial intelligence, telecommunication, networks, single-agent systems, multi-agent systems, diffserv network, platforms title of the paper: improving the accuracy of effort estimation through fuzzy set combination of size and cost drivers download full pdf authors: ch. satyananda reddy, kvsvn raju abstract: in this research, it is investigated the precision of size and cost drivers in the estimation of effort using constructive cost model (cocomo).
experimental results using dynamic-balanced scheduler show that it is possible to obtain an improved use of the resources in the grid.
keywords: binary conversion, large attribute, machine learning,  neuro-fuzzy, mega-fuzzificaiton title of the paper: performance analysis for a web based session  and error management agent on home network environment download full pdf authors: eung-nam, ko abstract: this paper describes a  web based session and error management with a whiteboard agent running on home  network environment.
we test our method by comparing its performance with other well  known dominant point extraction techniques successfully.
keywords: network flows, minimum flow problem, unit capacity networks, bipartite networks, maximum cut title of the paper: transaction-item association matrix-based frequent pattern network mining algorithm in large-scale transaction database download full pdf authors: wei-qing sun, cheng-min wang, tie-yan zhang, yan zhang
we experimentally evaluate our algorithm using the open source jhotdraw case study, for three distance functions, providing a comparison of the proposed approach with similar existing approaches.
the third describes how equipment composition information can be used to generalize and adapt case solutions to new and unknown occurrences; this generalization is based on a taxonomic similarity between functionally autonomous modules (fams).
as the size of samples grows, the improvement in error rates becomes better slowly.
the  experimental results also show the sampling method is applicable to task  scheduling in dynamic environment and can be adopted to obtain a higher result.
the  system has been applied in beijing pinggu area.
abstract: this article describes a decision support system for land-use structure optimization and land-use allocation.
this method suffers from problems of feasibility of solutions and long training time.
keywords: embedded database, sqlite, porting, arm-linux, home gateway title of the paper: design and implementation mobile payment based  on multi-interface of mobile terminal download full pdf authors: zhong wan, weifeng yin, ronggao sun abstract:
for electric grid  modelling it was use tree type.
the linear programming, fuzzy clustering, and other land-use structure optimization algorithms are implemented on the arcengine software platform.
in model-driven technologies, where processing is carried out as a series of model transformations, applying model transformations can also be a reasonable option for the reconciliation.
keywords: embedded database, sqlite, porting, arm-linux, home gateway title of the paper: design and implementation mobile payment based on multi-interface of mobile terminal download full pdf authors: zhong wan, weifeng yin, ronggao sun abstract:
experiments indicate that simulations with the proposed algorithm have a 47% improvement in convergence speed on the traveling salesman problem.
it is primarily intended to  provide computer access for people with little or no upper-limb functionality,  but can be used by able bodied subject in certain application scenarios.
abstract: this paper proposes a new blind watermarking scheme based on discrete wavelet transform(dwt) domain.
however using kdd for the construction of the knowledge base used in such  systems, while reducing the maintenance work still demands repeated human  intervention.
in this paper i frame my  research by discussing the importance of knowledge management in software  engineering.
abstract: the work reported in this paper proposes intelligent agents, a swarm-array computing approach focused to apply autonomic computing concepts to parallel computing systems and build reliable systems for space applications.
keywords: owl, object-oriented model, ontology based applications, ontology reasoning, semantic web, java title of the paper: the application of the finite element method in the biomechanics of the human upper limb and of some prosthetic components download full pdf authors: antoanela naaji, daniela gherghel
finally, benefit and challenges to medium-long term spot trading are discussed.
keywords: erp systems, critical success factors, higher education,  university management title of the paper: interactive natural language interface download full pdf authors:
the radio frequency identification (rfid)  based learning assessment system (rlas) is aimed at removing the need for a  human proctor and reducing the complexity involved in the assessment.
keywords: quality, software, m-learning, mobile learning, characteristic, mobile devices, mobile technologies, handheld device title of the paper: a persistent cross-platform class objects container for c++ and wxwidgets download full pdf authors: michal bliznak, tomas dulik, vladimir vasek
in this paper we aim at presenting a  partitional clustering algorithm for identifying crosscutting concerns in  existing software systems.
abstract: knowledge plays an increasingly larger role in organizations and many consider it the most important factor of production in a knowledge economy.
the need to encrypt messages  for protecting their content knew an increase from the apparition of internet  and electronic transactions.
the matter becomes worse when the size of training  data set is large, which is common in data mining tasks.
keywords: wireless sensor networks, redundancy, sensing coverage,  communication title of the paper: testing inertial sensor performance as  hands-free human-computer interface download full pdf authors: josip music, mojmil cecic, mirjana bonkovic
because the high-growing of e-commerce, a new demand emerges: the special-purpose search engine for searching goods from network shop.
input sensors based on biometrics and intelligent methods that learn from experience are used to recognize terrorists or simply to detect an unusual behavior of regular stuff.
in this paper we propose an information architecture to support an adjustment to the intcare system, an intelligent decision support system for intensive medicine.
digital certificates are one of these methods for secure transactions, x.509 certificate is one standard for these digital certificates, despite the fact that x.509 certificate is of high level of security and authenticity, it has many weaknesses as not applying dynamic delegation to it..
moreover, this  study proposes a new data clustering algorithm called midbscan and an existing  well-known neural network called self-organizing map (som) to perform data  clustering applications for discovering potential musical instruments teachers.
new cryptographic features in our work  include the use of many successive xoring for the plaintext with sub-keys, and  the use of multiple multiplexers in sub-keys generator.
they are  related to specific fragments of bayesian networks representing the basic  elements in reasoning about uncertain events.
it is feasible to perform data clustering analysis in various data mining applications using the proposed midbscan algorithm.
in this paper an iterative algorithm, based on the  quasi-newton methods, is introduced with the objective to enhance resolution  only by one single image.
here we are interested in identifying artificial languages from sets of positive and eventually negative samples of sentences.
download full pdf authors: blesson varghese, gerard mckee
it is certain,  that the enterprise’s performance will depend on the capacity to sustain  collaborative work.
title of the paper: research of replication mechanism in p2p
in other words, to recognize problems that are difficult for a ga to solve.
this paper is concerned with security aspects of the registration protocols in mobile ip.
it allows users to operate in the vr fashion, interacting with 3d virtual objects and spaces through a web browser.
this paper examines stepwise regression analysis and identifies the most significant properties influencing tactile fabric comfort.
the basic assumption of the algorithm is that objects to be analyzed are stored in a set of tables that are distributed over many locations.
however, the administration of distributed data resources are faced with increasing challenges caused by the discovery difficulties across the internet.
also, it is tackled the maps drawing in real time within  gps system satellites, using more colors depending on the covered route and the  landforms met.
it is debated the matter of the four  colors, but also the way of solving by implementing of an algorithm in the  map-man application.
the proposed algorithm can be used for performance prediction.
however, semantics do not usually have an absolute character.
the library is published under open source licence and can be freely utilised in both open source and commercial projects.
keywords: computer vision, vehicle detection, image segmentation,  image analysis, multilevel thresholding, autonomous vehicles title of the paper: triplet-based topology for on-chip networks download full pdf authors: wang zuo, zuo qi, li jiaxin abstract: most cmps  use on-chip network to connect cores and tend to integrate more simple cores on  a single die.
keywords: real-time data acquisition, knowledge discovery in databases, intensive care, intcare, intelligent decision support systems, information models.
the chipcflow project is described as a system to convert hll into a dynamic  dataflow graph to be executed in dynamic reconfigurable hardware, exploring the  dynamic reconfiguration.
the system bus, such as amba ahb, provides an integrated platform for ip-based soc.
at the same time, based on the j2me security architecture  using the encryption methods of data encryption, digital signature, identity  authentication to ensure the security of wireless communication.
after that, a component dynamic behavior  model is presented.
we also worked with the pdla model obtaining fractal clusters with up to 1010 and 109 particles for two and three dimension clusters respectively.
the experimental results show that almost all the algorithms exhibits quasi linear scalability, but the slope of different algorithms is different.
modern electronic products, such as portable devices, consumer electronics and telematics, can be evaluated rapidly in this platform via the implementation of a set of hardware and software tasks.
this approach is found to be effective in processing the  anthropometric data, and obtaining regular rules for the development of sizing  systems.
the experimental  results show that the watermark proposed in this paper is invisible ( the psnr  is higher than 41) and is robust in the case of against some normal at tacks  such as jpeg compression , additive noise and filtering , etc. keywords: blind digital watermarking, wavelet transform, rbf neural  network, robustness title of the paper: research and practice of distributed test  platform download full pdf authors: feng qinqun, yun wenfang, peng sheqiang
the composition of test server based on metadata service is presented.
there  also analyses the physical meaning of fbm’s two parameters h and σ .
in this paper we apply the data mining techniques on the available  measured weather data in order to predict the wind power output and determine  the financial feasibility of investment.
sometimes an ally, sometimes a foe, redundancy is an inherent feature of sensor  networks that has to be very carefully examined in order to improve important  aspects of their functioning.
in order to represent the ontology protege 3.1.1 tool is used, based on the ontological language for the web: owl (web ontology language) and; finally, to accede and to visualize the ontology, an application based on the semantic web is developed.
track defects are macroscopic and geometric in nature and are exclusively the consequence of train traffic.
starting from this, we have identified and analyzed differences for the  case of universities regarding communication structure, management involvement,  organization, implementation team competences, legacy systems, inter-department  communication, user training, suppliers/ customers’ partnership, external  consultants.
keywords: neural networks, radial basis function networks, sampling title of the paper: computer simulation and experimental research of the vehicle impact download full pdf authors: daniel trusca, adrian soica, bogdan benea, stelian tarulescu
possible guidelines for further development of this, and comparable methods are proposed.
abstract: the mission of universities and staff is to generate knowledge  through scientific research.
in a nutshell, uwe approach is a viable option to facilitate e-services in education environment and thus could serve as a guideline model of future e-distance learning centre.
the main goal of  designing jea k-128 algorithm is to reach the condition of having almost every  bit of the ciphertext depend on every bit of the plaintext and every bit of the  key as quickly as possible.
concentrating on the component-based software system, this paper formally specifies the components and their interaction behaviors, analyzes the behavior of the new component compared with the old one, and then presents a set of rules for verifying behavioral substitutability of components in software system to ensure the behavioral compatibility whenever a component is replaced by a new one.
this paper proposed a specific odms dependent replicas correctness maintenance engineering project.
jianning wu abstract: the quantitative  assessment of the change of gait symmetry has played a very important role in  the clinical diagnostics.
hyontai sug abstract: because the target domain  of data mining using decision trees usually contains a lot of data, sampling is  needed.
[11], and its extension ila2 [12]  which were built to learn from a single table, and the relational inductive  learning algorithm (rila) [13], [14] which was developed to learn from a group  of interrelated tables, i.e. a centralized database.
our technique is based on the counterexamples search strategy mainly which generating counterexamples of minimal length.
the present work is based on cocomo dataset and the experimental part of the  study illustrates the approach and compares it with the standard version of the  cocomo.
problem download full pdf authors: m. ettaouil, k. elmoutaouakil, y. ghanou abstract: the placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp) is considered as one of the most difficult optimization problems.
the results revealed that (a) there are no significantly interactions between self-regulation and perceived initiative, (b) students of the high-group of self-regulation outperformed the low-group on the peer assessment, (c) students who showed stronger initiative outperformed the weaker ones on the tutor assessment, (d) most of the learners showed positive attitude toward peer-assessment.
analyzes the workflow of mobile payment and the reasons that cause the security in the process of mobile payment.
furthermore, the ict skills shortages for  experienced professionals, in most industrialized countries can be expected to  get worse, before they eventually get better.
simulation results show the efficiency of integrating  agents within telecommunication networks and also prove that such a dual  simulation environment is needed to test new techniques based on agents and  multi-agent systems in networking.
another study was  carried out in order to determine the dynamic behavior of the model for total  arm prosthesis, using fem.
the models were created with the aid of the  solidworks program and the trials with the hypermesh program.
the  second focus on its observation relevance factors and shows how the results are  in complete agreement with the relevance concept introduced by robertson and  spark-jones in their well known and proved technique for document retrieval.
results are promising since with very limited computation and low sensitivity to the quality of prior knowledge, potentially dangerous situations are successfully detected and classified.
keywords: quality, software, m-learning, mobile learning,  characteristic, mobile devices, mobile technologies, handheld device title of the paper: a persistent cross-platform class objects  container for c++ and wxwidgets download full pdf authors: michal bliznak, tomas dulik, vladimir vasek
an implementation of the  message authentication process into a tinyos-based node is presented; also  power consumption measurements obtained are discussed.
a self-adaptive accelerated bp algorithm is developed for training the classification of bacteria microscopic images.
network download full pdf authors: dongming huang, zong hu
the system was tested using two different pointer control schemes, as well as three selection techniques.
keywords: dla , pdla, distance queries, nearest neighbor, fractal cluster, quadtree, octree title of the paper: program recursive forms and programming automatization for functional languages download full pdf authors: n. archvadze, m. pkhovelishvili, l. shetsiruli, m. nizharadze
traditionally the rigid shape-based algorithms unable to apply well on garment images.
in this work the effectiveness of one of these measures is evaluated, namely the negative slope coefficient (nsc) measure.
qinghua feng, bin zheng abstract: in this paper,  we present a high order unconditionally stable implicit scheme for diffusion  equations.
effect of electrode separation and field spread  in both x
therefore, the discrete curvature and normal vector estimation play the  fundamental roles in the fields of computer graphics and computer vision.
extracting  features in signature is an intense area due to complex human behavior, which  is developed through repetition.
the present research intends to evaluate the effectiveness and usefulness of  grammatical inference (gi) in control systems.
boundary effects on field  strength representation is discussed and numerically reduced through increasing  the number of nodes for each element in the finite grid.
abstract: the  microscopic images of wastewater bacteria are analysed, and a scheme for  classification and recognition for wastewater bacteria based on microscopic  images analysis are put forward in the paper.
the purpose of bc is to reduce data dimensions by a binary conversion process.
abstract: nowadays, we have to deal with a large quantity of unstructured data, produced by a number of sources.
keywords: medium-long term spot trading, e-commerce platform, bulk  agricultural product, china title of the paper: a study of mobile e-learning-portfolios download full pdf authors: hsieh-hua yang, jui-chen yu, lung-hsing kuo, li-min chen,  hung-jen yang
epna does not require broadcast and address assignment can be completed with in  maximum of four hop communications.
in addition, previously reported  classical data analysis (anova) are compared with kdc analysis in highlighting  quantitative and qualitative differences of these derived latent knowledge  structures.
achieved information about logic dissipated power was obtained using an efficient dedicated simulator.
the experimental results also show the sampling method is applicable to task scheduling in dynamic environment and can be adopted to obtain a higher result.
the approach is based upon the use of utility functions in the negotiation process and uses multiple attributes as the basis of negotiation.
these multiscale singular value  vectors include all features of an image from local to the whole, so more  discriminant information for pattern recognition is obtained.
abstract:  we consider the cutting and covering problem with guillotine restrictions.
the approach is validated on a multi-agent simulator.
because the presence of defects may change the textural features of an image, a reference image without defects can be compared with the test image to detect whether there are any defects.
because he security of license is determined by private key, not the arithmetic itself, user can not construct new license by given license and the public key as long as the private key is not leaked.
in the intelligent agent approach, a task to be executed on parallel computing cores is considered as a swarm of autonomous agents.
the metadata services element and its runtime principle are described in details.
we worked on a supercomputer to run the pdla simulations, as well as a high performance server for dla simulations.
one of the approaches to building  cdss is by using techniques from the knowledge discovery from databases (kdd)  area.
in this paper a new block- ciphering  algorithm, jea k-128 (for jamal encryption algorithm with a key of length 128  bits) is described.
keywords: apriori algorithm, crm, erp title of the paper: parallel difference method on diffusion  equations download full pdf authors:
with this paper on a comprehensive update mechanism of the organization in both dependencies spread copy of the data using flexibility and globally consistence maintenance mechanisms to reach enterprise internal and external data consistency.
however, a number of improvements in measurement accuracy are necessary for  today’s applications.
by resorting to automated data acquisition our  architecture allows for the evaluation of the predictions made and subsequent  action aiming at improving the predictive performance thus enhancing adaptive  capacities.
but as this algorithm’s generating speed is  faster, it also has validity and practicability.
keywords: source-reverse transform, electro-static field, region  border detection, lossy image compression title of the paper: identifying crosscutting concerns using  partitional clustering download full pdf authors: gabriela czibula, grigoreta sofia cojocar,
this paper presents a clustering approach using the available source code,  documentation, experience and knowledge about the domain and application to  cluster the source code.
abstract: steganography is an application of data hiding which can  attain camouflage and increase security by embedding the secret message into  digital media for sending to the receiver without leaking to the third party.
such research  must evaluate the cost benefit trade-offs in investing in quality practices  where the returns are maximized over the software development life cycle.
in the intelligent agent approach, a task to be executed on parallel  computing cores is considered as a swarm of autonomous agents.
power consumption is considered in addition to  other design factors that are traditionally used.
these features are not  good to the expansion of the p2p application, so this paper introduce replicate  mechanism, not only enhances the reliability of the network, but also lets the  network load balance, at the same time this paper introduce synchronize  mechanism to solve the problem of data update consistency in the p2p network.
midbscan outperforms som in  execution time cost.
this paper presents the heis data warehouse architecture,  comments on the data model and addresses issues (and our solutions) that arose  during the seven-year development and maintenance period.
this concept can be helpful in expediting the negotiation process by decreasing the number of negotiation steps in which the agreement is reached.
abstract: developing decision support systems in public institutions such as the national power grid companies require applying very efficient methods in order to support the decisions.
abstract: in association  rules mining application, some rules can provide a lot of useful knowledge for  us, though these rules have the lower support, called weak-support mode in this  paper.
keywords: ground control point (gcp) database, feature matching,  local invariance, feature ground control points title of the paper: mitigation of the effects of selfish and  malicious nodes in ad-hoc networks download full pdf authors: houssein hallani, seyed a. shahrestani
swarm-array computing is a robotics a swarm robotics inspired novel computing  approach considered as a path to achieve autonomy in parallel computing  systems.
by using group-caching protocol to exploit traffic locality,  triplet-based topology achieve lower latency and energy consumption than  2d-mesh.
the second focus on its observation relevance factors and shows how the results are in complete agreement with the relevance concept introduced by robertson and spark-jones in their well known and proved technique for document retrieval.
the method uses the hvs model, and radial basis function neural networks(rbf).
digital game based learning (dgbl) approach utilizes the game as a medium for conveying learning contents.
our experiment results show that triplet-based network can increase the work-related throughput by 3%~11% and reduce average network latency by 24%~32% compared with 2d-mesh, with the router energy consumption reduced by 13%~16% and the link energy consumption reduced by 14%~16%.
the  registration part must be guarded against any malicious attacks that might try  to take illegitimate advantage from any participating principal.
it was use a recursive algorithm in order to calculate the total active and reactive currents and the admissible loss voltage based on the users (consumers) characteristics.
the purpose of this  paper is to propose a flexibility solution and new mashup platforms for  e-applications and interactive services.
although significant progress is being made in several fronts, many other researchers speak of web 2.0 applications; they tend to focus on the technology aspects of the environment.
keywords: hypercube, flexible hypercube, mesh network,  fault-tolerant, embedding title of the paper: τhe function block model in embedded  control and automation from iec61131 to iec61499 download full pdf authors:
keywords: qos, wireless network, rsvp, smrp, hybrid schemes, resource reservation title of the paper: a method for land consolidation progress assessment based on gps and pda download full pdf authors: guangming zhu, yingyi chen, daoliang li
we find that legacy and proven best
their moral obligation to society who is paying  for these researches is to provide free access to the research results for  everyone, everywhere.
keywords: on-chip network, cache protocol, network latency, energy consumption, performance, mapping title of the paper: neural architectures optimization and genetic algorithms download full pdf authors: mohamed ettaouil, youssef ghanou abstract: the artificial neural networks (ann) have proven their efficiency in several applications: pattern recognition, voice and classification problems.
fortunately, there are several image pools which contain a lot of images allowing to be accessed by the public.
it is due to the properties of local conformal mapping and the mean value coordinates.
abstract: in this paper we propose an algorithmic verification technique to check generalized noninterference.
therefore, the objective of this study is to propose a model of e-service application called e-supervised (e-suv) to provide the information related to twinning programmes between universiti utara malaysia (uum) and private colleges by enabling users to interact via portal by using the uml-based web engineering (uwe) approach.
the results demonstrate a competitive performance with 85% accuracy.
abstract: the  image source-reverse transform is proposed for image structure representation  and analysis, which is based on an electro-static analogy.
the system has been applied in beijing pinggu area.
in general, a modeled system is composed of several  models that are often related to one another.
the iec to address these constraints proposed the  61499 standard that is an attempt to exploit object-orientation and the  application-centric paradigm in the control and automation domain.
at the same time, the openness characteristic of wireless communication decide to a radio channel can be easily tapped by illegal user.
when the program, pi, gets a new  example sequence to solve a new instance of the problem, the program, pi,  executes the procedure,
keywords: computer network, forensic analysis, recurrent neural network, forensic, attacks title of the paper: a dual simulation environment for simulating mas in telecommunication networks download full pdf authors: nada meskaoui, dominique gaiti, karim y. kabalan abstract: this paper presents a dual simulation environment for simulating different type of telecommunication networks integrating intelligent agents.
abstract: web-based  on-line voting and on-line election systems provide benefits of usability,  manageability and security.
the restoration from the virtual source to the image is also investigated, based on which a method of image estimation and restoration from its gradient field is proposed.
abstract: software development (sd) refers to design and development of software applications.
the experimental results on the medical datasets of uci machine learning repository and a real liver cirrhosis dataset show that the algorithms of this paper can efficiently reduce storage cost and improve the classification performance.
simulation study shows that jea k-128 gives a  strong avalanche effect, when there is a change in one bit of the plaintext or  one bit of the key; almost all bits in the ciphertext were changed.
based on this, in this paper we propose an algorithm which can be used to verify guillotine restrictions in a two-dimensional covering model.
using trapezoidal membership function for the size and  cost drivers, a few attributes are assigned the maximum degree of compatibility  when they should be assigned lower degrees.
in order to make  smrp more suitable for mobile hosts, we propose a hybrid method combining the  advantages of cor scheme with pointer forwarding scenarios.
investment in mobile device is an important step to improve the quality of life in our dynamic society.
instead of using a single number to represent the size, it can be characterized as a fuzzy value.
the mediator forms part of the group of collaborative, with the specific role of facilitating the cooperative activity.
in case of such reactive maintenance discrete exeecedence of track geometry parameter measurements are compared against a pre-set threshold such that if they exceed the threshold then reactive maintenance is required to be done.
to assess the change of gait symmetry accurately, more nonlinear principal components extracted by using kpca were employed to initiate the training set of svm, which could enhance the generalization performance of svm.
abstract: this paper proposes a  new blind watermarking scheme based on discrete wavelet transform(dwt) domain.
taking into consideration that for industry  implementations there are already many performed studies we started by  considering university implementations as a particular case for the industry  ones.
the paper  analyses the impact of m-learning on the educational process and describes  software characteristics of m-learning applications.
we adopt this sampling method for process the tasks scheduling in distributed data mining environment.
the simulation results show that an arbitrary trajectory such as a desired walking pattern can be tracked in less than 0.5 seconds, which proves that the controller meets real time and precision demanded.
the proposed method is tested with cecc database and the results show that the presented image recognition solution is effective and can greatly improve the speed and consistency in performing large-scale surveys or rapid determination of bacterial abundance, morphology.
abstract: the paper introduces hands-free human-computer interface designed  around commercially available inertial sensor pack.
but selecting proper samples for a given decision tree algorithm is not easy, because each decision tree algorithm has its own property in generating trees and selecting appropriate samples that represent given target data set well is difficult.
how to analyze and verify behavior-level component substitutability is very important when the component-based software system needs upgrading or maintaining.
mechanical properties, measured  objectively by kawabata evaluation system for fabrics (kes-fb), and handfeel  properties, measured subjectively by sensory expert panel, are related to the  tactile comfort of fabrics using statistical regression approaches.
a  universe of 48 fabrics is examined to analyze and map the relations.
abstract: this paper introduces an  efficient application intended for mapping under complex criteria applied to  k-lut based fpga implemented circuits.
in the first phase, we use the hierarchical clustering method to restructure the target software application.
in this new method for recognition, first supervised classification is conducted to the natural images based on their label value, then independent components linear transforms are conducted to each category of samples, high-dimensional data are transformed to irrelevant independent components, and finally the probability distance between independent component subspaces is used for unsupervised classification.
possible guidelines for further development  of this, and comparable methods are proposed.
keywords: power-aware, optimal area, k-lut based fpga, logic activity simulator, functional power title of the paper: innovation: web 2.0, online-communities and mobile social networking download full pdf authors: cheng-jung lee, chang-chun tsai, shung-ming tang, liang-kai wang
proposed approach is illustrated by exemplary  simulation.
such framework can evaluate and prioritise track geometry maintenance effort across network rail.
providing security in mobile ip registration is highly important.
keywords: land cover classification, texture analysis, grey level co-occurrence matrices method, texture feature title of the paper: a knowledge management practice investigation in romanian software development organizations download full pdf authors: iuliana scorta
therefore, the main goal of this paper is to  reduce the gap between the estimated duration of the m-application development  project and the actual elapsed time.
the reason for choosing vhdl is its suitability for hardware implementation.
this dual simulation  environment has been tested for implementing agents in a diffserv network to  improve its performance.
this research aims to establish sizing systems of body types from the  anthropometric data of females by using a fuzzy clustering-based data mining  approach.
features such as direction, slant, baseline, pressure, speed and numbers of pen ups and downs are some of the dynamic information signature that can be extracted from an online method.
keywords: software quality, quality cost model, tqm, cost  optimization, roi calculation title of the paper: realization of e-university for distance  learning download full pdf authors:
zeljko panian abstract: to increase the value of  data as a business asset, companies and government organizations need to  establish standards, policies, and processes for the usage, development, and
it is designed by the use of uml and  developed using visual basic.
in this paper, we describe a new coding scheme, which we call rotary-code, for  raid-6 disk arrays.
keywords: e-voting, e-election, applications security, multi-tiers web-based application, secure workflow modeling, practical cryptographic applications title of the paper: a utility based, multi-attribute negotiation approach for semantic web services download full pdf authors: sandeep kumar, nikos e. mastorakis
region border detection  is effectively implemented based on the virtual source representation of the  image structure.
the dgbl-id model consists of five phases:  analysis, design, development, quality assurance as well as implementation and  evaluation.
keywords: moving least squares surface, sampling likelihood, normal  voting tensor, feature intensity, bilateral filtering, point-sampled surfaces  denoising title of the paper: an adaptive requirement framework for scudware  middleware in ubiquitous computing download full pdf authors: qing wu, danzhen wang
abstract:  in the present global economy, strongly influenced by it (information  technology) and information systems evolution, the modern organizations try to  face the challenges by adjusting their strategies and restructuring their  activities, for aligning them to the new economy requirements.
therefore, we focused on how collaborative systems are capable to sustain knowledge management and their impact on optimizing the km life cycle.
another drawback is that many nlp  systems cover only a small domain of the english language questions.
title of the paper: a framework for teaching introductory software  development download full pdf authors: zaigham mahmood
based upon classical genetic algorithms, the sim-paramesium genetic algorithm employs additional operators, such as asexual reproduction, competition, and livability in the survival operation.
through the use of an extensive database that correlates sensory and  mechanical properties with tactile comfort assessments, desired comfort can be  predicted by measuring a limited number of properties.
in processing  the medical data, choosing the optimal subset of features is important, not  only to reduce the processing cost but also to improve the classification  performance of the model built from the selected data.
keywords: mobile ip, mobility agents, confidentiality, authentication, attack prevention and registration delay title of the paper: architecture for address auto-configuration in manet based on extended prime number address allocation (epna)
the achieved  informatics system will be able to be used for teachning euclidean geometry,  both in pre-university and in university education.
they are suitable for the technique works of software  development, but ignore the connotation of the management work in software  process.
the experimental results show that the watermark proposed in this paper is invisible ( the psnr is higher than 41) and is robust in the case of against some normal at tacks such as jpeg compression , additive noise and filtering , etc. keywords: blind digital watermarking, wavelet transform, rbf neural network, robustness title of the paper: research and practice of distributed test
there are several applications that arise in practice and that can be reduced to a specific network flow problem in a network in which also nodes have limited capacity.
adjusted r2 values were 0.360 to 0.657  for mechanical and 0.713 to 0.863 for sensory parameters, reflecting sound  goodness-of-fit measures, and providing reasonable ways for identifying the  mechanical and sensory properties that are most significant influences on  tactile fabric comfort.
abstract: this paper is divided into four parts: the first one introduces sadex, a fuzzy case based reasoning (cbr) system for fault diagnosis.
the over all aim of this research paper is to propose a predictive  maintenance frame work that would assist in predicting future changes in rail  track geometry measurements.
abstract: physical-field inspired methodology has become a new branch in image processing techniques.
also one of the hardware based and fast solution for classification is use of  tcam memory to implement classifiers, but tcams are expensive and are not  efficient for range fields.
abstract: track defects are  deviation of actual from theoretical values of the tracks geometrical  characteristics.
due to the tradeoff between the performance and area constraint in on-chip network designs, we propose the use of triplet-based topology in on-chip interconnection networks and demonstrate how a 9-node triplet-based topology can be mapped to on-chip network.
the ultimate far-reaching goal addresses the issue of robots for self-assembly purposes.
the library is based on mature cross-platform toolkit called  wxwidgets and thus can be successfully used on many target platforms such as ms  windows, linux or os x.
this wrong information will cause  problem in production line as the results are inconsistent.
the effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated by assessing a jpeg encoding system and a benchmark with 199 tasks.
a comprehensive update of the  enterprise data that resident in internal heterogeneity of supply chain  knowledge base existed partially dependency relationships with specified odms.
the third approach in this paper introduces a hybrid scheme to do a part of search on prefix fields in tcam and then to check other fields, the search process will be traversed to ram section in the second level.
however the increase of network traffic is huge, doing the analysis of traffic data complicated.
the great number of messages that flows in a  computer network and over the internet is requiring very fast encrypt/decrypt  processes for assuring real-time secured communications.
experimental results show that the performance of this algorithm is superior to the g729b and other entropy-based vad especially for variable-level background noise.
it also reports on the advantages of  taking a more broad-spectrum view, requiring a combination of many existing  solutions along with novel approaches and realistic analysis of the acceptance  of the current global ict services and education environments to overcome these  problems.
title of the paper: activate the dynamic delegation process in  x.509 certification via a new extension download full pdf authors: moutasem shafa'amry, nisreen alam aldeen abstract: the increasing number of clients and users of e-banking, e-government  and e-application through digital communications, made it a must to develop new  methods and solutions for authentications and secure access.
in road traffic, especially in urban traffic, numerous rear collisions have taken place, resulting in serious injuries for passengers.
adel smeda, adel alti, abbdellah boukerram abstract:
the article also gives reviews on the  ats and the ma(ats) algorithms.
this paper presents architecture for implementing a multi-agent system within the context of a learning environment.
simulation study shows that jea k-128 gives a strong avalanche effect, when there is a change in one bit of the plaintext or one bit of the key; almost all bits in the ciphertext were changed.
keywords: sampling, data mining, distributed computing title of the paper: new discussion on information communication  model and process model in software organization download full pdf authors: xuejun liu
abstract: this paper,  on the basis of the traditional design of database for ground control point,  tries to founded a fast auto-correction method of satellite remote sensing  imagery based on feature ground control point database which brings local  feature points as the effective supplement and aims to achieve the automatic  matching between feature ground control points and original images that need  geometric correction and improve the rectified process utilizing random sample  consensus (ransac algorithm).
the ontology is designed and created using methontology approach, since this methodology offers the possibility of improving the progressive creation or captures and knowledge articulation, its elements and relations.
keywords: gait analysis, gait symmetry, kernel principal component analysis, support vector machine, gait classification, kinetic gait data
moreover, depending on samples, the performance of neural networks change.
the precondition of the presented algorithms is also given.
pso shares many similarities with evolutionary computation techniques such as gas.
this paper presents  hybridization between a ga algorithm and a pso algorithm (crossing the two  algorithms).
additionally two scoring functions have been introduced to estimate quality of the plan.
main page of the journal main page of the wseas wseas transactions on computers volume 8, 2009 print issn:
finally, some computational experiments solving the pecp are included.
they are suitable for the technique works of software development, but ignore the connotation of the management work in software process.
on the basis of real time updating process framework, several models are built.
analytical results show that epna is capable of  auto-configuring any node without much latency and overhead irrespective of  address space.
applying the system to a gold standard color image, the results show that hnn natural color segmentation accuracy can be significantly improved if we control its step size when modifying its weights between its neurons each iteration.
for example, clustering web pages is essential to getting structured information in response to user queries.
then, we propose a novel 3-d tag-cloud  module, so that it can visualize useful retrieval information even in the  limited mobile screen.
furthermore, this scheduling strategy enables to execute all the tasks in a shorter time.
keywords: eye tracking, semantics, text skimming, microformats title of the paper: improved performance model for web-based  software systems download full pdf authors: agnes bogardi-meszoly, tihamer levendovszky, hassan charaf abstract: the performance of web-based software systems is one of  the most important and complicated consideration.
the diamond-square algorithm is introduced.
however, the high storage space and the time-consuming computation restrict its application.
each of the  four modules produces an explanation that categorizes an event as alarm or  normal, and the system proposes the final suggestion with explanation.
the work has been evaluated and the betterment has been reported.
for its advantages of stability and reliability, fast and high efficiency, portability and so on, which occupies the unique advantages among many of the main embedded databases.
keywords: network flows, minimum flow problem, unit capacity  networks, bipartite networks, maximum cut title of the paper: transaction-item association matrix-based  frequent pattern network mining algorithm in large-scale transaction database download full pdf authors: wei-qing sun, cheng-min wang, tie-yan zhang, yan zhang
keywords: grid, metascheduler, multiagents systems, auction, tender,  assignment problem title of the paper: a security incidents management for a cert  based on swarm intelligence download full pdf authors: jose aguilar, blanca abraham, gilberto moreno abstract: this paper proposes an incident management system based on the swarm  intelligence in order to keep updated the information about computational  security.
the paper also presents the algorithms for various  activities involved in the negotiation process.
abstract: it’s well known that  the computing time to train multilayer perceptrons is very long because of  weight space of the neural networks and small amount of adjustment of the  wiights for convergence.
abstract: nowadays, there is a growing number of e-government portals and solutions that provide integrated governmental data resources to the customers (citizens, enterprises or other public sectors).
the ultimate far-reaching goal  addresses the issue of robots for self-assembly purposes.
experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed approach on vehicle detection at night.
this strategy enables to adapt the length of a  task to the computing capacity of each resource at any given moment.
this classification tree also shows some features of signal  processing of biological optic nerve.
title of the paper: a nonce-based mutual authentication system with smart card download full pdf authors: chin-ling chen, wei-chech lin, zong-min guo, yung-fa huang, neng-chung wang
abstract: role engineering is a both necessary and critical topic in the development of role based access control system, which seems to be the most proficient access control approach nowadays.
abstract: history subject plays a vital role in instilling the spirits of patriotism among the students; to nourish and instill love and loyalty to ones country and to be a true citizen.
with this model it  is possible to minimize the cost of switching between design alternatives, when  the current choice cannot fulfill the quality constraints.
the selection  of the architecture of a neural network suitable to solve a given problem is  one of the most important aspects of neural network research.
boundary effects on field strength representation is discussed and numerically reduced through increasing the number of nodes for each element in the finite grid.
development and analysis are reported on a  database comprises of 20 signatures from 20 subjects.
until recently, symmetric key encryption schemes were used for a majority of these applications.
this paper suggests a progressive approach in determining a proper sample size to generate good decision trees with respect to generated tree size and accuracy.
these families each provide the flexibility of either fewer computation time steps or fewer communication time steps to achieve the minimal running time depending on the ratio of the time required by a communication step to the time required by a computation step.
their moral obligation to society who is paying for these researches is to provide free access to the research results for everyone, everywhere.
having the same web document,  different readers would attach various semantics and relevance to the ideas,  concepts or structural blocks of the document.
this application is based on an algorithm that was developed taking into consideration a significant design factor - power consumption.
based in experimental  results we show that message authentication process is suitable in terms of  power consumption.
the  initial results indicate that the tissue volume change in the brain occurs  predominantly in the hippocampus of the brain.
the need to encrypt messages for protecting their content knew an increase from the apparition of internet and electronic transactions.
keywords: process models, software development, waterfall model title of the paper: research and application of sqlite embedded  database technology download full pdf authors:
keywords: inertial sensors, head-joystick, throughput, performance  evaluation, human-computer interface title of the paper: a mobile location-based information  recommendation system based on gps and web2.0 services download full pdf authors: fan yang, zhi-mei wang
when working with gas it is important to know those those kinds of situations when they will not find the optimal solution.
the first problem is based on iterative tasks that usually appear in optimization problems.
the system  is initialized with a population of random solutions and searches for optima by  updating generations.
the color matching  process shows a lot of consistency when tested with natural color images as  shown in the results presented here.
abstract: localization or positioning is an important aspect of mobile applications in order to achieve contextaware applications.
pickover stalks method created biomorphs, diverse and complicated forms greatly resembling invertebrate organisms.
for the declaration of the domain ontological model developed, the information provided by two organisms (opsu & cnu) is used.
keywords: fractal, fbm, diamond-square, 3d terrain, opengl title of the paper: face recognition based on multi-scale singular  value features download full pdf authors: ran jin, zhuojun dong abstract:
in this study, the  cystein position difference, the cystein index difference, the predicted  secondary structure of protein and the pssm score are used as features.
to  date, several surveys and studies have brought some insights into this field.
analyzes the workflow of mobile payment and the reasons that  cause the security in the process of mobile payment.
the goal is to identify them and  then to refactor them to aspects, to achieve a system that can be easily  understood, maintained and modified.
keywords: software test, distributed test platform, test driver ,  test server, metadata service issue 2, volume 8, february 2009
the main findings of the study were a clear causality between quality of the taught semantic networks in game world and players' knowledge in real life and an evidence that learning away is an important feature when trying to enable conceptual change in educational games.
abstract: localization or positioning is an important aspect of  mobile applications in order to achieve contextaware applications.
cryptography plays an important role in providing data security.
keywords: qos, wireless network, rsvp, smrp, hybrid schemes, resource  reservation title of the paper: a method for land consolidation progress  assessment based on gps and pda download full pdf authors: guangming zhu, yingyi chen, daoliang li
it suggests a system that is capable of detecting and recovering software error for distributed multimedia with an integrated whiteboard model which supports object drawing, application sharing, and web synchronization methods of sharing information through a common view between concurrently collaborating users for home network environment.
abstract: a vector rule-based approach and analysis  to on-line slant signature recognition algorithm is presented.
hence, the main objective of this work is to keep the average accuracy of distributed mode without loosing accuracy rate compared to models.
based on the scheme a class of parallel alternating group explicit method is derived, and stability analysis is given.
keywords: software architecture, cosa, architecture description  languages, uml 2.0 modeling language, component, connector issue 10, volume 8, october 2009
but selecting proper samples for a given decision tree algorithm is not  easy, because each decision tree algorithm has its own property in generating  trees and selecting appropriate samples that represent given target data set
the cost of such approach is that algorithm can results in non-interpretable solutions for some initial states (what is followed by assumption p ?
keywords: personal identification; infrared finger vein; tri-value  template; fuzzy matching title of the paper: the relationship of sample size and accuracy in  radial basis function networks download full pdf authors: hyontai sug abstract: even though radial basis  function networks are known to have good prediction accuracy in several  domains, it is not known to decide a proper sample size like other data mining  algorithms, so the task of deciding proper sample sizes for the networks tends  to be arbitrary.
in this  article, we describe the inner structure of the library, its key algorithms and  principles and also demonstrate its usage on a set of simple examples.
we have  developed software that enables us to analyze new properties of the mandelbrot  set that can be seen when these new display methods are used.
the resulting algorithm is applied to the synthesis of  combinational logic circuits.
in this paper we present the design and implementation of a natural language interface to a database system.
knowledge is dynamic and evolves with technology, organizational culture and the changing needs of organizations software development practices.
the devs formalism introduced by zeigler provides a means of specifying a mathematical object called a system.
in the experimental set-up, there are four input sensors: a door sensor, an identity card reader, a fingerprint reader and a camera.
the experimental evaluation conducts us to the best semi-metric distance function to be used in the clustering process.
keywords: learning assessment, proctor, rfid, sensors, communication title of the paper: solving traveling salesman problem on cluster compute nodes download full pdf authors:
on the other hand, the optional tasks in imprecise computation correspond to performance criteria of the systems under ftc are satisfied, which can be degraded under adverse conditions of operation of the system.
keywords: owl, object-oriented model, ontology based applications,  ontology reasoning, semantic web, java title of the paper: the application of the finite element method in  the biomechanics of the human upper limb and of some prosthetic components download full pdf authors: antoanela naaji, daniela gherghel
illegal user can tamper with, delete the intercepted information or pretend legal user to access communication networks to communication.
all codes  for our algorithm were captured by using vhdl, with structured description  logic.
the experimental results show that the proposed method is feasible and practical by the recognition accuracy rate, 99.46 %, to 456 near-infrared finger vein images.
most of the previous studies have focused on the development of textural analysis technology which could decrease the effect of test image deflection.
thus, this work presents a hardware-software partitioning scheme that can obtain a partitioning result that satisfies multi-constraints from massive solution space.
chang-chun tsai, cheng-jung lee, shung-ming tang abstract: service-oriented architecture (soa) can be viewed as a philosophy  that drives the development of components by defining their interfaces clearly  and in a way that relates to real needs.
keywords: modeling, collision, simulation, experimentation, safety,  validation title of the paper: an efficient garment visual search based on  shape context download full pdf authors: chin-hsien tseng, shao-shin hung, jyh-jong tsay, derchian tsaih abstract: in recent years, the theoretical models of mass  consumer behavior have change to buy from websites rather than in stores.
also one of the hardware based and fast solution for classification is use of tcam memory to implement classifiers, but tcams are expensive and are not efficient for range fields.
abstract: in previous work [27], the authors proposed an e-university
abstract: software development  (sd) refers to design and development of software applications.
specifically, in this work we use auction and tender economical models.
this paper proposes approaches to  these problems and describes their implementation as modifications and  supportive applications for open ticket request system (otrs), as well as  experience from usage in the real world medium-sized security team.
the main goal for localization process is estimating the position of a mobile device in its environment based on a set of sensors with known positions.
in this paper, we propose a lightweight signaling protocol of sender-initiated and mobility-support reservation protocol (smrp) with crossover router (cor) as an extension to smrp.
keywords: apriori algorithm, crm, erp title of the paper: parallel difference method on diffusion equations download full pdf authors:
in the paper there will be compared results gained  depending on the used method: nonlinear iterative algorithm vs. filtering  algorithm with emd.
epna does not require broadcast and address assignment can be completed with in maximum of four hop communications.
for the  declaration of the domain ontological model developed, the information provided  by two organisms (opsu & cnu) is used.
keywords: cesnet association, host security audit, nessus, openvas,  pc, linux, e-mail interface title of the paper: a new method for clustering heterogeneous data:  clustering by compression download full pdf authors: dorin carstoiu, alexandra cernian, valentin sgarciu, adriana  olteanu
abstract: image  textural analysis technology has been widely used in the design of automated  defect detection systems.
the maximum weight perfect matching algorithm is then  used to find the disulfide connectivity pattern.
keywords: ubiquitous computing, adaptive middleware, component-based  technology title of the paper: blind watermark algorithm based on hvs and rbf  neural network in dwt domain download full pdf authors: yanhong zhang
this model is based on the two approaches.
keywords: rm-odp, uml4odp, computational language, meta-modeling,  computational interface, interaction signature, type checking, interaction  refinements title of the paper: towards a study opportunities recommender  system in ontological principles-based on semantic web environment download full pdf authors: ana maria borges, richard gil, marla corniel, leonardo  contreras, rafael h. borges
we also introduce the notion of incoming and outgoing primitives.
this paper proposes approaches to these problems and describes their implementation as modifications and supportive applications for open ticket request system (otrs), as well as experience from usage in the real world medium-sized security team.
using the multi-agent technology in e-learning  system, gives user interaction facility to both users and designers, and adds  ability to exchange information between different objects in a flexible way.
much rather we aim to define a method with which it is  possible to assist the software engineer in evaluating design alternatives and  adjusting design decisions in a systematic manner.
a task is  carried to a computing core by carrier agents and can be seamlessly transferred  between cores in the event of a predicted failure, thereby achieving self-*
there are taken into  consideration the fields that define m-learning processes as education,  technology and software development.
experiments with the two different data sets that may  represent business and scientific domain well showed the effectiveness of the  suggested method.
in this paper, five existing conceptual design  models are reviewed from this perspective, and a new model which supports the  alternation of cyclic mappings among functional decomposition,functional  solving and combination of solutions in turn is presented.
our  technique is based on the counterexamples search strategy mainly which  generating counterexamples of minimal length.
mechanical properties, measured objectively by kawabata evaluation system for fabrics (kes-fb), and handfeel properties, measured subjectively by sensory expert panel, are related to the tactile comfort of fabrics using statistical regression approaches.
keywords: service-oriented, patch, consistency, routing, distributed title of the paper: an effective sampling method for decision trees
in order to discard the seriously corrupted frequency subband, a method of adaptive frequency subband extraction (afse) is then applied to only use the frequency subband.
keywords: medium-long term spot trading, e-commerce platform, bulk agricultural product, china title of the paper: a study of mobile e-learning-portfolios download full pdf authors: hsieh-hua yang, jui-chen yu, lung-hsing kuo, li-min chen, hung-jen yang
however, the high storage space and the time-consuming computation  restrict its application.
keywords: artificial intelligence, computational intelligence, evolutionary computation, genetic algorithms, particle swarm optimization, digital circuits title of the paper: prediction of disulfide bonding pattern based on support vector machine with parameters tuned by multiple trajectory search download full pdf authors: hsuan-hung lin, lin-yu tseng
these constraints are mainly imposed by the procedural programming paradigm and the device centric approach that are adopted by the standard.
in this paper the  development of the rlas system is described and its use as a tool to develop  and execute individualized learning environments for students in k-12 is  considered.
abstract: the design and  numerical modeling using finite element analysis (fea) of electric field  strength in a programmable neural switch is carried out.
we used grey level co-occurrence matrix (glcm) method to assistant the land cover classification and then compared and evaluated all of the result of classifications.
the paper showcases a number of results regarding the static and dynamic analysis of some biomechanical components by using the finite element method (fem).
as a part of the project, a data warehouse was developed to provide reporting and analytical features.
finally, it is prototyped and validated by using a mobile music  program to analyze performance of this framework.
improving the opds (original patching data source) enabled network equipments, capable of updating patch parameter that existed in enterprise with specified opds partially dependency relationships.
as a result, all the possible clustering solutions that could be  applied to the target software application are generated.
this paper presents a novel approach for natural images recognition, based on the non-gaussian distribution property of natural images.
to accomplish this goal we  introduce an artificial actor: mediator.
the roles of intelligent agents within an  e-learning system, called e-university, are presented.
the rapid development in the field  of information technology has led to the increase in need of techniques capable  of providing security.
proposed approach is illustrated by exemplary simulation.
keywords: image transform, curl source reverse, magneto-static, image  structure, image restoration title of the paper: design and evaluation of fpga based hardware  accelerator for elliptic curve cryptography scalar multiplication download full pdf authors: kapil a. gwalani, omar elkeelany abstract:  embedded systems find applications in fields such as defense, communications,  industrial automation and many more.
this is  particularly important when assessment is more complex than a traditional  pencil and paper variety.
current  specification of mobile ipv6 does not provide proper support for security in  the mobile network and there are other problems associated with it.
as a result, misjudgment of the defect detection system may occur.
a  three-dimensional nonlinear finite element model of an actual bridge has been  developed based on the drawing design of the minpu ii bridge in shanghai.
the dss consist of four components: a geographic information system (gis), land use modules, a graphical user interface and land use planning tools.
the linear programming, fuzzy clustering, and other land-use structure  optimization algorithms are implemented on the arcengine software platform.
although a variety of web 2.0 oriented  ontologies and microformats have been widely adopted or even standardized  (dublin core, foaf, xfn etc.), in order to achieve semantic interoperability,  there are scenarios in which user-relative semantics are especially important,  such as in the development of customization engines (web session customization,  recommender systems, targeted advertising), when a certain user must only share  semantics with himself or with similar persons.
the results revealed that (a) there are no significantly  interactions between self-regulation and perceived initiative, (b) students of  the high-group of self-regulation outperformed the low-group on the peer  assessment, (c) students who showed stronger initiative outperformed the weaker  ones on the tutor assessment, (d) most of the learners showed positive attitude  toward peer-assessment.
this paper describes this  matching concept and its application in a case study of the development of a  product lifecycle reporting tool at a large organization.
the classification process is performed using the minimization of an energy function typically the sum of squared errors (sse).
the navigation behaviors were studied by designing  hypertext presentation formats and domain text that adheres to content design  principles inspired by discourse and text comprehension scholars.
the lack of creativity in history  teaching caused process effectively and interestingly especially among young  learners.
pointer  forwarding scheme makes an advance resource reservation only a forwarding  one-step path from the sender along the forwarding chains.
different value added  update service schema was also analyzed.
signature extraction features system (sefs) is used to extract the slant features in signature automatically for analysis purposes.
a communication model describing the negotiation  process has been presented.
keywords: privacy, security, networks, data protection, bayesian network, intrusion detection system (ids) title of the paper: information architecture for intelligent decision support in intensive medicine download full pdf authors: m. f. santos, f. portela, m. vilas-boas, j. machado, a. abelha, j. neves, a. silva, f. rua abstract: daily, a great amount of data that is gathered in intensive care units, which makes intensive medicine a very attractive field for applying knowledge discovery in databases.
in order to estimate the revenues, we need to know with certain accuracy the output of these power plants.
the library provides easy and efficient way for processing, storing and managing complex object-oriented data with relationships between object instances.
moreover, the energy concentration property of the proposed  transform is investigated for promising application in lossy image compression.
keywords: source code clustering, source code analysis,  re-engineering, reverse engineering, design recovery, program understanding,  software maintenance, clustering.
to overcome the above limitations, in this work, it is concentrated to use gaussian membership function for the cocomo parameters.
this paper describes the feature of medium-long term spot trading, and develops  e-commerce platform for bulk agricultural product based on medium-long term  spot trading model.
therefore, we looked into the pedagogy and game design aspects.
compressing the indexed  database is supposed to make the searching time faster and memory usage lower
keywords: placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp),  continuous hopfield networks (chn), quadratic knapsack problem (qkp),  combinatorial problems, satisfaction of the pecp constraints title of the paper: jea k-128: a novel encryption algorithm using  vhdl download full pdf authors: jamal n. bani salameh
in  mathematics, a sequence of sentences describes how to solve a problem; for  instance, sentences, “calculate the least common multiple of 10 and 15.
in addition to lower power consumption, we devised several effective  mapping techniques designed for reducing area and optimum depth.
it is debated the matter of the four colors, but also the way of solving by implementing of an algorithm in the map-man application.
keywords: curvature, digital curve, dominant points, polygonal approximation title of the paper: 'no representation without information flow' - measuring efficacy and efficiency of representation: an information theoretic approach download full pdf authors: junkang feng, yang wang
abstract: engineered fabrics are being used increasingly in commercial and domain-specific systems.
in this work we present a kdd based architecture for cdss for intensive care medicine.
body types could be accurately classified for garment production according the newly the sizing systems.
in this method, the author realize the auto-extraction of feature ground control points for ensuring speed and precise geometric correction of a high volume of satellite remote sensing images by means of analyzing feature ground control point database algorithm.
keywords: software component component composition behavioral  compatibility behavioral substitutability title of the paper: a hybrid approach for indexing and searching  protein structures download full pdf authors: tarek f. gharib
abstract: this paper examines economic resource allocation through a number of  auction types for a grid of ewaste computers.
our aim is to answer positively this central  question.
numerical experiments show that the two methods are of higher accuracy than the original alternating group method.
finally the mkm - maintenance knowledge manager system is introduced.
qinghua feng, bin zheng abstract: in this paper, we present a high order unconditionally stable implicit scheme for diffusion equations.
abstract: strips planning is a  problem of finding of a set of actions that transform given initial state to  desired goal situation.
in the  second phase, the disjunctive normal form is computed to reduct features based  on feature forest.
the numerous studies that  have been carried out lead to today’s internationally recognized demand on  the car driver’s head restraint adjustment for an optimal protection of  the neck spinal column (hws) with regard to rear end collisions.
title of the paper: adaptive life-cycle and viability based  paramecium-imitated evolutionary algorithm download full pdf authors: ming-shen jian, ta yuan chou, kun-sian sie, long-yeu chung
abstract: in this paper we have analyzed some critical implementation factors of an erp project implementation in universities and their interdependencies.
title of the paper: adaptive life-cycle and viability based paramecium-imitated evolutionary algorithm download full pdf authors: ming-shen jian, ta yuan chou, kun-sian sie, long-yeu chung
the authors of this paper have implemented scalar multiplication, the most time consuming operation in elliptic curve cryptography using binary non-adjacent form algorithm.
an  evaluation of the work has been presented and a prototype system providing  negotiation between semantic web services has been implemented.
keywords: semantic web, utility, semantic web service, negotiation title of the paper: a online retrieving method for product functional and structural information based fgt model download full pdf authors: feng qi
keywords: ict education, higher education, offshoring, skills shortage title of the paper: a closer look to the v-model approach for role  engineering download full pdf authors: radu constantinescu, andrei toma abstract: role  engineering is a both necessary and critical topic in the development of role  based access control system, which seems to be the most proficient access  control approach nowadays.
and so on, describe how to calculate the least common multiple of 10 and 15.
keywords: work flow, configurable, tracking system title of the paper: some considerations about collaborative systems supporting knowledge management in organizations download full pdf authors: mihaela i. muntean, diana tarnaveanu abstract: in the present global economy, strongly influenced by it (information technology) and information systems evolution, the modern organizations try to face the challenges by adjusting their strategies and restructuring their activities, for aligning them to the new economy requirements.
the determination of the tec will aid in reliable space-based navigation system.
jea k-128 is a symmetric block cipher suitable for hardware or software implementations.
abstract: the automatic programming system has been considered by means of which it becomes easier to carry out traditional programming stages.
next, we propose a measure of entropy defined on the  spectrum domain of selected frequency subband to form a robust voice feature  parameter.
cor scheme cannot provide smooth handover as it affects the smrp in mobile hosts.
the numerical results show the damage of bridge parts and provide a  global understanding of bridge under blast loads.
the system uses both local and global slant characteristics in extracting the feature.
keywords: dla , pdla, distance queries, nearest neighbor, fractal  cluster, quadtree, octree title of the paper: program recursive forms and programming  automatization for functional languages download full pdf authors: n. archvadze, m. pkhovelishvili, l. shetsiruli, m. nizharadze
title of the paper: model validation for gps total electron content (tec) using 10th polynomial function technique at an equatorial region download full pdf authors: norsuzila ya'acob, mardina abdullah, mahamod ismail, azami zaharim
the experimental results  show that almost all the algorithms exhibits quasi linear scalability, but the  slope of different algorithms is different.
the numerous studies that have been carried out lead to todays internationally recognized demand on the car drivers head restraint adjustment for an optimal protection of the neck spinal column (hws) with regard to rear end collisions.
applying the system to a gold  standard color image, the results show that hnn natural color segmentation  accuracy can be significantly improved if we control its step size when  modifying its weights between its neurons each iteration.
such  fabrics with specified consumer-desired characteristics can be computationally  designed.
additionally, developers must consider what we call the quality profile of the final product.
this dual simulation environment has been tested for implementing agents in a diffserv network to improve its performance.
in that sense, the possibility of this personalized attention and/or recommendations from the system will be obviously conditioned by the user context.
this role of assistance, differentiate the mediator from other  actors.
because the presence of defects may change the  textural features of an image, a reference image without defects can be  compared with the test image to detect whether there are any defects.
technologies from virtual reality (vr), the web, and database are used to implement mid.
this solution realizes the high security and low cost of mobile  payment, has good applied value and marketable foreground.
the combination of the two modal  learning methods, in the form of snap-drift adaptive function neural network  (sadfunn) is then applied to optical and pen-based recognition of handwritten  digits with results that demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.
therefore, the objective of this study is to propose a model  of e-service application called e-supervised (e-suv) to provide the information  related to twinning programmes between universiti utara malaysia (uum) and  private colleges by enabling users to interact via portal by using the  uml-based web engineering (uwe) approach.
such bayesian network can represent an independent agent in a distributed system.
stating this, we mean collaborative systems of different type: conversational tools, multi-agent systems, and all these, among various enterprise applications, integrated in portal-based it platforms.
such research will result in effective and  efficient rail track maintenance management resulting in low operating cost  better train transit times for rail industry [2].
abstract: a web-based peer-assessment system for enhancing students' creativity  and animation skills is presented.
this paper presents a new approach to web replication, where each of the replicas resides in a different part of the network, and the browser is automatically and transparently directed to the best server.
they are used to alert doctors about drug interactions, to suggest possible diagnostics and in several other clinical situations.
but we cannot use larger and larger samples, because its not easy to understand large decision trees and data overfitting problem can happen.
title of the paper: semantic processing based on eye-tracking  metrics download full pdf authors: robert andrei buchmann, alin mihaila, radu meza abstract: this paper proposes a framework for capturing semantics from eye  tracking data during the process of text skimming/scanning by readers of  electronic documents and html user interfaces.
a utility-based, multi-attribute negotiation approach capable of providing negotiation between participating semantic web services has been presented in this paper.
the rule  discovery algorithm, developed, was designed to use data available from many  locations (sites), any possible ‘connected’ schema at each location  where tables concerned are connected by foreign keys.
at least two benefits  are to be drawn.
also we propose a  tool to improve compliance with iso quality standards and that could enhance  quality control in derivation process.
this application is based on an  algorithm that was developed taking into consideration a significant design  factor - power consumption.
this scheme is  composed of two parts, constructing license and validating license.
keywords: digital certification systems, x.509 standard, proxy  certificates, authentication (pca), dynamic delegation, identity verification,  network security, e-security title of the paper: using palette and minimum spanning tree for  true-color image steganography download full pdf authors: show-wei chien, yung-fu chen, pei-wei yen, hsuan-hung lin
keywords: a session and error management, a whiteboard agent, home  network environment, software error, devs modeling, discrete event mode
we propose a search and selection method based on swarm intelligence, where the agents search previous answers to incidents of security on internet.
the obtained model provided good approximation to the derived complex analytical solution, which is carried out by means of complex mathematical analysis employing schwarz-christoffel transform.
these features guided us to add "cut point heuristic" to hicuts, one of the most efficient algorithms and resulted in two new optimized designs for hicuts, named b-hicuts and hist.
further detail checking and analyzing on defects are needed in order to determine the workflow.
abstract: searching for  structural similarities of proteins has a central role in bioinformatics.
also, while applying the  proposed method to solve the graph coloring problem, the proposed algorithm  also has a 10% improvement in solution qualities.
keywords: e-services, uml, uwe, pace, uum, e-suv title of the paper: a consistency maintenance project independent relationship of distributed data copy for supply chain management download full pdf authors: jui-wen hung
this was inspired by the ever increasing  volume of multimedia traffic over the internet which demanding quality of  service beyond the traditional best-effort.
combining social networks to the mobile environment is a growing interest as it  allows users to be in their online social community despite their mobility.
the system bus, such as amba ahb, provides an integrated  platform for ip-based soc.
toward developing medium-long term spot trading  e-transaction platform for bulk agricultural product in china download full pdf authors: zheng xiaoping, wang ruimei, tian dong, zhang xiaoshuan
this paper  presents web 2.0 mashups remixing data and web services.
all the attributes are reserved but combined into few numbers of new attributes  instead of that some attributes are removed.
we propose a search and  selection method based on swarm intelligence, where the agents search previous  answers to incidents of security on internet.
keywords: asymmetrical surface optimization problems, adaptive tabu  search, management agent title of the paper: redundancy and its applications in wireless  sensor networks:
in particular, asymmetrical surface optimization problems have been  considered.
this grid is a test grid of eight nodes of heterogenous computer hardware and with differing computational ability and energy usage.
both of the  two methods are effective in convection dominant cases.
keywords: collective communication, computation-efficient parallel  prefix, half-duplex communication, message-passing multicomputer, parallel  algorithm, precondition, prefix computation
abstract: cesnet-certs, the  computer security incident response team of the cesnet association in prague,  czech republic, uses several security tools based on freely licensed programs.
thus, this paper puts forward a new association rules mining technique, which sets up the lower support threshold value to ensure the weak-support rules to be mined and applies csupport measure to recognise weak-support mode.
thus, the simulation on the computer of the  phenomena that take place during road events can be studied more  comprehensively, and may allow optimize passive safety systems in order to  diminish adverse effects of these phenomena.
these  families each provide the flexibility of either fewer computation time steps or  fewer communication time steps to achieve the minimal running time depending on  the ratio of the time required by a communication step to the time required by  a computation step.
the implementation has to deliver a system that provides performance properties mandatory of an on-line election system of authentication, democracy, anonymity, non-coercion, accuracy, reliability, veracity, verifiability, neutrality, and likability.
the effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated by  assessing a jpeg encoding system and a benchmark with 199 tasks.
we run multithreaded commercial benchmarks on multi-core simulator  gems to generate practical traffics and simulate these traffics on network  simulator garnet.
the main  goal for localization process is estimating the position of a mobile device in  its environment based on a set of sensors with known positions.
abstract: learning assessment or traditional testing is typically performed with the participation of a proctor, who must be physically present in the classroom at all times.
however, there is still a conflict on how to merge id and  game development effectively.
some results are presented in order to show a proof-of-concept for the project.
keywords: gps, pda, land consolidation, progress title of the paper: a spatial decision support system for land-use structure optimization download full pdf authors: xiaoli li, yingyi chen, daoliang li
keywords: utility, semantic web, semantic web services, negotiation, computation title of the paper: information analysis of rail track for predictive maintenance download full pdf authors: r. b. faiz, s. singh
abstract: an expert system or knowledge-based system comprises of a knowledge  base and an inference engine in which their expertise knowledge is represented.
by combining one or more of these reasons a problem can become a ga-hard problem.
finally, the integration of conceptual design and detail design  has been well realized.
abstract: the systems are required to understand and present at higher  levels of abstractions to perform the changes and meet the current  requirements.
unlike the distributed computation,  grid computing uses heterogeneous resources, for what grid computing entails  new challenges as the adaptation of parallel algorithms before developed for  homogeneous resources cluster to the dynamic and heterogeneous resources.
using trapezoidal membership function for the size and cost drivers, a few attributes are assigned the maximum degree of compatibility when they should be assigned lower degrees.
then, we propose a novel 3-d tag-cloud module, so that it can visualize useful retrieval information even in the limited mobile screen.
agents are considered as advanced tools for resolving complex issues in  networking based on intelligent and dynamic features.
the results of the software implementation have been presented in  section- 4.
this paper investigated the application of an advanced hybrid machine learning approach such as the combining kernel-based principal component analysis (kpca) with support vector machine (svm) to evaluate the change of gait symmetry quantitatively based on the basic idea that the discrimination of the functional change of between human lower extremities can be hypothesized as binary classification task.
doorae is a  framework of supporting development on multimedia application for distributed  multimedia running on home network environment.
even if the maturity of the rbac model has been  already achieved, the role engineering process is not a standardized approach.
in the proposed transform, the image is taken as the potential field and the virtual source of the image is reversed imitating the gausss law.
abstract: the  grand majority of software development projects are known to be late and over  the budget.
this feature makes our system distinguishable.
in order to have a  reasonable performance, the ‘hypotheses search’ algorithm was  implemented to allow construction of new hypotheses by refining previously  constructed hypotheses, thereby avoiding the work of re-computing.
abstract: low encoding/decoding complexity is essential for practical raid-6 storage systems.
along with open access journals, the institutions needed  to create institutional repositories for storing the universities’  scientific production.
protein  structure comparison problem is extremely important in many tasks.
this paper  focuses on variable and time based linear regression analysis of track geometry  parameters which can lead to significant predictive maintenance of track  geometry.
moreover, a partitioning result with low power consumption and  fast execution time is difficult to obtain since meeting simultaneously  multi-constraints from hundreds of thousands of combinations of  hardware-software partitions is difficult.
circuits download full pdf authors: ion bucur, nicolae cupcea, adrian surpateanu, costin  stefanescu, florin radulescu
rsvp uses the receiver-initiated reservation mechanism to set up the  reservation which executes protocol complexity and incurs additional processing  and storage overheads on the routers.
keywords: fault injection, reliability, systemc, system bus dependability, system-on-chip (soc) issue 3, volume 8, march 2009 title of the paper: implementing lightweight reservation protocol for mobile network using hybrid schema download full pdf authors: abdullah gani, lina yang, nor badrul anuar, omar zakaria, ros surya taher abstract: this paper presents our method to improve lightweight reservation protocol.
a financial roi calculation of cost savings and the schedule roi calculation of schedule savings are given.
wireless adapters the modern mobile devices are equipped with can monitor radio power strength of the emitting sources nearby.
as the mobile terminal's own unique portability, small size and low cost nature,it cause that the mobile terminal weak ability of computing encryption.
we will define the types of knowledge defined for our proposed mediation system.
keywords: work flow, configurable, tracking system title of the paper: some considerations about collaborative systems  supporting knowledge management in organizations download full pdf authors: mihaela i. muntean, diana tarnaveanu
data governance can be defined as the processes, policies, standards, organization, and technologies required to manage and ensure the availability, accessibility, quality, consistency, auditability, and security of data in an organization.
the experimental results show that the method is obviously superior to the corresponding algorithms with a recognition rate of 97.
an evolutionary algorithm called the multiple  trajectory search (mts) is integrated with the svm training to tune the  parameters for the svm and the window sizes for the predicted secondary  structure and the pssm.
the model is based on a novel understanding that a service requester should remain indifferent to the changes in price or other such values if the corresponding quality has also been changed accordingly.
in  this paper we want to describe and conclude our work regarding the possibility  to design a simple and energy efficient positioning solution to be implemented  on mobile devices with limited resources.
the model is an agent-based simulation where by user agents submit  tasks to node agents that process these tasks.
keywords: source code clustering, source code analysis, re-engineering, reverse engineering, design recovery, program understanding, software maintenance, clustering.
can we integrate diversified works dealing with robotic self-assembly while concentrating on grammars as an alternative control methodology?
jea k-128 has a 64-bit word size, 4-rounds, and 128-bit is the length of the secret key.
this research aims to establish sizing systems of body types from the anthropometric data of females by using a fuzzy clustering-based data mining approach.
the  experimental evaluation conducts us to the best semi-metric distance function  to be used in the clustering process.
a comprehensive update of the enterprise data that resident in internal heterogeneity of supply chain knowledge base existed partially dependency relationships with specified odms.
but it affects the accuracy with accepted rate of error.
the  found relations establish that the obligatory tasks in the model of imprecise  computation correspond with the mission of maintaining the stability of the  systems under ftc according to the redundancy degree that assure the structural  properties of the systems.
a model of a  simulated grid is developed and used to evaluate the resource allocation  mechanisms.
abstract: in order to convert high level language (hll) into hardware, a control dataflow graph (cdfg) is a fundamental element to be used.
agostino poggi abstract: ontologies have been  gaining interest and their use has been spreading in different applications  fields.
singular value  vecto r of an image is a valid feature for identification.
in this paper we propose a mathematical formulation in order to determine the optimal number of hidden layers and good values of weights.
the efficiency of  proxy certificate which proposed as a practical solution in the field of  dynamic delegation could not find solutions for its weaknesses which were the  main motivation to work on this research trying to come up with new solution  which integrates the pros of x.509 and the pros of proxy certificate to benefit  from the specifications of each one and to avoid the weaknesses of them.
the findings show that when the proposed approach is utilised, the overall performance of the ad-hoc network is significantly improved.
the  effects of mesh size on pressure distribution produced by explosions are also  studied.
the agents perform specific tasks on the behalf of students, professors, administrators, and other members of the university.
)  system has a powerful and flexible architecture that the interaction between  hardware circuits and software applications.
the main findings of the  study were a clear causality between quality of the taught semantic networks in  game world and players' knowledge in real life and an evidence that learning  away is an important feature when trying to enable conceptual change in  educational games.
models, representing parts of the human  upper limb, have been studied using static trials.
the mean-value analysis algorithm has been improved to model the  behavior of the thread pool.
it is an expert system which has an rdf external knowledge base for improved flexibility and mobility in knowledge sharing.
considering the fact that we  wish to emphasize the way in which such analyses can be done with a finite  element method, we shall present only a few relevant examples for which we have  experimental data, namely: analysis of the compression, bending and stretching  of the humerus and bending of the radius and the ulna.
keywords: software restructuring, hierarchical clustering, distributed systems, object oriented software, performance analysis, low coupling title of the paper: an evaluation framework for higher education erp systems download full pdf authors:
keywords: data mining, association rules, weak-support mode, ufp-tree, fp-forest title of the paper: automatic discovery of data resources in the e-government grid download
keywords: c compiler, dynamic dataflow architecture, dynamic  reconfigurable hardware, tagged-token, matching-data title of the paper: rotary-code: efficient mds array codes for  raid-6 disk arrays download full pdf authors: yulin wang, guangjun li
in order to improve the reusability for product information model, a online retrieving method of product functional and structural information has been discussed, based on the feature graph-tree model.
particularly, swarm intelligence is an extension of the multiagents theory, where reactive agents follow very simple rules.
previously unknown knowledge can be extracted from that data in order to create  prediction and decision models.
the clustering by compression procedure is based on a  parameterfree, universal, similarity distance, the normalized compression  distance or ncd, computed from the lengths of compressed data files (singly and  in pair-wise concatenation).
keywords: neural networks, radial basis function networks, sampling title of the paper: computer simulation and experimental research  of the vehicle impact download full pdf authors: daniel trusca, adrian soica, bogdan benea, stelian tarulescu
keywords: multiscale, singular value decomposition (svd) , feature combination, face recognition, fisher, orl, subimage title of the paper: robust denoising of point-sampled surfaces download full pdf authors: jifang li, renfang wang
abstract: in association rules mining application, some rules can provide a lot of useful knowledge for us, though these rules have the lower support, called weak-support mode in this paper.
keywords: grid computing, resource allocation, auctions, e-waste,  energy consumption
one drawback of previous systems is that the grammar  must be tailor-made for each given database.
abstract: field survey is a traditional method in the process of land  consolidation.
and it also used c++ programming language to write a programme to compute the number of the feature of texture.
mid contains various features, including multiuser collaboration and concurrent display of multiple views of a scene.
the work has been evaluated and the betterment has been  reported.
second, on the technological level, blending research from  both fields results in the appearance of a richer community, as has been proven  by the emergence of many multidisciplinary fields.
compared with the primary fp-tree model, the fp-network proposed is undirected, which enlarge the scale of transaction storage; furthermore, the fp-network is stored through the definition of transaction-item association matrix, it is convenient to make association rule mining on the basic of defining node capability.
on the basis of real time  updating process framework, several models are built.
as well as low level know-how, important part of security team practices are also higher level statistical analyses for pinpointing potential threats and trends.
besides it will not inform staff regarding defects in rail track which can subsequently helps in predictive maintenance.
keywords: tacit knowledge, explicit knowledge, knowledge management, romanian software engineering title of the paper: quality control and iso quality compliance in the product lifecycle management at siemens download full pdf authors:
abstract: data security is  an important issue in computer networks and cryptographic algorithms are  essential parts in network security.
can we integrate diversified  works dealing with robotic self-assembly while concentrating on grammars as an  alternative control methodology?
abstract: the numerical simulation of the structural damage of a steel truss bridge subjected to blast loading with the aid of a hydrocode is presented in this paper.
this paper presents web 2.0 mashups remixing data and web services.
improving the opds (original patching data source)  enabled network equipments, capable of updating patch parameter that existed in  enterprise with specified opds partially dependency relationships.
the pre-processed batch auction is developed to try to have the advantages of  both the continuous double auction and the batch auction.
the basic concept of gas is designed to simulate processes in natural system necessary for evolution, specifically those that follow the principles first laid down by charles darwin of survival of the fittest.
keywords: hopfield neural network, sensitivity analysis,  segmentation, natural color image matching, rgb color space title of the paper: an advanced hybrid machine learning approach  for assessment of the change of gait symmetry download full pdf authors:
keywords: network flow; network algorithms; minimum cost flow problem network algorithms; maximum flow; minimum flow; minimum cost flow; minimum cut title of the paper: achieving intelligent agents and its feasibility in swarm-array computing?
our system is generic in nature given the appropriate database and knowledge base.
in distributed object oriented  systems, software engineers face many challenges to solve the software-hardware  mismatch problem in which the software structure does not match the  customer’s underlying hardware.
in this paper, the system presented in [27]  is modified and developed.
a particular workflow in any phase of on-line  election process can be modeled and implemented securely by employing basic  security applications readily provided by well established cryptographic  technologies.
abstract: the new paradigm of distributed computation, grid computing, has given rise to a large amount of research on resource scheduling.
the method is based on the parabola interpolation and the geometric properties of bezier curve.
experimental results demonstrate that the algorithm is robust, and can denoise  the noise efficiently while preserving the surface features.
all considerations have a strong research background,  our portal-based proposal for sustaining knowledge management in organizations  being subject of some romanian research projects that are fitting in the  european research demarches.
the person who receives the stegoimage can  extract the secret message from the palette obtained by the received image.
in the last section some examples of polygonal approximation are shown.
in this paper, we propose a method  for constructing stegoimages with high quality which greatly eliminate the  above problem.
jea k-128 is a symmetric block cipher suitable for hardware  or software implementations.
consequently, the related models  will not be consistent anymore if one of them is altered in the development  process.
in particular, asymmetrical surface optimization problems have been considered.
title of the paper: improving organizational efficiency and  effectiveness in a romanian higher education institution download full pdf authors: scorta iuliana, bara adela, constantinescu radu, zota razvan,  nastase floarea abstract:
keywords: artificial neural networks (ann), non-linear optimization, genetic algorithms, supervised training, feed forward neural network title of the paper: performance analysis of mobile ip registration protocols download full pdf authors: rathi s, thanushkodi k abstract:
the system was tested using two different pointer  control schemes, as well as three selection techniques.
keywords: dynamical software, euclidean geometry, java, distance education title of the paper: uml4odp: ocl 2.0 constraints specification & uml modeling of interfaces in the computational metamodel download full pdf authors: oussama reda, bouabid el ouahidi, daniel bourget
the metadata service’s element and its runtime  principle are described in details.
the experimental  results, which are based on the structural classification of proteins (scop)  dataset, show that the proposed approach outperforms existing similar  techniques in memory utilization and searching speed.
we adopt this sampling method for  process the tasks scheduling in distributed data mining environment.
abstract: medium-long term spot trading has developed rapidly in china.
abstract: machine learning is a computational methodology that provides  automatic means of improving programmed tasks from experience.
through the analysis of the effect of different parameters, there is proposed a  method of controllable fractal terrain based on parameters.
keywords: ict education, higher education, offshoring, skills shortage title of the paper: a closer look to the v-model approach for role engineering download full pdf authors: radu constantinescu, andrei toma
but they did not take  into account some essential parts.
keywords: information technology (it), data management, data  integration, corporate governance, it governance, data governance, compliance title of the paper:
the  software have a graphical user interface, so the user has the possibility to  input of data and other characteristics of the electric line, passing to the  calculation stage when the data are correctly and completely entered.
digital game based learning (dgbl) approach utilizes the game as a  medium for conveying learning contents.
scalar or point multiplication in elliptic curve cryptography has been a topic of research interest.
keywords: message, image, key, encrypting, decrypting, visual key title of the paper: analysis of m-learning applications quality download full pdf authors: catalin boja, lorena batagan abstract: the  exponential growth of mobile technology in recent years, increasing  availability of network infrastructures, advances in wireless technologies and  popularity of handheld devices, have opened up new accessibility opportunities  for education.
abstract: nowadays, it is frequent that engineering companies use internet as the main working environment for the complementary services offered to their customers.
this paper shows the best  integration of erp with customer relationship management (crm).
through the comparison between the calculation results and the  experimental values, the reliability of the calculation is validated.
thus, the teaching is dependent on the chosen language, which is not entirely  appropriate for teaching principles of programming or sd as an engineering  activity.
both are responsible to design the  policies and strategies for the superior education in venezuela.
abstract: the design and numerical modeling using finite element analysis (fea) of electric field strength in a programmable neural switch is carried out.
the key  issue for scheduling tasks is that we can not obtain the execution time of  irregular computations in advance.
here we are interested in identifying artificial  languages from sets of positive and eventually negative samples of sentences.
it is found that the seriously obscured  frequency subbands have little word signal information left, and are harmful  for detecting voice activity segment (vas).
keywords: serious games, dgbl, instructional design (id), history educational game, video games title of the paper: adaptive multi-constraints in hardware-software partitioning for embedded multiprocessor fpga systems download full pdf authors: trong-yen lee, yang-hsin fan, chia-chun tsai
abstract: this paper proposes a sim-paramesium genetic algorithm to  enhance the searching and optimizing speed of classical genetic algorithms.
also, while applying the proposed method to solve the graph coloring problem, the proposed algorithm also has a 10% improvement in solution qualities.
the process continues until all the sums of the distances of contour  points in the arcs subtended to the chord between two next dominant points is  less then a predefined threshold.
the first family improves the communication time of a previous family of parallel prefix algorithms; both use only half-duplex communications.
how to  meet the customer’s requirement in product search is an import problem.
since the  generated procedures, pg’s, describe how to execute sentences of  conditional branches, varying number of repetitions, and varying depth of  recursive calls, this paper argues our program, pi, acquires a grammar of a  language that is equivalent to that used in a conventional programming language.
the conviction that we put forward here is no representation without information flow, based upon which the efficacy and efficiency of a representation system may be measurable.
there are several reasons to explore modal learning.
abstract: this paper describes a solution for nodes and message authentication problems in wireless sensor networks, this solution allows effectively avoiding node-impersonation and messaging falsification among the wsn nodes.
the radio frequency identification (rfid) based learning assessment system (rlas) is aimed at removing the need for a human proctor and reducing the complexity involved in the assessment.
keywords: process models, software development, waterfall model title of the paper: research and application of sqlite embedded database technology download full pdf authors:
a universe  of 48 fabrics is examined to analyze and map the relations.
the system is initialized with a population of random solutions and searches for optima by updating generations.
abstract: this paper presents a  method for encrypting messages, which uses for this operation an image or a  part of an image as an encryption/decryption key.
through the comparison between the calculation results and the experimental values, the reliability of the calculation is validated.
we present the exploratory study  of transilvania university of brasov regarding the impact and the visibility of  the scientific researches.
in our work, an evaluation and prediction technique applying dominant factors in point of response time and throughput performance metrics has been established and investigated.
rdfa and html microformats are  some of the easier ways proposed by the semantic web paradigm for embedding  semantics in web pages.
rigorous tests to see how this model behaves under real-life practice would be a way forward to identifying its effectiveness.
keywords: custering, heterogeneous data, clustering by compression, normalized compression distance (ncd), fscore title of the paper: effectiveness and accuracy of wireless positioning systems download full pdf authors: sebastian fuicu, marius marcu, bogdan stratulat, anania girban
in this  paper, the fb models of 1131 and 61499 are briefly described and several  unclear issues related to the programming paradigms adopted, interoperability,  composability and execution semantics of these fb models are clarified.
keywords: land cover classification, texture analysis, grey level  co-occurrence matrices method, texture feature title of the paper: a knowledge management practice investigation  in romanian software development organizations download full pdf authors:
this concept can be helpful in expediting the negotiation process by decreasing  the number of negotiation steps in which the agreement is reached.
traditionally the rigid shape-based algorithms unable to apply well on  garment images.
also we propose a tool to improve compliance with iso quality standards and that could enhance quality control in derivation process.
swarm-array computing is a robotics a swarm robotics inspired novel computing approach considered as a path to achieve autonomy in parallel computing systems.
the design of the game was done in order to support relatively free use of teachable agents in an easy-to-use environment.
furthermore, the models should be continuously assessed and optimized, if necessary, to maintain a certain accuracy.
describing the architecture of complex software systems need a comprehensive models and complete tools.
to implement the ids we develop the design methodology of large bayesian networks.
it is feasible to perform data clustering analysis in  various data mining applications using the proposed midbscan algorithm.
the results show an  enhancement in the memory usage with factor 50%.
today, practically  all of the popular web sites arc served from single locations.
our method extends these previously developed methods that introduce  the concept of preserving information about calculation steps when calculating  the mandelbrot set.
in this paper we propose a model  which traces design decisions and the possible alternatives.
this package software allows the estimation and calculation of parameters of power transmission lines of electric power.
abstract: engineered fabrics  are being used increasingly in commercial and domain-specific systems.
the sequential algorithm is then converted into a parallel algorithm by integrating it with the message passing interface (mpi) libraries so that it can be executed on a cluster computer.
abstract: a lot of process models for  software development such as waterfall model and so on are almost based on  description of the relationship between the scale and complex of software  project and technology tasks and methods in every phase of development as the  main content.
keywords: genetic algorithm, unitation, fitness landscape, negative  slope coefficient, hardness, difficulty, deception title of the paper: encrypting messages with visual key download full pdf authors: dusmanescu dorel
unlike the distributed computation, grid computing uses heterogeneous resources, for what grid computing entails new challenges as the adaptation of parallel algorithms before developed for homogeneous resources cluster to the dynamic and heterogeneous resources.
the main results obtained (1) a searching path of a fhn is including  approximate to (n+1) nodes, where n=2logn. therefore, there are o() faults,  which can be tolerated.
abstract: the influence of computer technology on the human activities has greatly increased during the last three decades, due to major developments in the vlsi technology.
abstract: in this paper we  explore complex relationships between mechanical and sensory properties of  fabrics, and the perceived tactile comfort.
the results show that the hybrid scheme can support  seamless and also efficient smrp path rerouting during handoff in respect of  decreased the drop probability.
abstract: p2p network is  a dynamic self-organization network, in which peer can freely join or leave, so  there will lost a lot of important data when some important nodes fail, and  there exists load imbalance of node in the p2p network.
online slant signature algorithm analysis download full pdf authors: azlinah mohamed, rohayu yusof, sofianita mutalib, shuzlina  abdul rahman
keywords: gait analysis, gait symmetry, kernel principal component  analysis, support vector machine, gait classification, kinetic gait data
a survey download full pdf authors: daniel-ioan curiac, constantin volosencu, dan pescaru, lucian  jurca, alexa doboli abstract: in this paper we presented and  classified various approaches for redundancy in the area of wireless sensor  networks, related to sensing, communication and information processing.
what we present in this study can be generalized for other enterprise-grade social networks, either for their own business purposes or as a contract job for another company.
at least two benefits are to be drawn.
to assess the  change of gait symmetry accurately, more nonlinear principal components  extracted by using kpca were employed to initiate the training set of svm,  which could enhance the generalization performance of svm.
keywords: voice activity detection, bark-scale wavelet decomposition,  adaptive frequency subband extraction title of the paper: research on protocol-level behavioral  substitutability of software components in component-based software system download full pdf authors: haiyang hu, hua hu abstract: the component-based  software development (cbsd) has been paid more attention by software practicers  in recent years.
in other words, to recognize problems that are difficult for  a ga to solve.
the useful properties revealed and the algorithm proposed in this paper can find their way when the system designers evaluate a candidate networks competence and suitability, balancing regularity and other performance criteria, in choosing an interconnection network.
the conclusions of this study are going to be used in developing an evaluation framework of erp solutions for higher education management.
then we present another  parallel alternating group explicit iterative method, and finish the  convergence analysis.
elongation and hysteresis of shear force were found to  be the most influential mechanical properties, while compression resilience  rate and graininess were found to be the sensory properties that most impacted  comfort.
platform download full pdf authors: feng qinqun, yun wenfang, peng sheqiang
synthetic classifiers are made by classbench and used to simulate and  evaluate performance of proposed designs.
cooperating with some restuarants, we also develop a dynamic restaurant mobile location-based recommendation and discount counpons pushing system.
empirical mode decomposition can be treated as filtering  procedure for image enhancement.
taking into consideration that for industry implementations there are already many performed studies we started by considering university implementations as a particular case for the industry ones.
keywords: intelligent artificial leg, compound control, dynamic model, cerebellar model articulation controller title of the paper: numerical simulation of bridge damage under blast loads download full pdf authors: rong-bing deng, xian-long jin
keywords: case-based reasoning, fuzzy systems, relevance, taxonomies,  knowledge management issue 9, volume 8, september 2009
the result of the geometric operations such as mesh simplification and mesh smoothing is dependent on how to compute the normal vectors and the curvatures of vertices, because there are no exact definitions of the normal vector and the discrete curvature in meshes.
we explore some issues regarding collaborative systems and propose a portal-based it solution that sustains the km life cycle through a distributed architecture.
the basic assumption of the algorithm is  that objects to be analyzed are stored in a set of tables that are distributed  over many locations.
to use a cooperative system sufficient assistance is needed to  facilitate and coordinate actors’ activities.
this article presents a mobile payment implement solution with distributed key based on the current mobile multi-interface.
it is found that the seriously obscured frequency subbands have little word signal information left, and are harmful for detecting voice activity segment (vas).
the choice of the hidden layers number and the values of weights has a large impact on the convergence of the training algorithm.
the system is compared to  human expert evaluation.
results are cannot divide and cannot divide.
keywords: curvature, digital curve, dominant points, polygonal  approximation title of the paper: 'no representation without information flow' -  measuring efficacy and efficiency of representation: an information theoretic  approach download full pdf authors: junkang feng, yang wang
this research results in a web-based environment consisting of major modules such as profiles, forums, and email service for users to utilize.
hazem m. el-bakry, nikos mastorakis
keywords: distributed relational rule induction, rule selection strategies, inductive learning, ila, ila2, rila, drila
as a result, the analysis of structural mri data has been an active area of image analysis research for many years especially in early diagnosis, tracking of disease progression, which makes it possible to investigate how, for instance, a patient responds to treatment.
the human visual system (hvs) model is used to determine the watermark insertion strength.
keywords: conic curve, e-business system, public-key cryptosystem,  digital signature, proxy signature title of the paper: the study of terrain simulation based on fractal download full pdf authors: deng fang
keywords: custering, heterogeneous data, clustering by compression,  normalized compression distance (ncd), fscore title of the paper: effectiveness and accuracy of wireless  positioning systems download full pdf authors: sebastian fuicu, marius marcu, bogdan stratulat, anania girban
keywords: aspect mining, crosscutting concerns, clustering title of the paper: ff-based feature selection for improved classification of medical data download full pdf authors: yan wang, lizhuang ma abstract:
it is the key to it and business flexibility and receives a lot of attention from academia and industry as a means to develop flexible and dynamic software solutions.
the capability of two-disk fault-tolerance and the property of maximum distance separable (mds) are proved in rotary-code.
the proposed algorithm can be used for performance  prediction.
to fully understand the potential impact of the mobile electronic  learning portfolio system on education, institutions need to take into account  the current environment within higher education.
participants were 88 sophomores of 2d animation courses  taught by the same instructor.
this paper presents a novel approach for natural images recognition, based on  the non-gaussian distribution property of natural images.
it may be generated to  supplement experimental studies for developing appropriate blast-resistant  design guidelines for bridges in the future.
the  paper focuses on the execution semantics of the 61499 standard since this is  one of the most important reasons that the industry has not yet accepted this  standard.
in this paper we want to describe and conclude our work regarding the possibility to design a simple and energy efficient positioning solution to be implemented on mobile devices with limited resources.
in devs, a system has a time base, inputs, states, outputs, and functions.
in the second phase, we decide on the best-fit clustering solution according to the customer hardware organization.
keywords: source-reverse transform, electro-static field, region border detection, lossy image compression title of the paper: identifying crosscutting concerns using partitional clustering download full pdf authors: gabriela czibula, grigoreta sofia cojocar, istvan gergely czibula abstract: aspect mining is a research direction that tries to identify crosscutting concerns in already developed software systems, without using aspect oriented programming.
the algorithm consists of two phases: feature forest  construction phase and disjunctive normal form computation phase.
however, unlike ga, pso has no evolution operators such  as crossover and mutation.
test subjects were given two questionnaires (one per control scheme) in order to provide comfort assessment of the device and short post-measurement interviews with test subjects provided user feedback.
in order to implement multi-destination and multi-path anycast routing on the heavy load network, this paper proposes a new anycast routing algorithm based on genetic algorithm and presents a heuristic genetic algorithmic to solve shortest path routing optimization problem.
a resolution model provides adaptive adjustability update routing policies in hierarchical enterprise database.
the study was done in two phases: design phase and evaluation phase  (n=300).
keywords: erp, hei, dss, competencies, roles, knowledge title of the paper: new families of computation-efficient parallel prefix algorithms download full pdf authors: yen-chun lin, li-ling hung
the framework was applied to four of the  top higher education management solutions.
keywords: modal learning, snap-drift, adfunn, sadfunn, e-learning, personalized learning, diagnostic feedback, multiple choice questions title of the paper: an improved bp neural network for wastewater bacteria recognition based on microscopic image analysis download full pdf authors: li xiaojuan, chen cunshe
data  clustering approaches have been designed in recent years.
abstract: representation  is a key concept for semiotics and for information systems.
however, their use in the realization of applications might be further  increased by the availability of more usable and efficient software library for  the management of ontologies.
wlan infrastructure is a widely accepted and implemented communication standard in many indoor environment, therefore many buildings are already equipped with ieee 802.11 wlan infrastructure access points.
the results demonstrate a competitive performance with  85% accuracy.
many of them have grown of small, but focused groups of people, by streamlining and expanding of what they have been already doing as part of their it administrative work.
abstract: user authentication is an important  security mechanism for recognizing legal remote users.
keywords: data grid, e-government; metadata; global naming; data discovery issue 4, volume 8, april 2009
the resulting displacement values from the non-rigid registration are further investigated for deformation in the entire brain to detect typical deformation patterns.
output systems can be optimized to exhibit the highest  level of comfort by engineering a fabric with specific sensory and mechanical  properties.
this paper presents a transnational hierarchical  global patch consistent model called thgpcm (transnational hierarchical global  patch consistent model).
the structure of the trees is the only feature used for the determination of approximate distances at any stage.
the matter becomes worse when the size of training data set is large, which is common in data mining tasks.
an ionospheric error correction model should be made applicable to any location including the equatorial region.
the design principles of jea k-128 are given together with  results and analyses to define the encryption algorithm precisely.
to increase performance, it  was used a flexible mapping tool based on exhaustive generation of all  k-bounded sub-circuits rooted in each node of the circuit.
both of the two methods are effective in convection dominant cases.
pace is currently running resourcefully but it is facing a few problems such as the difficulties of each faculty officer to get information about private colleges, and a lack of information management in private colleges itself.
to accomplish this goal we introduce an artificial actor: mediator.
keywords: gps, pda, land consolidation, progress title of the paper: a spatial decision support system for land-use  structure optimization download full pdf authors: xiaoli li, yingyi chen, daoliang li
the experimental results, which are based on the structural classification of proteins (scop) dataset, show that the proposed approach outperforms existing similar techniques in memory utilization and searching speed.
the capability of  two-disk fault-tolerance and the property of maximum distance separable (mds)  are proved in rotary-code.
this research presents a design and implementation of a frame-based rdf expert system which has a rdf/xml database as its external knowledge base.
furthermore, this inaccurate result will lead to difficulty in tracking the nozzles.
keywords: computer network, forensic analysis, recurrent neural  network, forensic, attacks title of the paper: a dual simulation environment for simulating  mas in telecommunication networks download full pdf authors: nada meskaoui, dominique gaiti, karim y. kabalan abstract: this paper presents a dual simulation environment for simulating  different type of telecommunication networks integrating intelligent agents.
the paper highlights the some aspects of the lcs and  studying the competitive data mining model with homogeneous data.
abstract: with global transnational enterprise layout trend, data consistency convergence study is a key of improving competitions and bullwhip effect problem in supply chain.
a two-way anova was conducted to analyze the  independent variables by self-regulation (high vs. low) and perceived  initiative (stronger vs. weaker) on project performance as the dependent  variables.
the determination of the tec will aid in reliable  space-based navigation system.
rigorous tests to see how  this model behaves under real-life practice would be a way forward to  identifying its effectiveness.
title of the paper: a multiagent grid metascheduler download full pdf authors: jose aguilar, rodolfo sumoza abstract: this work proposes a metascheduler for grid platforms based on the interaction protocols of the multiagent systems.
however, methods are often not general or detailed enough for evaluation and comparison.
finally  we will cover the pros and cons of our new solution, some conclusions and  future work.
however, in existing support-confidence framework, the rules with lower  support will be lost.
next, we propose a measure of entropy defined on the spectrum domain of selected frequency subband to form a robust voice feature parameter.
title of the paper: research on cyclic mapping model and solving  approach for conceptual design download full pdf authors:
this standard was successfully adopted by the industry but it seems to have  several constraints for the development of today’s complex embedded  control and automation systems.
to date, several surveys and studies have brought some insights into this field.
the goal is to identify them and then to refactor them to aspects, to achieve a system that can be easily understood, maintained and modified.
the navigation behaviors were studied by designing hypertext presentation formats and domain text that adheres to content design principles inspired by discourse and text comprehension scholars.
our interest  is based on the fundamental problems in the randomized approximate testing  algorithms.
keywords: mobile applications, software development, project duration, schedule risk management, monte carlo simulation issue 5, volume 8, may 2009
this proposed automatic multilevel thresholding approach  provide the robustness and adaptability for the system to operate on various  illuminated conditions at night.
the nlidb system is actually a branch of more  comprehensive method called natural language processing (nlp).
in this article, we show how we can build a hybrid model to describe the architecture of software systems.
but we cannot use larger and larger samples, because we  have limited training examples, and there is some fluctuation in accuracy  depending on the sample sizes.
keywords: software engineering, software development, programming,  computer languages, teaching title of the paper: the web 2.0 movement: mashups driven and web  services download full pdf authors:
keywords: gps, tec, ionosphere, baseline, differential gps,  transionospheric title of the paper: filtering vs. nonlinear estimation procedures  for image enhancement download full pdf authors: barbara dzaja, mirjana bonkovic, spomenka bovan abstract: image enhancement methods can be divided into two groups: the ones  that use only one single image and the ones that rely on specific training set  or use multiple images.
total electron content (tec) is one of the parameters of the ionosphere that produces the most effects in many radio applications such as radio communications, navigation and space weather.
circuits download full pdf authors: ion bucur, nicolae cupcea, adrian surpateanu, costin stefanescu, florin radulescu
in addition to lower power consumption, we devised several effective mapping techniques designed for reducing area and optimum depth.
experimental results show that the performance of this algorithm is superior to  the g729b and other entropy-based vad especially for variable-level background  noise.
in this article, we propose an information communication model of software process and a software process model including concrete business and describe the basic tasks of team software process and relationship between the layers of software process.
abstract: in this work will be presented the elaboration of an educational  informatics system for doing geometry on a computer.
improving the performance of scalar multiplication can improve the  overall performance of elliptic curve cryptography.
seven contour invariant moment features and four morphological  features are extracted by analysis of microscopic images of wastewater bacteria  in which six features are chosen by pca in order to reduce the dimensionality  of the features extracted from the images.
however, besides defects, the deflection of the input test image could also change its textural features.
in this paper, we present a new methodology for efficiently restructuring distributed object oriented software systems to improve the overall system performance and to solve the software-hardware mismatch problem.
protecting the integrity of learning assessments, in  any form, often involves complicated procedures and adjustments to the  assessment process and environment.
in the case of the information generated by sensors,  given that we have no complete access to the information, and given the  inherent limitations on memory space, we will apply streaming algorithms for  approximate efficiently the solution of computational problems that take place  on robot navigation problems.
to the best of our  knowledge, without the prior knowledge of the bonding state of cysteines, the  best accuracy rate reported in the literature for the prediction of the overall  disulfide connectivity pattern (qp) and that of disulfide bridge prediction  (qc) are 48% and 51% respectively for the dataset spx.
the output of the results is shown on the screen.
the process continues until all the sums of the distances of contour points in the arcs subtended to the chord between two next dominant points is less then a predefined threshold.
the parameters considered for comparison are: data confidentiality, authentication, attack prevention, registration delay and computational complexity.
keywords: machine learning, robot control, grammatical inference, graph grammar, formal languages for control, self-assembly, intelligent control, emergent control technologies title of the paper: web service-driven framework for maintaining global version consistency in distributed enterprise portal download full pdf authors: hui-ling lin, shao-shin hung, derchian tsaih, chiehyao chang
in general, a modeled system is composed of several models that are often related to one another.
furthermore, the models should be continuously assessed and optimized, if  necessary, to maintain a certain accuracy.
keywords: protein structures, indexing, suffix array, wavelet title of the paper: symbolic algorithmic verification of  generalized noninterference download full pdf authors: conghua zhou
based on the proposal feature mapping arithmetic, the assembly model is  been built easily.
fuzzy logic has been applied to the cocomo using  the symmetrical triangles and trapezoidal membership functions to represent the  cost drivers and size.
mri is currently the  fastest developing medical imaging modality which is applied to an increasingly  number of different medical diagnostic situations.
keywords: cscw, intelligent agent system, knowledge and data technology, mediation system title of the paper: a wavelet-based voice activity detection algorithm in variable-level noise environment download full pdf authors: kun-ching wang
improving the performance of scalar multiplication can improve the overall performance of elliptic curve cryptography.
gait  function of lower limbs accurately, and that more principal components  extracted by kpca with polynomial kernel (=3) could capture more useful  information about intrinsic nonlinear dynamics of human gait in comparison to  the some key gait variables selected.
such framework can evaluate and prioritise track  geometry maintenance effort across network rail.
keywords: privacy, security, networks, data protection, bayesian  network, intrusion detection system (ids) title of the paper: information architecture for intelligent  decision support in intensive medicine download full pdf authors: m. f. santos, f. portela, m. vilas-boas, j. machado, a.  abelha, j. neves, a. silva, f. rua
it will cause alarms before the defects will actually happen.
the system integrates audio, video and common textual learning tools depending on the students location and learning style needs.
abstract: if we analyze real life filter sets (classifiers) and also packet classification requirements, it seems that distribution of rule scope is non-uniform and in some sub spaces is denser inside the total space of classifiers.
the process of evaluating an erp system for use in higher education requires that a university compare the existing erp software available to their current processes and see which erp solution will best fit the existing procedures.
it has been found that the proposed method is performing better than ordinal cocomo and the achieved results were closer to the actual effort.
the color matching process shows a lot of consistency when tested with natural color images as shown in the results presented here.
these then are further modeled mathematically as random variables and random events, and a special relationship between random events.
however, such an ideal situation may not always be achievable in practice.
the free publish and perish software can be used as an analysis instrument of the impact of the researches by analysing the citations through the h index.
in this paper we also present in detail important features of our software.
this paper presents the variables involve in designing the algorithm for extracting the slant feature.
the proposed system comprises of two stages for detecting the vehicles in front of the camera-assisted car.
the initial 17 mechanical and 17 sensory parameter sets are reduced to sets of 1 to 4 and 1 to 5 properties, respectively.
heis is a comprehensive information system that provides support for education related processes taking place within a higher education institution.
methodology to improve the performance of the scalar multiplication  by use of hardware accelerators has also been presented in this paper.
abstract: p2p network is a dynamic self-organization network, in which peer can freely join or leave, so there will lost a lot of important data when some important nodes fail, and there exists load imbalance of node in the p2p network.
illegal user can tamper  with, delete the intercepted information or pretend legal user to access  communication networks to communication.
an adaptive and enhanced edge  detection solution for the images of wastewater bacteria is proposed, which can  effectively remove noises in the images and get clear edges of microscopic  image by optimizing segmentation threshold and the varied order of edge  detection.
users can view and elaborate designs, examine furniture, and even place  purchase orders of furniture.
full pdf authors: conghua zhou
we consider a task impulse response stream  on energy usage and time to complete all tasks and a input stream step  response.
pavel kacha abstract: csirts (computer security  response teams) are the natural response to the widespread internet threats.
keywords: robot navigation, motion tracking, exploration, sketching and streaming algorithms, testability title of the paper: three different designs for packet classification download full pdf authors: hatam abdoli
this software library has  been experimented in the realization of some e-business applications showing  both high effortlessness in the development of the applications and high  performances in their execution.
* objectives of autonomic computing.
pavel kacha abstract: csirts (computer security response teams) are the natural response to the widespread internet threats.
moreover, this study proposes a new data clustering algorithm called midbscan and an existing well-known neural network called self-organizing map (som) to perform data clustering applications for discovering potential musical instruments teachers.
faces are then verified by linear discriminant analysis (lda)  under these multiscale singular value vectors.
keywords: intelligent learning systems, agent technology, e-learning system, science park, security, learning management, business continuity management, and multimedia.
many  subimages are obtained when the face image is divided in different scales, with  all singular values of each subimage organized and used as an eigenvector of  the face image.
even though m-applications development is a new software development  field, still this type of projects is not secured against the common flaws of  software development projects.
unlike many other relational learning algorithms, the drila algorithm does not need its own copy of distributed relational data to process it.
title of the paper: towards a utility based computational model for  negotiation between semantic web services download full pdf authors: sandeep kumar, nikos e. mastorakis
numerical experiments show that the two methods are of  higher accuracy than the original alternating group method.
to incremental type of transaction matrix, it can also make the maintainment of association rule more convenient in the use of partitioning calculation technique of matrix.
to reduce this problem it is  necessary to carried out a network analysis using the computer network traffic.
the impact of benchmarks on system bus vulnerability is also  addressed.
it is certain, that the enterprises performance will depend on the capacity to sustain collaborative work.
with this combination is possible to take  advantage of the best features of each particular algorithm.
this role of assistance, differentiate the mediator from other actors.
the key novelty in rotary-code is that the  rotary-code has optimal encoding complexity and optimal decoding complexity  comparing with existing raid-6 codes.
all the  process from the detonation of the explosive charge to deck crack, including  the propagation of the blast wave and its interaction with the structure is  reproduced.
we  also worked with the pdla model obtaining fractal clusters with up to 1010 and  109 particles for two and three dimension clusters respectively.
the system further assesses the effectiveness of the chosen tools in the students learning process.
in order to accomplish experimental studies for data  acquisition and video and image samples analysis, the preparation of testing  device are needed.
validation mathematical models using experimental tests, offers a vast range of their use.
abstract: new families of computation-efficient parallel prefix algorithms for message-passing multicomputers are presented.
the processing procedure of searching for neighbors (neighborhood data points)  is very time consuming in the existing well-known dbscan and idscan algorithms.
in order to accomplish experimental studies for data acquisition and video and image samples analysis, the preparation of testing device are needed.
in this paper we are focusing on the most significant sensory and mechanical properties influencing tactile fabric comfort.
a small number of natural templates (idioms) are defined which make the design of bayesian network easier.
on the other hand, the optional tasks in imprecise  computation correspond to performance criteria of the systems under ftc are  satisfied, which can be degraded under adverse conditions of operation of the  system.
an e-mail interface developed  in-house allows users to perform basic host security audits simply and securely  without having to study the extensive nessus manuals and/or installing the  nessus server.
these multiscale singular value vectors include all features of an image from local to the whole, so more discriminant information for pattern recognition is obtained.
full pdf authors: jen-chih lin
the process of evaluating an erp  system for use in higher education requires that a university compare the  existing erp software available to their current processes and see which erp  solution will best fit the existing procedures.
the simulated grid is  calibrated to a real e-waste grid where each node has a performance index.
keywords: auto-configuration architecture, duplicate address detection, manet, ip address, epna
web 2.0 world is wide and rich.
keywords: association rule, association matrix, data mining,  fp-growth algorithm, fp-network algorithm, frequent itemset title of the paper: a program that acquires how to solve problems  in mathematics download full pdf authors: machiko fujiwara, kenzo iwama abstract:
the findings show that when  the proposed approach is utilised, the overall performance of the ad-hoc  network is significantly improved.
a process that matches the  quality profile of final product during product derivation helps provide and  validate industrial software application solutions.
however, semantics do  not usually have an absolute character.
this paper presents an approach that  uses trace models and model transformations to facilitate incremental model  synchronization.
title of the paper: opportunities in ict education download full pdf authors: seyed shahrestani
keywords: data encryption, block cipher, cryptography, key generator,  vhdl implementation title of the paper: the modelling and designing of e-supervised  (e-suv) for distance learning centre download full pdf authors: salehuddin shuib, suhardi hamid, h. s. hanizan, roshidi din,  kamaruzaman jusoff abstract: e-services is a suite of web-based  products brings profound changes in business models and value chains especially  for professional and continuing education centre (pace) environment due to its  responsibility to manage all courses provided by every faculty to private  colleges.
keywords: artificial neural networks (ann), non-linear optimization,  genetic algorithms, supervised training, feed forward neural network title of the paper: performance analysis of mobile ip registration  protocols download full pdf authors: rathi s, thanushkodi k abstract:
when working with gas it is  important to know those those kinds of situations when they will not find the  optimal solution.
keywords: computer aided design, conceptual design model, knowledge  representation scheme, design catalogue, feature model, interface matrix title of the paper: rfid based learning assessment system download full pdf authors: v. drona, s. drona, c. rusell, m. h. n. tabrizi
to achieve an enhancement on the searching time we accept approximate distance values with low precision at the first levels of the hierarchical structure, and accurate ones at the last level.
as a subfield of machine learning, grammatical inference (gi) attempts to learn structural models, such as grammars, from diverse data patterns, such as speech, artificial and natural languages, sequences provided by bioinformatics databases, amongst others.
after the angles of the reference and test images were brought into line, the textural analysis based on the gray level co-occurrence matrix was applied to analyze and compare the textural features of the two images.
the  training stage is very important in the ann’s performance.
through a quasi-experiment instruction, this  paper was to examine the learning effects of the system with mechanisms of  diverse assessment.
mobile ipv6 will be an integral part of the next generation internet protocol.
the integrated services model  relies on the resource reservation protocol (rsvp) for signaling and reserving  resources.
as the number of cores increases, on-chip network will play an  important role in the performance of future cmps.
keywords: embedded control and automation systems, iec 61131, iec 61499, 1131 function block model, iec61499 execution environment, execution model semantics, factory automation title of the paper: an environment for describing software systems download full pdf authors:
in response to the significant changes  in the competitive climate of public sector higher education institutions  (heis), the romanian universities face the need to improve operational  efficiency by implementing advanced information systems.
in this article, we propose an information  communication model of software process and a software process model including  concrete business and describe the basic tasks of team software process and  relationship between the layers of software process.
the contribution of this work is to promote the dependability verification to tlm abstraction level that can significantly enhance the simulation performance, and provide the comprehensive results to validate the system bus dependability in early design phase for safety-critical applications.
centered on the possibility of  giving that “customized attention” from which they must select an  option between many, it is tried in the future to construct a meta-ontology  that integrates the domain ontology with a user profile ontology, thus aiming  towards to a semantic recommendation system under multiagent approach in the  future, that could be useful to support students decision making process for  career selection over different study opportunities in higher education level  in venezuela.
however  this widespread use of computer equipments has generated computer a  considerable increase of computer crimes.
this is important in terms of the scalability and usability of the distributed relational data mining solution that has been developed.
we find that legacy and proven best practices project management techniques can be successfully employed for schedule risk management.
the most specifications of proposed methods are balancing of decision trees and reducing the consumed memory for b-hicuts and hist and also solving range to prefix conversion and multi match classification problems in the last proposed design.
describing the architecture of complex software systems need a  comprehensive models and complete tools.
title of the paper: a fast geometric rectification of remote  sensing imagery based on feature ground control point database download full pdf authors: jian yang, zhongming zhao
these then  are further modeled mathematically as random variables and random events, and a  special relationship between random events.
the ontology  is designed and created using methontology approach, since this methodology  offers the possibility of improving the progressive creation or captures and  knowledge articulation, its elements and relations.
in a nutshell, uwe approach is a viable option to  facilitate e-services in education environment and thus could serve as a  guideline model of future e-distance learning centre.
this one is endowed with specific skills of cooperation (communication;  awareness, coordination, co-memorization), requiring some acquired knowledge,  which allow them to give assistance to the human actors.
then the extracted bright objects are  processed by the second stage – the proposed knowledge-based  connected-component analysis procedure, to identify the vehicles by locating  their vehicle lights, and estimate the distance between the camera-assisted car  and the detected vehicles.
because the high-growing of e-commerce, a new demand emerges: the  special-purpose search engine for searching goods from network shop.
this paper concludes  with discussion of new developments, challenges and opportunities.
the experimentation shows that the algorithm not only mines useful and weaksupport rules, but also has better capability than classical association rules mining algorithms.
this approach enables us to reveal a necessary condition for the efficacy and the efficiency of representation, and to measure it.
keywords: aspect mining, crosscutting concerns, clustering title of the paper: ff-based feature selection for improved  classification of medical data download full pdf authors: yan wang, lizhuang ma abstract:
practices project management techniques can be successfully employed for  schedule risk management.
keywords: mobile information pushing, gps, web2.0, location based  service (lbs), tagging, collaborative filtering, personalized recommendation title of the paper: schedule risk management for business  m-applications development projects download full pdf authors: paul pocatilu, marius vetrici
this study intended to figure out the impacts  that mobile technology has exerted on the educational system through the  portfolio.
validation mathematical models using experimental tests,  offers a vast range of their use.
especially, we design a multi-dimensional collaborative filtering algorithms, in order to achieve dynamic personalized recommendation and mobile information sharing.
the resolution of the qkp via the chn is based on some energy or lyapunov function, which diminishes as the system develops until a local minimum value is obtained.
abstract: new  families of computation-efficient parallel prefix algorithms for  message-passing multicomputers are presented.
to implement the ids we develop the design  methodology of large bayesian networks.
we propose an adaptive  metascheduler for grid platforms using these ideas.
first we define a metamodel for software  architecture, next based on this metamodel we implement an environment for  describing the architecture of software systems.
abstract: in this paper, we propose a  new solution for dynamic task scheduling in distributed environment.
the proposed  system comprises of two stages for detecting the vehicles in front of the  camera-assisted car.
the model is based on a novel  understanding that a service requester should remain indifferent to the changes  in price or other such values if the corresponding quality has also been  changed accordingly.
in this paper, a novel image transform is proposed imitating the source reverse of magneto-static field.
then we  propose a middleware requirement model including users’ and  resources’ variable requirements.
abstract: the goal of this article is the application of efficient approximate testing methods for the robot tracking problem as well as for the building map problem .
mathematical modeling of passenger movement during head impact may be a successful tool in establishing the neck injury mechanism, especially when working in parallel with experimental studies.
keywords: data encryption, block cipher, cryptography, key generator, vhdl implementation title of the paper: the modelling and designing of e-supervised (e-suv) for distance learning centre download full pdf authors: salehuddin shuib, suhardi hamid, h. s. hanizan, roshidi din, kamaruzaman jusoff abstract: e-services is a suite of web-based products brings profound changes in business models and value chains especially for professional and continuing education centre (pace) environment due to its responsibility to manage all courses provided by every faculty to private colleges.
experimental results demonstrate that the algorithm is robust, and can denoise the noise efficiently while preserving the surface features.
using the multi-agent technology in e-learning system, gives user interaction facility to both users and designers, and adds ability to exchange information between different objects in a flexible way.
finally, an example of e-commerce is presented to illustrate the feasibility and pertinence of this approach.
keywords: model transformation, model synchronization, traceability,  trace mode
this reduction enables us to use efficient quantified propositional decision procedures to perform generalized noninterference checking.
at the same time, based on the j2me security architecture using the encryption methods of data encryption, digital signature, identity authentication to ensure the security of wireless communication.
our method extends these previously developed methods that introduce the concept of preserving information about calculation steps when calculating the mandelbrot set.
keywords: intelligent learning systems, agent technology, e-learning  system, science park, security, learning management, business continuity  management, and multimedia.
keywords: inertial sensors, head-joystick, throughput, performance evaluation, human-computer interface title of the paper: a mobile location-based information recommendation system based on gps and web2.0 services download full pdf authors: fan yang, zhi-mei wang
it is confirmed by experiment that the normal vector and the curvature generated by our algorithm are more accurate than that of the previous methods.
the paper introduces the principle of gps, interface of gps and pda, realize real time interaction between the field of project area and the electronic maps by using gpss location function, on the basis of which accomplishes real time judgment for project land features progress, quantities and some other accuracy of information.
full pdf authors: jen-chih lin abstract: the flexible hypercube  fhn is an important variant of the hypercube hn and possesses many desirable  properties for interconnection networks.
keywords: multiscale, singular value decomposition (svd) , feature  combination, face recognition, fisher, orl, subimage title of the paper: robust denoising of point-sampled surfaces download full pdf authors: jifang li, renfang wang
title of the paper: analysis of alzheimer's disease progression in structural magnetic resonance images download full pdf authors: b. s. mahanand, m. aswatha kumar abstract: structural magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the brain is an increasingly useful tool in the study of neurodegenerative diseases.
mid can be modified for other e-commerce purposes; many of the functions serve  as a reusable framework.
the choice of the  hidden layers number and the values of weights has a large impact on the  convergence of the training algorithm.
in general, the  main objective of nlp research is to create an easy and friendly environment to  interact with computers in the sense that computer usage does not require any  programming language skills to access the data; only natural language (i.e.  english) is required.
keywords: voice activity detection, bark-scale wavelet decomposition, adaptive frequency subband extraction title of the paper: research on protocol-level behavioral substitutability of software components in component-based software system download full pdf authors: haiyang hu, hua hu abstract: the component-based software development (cbsd) has been paid more attention by software practicers in recent years.
an ionospheric  error correction model should be made applicable to any location including the  equatorial region.
thus it is required to develop an effective and automatic  algorithm to carry out the traffic network analysis, facilitating i such way  the expert forensic work.
problem download full pdf authors: m. ettaouil, k. elmoutaouakil, y. ghanou abstract: the placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp) is considered  as one of the most difficult optimization problems.
thus it is required to develop an effective and automatic algorithm to carry out the traffic network analysis, facilitating i such way the expert forensic work.
this paper will describe the configurable and customizable work in progress tracking system as a mean to improve over the traditional paper based system.
abstract: with global transnational  enterprise layout trend, data consistency convergence study is a key of  improving competitions and bullwhip effect problem in supply chain.
in this research a domain ontological model is presented as support to the students decision making for opportunities of university studies level of the venezuelan education system.
keywords: machine learning, robot control, grammatical inference,  graph grammar, formal languages for control, self-assembly, intelligent  control, emergent control technologies title of the paper: web service-driven framework for maintaining  global version consistency in distributed enterprise portal download full pdf authors: hui-ling lin, shao-shin hung, derchian tsaih, chiehyao chang
this research presents a design and implementation of a frame-based  rdf expert system which has a rdf/xml database as its external knowledge base.
eye tracking is an emerging  field with multiple applications in medicine, marketing, cognitive sciences and  others, which allows the extraction of data regarding the eye activity of a  user during human-computer interaction.
the color distinction or vision system relies on two step process which, first classifies the different regions in the scene into a given number of clusters, and then assigns to each cluster a color that is likely to one of its corresponding region in the raw image.
title of the paper: a sampling-based method for dynamic scheduling  in distributed data mining environment download full pdf authors: jifang li
to test the efficiency of  these proposals, new simulation environments, integrating both agents and  network components, are required.
a dynamics model of hydraulic ial  with the nonlinear damper control parameters and hip torque was set up, and an  inverse dynamic compound controller based on pd-cmac for tracking the knee  swing was designed.
it has been found that the proposed method is performing better than  ordinal cocomo and the achieved results were closer to the actual effort.
pointer forwarding scheme makes an advance resource reservation only a forwarding one-step path from the sender along the forwarding chains.
keywords: study opportunities, ontology, semantic web, ontology  development, user profiles, user context, intelligent agents title of the paper: tactile fabric comfort prediction using  regression analysis download full pdf authors: les m. sztandera
furthermore, a notation system has been presented for representation of the  model.
this wrong information will cause problem in production line as the results are inconsistent.
this paper deals with the performance analysis of various protocols available for mobile ip registration.
the most specifications of proposed  methods are balancing of decision trees and reducing the consumed memory for  b-hicuts and hist and also solving range to prefix conversion and multi match  classification problems in the last proposed design.
a communication model describing the negotiation process has been presented.
the software have a graphical user interface, so the user has the possibility to input of data and other characteristics of the electric line, passing to the calculation stage when the data are correctly and completely entered.
as far as this paper is concerned, we set out the broad methodological lines of the research while stressing the integration of these different approaches into one single unifying entity.
keywords: tactile perception, fabric mechanical properties, regression analysis, textile property analysis title of the paper: identification of the most significant properties influencing tactile fabric comfort using regression analysis download full pdf authors: les m. sztandera
abstract: the  theory and applications of network flows is probabily the most important single  tool for applications of digraphs and perhaps even of graphs as a whole.
the  experimental results show that the proposed method is feasible and practical by  the recognition accuracy rate, 99.46 %, to 456 near-infrared finger vein images.
these results mean that the parallel algorithms developed by the structure of mesh network can be executed in a faulty fhn.
keywords: artificial intelligence, telecommunication, networks,  single-agent systems, multi-agent systems, diffserv network, platforms title of the paper: improving the accuracy of effort estimation  through fuzzy set combination of size and cost drivers download full pdf authors: ch. satyananda reddy, kvsvn raju abstract:
however, medium-long spot trading is still at the exploratory stage, there are many problems and challenges.
agnes bogardi-meszoly, tihamer levendovszky, hassan charaf abstract: the performance of web-based software systems is one of the most important and complicated consideration.
title of the paper: semantic processing based on eye-tracking metrics download full pdf authors: robert andrei buchmann, alin mihaila, radu meza abstract: this paper proposes a framework for capturing semantics from eye tracking data during the process of text skimming/scanning by readers of electronic documents and html user interfaces.
for electric grid modelling it was use tree type.
keywords: mobile information pushing, gps, web2.0, location based service (lbs), tagging, collaborative filtering, personalized recommendation title of the paper: schedule risk management for business m-applications development projects download full pdf authors: paul pocatilu, marius vetrici
on the other and, aiming at the demerits in  fp-growth algorithm, this paper proposes a fp-network model which compresses  the data needed in association rule mining in a fp-network.
the paper also sets forth the method for restraining,  sending and accessing data resources repeatedly by searching “comparison  table” and using the time marker under the multiple data grid nodes, and  points out that “comparison table” should adopt the strategy of  prefering frequently used data and clearing rarely used data.
because the clothing is essentially a non-rigid soft object: it  is apt to self-occlusion, folding, and has deformation among every part (such  as sleeve and tube).
in this  paper we present the design and implementation of a natural language interface  to a database system.
the ionosphere has practical importance in gps applications because it influences transionospheric radio wave propagation.
the results suggest that this  system can be a useful tool to support management decisions.
in this work an approximation of strips block world planning by linear programming is shown.
management of data, to create the right organizational structure, and to  develop the supporting technology infrastructure.
the evolution of information systems in these collaborative environments led to the sudden necessity to adopt, for maintaining the virtual activities/processes, the latest technologies/systems that are capable to support integrated collaboration in business services.
apply scenario can reduce the global patch service cost of transnational enterprise network equipments and minimum the turnaround time of patch service delay.
this standard was successfully adopted by the industry but it seems to have several constraints for the development of todays complex embedded control and automation systems.
keywords: remote experimentation, teleoperation, virtual  instrumentation, internet, telelaboratory, realtime control title of the paper: a dynamic-balanced scheduler for genetic  algorithms for grid computing download full pdf authors: a. j. sanchez santiago, a. j. yuste, j. e. munoz exposito, s.  garcia galan, j. m. maqueira marin, s. bruque
tsp is the problem of finding the shortest  path from point a to point b, given a set of points and passing through each  point exactly once.
the system is compared to human expert evaluation.
this study  proposed a four-step-model of mobile e-learning-portfolios.
several surveys performed during the last 15 years expose a relatively poor performance in delivering successful software projects.
we argue that a function is existed in the items: execution time, the size of data and the algorithm, therefore we can deduce the execution time of a data mining task from the corresponding the size of data and algorithm.
to use a cooperative system sufficient assistance is needed to facilitate and coordinate actors activities.
this methodology includes four  modeling activities which are requirement analysis, conceptual model,  navigation model and presentation model.
keywords: digital certification systems, x.509 standard, proxy certificates, authentication (pca), dynamic delegation, identity verification, network security, e-security title of the paper: using palette and minimum spanning tree for true-color image steganography download full pdf authors: show-wei chien, yung-fu chen, pei-wei yen, hsuan-hung lin
keywords: web-based software systems, queueing model, mean-value analysis, thread pool, performance prediction, convergence issue 11, volume 8, november 2009 title of the paper: a flexible implementation of a web-based election system for educational organizations download full pdf authors: sharil tumin, sylvia encheva
because he  security of license is determined by private key, not the arithmetic itself,  user can not construct new license by given license and the public key as long  as the private key is not leaked.
several proposed methods which construct stegoimage by embedding the secret message into the colour palette.
fuzzy logic has been applied to the cocomo using the symmetrical triangles and trapezoidal membership functions to represent the cost drivers and size.
the free publish and perish software  can be used as an analysis instrument of the impact of the researches by  analysing the citations through the h index.
the maximum weight perfect matching algorithm is then used to find the disulfide connectivity pattern.
a characteristic of todays society is the increasing use of modern information and communication technologies in all areas.
our work focuses on the garment retrieval from the e-shopping  database, which supports feature-based retrieval by shape categories and  styles.
we experimentally evaluate our algorithm using the  open source jhotdraw case study, for three distance functions, providing a  comparison of the proposed approach with similar existing approaches.
many systems have been developed to use the concept of  nlp in different varieties of domains, for example the system lunar [19] and  the system ladder [8].
this paper presents a new approach to web  replication, where each of the replicas resides in a different part of the  network, and the browser is automatically and transparently directed to the  “best” server.
1109-2750 e-issn: 2224-2872 issue 1, volume 8, january 2009 title of the paper: industrial machinery optimization and maintenance system via world wide web download full pdf authors: a. etxebarria, r. barcena, j. j. valera
new critical important items such as security in e-learning, learning management, business continuity management and science park are added to the proposed university.
the architecture proposed can be used as a framework to upgrade other propositional learning algorithms to relational learning.
keywords: e-commerce, interior design, internet, multiuser collaboration, reusable framework, three-tier architecture, virtual reality, web-based title of the paper: digital game-based learning (dgbl) model and development methodology for teaching history download full pdf authors: nor azan mat zin, wong seng yue, azizah jaafar
keywords: feature selection, rough set, disjunctive normal form,  feature forest, discernibility string title of the paper: analysis of system bus transaction  vulnerability based on fmea methodology in systemc tlm design platform download
this proposed automatic multilevel thresholding approach provide the robustness and adaptability for the system to operate on various illuminated conditions at night.
the results of actual texture defect detection demonstrated that the angular differences between the reference and test images could be estimated correctly, with an estimation error of only 0° to 0.5°.
the component-based middleware  systems should possess self-adjusting functions for adapt to internal and  external environments variation.
in this  study an effective method is proposed to predict disulfide connectivity pattern  without the prior knowledge of cysteins’bonding state.
it was  use a recursive algorithm in order to calculate the total active and reactive  currents and the admissible loss voltage based on the users (consumers)  characteristics.
keywords: image enhancement, broyden algorithm, iterative algorithms, empirical mode decomposition title of the paper: inverse dynamic compound control for intelligent artificial leg based on pd-cmac download full pdf authors: hong-liu yu, zhao-hong xu, xing-san qian, zhan zhao, ling shen abstract: traditional mathematic model is not suitable for actual control, because the knee torque of intelligent artificial leg (ial) is indirectly caused by the nonlinear damping.
furthermore, internet allow the development of powerful tools  dedicated to the remote maintenance, on-line supervision and performance  optimisation of the industrial machinery.
this paper  deals with the performance analysis of various protocols available for mobile  ip registration.
moreover, this paper presents two methodologies: one that implies both components of spatial redundancy and one that implies the use of temporal redundancy for achieving the objective of fault-tolerant and safe operation.
keywords: functional programming languages, recursive forms, programs  verification title of the paper: about flow problems in networks with node  capacities download full pdf authors: laura ciupala abstract: in this paper, we study  different network flow problems in networks with node capacity.
abstract: data security is an important issue in computer networks and cryptographic algorithms are essential parts in network security.
next, an adaptive requirement framework is given in detail, which can automatically tune middleware configuration parameters, and conduct a safe and dynamic component composition to preserve the middleware qos requirements.
for instance, the  one writes a sentence “from 1 to 10, repeat body”, and also writes  how the sentence body repeats its execution on the computer.
to fully understand the potential impact of the mobile electronic learning portfolio system on education, institutions need to take into account the current environment within higher education.
uses the additional  equipment to achieve the secret keys distributed storage to improve the ability  of test and verify in system and enhance the computing encryption capability of  mobile terminal.
for this reason, we propose a method which is based on sampling to some typical data mining algorithm.
title of the paper: improving the etl process and maintenance of  higher education information system data warehouse download full pdf authors: igor mekterovic, ljiljana brkic, mirta baranovic abstract: heis (higher education information system) is a project funded by the  croatian ministry of science, education and sports started in the year 2001.
abstract: an ideal conceptual design model should support multi-level innovative design through rational mapping layer and mapping relationship.
with this capability, an expert system  will be enriched with flexibility and mobility in knowledge sharing.
the description of software systems  can be achieved by using an architecture description language (adl) or an  object oriented modeling language.
the results of the software implementation have been presented in section- 4.
pso shares many  similarities with evolutionary computation techniques such as gas.
these features are not good to the expansion of the p2p application, so this paper introduce replicate mechanism, not only enhances the reliability of the network, but also lets the network load balance, at the same time this paper introduce synchronize mechanism to solve the problem of data update consistency in the p2p network.
finally the mkm - maintenance knowledge manager  system is introduced.
mapping between functions and structures has been realized easily and the instance of closed loop in constrain resolve has been avoided successfully.
additionally, a new remote system dedicated to the hardware-in-the-loop (hil) experimentation concerning the optimisation of the performance of industrial controllers installed by the company, is presented.
keywords: steel truss bridge, blast load, hydrocode, bridge damage,  ale method, numerical simulation title of the paper: texture defect detection system with image  deflection compensation download full pdf authors: chun-cheng lin, cheng-yu yeh
such research must evaluate the cost benefit trade-offs in investing in quality practices where the returns are maximized over the software development life cycle.
the traditional paper based of work in progress information had been  implementing as to manage the nozzles production.
abstract: intelligent safety-critical systems, such as intelligent automotive systems or intelligent robots, require a stringent reliability while the systems are in operation.
the decision support system in the national power grid companies can integrate the energy prediction achieved by some data mining algorithms that help managers to fundament their investment decisions in order to justify the financial feasibility.
with this capability, an expert system will be enriched with flexibility and mobility in knowledge sharing.
abstract:  physical-field inspired methodology has become a new branch in image processing  techniques.
abstract: aerospace fuel nozzles maintenance, repair and overhaul operation is a dynamic process as the work flow is unpredictable.
the  importance of mobility in the internet gets keep on increasing.
however, the functionality is markedly increased, resulting in a significant raise in the number of hardware and software tasks.
title of the paper: towards a utility based computational model for negotiation between semantic web services download full pdf authors: sandeep kumar, nikos e. mastorakis
determination of the differential ionospheric error to sub-centimetre accuracy is described in this paper utilizing a developed model.
title of the paper: a new method for clustering heterogeneous data: clustering by compression download full pdf authors: dorin carstoiu, alexandra cernian, valentin sgarciu, adriana olteanu
there are several reasons  to explore modal learning.
many of them have grown of small, but focused groups of people, by streamlining  and expanding of what they have been already doing as part of their it  administrative work.
protein structure comparison problem is extremely important in many tasks.
keywords: anycast routing, anycast routing algorithm, genetic  algorithm, service model title of the paper: a distributed e-business system based on conic  curve download full pdf authors: xinxia song, zhigang chen
this strategy enables to adapt the length of a task to the computing capacity of each resource at any given moment.
distributed relational rules discovered would either be  used in predicting an unknown object attribute value, or they can be used to  extract the hidden relationship between the objects' attribute values.
keywords: predictive maintenance management, rail track geometry,  curv, cant def, cross level, dipped left, gauge title of the paper: implementation and evaluation of a peer  assessment system for enhancing students' animation skills download full pdf authors: jung-chuan yen, songshen yeh, jin-lung lin
viriato marques, j. torres farinha, antonio brito
flexibility is the key driver of web  2.0 success—the flexible delivery of data through the combination of  services and disparate data sources through mash-ups, real-time data feeds, and  rich interactions.
based in experimental results we show that message authentication process is suitable in terms of power consumption.
experiments with the two different data sets that may represent business and scientific domain well showed the effectiveness of the suggested method.
consequently, the related models will not be consistent anymore if one of them is altered in the development process.
further  detail checking and analyzing on defects are needed in order to determine the  workflow.
the paper also argues, as a result of generating a procedure, pg, the meaning of a sentence (or sentences) is represented in the generated procedure, pg. keywords: acquisition of how to solve problems, generation of programs from examples, meaning of a sentence title of the paper: a program that acquires how to execute sentences download full pdf authors: machiko fujiwara, kenzo iwama abstract: one writes example sequences of sentences so that one sequence solves an instance of a problem, and writes how each example runs on a computer.
this model has three major parts, outer view-crm, inner view-erp and knowledge discovery view.
the first family improves the  communication time of a previous family of parallel prefix algorithms; both use  only half-duplex communications.
particularly, swarm intelligence is an extension of the multiagents  theory, where reactive agents follow very simple rules.
the  experimental results indicate that the proposed curl source reverse provides  effective image structure representation, which can be exploited in further  image processing tasks.
abstract: this paper introduces an efficient application intended for mapping under complex criteria applied to k-lut based fpga implemented circuits.
today, there are numerous methods for solving ga-hard  problems; every measure has its specific advantages and drawbacks.
but it has such as low efficiency, long time, and some other shortcomings in measuring length, area and calculating the amount of small object, especially for the project area with more complex terrain.
with this combination is possible to take advantage of the best features of each particular algorithm.
this is the main disadvantage of cor scheme.
the article also gives reviews on the ats and the ma(ats) algorithms.
the boolean 11-multiplexer problems are used  for the execution.
keywords: convection-diffusion equation, finite difference, parallel computation, exponential-type transformation, alternating group title of the paper: online slant signature algorithm analysis download full pdf authors: azlinah mohamed, rohayu yusof, sofianita mutalib, shuzlina abdul rahman
starting from this, it can guide the process operation of software team, provide a new solution for theoretical research and description of the software engineering subject and provide a framework concept for the auxiliary system tools for the research of software engineering.
however, unlike ga, pso has no evolution operators such as crossover and mutation.
now however, asymmetric key encryption schemes  such as elliptic curve cryptography are gaining popularity as they require less  computational power and memory and are still capable of providing equivalent  security when compared to their counterparts.
so, a relational database schema  or a data warehouse prototype cannot be easily mapped and reused in multiple  dss projects.
the experimental results showed that the testing accuracy of distributed mode is higher than other models.
abstract: after concise introduction of software test and its significance, an  integration environment of distributed test platform for software testing is  proposed and its two departments, including test server and test driver, are  described subsequently.
there are  many opportunities for future research and organizational applications of sns  as sns adoption grows at incredible rates.
with the help of a proper  performance model and an appropriate evaluation algorithm, performance metrics  can be predicted.
abstract: this paper describes a new rule discovery algorithm called distributed relational inductive learning drila, which has been developed as part of ongoing research of the inductive learning algorithm (ila)
keywords: fea, static analysis, dynamic analysis, biomechanics title of the paper: an algorithm for the guillotine restrictions  verification in a rectangular covering model download full pdf authors: daniela marinescu, alexandra baicoianu
current specification of mobile ipv6 does not provide proper support for security in the mobile network and there are other problems associated with it.
in addition, 4 data sets: nbuses, aclp, monk3, and  buseskod data are used in this study to test and compare the learning  accuracies and learning time.
keywords: data clustering, data mining, effective teaching, music examine issue 7, volume 8, july 2009
in the first  phase, the discernibility strings that are the concatenation of some of  features between two different cases construct the feature forest.
abstract: a web-based peer-assessment system for enhancing students' creativity and animation skills is presented.
region border detection is effectively implemented based on the virtual source representation of the image structure.
abstract: in this paper, we propose a new solution for dynamic task scheduling in distributed environment.
we test our method by comparing its performance with other well known dominant point extraction techniques successfully.
the idea of using natural language instead of sql has prompted the  development of new type of processing method called natural language interface  to database systems (nlidb).
in the  databases field, one wish to classify uncertain data and to answer queries in  an approximated way in the case that data sources are incoherent.
such research will result in effective and efficient rail track maintenance management resulting in low operating cost better train transit times for rail industry [2].
methodology to improve the performance of the scalar multiplication by use of hardware accelerators has also been presented in this paper.
in this paper, an extended prime number address allocation (epna) technique has been proposed that is conflict free and distributed technique.
abstract: the image source-reverse transform is proposed for image structure representation and analysis, which is based on an electro-static analogy.
in this paper, we intend to test the results of a new clustering technique clustering by compression when applied to heterogeneous sets of data.
previously proposed approaches either need a broadcast over complete network and / or need a duplicate address detection mechanism leading to an inefficient latency and overhead in assignment of addresses.
the dss consist of four components: a geographic information system  (gis), land use modules, a graphical user interface and land use planning  tools.
we focus on the automatization of data acquisition avoiding human intervention, describing its steps and some requirements.
a characteristic  of today’s society is the increasing use of modern information and  communication technologies in all areas.
although it is easy for human eyes to determine the existence of clothes styles, recognizing it automatically from a computer program is not a trivial problem.
keywords: artificial intelligence, computational intelligence,  evolutionary computation, genetic algorithms, particle swarm optimization,  digital circuits title of the paper: prediction of disulfide bonding pattern based  on support vector machine with parameters tuned by multiple trajectory search download full pdf authors: hsuan-hung lin, lin-yu tseng
the obtained model  provided good approximation to the derived complex analytical solution, which  is carried out by means of complex mathematical analysis employing  schwarz-christoffel transform.
to this end we extend dretskes semantic theory of information.
effect of electrode separation and field spread in both x and y directions are studied and explained.
there are many opportunities for future research and organizational applications of sns as sns adoption grows at incredible rates.
we propose an available and secure authentication scheme for service provider to verify users without using verification table.
keywords: web-based software systems, queueing model, mean-value  analysis, thread pool, performance prediction, convergence issue 11, volume 8, november 2009
as an  average, the ma(ats) is about 2 times faster than the ats under both  symmetrical and asymmetrical problems.
along with open access journals, the institutions needed to create institutional repositories for storing the universities scientific production.
abstract: while cost saving is at the forefront of the reasons for offshoring to low wage countries, the moves relevant to ict are also motivated by difficulty in finding the right talents inside the country.
it is obvious, that all collaborative environments (workgroups, practice communities, collaborative enterprises) are based on knowledge, and between collaboration and knowledge management (km) there is a strong interdependence.
eye tracking is an emerging field with multiple applications in medicine, marketing, cognitive sciences and others, which allows the extraction of data regarding the eye activity of a user during human-computer interaction.
our main aim by creating the parallel algorithm is to accelerate the execution time of solving tsp.
a task is carried to a computing core by carrier agents and can be seamlessly transferred between cores in the event of a predicted failure, thereby achieving self-
by analyzing data-flow between di erent phases in the workflow,  secure processes can be implemented using web, database and cryptographic  techniques.
in pso, the potential solutions, called particles,  fly through the problem space by following the current optimum particles.
in this paper i frame my research by discussing the importance of knowledge management in software engineering.
finally, benefit and challenges to medium-long term spot  trading are discussed.
most of the previous studies have focused on the  development of textural analysis technology which could decrease the effect of  test image deflection.
keywords: the issue of the fourth colors, the map-man application,  software for gps title of the paper: scoring functions of approximation of strips
keywords: traveling salesman problem (tsp), high performance computing (hpc), message passing interface (mpi) title of the paper: the investigation of discovering potential musical instruments teachers by effective data clustering scheme download full pdf authors: cheng-fa tsai, yu-tai su, chiu-yen tsai, chun-yi sung
in order to enhance mining efficiency, a novel algorithm, namely ft-miner, is presented to discover association rules in a forest by using two new data structures, including ufp-tree and fp-forest.
these trust levels are then used in the routing decision making process.
abstract: recently, an online social network phenomenon has  swept over the web and the signs say that social networking sites (sns) are  growing in importance not just as places for individuals to communicate,  network, and express themselves but also as advertising and marketing vehicles.
keywords: collective communication, computation-efficient parallel prefix, half-duplex communication, message-passing multicomputer, parallel algorithm,
the operation of ad-hoc networks depends on the cooperation among nodes to provide connectivity and communication routes.
a resolution model provides adaptive adjustability update routing  policies in hierarchical enterprise database.
in the  field of the computation, computer science and systems, the concept of profiles  or users models has many meanings and connotations, its first and greater  diffusion arise with the development and use of on-line increasing systems;  however, they have gain great preponderance recently, not only to refer and/or  to respond to the passive user who approaches “the system”, but for  the possibility of taking care of a user stimulated and attracted by “the  system”.
izzatdin a. aziz, nazleeni haron, mazlina mehat, low tan jung, aisyah nabilah mustapa, emelia akashah patah akhir abstract: in this paper, we present a parallel implementation of a solution for the traveling salesman problem (tsp).
the models were created with the aid of the solidworks program and the trials with the hypermesh program.
this is because the discrete domain (truth or false) is transformed to continuous domain (lp program).
in pso, the potential solutions, called particles, fly through the problem space by following the current optimum particles.
therefore, the main goal of this paper is to reduce the gap between the estimated duration of the m-application development project and the actual elapsed time.
simulated a  controlled fractal scene via vc ++ and opengl.
the advantage of the proposed method is that the image quality is highly improved by accompanying with improvement of security and camouflage of the secret message.
abstract: in this paper the problem of dominant point detection on digital curves is addressed.
title of the paper: new computation of normal vector and curvature download full pdf authors: hyoung-seok kim, ho-sook kim abstract: the local  geometric properties such as curvatures and normal vectors play important roles  in analyzing the local shape of objects.
our results for the mapping methods are optimized  mainly for balancing the processor and communication link loads.
flexibility is the key driver of web 2.0 successthe flexible delivery of data through the combination of services and disparate data sources through mash-ups, real-time data feeds, and rich interactions.
the first one is the estimation of m-application project  duration using top-down and bottom-up approaches.
keywords: computer software, electrical grid, optimal dimensioning,  java title of the paper: visual interactive environment for doing  geometrical constructions download full pdf authors: anca iordan, george savii, manuela panoiu, caius panoiu
the concept of the  construction of the methods is also be applied to 2d convection-diffusion  equations.
abstract: based on the  concept of alternating group and domain decomposition, we present a class of  alternating group explicit-implicit method and an alternating group  crank-nicolson method for solving convection-diffusion equation.
by applying the modified bilateral filtering to each normal, and in combination with sampling likelihood and feature intensity, the filtered point-sampled surfaces are obtained.
keywords: modeling, collision, simulation, experimentation, safety, validation title of the paper: an efficient garment visual search based on shape context download full pdf authors: chin-hsien tseng, shao-shin hung, jyh-jong tsay, derchian tsaih abstract: in recent years, the theoretical models of mass consumer behavior have change to buy from websites rather than in stores.
the key novelty in rotary-code is that the rotary-code has optimal encoding complexity and optimal decoding complexity comparing with existing raid-6 codes.
this paper examines the application of erp software in romanian universities.
since the frequency energy of different types  of noise focuses on different frequency subband, the effect of corrupted noise  on each frequency subband is different.
students are then monitored by a virtual proctor on a server.
two modal learning ideas are presented: the snap-drift neural network (sdnn) which toggles its learning between two modes, is incorporated into an on-line system to provide carefully targeted guidance and feedback to students; and an adaptive function neural network (adfunn), in which adaptation applies simultaneously to both the weights and the individual neuron activation functions.
then the new rules and patterns suggested for the organization which helps the organization for solving the problem of customers in future correspondence.
delays in gps signals affect the accuracy of gps positioning.
this feature makes our system  distinguishable.
recently, intelligent agents became one of the most interesting  subjects of modern information technology.
it is hard computational problem.
the library provides easy and efficient way for processing, storing  and managing complex object-oriented data with relationships between object  instances.
as compared with novice, experts tend to exhibit sequential and semantic traversal patterns across all three web formats, whereas, novices are more influenced by and therefore tend to employ random navigation strategies.
in this paper, we describe a new coding scheme, which we call rotary-code, for raid-6 disk arrays.
we mainly introduce the concept of functional computational interface which unify signal and operation interfaces notions.
the second problem is a  directed acyclic graph (dag) problem.
the fundamental structure of this work  allows each site of the distributed environment to manage independent ucs and  such local sites transmit learning models to the global model for making  complete knowledge of the problem.
keywords: mandelbrot, buddhabrot, fractal, algorithm, pickover stalks title of the paper: mining the body features to develop sizing systems to improve business logistics and marketing using fuzzy clustering data mining download full pdf authors: chih-hung hsu, tzu-yuan lee, hui-ming kuo abstract: business logistics have played an important role of business operations of procurement, purchasing, inventory, warehousing, distribution, transportation, customer support, financial and human resources.
mid contains various features, including  multiuser collaboration and concurrent display of multiple views of a scene.
this paper explains a  performance analysis for a session and error management agent based on home  network environment by using the rule-based devs(discrete event system  specification) modeling and simulation techniques.
this paper presents the heis data warehouse architecture, comments on the data model and addresses issues (and our solutions) that arose during the seven-year development and maintenance period.
it is primarily intended to provide computer access for people with little or no upper-limb functionality, but can be used by able bodied subject in certain application scenarios.
protein structure indexing using suffix array and wavelet (psisaw) is a hybrid approach that provides the ability to retrieve similarities of proteins based on their structures.
title of the paper: a grid data mining architecture for learning classifier systems download full pdf authors: m. f. santos, w. mathew, t. kovacs, h. santos abstract: recently, there is a growing interest among the researchers and software developers in exploring learning classifier system (lcs) implemented in parallel and distributed grid structure for data mining, due to its practical applications.
keywords: generation of procedures from examples, acquiring how to execute sentences from examples, acquisition of a language grammar.
abstract: daily, a great  amount of data that is gathered in intensive care units, which makes intensive  medicine a very attractive field for applying knowledge discovery in databases.
jianning wu abstract: the quantitative assessment of the change of gait symmetry has played a very important role in the clinical diagnostics.
hence they are called frame-based expert system or frame-based system.
qinghua feng, bin zheng abstract: based on the concept of alternating group and domain decomposition, we present a class of alternating group explicit-implicit method and an alternating group crank-nicolson method for solving convection-diffusion equation.
many systems have been developed to use the concept of nlp in different varieties of domains, for example the system lunar [19] and the system ladder
scalar or point  multiplication in elliptic curve cryptography has been a topic of research  interest.
this  is because the discrete domain (truth or false) is transformed to continuous  domain (lp program).
thus, the simulation on the computer of the phenomena that take place during road events can be studied more comprehensively, and may allow optimize passive safety systems in order to diminish adverse effects of these phenomena.
as a continuation of previous study by ismaili & golden [1], twenty undergraduate psychology students from university of texas at dallas participated in this study.
an unvoiced detection is also integrated into the system to improve the intelligibility of voice.
keywords: genetic algorithm, paramecium, traveling salesman problem, graph coloring problem, evolutionary algorithm title of the paper: design & development of collaborative workflow for lean production in a repair & overhaul industry download full pdf authors: teh ying wah, ng hooi peng, ching sue hok, lai mei yoon
abstract: in this paper we explore complex relationships between mechanical and sensory properties of fabrics, and the perceived tactile comfort.
such bayesian network can  represent an independent agent in a distributed system.
abstract: while cost saving is  at the forefront of the reasons for offshoring to low wage countries, the moves  relevant to ict are also motivated by difficulty in finding the right talents  inside the country.
for majority of these applications, security is a vital issue.
in this research a domain ontological model is  presented as support to the student’s decision making for opportunities of  university studies level of the venezuelan education system.
in this paper, we propose a method for constructing stegoimages with high quality which greatly eliminate the above problem.
finally, we present the applications of the minimum flow problem in bipartite networks with unit capacities.
keywords: payment security, mobile payment, data encryption, mobile  terminal, j2me, mobile interface
tsp is the problem of finding the shortest path from point a to point b, given a set of points and passing through each point exactly once.
today, practically all of the popular web sites arc served from single locations.
although as a consequence of those, in some parts of the world, the number of students enrolling in these fields have stabilized or even increased, given the number of years it takes to educate a graduate, the number of graduates has been dropping at alarming rates.
gives the hardware design and software design of multi-interface data encryption equipment.
abstract: an ideal conceptual design  model should support multi-level innovative design through rational mapping  layer and mapping relationship.
finally a cyclic solving approach to conceptual design is put forward, and an interface matrix is applied to facilitate computer processing.
abstract: the flexible hypercube fhn is an important variant of the hypercube hn and possesses many desirable properties for interconnection networks.
this study proposed a four-step-model of mobile e-learning-portfolios.
faraj a. el-mouadib, zakaria suliman zubi, ahmed a. almagrous, i. el-feghi abstract: to override the complexity of sql, and to facilitate the manipulation of data in databases for common people (not sql professionals), many researches have turned out to use natural language instead of sql.
thus, this paper puts forward a new association rules  mining technique, which sets up the lower support threshold value to ensure the  weak-support rules to be mined and applies csupport measure to recognise  weak-support mode.
the test results demonstrated that , when compared to the svm-based classification models, our proposed technique with superior classification performance could discriminate difference between the right and left side gait function of lower limbs accurately, and that more principal components extracted by kpca with polynomial kernel (=3) could capture more useful information about intrinsic nonlinear dynamics of human gait in comparison to the some key gait variables selected.
thus, this work presents a  hardware-software partitioning scheme that can obtain a partitioning result  that satisfies multi-constraints from massive solution space.
especially that they ignore the connotation of the management relevant  with concrete business and for process management it is not enough to be only  with technical standard.
based on this, in this paper we propose an algorithm which can be used to  verify guillotine restrictions in a two-dimensional covering model.
the importance of mobility in the internet gets keep on increasing.
to combat that, there have been serious changes in national education policies, and the way universities and other training institutions conduct their business to inspire young students to choose ict for their studies.
this is particularly so in cases when current practices rely on conservative,  engineering, decision.
the optimization process is  found sensitive to the step taken by the network in its way to the global  minimum.
keywords: learning assessment, proctor, rfid, sensors, communication title of the paper: solving traveling salesman problem on cluster  compute nodes download full pdf authors: izzatdin a. aziz, nazleeni haron, mazlina mehat, low tan jung,  aisyah nabilah mustapa, emelia akashah patah akhir abstract:
the suffix arrays are used to index protein structure and the wavelet is used to compress the indexed database.
data governance can be defined as the processes, policies, standards,  organization, and technologies required to manage and ensure the availability,  accessibility, quality, consistency, auditability, and security of data in an  organization.
the color distinction or vision  system relies on two step process which, first classifies the different regions  in the scene into a given number of clusters, and then assigns to each cluster  a color that is likely to one of its corresponding region in the raw image.
as the size of samples grows, the size of generated decision  trees grows with some improvement in error rates.
this paper proposes a novel algorithm of fault-tolerant method for mapping a mesh network in a flexible hypercube.
a prototype system has been implemented in support of the proposed model.
the results of actual texture defect detection demonstrated that the  angular differences between the reference and test images could be estimated  correctly, with an estimation error of only 0° to 0.5°.
chunyue bi abstract: the embedded database sqlite is widely applied in the data management of embedded environment such as mobile devices, industrial control, information appliance etc., it has become the focus of the development of related areas.
keywords: binary non-adjacent form, ecc, prime field, system on programmable chip issue 6, volume 8, june 2009
when the changes are performed, the source code drifts away from the existing available system documentation (specifications, design, manuals), which represent the functionality of the software systems.
the resulting displacement  values from the non-rigid registration are further investigated for deformation  in the entire brain to detect typical deformation patterns.
in this paper, we intend to test the results of a new clustering  technique – clustering by compression – when applied to heterogeneous  sets of data.
the knowledge can be called upon when needed to solve a problem by the inference engine.
keywords: magnetic resonance imaging, image registration, free-form  deformation, alzheimer’s disease, statistical analysis, t-test title of the paper: public institutions’ investments with data  mining techniques download full pdf authors: adela bara, ion lungu, simona vasilica oprea
in this study an effective method is proposed to predict disulfide connectivity pattern without the prior knowledge of cysteinsbonding state.
the aim of the paper is to investigate and analyze brain tissue changes in alzheimers disease using nonrigid medical image registration and statistical analysis techniques.
as of today there is very little knowledge is available about the economics of software quality.
keywords: mobile applications, software development, project  duration, schedule risk management, monte carlo simulation issue 5, volume 8, may 2009
some nodes may behave maliciously, resulting in degradation of the performance of the network or even disruption of its operation altogether.
we argue that a  function is existed in the items: execution time, the size of data and the  algorithm, therefore we can deduce the execution time of a data mining task  from the corresponding the size of data and algorithm.
we create images that visualize statistical information for the calculation-paths of points tested for belonging to the mandelbrot set.
pso  is attractive because there are few parameters to adjust.
the  initial 17 mechanical and 17 sensory parameter sets are reduced to sets of 1 to  4 and 1 to 5 properties, respectively.
title of the paper: a framework for teaching introductory software development download full pdf authors: zaigham mahmood
keywords: ad-hoc networks, behavior analysis, malicious attacks,  simulation, throughput title of the paper: modal learning neural networks download full pdf authors: dominic palmer-brown, sin wee lee, chrisina draganova, miao  kang
abstract: intelligent safety-critical systems, such as intelligent automotive  systems or intelligent robots, require a stringent reliability while the  systems are in operation.
abstract: in this paper, a novel  entropy-based voice activity detection (vad) algorithm is presented in  variable-level noise environment.
download full pdf authors: harish kumar, r. k. singla
our aim is to answer positively this central question.
gives the  hardware design and software design of multi-interface data encryption  equipment.
but, there is lack of research  in the area of establishing of garment-sizing systems for business logistics.
the way how to present  imperative languages easy and double cycles by means of recursion forms is  shown, the possibility of verification has been studied for each recursion form.
to mitigate the effect of such nodes and to achieve higher levels of security and reliability, this paper expands on relevant fuzzy logic concepts to propose an approach to establish quantifiable trust levels between the nodes of ad-hoc networks.
with this paper on a comprehensive update mechanism of the organization in both  dependencies spread copy of the data using flexibility and globally consistence  maintenance mechanisms to reach enterprise internal and external data  consistency.
the advantage of the proposed method is that the image quality  is highly improved by accompanying with improvement of security and camouflage  of the secret message.
and gives the some processes design of mobile clients software.
the design principles of jea k-128 are given together with results and analyses to define the encryption algorithm precisely.
elliptic curve cryptography was first introduced in 1985 and has always been around since.
as a result of generating a procedure, pg, the program, pi, acquires implicitly rules of a grammar that produce sentences.
in this paper we propose an object-oriented (oo) approach and an  oo database schema to accomplish the dss implementation which require a  multidimensional modeling at the conceptual level using fundamental concepts of  oo (class, attribute, method, object, polymorphism, inheritance, hierarchy) to  represent all multidimensional properties of a data warehouse, at both the  structural and dynamic levels.
features such as direction, slant, baseline,  pressure, speed and numbers of pen ups and downs are some of the dynamic  information signature that can be extracted from an online method.
we employed posix threads to provide parallelization and  mutexes as control mechanisms to achieve synchronization between groups of 4  processors, hence simulating pdla clusters with early convergence to the dla  model.
a two-way anova was conducted to analyze the independent variables by self-regulation (high vs. low) and perceived initiative (stronger vs. weaker) on project performance as the dependent variables.
and the last one  is the extended metrix model, a stochastic project duration estimation model  with schedule risk analysis elements.
abstract: track defects are deviation of actual from theoretical values of the tracks geometrical characteristics.
the reason for choosing vhdl is its suitability for hardware  implementation.
there also analyses the physical meaning of fbms two parameters h and σ .
keywords: feature selection, rough set, disjunctive normal form, feature forest, discernibility string title of the paper: analysis of system bus transaction vulnerability based on fmea methodology in systemc tlm design platform download full pdf authors: yung-yuan chen, chung-hsien hsu, kuen-long leu
abstract: a distributed e-business system based on conic curve is proposed.
the use of idioms speeds-up the development of bayesian networks and improves their quality.
a particular workflow in any phase of on-line election process can be modeled and implemented securely by employing basic security applications readily provided by well established cryptographic technologies.
this paper suggests a progressive  approach in determining a proper sample size to generate good decision trees  with respect to generated tree size and accuracy.
as compared with novice, experts tend to exhibit sequential and  semantic traversal patterns across all three web formats, whereas, novices are  more influenced by and therefore tend to employ random navigation strategies.
it consists of a collection of sites, each of which maintains a local database  system, or a collection of multiple, logically interrelated databases  distributed over a computer network.
keywords: hopfield neural network, sensitivity analysis, segmentation, natural color image matching, rgb color space title of the paper: an advanced hybrid machine learning approach for assessment of the change of gait symmetry download full pdf authors:
in this study, the cystein position difference, the cystein index difference, the predicted secondary structure of protein and the pssm score are used as features.
to overcome the above limitations,  in this work, it is concentrated to use gaussian membership function for the  cocomo parameters.
based on the scheme a class of parallel alternating group explicit  method is derived, and stability analysis is given.
the pecp has been expressed  as a quadratic knapsack problem (qkp) with linear constraints.
keywords: higher education, university management, erp systems, integration, quality services, evaluation framework title of the paper: statistical methods and applied computing in academic educational marketing download full pdf authors: angela repanovici, bogdan alexandrescu, razvan enoiu
these protocols use the paradigm of economic models  to define the coordination mechanisms in agent communities.
the paper  puts forward using gps/pda to calculate progress for project of land  consolidation, which propels the application of gps/pda in the fields of land  consolidation.
a utility-based, multi-attribute negotiation  approach capable of providing negotiation between participating semantic web  services has been presented in this paper.
keywords: bidimensional covering problem, guillotine restrictions,  conex components of a graph title of the paper: improved algorithm for minimum flows in  bipartite networks with unit capacities download full pdf authors: eleonor ciurea, adrian deaconu
this paper outlines a complete framework for teaching a first  course in programming.
by compensating  for the deflection of the test image, the accuracy of the texture defect  detection could be effectively enhanced.
abstract: in  previous work [27], the authors proposed an e-university
the emergence of  mobile phone virus is also a potential security threat to mobile payment.
delays in gps signals affect the  accuracy of gps positioning.
the paper analyses the impact of m-learning on the educational process and describes software characteristics of m-learning applications.
new critical important items such as security in  e-learning, learning management, business continuity management and science  park are added to the proposed university.
abstract: this paper investigates the vehicle rear impact and its consequences and analyzes the research developed in this field.
keywords: representation, information systems, information theory,  information content, database design title of the paper: nighttime vehicle light detection on a moving  vehicle using image segmentation and analysis
keywords: ground control point (gcp) database, feature matching, local invariance, feature ground control points title of the paper: mitigation of the effects of selfish and malicious nodes in ad-hoc networks download full pdf authors: houssein hallani, seyed a. shahrestani
keywords: mobile, social networking, web 2.0, e-communities, social  networks, social web issue 12, volume 8, december 2009
the image is taken as a vertical  magnetic field, and its curl is estimated as the virtual source of the field  for image structure representation and analysis.
abstract: aerospace fuel nozzles maintenance, repair and overhaul  operation is a dynamic process as the work flow is unpredictable.
keywords: data, class, persistence, container, serialization, xml, tree, list, c++, wxwidgets, wxxmlserializer, wxxs title of the paper: an rdf-based distributed expert system download full pdf authors: napat prapakorn, suphamit chittayasothorn
also a group of intelligent agents for learning  activities such as user interface agents, task agents, knowledge agents and  mobile agents is developed.
signature extraction features system (sefs) is used to extract  the slant features in signature automatically for analysis purposes.
abstract: an expert system or knowledge-based system comprises of a knowledge base and an inference engine in which their expertise knowledge is represented.
this one is endowed with specific skills of cooperation (communication; awareness, coordination, co-memorization), requiring some acquired knowledge, which allow them to give assistance to the human actors.
this method, however, greatly degrades the quality of the stegoimage and tends  to arouse the intention of the intruders.
it is designed by the use of uml and developed using visual basic.
now however, asymmetric key encryption schemes such as elliptic curve cryptography are gaining popularity as they require less computational power and memory and are still capable of providing equivalent security when compared to their counterparts.
by modelling this tec parameter, the evaluation of the ionospheric error and the correction of these ionospheric errors for differential gps can be done.
keywords: e-learning, animation skill, peer-assessment, self-regulation, social cognitive title of the paper: data attribute reduction using binary conversion download full pdf authors:
abstract: as enterprise resource planning (erp) implementation has become more popular and suitable for every business organization, it has become a essential factor for the success of a business.
as a practice with roots in  corporate and information technology (it) governance, data governance emerged.
keywords: normal vector, curvature, local geometric property, mesh segmentation title of the paper: auction resource allocation mechanisms in grids of heterogeneous computers download full pdf authors: timothy m. lynar, ric d. herbert, simon
this model has three major parts,  outer view-crm, inner view-erp and knowledge discovery view.
previously proposed approaches either need a  broadcast over complete network and / or need a duplicate address detection  mechanism leading to an inefficient latency and overhead in assignment of  addresses.
the third approach in this paper introduces a  hybrid scheme to do a part of search on prefix fields in tcam and then to check  other fields, the search process will be traversed to ram section in the second  level.
in our proposed approach, first the source and  the target images are affinely registered to correct global differences between  the images and then non-rigid registration based on free-form deformation using  b-spline approximation is performed on the images.
the restoration from the  virtual source to the image is also investigated, based on which a method of  image estimation and restoration from its gradient field is proposed.
we further show how to reduce  counterexamples search and induction proof to quantified propositional  satisfiability.
keywords: quality product derivation, requirements engineering, non-functional requirements, iso quality standards, quality compliance title of the paper: a new iterative approach for dominant points extraction in planar curves download full pdf authors: cecilia di ruberto, andrea morgera
thus, students' first programs  are written as sequences, selections and iterations of given functions and it  is in the later stages of the course, that they learn the basic constructs of  the language.
however using kdd for the construction of the knowledge base used in such systems, while reducing the maintenance work still demands repeated human intervention.
cannot divide are not 1 and 1.
we simulate the auction types under the same task input streams.
experiments  indicate that simulations with the proposed algorithm have a 47% improvement in  convergence speed on the traveling salesman problem.
the  diamond-square algorithm is introduced.
abstract: based on sampling likelihood and feature intensity, in this paper, a feature-preserving denoising algorithm for point-sampled surfaces is proposed.
for the evaluation of characteristics levels are described metrics and measured values are used to determine the m-learning application overall quality level.
the use of a similar open-source program openvas within the  audit system is also considered.
the model is focused on the intuitive discovering of the roles and their  assignment with permissions, using a test-driven approach.
title of the paper: association rules mining including weak-support modes using novel measures download full pdf authors: jian hu, xiang-yang li
with this model we  do not aim to automate the software design process or the identification of  design alternatives.
furthermore, we present three proven software project  management techniques that were successfully adapted to the development of  m-applications.
title of the paper: a grid data mining architecture for learning  classifier systems download full pdf authors: m. f. santos, w. mathew, t. kovacs, h. santos
xslt transformations or specialized parsers may easily  convert such documents to rdf/xml semantic repositories.
our normal vector computation algorithm is able to compute the normal vectors more accurately and is available to meshes of arbitrary topology.
furthermore, this paper puts forward a new interesting measure to distinguish from the association rules interesting degree.
keywords: land-use structure optimization, land use allocation,  comgis, dss title of the paper: application of image texture analysis to  improve land cover classification download full pdf authors: xiaochen zou, daoliang li
apply  scenario can reduce the global patch service cost of transnational enterprise  network equipments and minimum the turnaround time of patch service delay.
and it introduces the process of  generating three dimensional terrain, cloud and sky by this algorithm.
keywords: wsn, authentication, mac codes, cryptography, pairings,  tinyos title of the paper: neural network based attack detection algorithm download full pdf authors: araceli barradas-acosta, eleazar aguirre anaya, mariko  nakano-miyatake, hector perez-meana
two other families adopt collective  communication operations to reduce the communication times of the former two,  respectively.
most of previous works on disulfide connectivity pattern  prediction use the prior knowledge of the bonding state of cysteines.
the software systems  are developed using the multi-languages with different dialects and scripts.
the boolean 11-multiplexer problems are used for the execution.
a distributed relational inductive learning algorithm download full pdf authors: saleh m. abu-soud, ali al-ibrahim
because the clothing is essentially a non-rigid soft object: it is apt to self-occlusion, folding, and has deformation among every part (such as sleeve and tube).
abstract: learning assessment or traditional testing is typically performed  with the participation of a proctor, who must be physically present in the  classroom at all times.
and y directions are studied and explained.
experiment  results show that the fp-network mining association rule algorithm proposed by  this paper not only inherits the merits of fp-growth algorithm, but also  maintains and updates data conveniently.
keywords: wireless positioning systems, radio signal strength, energy efficiency, trilateration title of the paper: application of ε-testers algorithms under sketch and streaming calculation model in robot navigation download full pdf authors: carlos rodriguez lucatero
using opnet and matlab simulators, the proposed approach is validated and further studied.
we first propose a location-based data and service middleware based on service-oriented architecture in order to implement mobile information pushing system involved in a variety of formats of data integration and conversion, as well as a combination of a wide range of services.
keywords: image enhancement, broyden algorithm, iterative algorithms,  empirical mode decomposition title of the paper: inverse dynamic compound control for  intelligent artificial leg based on pd-cmac download full pdf authors: hong-liu yu, zhao-hong xu, xing-san qian, zhan zhao, ling shen abstract: traditional mathematic model is not suitable for  actual control, because the knee torque of intelligent artificial leg (ial) is  indirectly caused by the nonlinear damping.
for the practical implementation of presented model, we use madar data and implemented apriori algorithm on it.
however,  besides defects, the deflection of the input test image could also change its  textural features.
this paper proposes a novel algorithm  of fault-tolerant method for mapping a mesh network in a flexible hypercube.
although it is easy for human eyes to determine the existence of clothes  styles, recognizing it automatically from a computer program is not a trivial  problem.
this paper will cover the standard of digital certificates and its relation with dynamic delegation, focusing on the weaknesses of applying these standards to dynamic delegation then we propose our solution to make it applicable and more efficient to apply dynamic delegation to digital certificate standards.
due to the fact that the wind speed significantly fluctuates even during a day at the same location, the wind power output is difficult to be forecasted by statistical methods.
keywords: data mining; fuzzy clustering; sizing systems; business  logistics issue 8, volume 8, august 2009
elongation and hysteresis of shear force were found to be the most influential mechanical properties, while compression resilience rate and graininess were found to be the sensory properties that most impacted comfort.
the model is an agent-based simulation where by user agents submit tasks to node agents that process these tasks.
abstract: in  this paper it was present a java software package useful for dimensioning of  low voltage lines mono phase and three phases (ac and dc).
keywords: binary conversion, large attribute, machine learning, neuro-fuzzy, mega-fuzzificaiton title of the paper: performance analysis for a web based session and error management agent on home network environment download full pdf authors: eung-nam, ko abstract: this paper describes a web based session and error management with a whiteboard agent running on home network environment.
investment in mobile device is an  important step to improve the quality of life in our dynamic society.
in devs, a system has a time  base, inputs, states, outputs, and functions.
keywords: frames, expert system, knowledge base, rdf, rdf/xml, ontology title of the paper: design of an intrusion detection system based on bayesian networks download full pdf authors: milan tuba, dusan bulatovic abstract: this paper describes a structure of a standalone intrusion detection system (ids) based on a large bayesian network.
also a group of intelligent agents for learning activities such as user interface agents, task agents, knowledge agents and mobile agents is developed.
the simulated grid is calibrated to a real e-waste grid where each node has a performance index.
the paper finds that the choice of auction method makes a substantial difference in the time to complete tasks and in total energy consumption.
in this paper we propose an extension with  intelligent capabilities to a networking platform.
our method has two main phases.
simulation results show the efficiency of integrating agents within telecommunication networks and also prove that such a dual simulation environment is needed to test new techniques based on agents and multi-agent systems in networking.
in the experimentation, by comparing the classification result of contrast, energy and entropy we find out that the preferable texture features of grey level co- occurrence matrices method was contrast.
title of the paper: an anycast routing algorithm based on genetic algorithm download full pdf authors: chun zhu, min jin abstract: anycast refers to the transmission of data from a source node to (any) one member in the group of designed recipients in a network, which has been defined a standard communication model of ip version 6.
it can be used for determining function of protein, for clustering a given set of proteins by their structure, for assessment in protein fold prediction.
the experimental results show that our method outperforms ez stego and the methods proposed by fridrich and wu et al.
in this method, the author realize the  auto-extraction of feature ground control points for ensuring speed and precise  geometric correction of a high volume of satellite remote sensing images by  means of analyzing feature ground control point database algorithm.
we construct rotary-code based on a bit matrix-vector product similar to the reed-solomon coding, and provide the geometry encoding method and detailed non-recursive decoding algorithms.
by modelling this tec parameter, the evaluation  of the ionospheric error and the correction of these ionospheric errors for  differential gps can be done.
then the extracted bright objects are processed by the second stage the proposed knowledge-based connected-component analysis procedure, to identify the vehicles by locating their vehicle lights, and estimate the distance between the camera-assisted car and the detected vehicles.
one motivation is to overcome the inherent  limitations of any given mode (for example some modes memorise specific  features, others average across features, and both approaches may be relevant
in order to make smrp more suitable for mobile hosts, we propose a hybrid method combining the advantages of cor scheme with pointer forwarding scenarios.
keywords: traveling salesman problem (tsp), high performance  computing (hpc), message passing interface (mpi) title of the paper: the investigation of discovering potential  musical instruments teachers by effective data clustering scheme download full pdf authors: cheng-fa tsai, yu-tai su, chiu-yen tsai, chun-yi sung
the support vector machine (svm) is trained to compute the connectivity probabilities of cysteine pairs.
however, there is still a conflict on how to merge id and game development effectively.
it is obvious, that all collaborative environments  (workgroups, practice communities, collaborative enterprises) are based on  knowledge, and between collaboration and knowledge management (km) there is a  strong interdependence.
from a developers perspective, there are two types of benefits that can accrue from the implementation of good software quality practices and tools: money and time.
this paper reports on the examination of these problems.
excessive  time is needed and wasted in indentifying and correcting the errors.
the paper puts forward using gps/pda to calculate progress for project of land consolidation, which propels the application of gps/pda in the fields of land consolidation.
a distributed relational inductive  learning algorithm download full pdf authors: saleh m. abu-soud, ali al-ibrahim
the idea of using natural language instead of sql has prompted the development of new type of processing method called natural language interface to database systems (nlidb).
then we propose a middleware requirement model including users and resources variable requirements.
we also introduce the notion of incoming and outgoing  primitives.
distributed relational rules discovered would either be used in predicting an unknown object attribute value, or they can be used to extract the hidden relationship between the objects' attribute values.
the  costs incurred and benefits of implementing different quality practices over  the software development life cycle are not well understood.
our experiment results show that triplet-based network can  increase the work-related throughput by 3%~11% and reduce average network  latency by 24%~32% compared with 2d-mesh, with the router energy consumption  reduced by 13%~16% and the link energy consumption reduced by 14%~16%.
in this paper we are  focusing on the most significant sensory and mechanical properties influencing  tactile fabric comfort.
finally, statistical method namely t-test is performed for analysis of the results.
before taking the  services of a service provider, the service requester may need to negotiate  with it on various issues.
to enable software designers to  achieve a higher quality for their design, a better insight into quality  predictions for their design choices is given.
keywords: p2p network, replication mechanism, load transfer,  synchronize mechanism, data update consistency, load balance, reliability title of the paper: a new recognition method for natural images download full pdf authors: weiren shi, zuojin li, xin shi, zhi zhong abstract: natural images recognition is an important area of machine vision.
in our work,  an evaluation and prediction technique applying dominant factors in point of  response time and throughput performance metrics has been established and  investigated.
another drawback is that many nlp systems cover only a small domain of the english language questions.
agent-based technology has been  taken as an important approach for developing advanced e-learning systems.
since encoding and decoding over conic are  easily implement on conic curves, it has enabled our scheme to greatly enhance  efficiency.
secondly, we point out  the fatal error of the previous discrete curvature estimations, and then  propose a new discrete sectional-curvature estimation to be able to overcome  the error.
keywords: assembly model, feature, reusable design, cad title of the paper: alghorithm for map color download full pdf authors: marius-constantin popescu, liliana popescu, nikos mastorakis
after the angles of the reference and test images were  brought into line, the textural analysis based on the gray level co-occurrence  matrix was applied to analyze and compare the textural features of the two  images.
in this article, we describe the inner structure of the library, its key algorithms and principles and also demonstrate its usage on a set of simple examples.
based on the received radio signal strength an  estimation of distance between the device and power source can be computed.
the rapid development in the field of information technology has led to the increase in need of techniques capable of providing security.
testing our method on the same dataset spx, the accuracy rates are 54.5% and 60% for disulfide connectivity pattern prediction and disulfide bridge prediction when the bonding state of cysteines is not known in advance.
the idioms represent the  graphical structure, without the probabilistic tables.
in order to avoid the intruder to attack the generated palette when transmission, the sender does not need to send the palette to the receiver directly, but instead asking the receiver to own a copy of the original secret image or obtain one when needed for extracting the secret message.
rfid tags are used to  track students’ movements and pdas are used as communication devices.
this method, however, greatly degrades the quality of the stegoimage and tends to arouse the intention of the intruders.
two variations of this method are presented: one that only takes into account the paths taken and one that also uses information about their lengths.
this study aimed to estimate the deflection angle of test images through polar fourier transform and phase correlation analysis, and rotate the reference image by the same angle to compensate for the deflection of the test image.
the mediator forms part of the group  of collaborative, with the specific role of facilitating the cooperative  activity.
as the number of cores increases, on-chip network will play an important role in the performance of future cmps.
precondition, prefix computation title of the paper: new computation of normal vector and curvature download full pdf authors: hyoung-seok kim, ho-sook kim abstract: the local geometric properties such as curvatures and normal vectors play important roles in analyzing the local shape of objects.
different value added update service schema was also analyzed.
the use of idioms  speeds-up the development of bayesian networks and improves their quality.
but the recognition rate is low when only one scale singular value vector is used for face recognition.
additionally, a new remote system dedicated to  the hardware-in-the-loop (hil) experimentation concerning the optimisation of  the performance of industrial controllers installed by the company, is  presented.
in this technique a large number of nodes are empowered to act as proxies to assign the addresses and most of the time it is one-hop communication.
in the end, the fields in which the redundancy could be applied  with significant results are highlighted.
abstract: this paper will explore the integration of learning modes into a single neural network structure in which layers of neurons or individual neurons adopt different modes.
keywords: anycast routing, anycast routing algorithm, genetic algorithm, service model title of the paper: a distributed e-business system based on conic curve download full pdf authors: xinxia song, zhigang chen
technologies from virtual reality (vr), the web, and  database are used to implement mid.
the cost of such approach is that algorithm can results in non-interpretable  solutions for some initial states (what is followed by assumption p ?
that is, information is carried and therefore flows.
using the continuous hopfield networks (chn) and to illustrate, from a  computational point of view, the advantages of chn by its implement in the  pecp.
in the paper there will be compared results gained depending on the used method: nonlinear iterative algorithm vs. filtering algorithm with emd.
experiments with two  representative decision tree algorithms, cart and c4.5 show very promising  results.
furthermore, we present three proven software project management techniques that were successfully adapted to the development of m-applications.
the method is based on the parabola interpolation and the geometric  properties of bezier curve.
keywords: sql, nlp, database, uml, nlidb, dbms, atn title of the paper: latent knowledge structures of traversal  behavior in hypertext environment download full pdf authors: perwaiz b. ismaili
the system integrates audio, video and common textual learning  tools depending on the student’s location and learning style needs.
keywords: multilayer perceptron, sample size, radial basis function  network, data mining title of the paper: sensitivity analysis of hopfield neural network  in classifying natural rgb color space download full pdf authors:
title of the paper: an anycast routing algorithm based on genetic  algorithm download full pdf authors: chun zhu, min jin abstract: anycast refers to  the transmission of data from a source node to (any) one member in the group of  designed recipients in a network, which has been defined a standard  communication model of ip version 6.
all considerations have a strong research background, our portal-based proposal for sustaining knowledge management in organizations being subject of some romanian research projects that are fitting in the european research demarches.
keywords: imprecise computation, fault tolerant control, real-time, fault detection, anytime computation title of the paper: adaptive knowledge discovery for decision support in intensive care units download full pdf authors: pedro gago, manuel filipe santos
the  validity of the proposed algorithm and the correctness of the performance  prediction have been proven with performance measurements.
keywords: data warehouse, higher education information system, etl, maintenance, dimensional model title of the paper: traceability-based incremental model synchronization download full pdf authors: istvan madari, laszlo angyal, laszlo lengyel abstract: model transformation is a crucial aspect of model-driven software development.
abstract: in mathematics, a sequence of sentences describes how to solve a problem; for instance, sentences, calculate the least common multiple of 10 and 15.
as an application of our modeling choices we redefine interaction, refinement and type checking rules in a concise manner, and then specify them using the useful specification functionalities of ocl 2.0, showing how novel definitions as well as their specification are easy to read, write and understand.
those are steps of accumulating, revealing, proposing and publishing.
title of the paper: agent-based mediation system to facilitate cooperation in distributed design download full pdf authors: victoria eugenia ospina, alain-jerome fougeres abstract: in this article we present the use of knowledge for a mediation system, developed to give support to participants in mechanical-system-designer activities.
the dgbl-id model consists of five phases: analysis, design, development, quality assurance as well as implementation and evaluation.
abstract: combining the  gps location-based services and the latest web2.0 technologies, this paper  builds a scalable personalized mobile information pushing platform, which can  provide user-friendly and flexible location-based service.
keywords: fractal, fbm, diamond-square, 3d terrain, opengl title of the paper: face recognition based on multi-scale singular value features download full pdf authors: ran jin, zhuojun dong abstract: singular value vecto r of an image is a valid feature for identification.
method was contrast.
abstract: in this paper we have analyzed some critical  implementation factors of an erp project implementation in universities and  their interdependencies.
furthermore, this paper puts forward a  new interesting measure to distinguish from the association rules interesting  degree.
abstract: based on  sampling likelihood and feature intensity, in this paper, a feature-preserving  denoising algorithm for point-sampled surfaces is proposed.
this article presents a mobile payment  implement solution with distributed key based on the current mobile  multi-interface.
unlike the decomposition approach, the chn is much faster and all the solutions  are feasible.
in this paper an iterative algorithm, based on the quasi-newton methods, is introduced with the objective to enhance resolution only by one single image.
abstract: using the utility-theory for the decision-making process during the negotiation between semantic web services is an appealing one.
abstract: this paper examines economic resource allocation through a number of auction types for a grid of ewaste computers.
keywords: multilayer perceptron, sample size, radial basis function network, data mining title of the paper: sensitivity analysis of hopfield neural network in classifying natural rgb color space download full pdf authors:
mapping between functions and structures has been realized  easily and the instance of closed loop in constrain resolve has been avoided  successfully.
title of the paper: personal identification by finger vein images  based on tri-value template fuzzy matching download full pdf authors: liukui chen, hong zheng abstract: to reduce the  effect of fuzzy vein edges and tips of the infrared finger vein recognition,  this paper presents a tri-value template fuzzy matching algorithm, which  segments the vein feature image into three areas: subject area, fuzzy area and  background area, and computes the average distance of non-background point to  non-background area as the dissimilarity score between the two templates.
the entire process guarantees the  security and reliability.
then, a new measure, called as n-confidence, is used to  restrict mining size in generation frequent sets, which can strain away the  weaksupport rules without correlation.
complex algorithms  used in present for encrypting/decrypting messages use complex keys and complex  encrypt/decrypt functions that need an increased computer power for real-time  applications (media).
serial acquisition structural images of a subjects brain are acquired over time offers opportunities to monitor the progression of tissue volume changes in fine detail at all anatomical locations.
keywords: magnetic resonance imaging, image registration, free-form deformation, alzheimers disease, statistical analysis, t-test title of the paper: public institutions investments with data mining techniques download full pdf authors: adela bara, ion lungu, simona vasilica oprea
it also discusses the characteristics of a good teaching language to help academics to choose an appropriate first programming language.
experiments with two representative decision tree algorithms, cart and c4.5 show very promising results.
abstract: recently, there is a growing interest among the researchers and  software developers in exploring learning classifier system (lcs) implemented  in parallel and distributed grid structure for data mining, due to its  practical applications.
hyontai sug abstract: even though radial basis function networks are known to have good prediction accuracy in several domains, it is not known to decide a proper sample size like other data mining algorithms, so the task of deciding proper sample sizes for the networks tends to be arbitrary.
the agents perform  specific tasks on the behalf of students, professors, administrators, and other  members of the university.
keywords: strips planning, block world, computational efficiency,  linear programming title of the paper: hierarchical clustering of distributed  object-oriented software systems: a generic solution for software-hardware  mismatch problem download full pdf authors: amal abd el-raouf
abstract: the explosion of the web has led to a situation where  a majority of the traffic on the internet is web related.
abstract: strips planning is a problem of finding of a set of actions that transform given initial state to desired goal situation.
based on the received radio signal strength an estimation of distance between the device and power source can be computed.
in order to avoid the intruder to attack the generated  palette when transmission, the sender does not need to send the palette to the  receiver directly, but instead asking the receiver to own a copy of the  original secret image or obtain one when needed for extracting the secret  message.
this paper presents hybridization between a ga algorithm and a pso algorithm (crossing the two algorithms).
title of the paper: efficient message authentication protocol for  wsn download full pdf authors: moises salinas rosales, gina gallegos garcia, gonzalo duchen  sanchez
the  classification process is performed using the minimization of an energy  function typically the sum of squared errors (sse).
the model is focused on the intuitive discovering of the roles and their assignment with permissions, using a test-driven approach.
keywords: autonomic computing, swarm-array computing, intelligent  agents, carrier agents title of the paper: developing ontology based applications with o3l download full pdf authors:
the neural networks almost exactly recover the watermarking signals from the watermarked images after training and learning.
abstract: this paper presents a  study of the sensitivity analysis of the artificial hopfield neural network  (hnn) when segmenting natural color images.
experimental results indicate that the proposed source-reverse transform can achieve efficient representation of image structure, and has promising application in image processing tasks.
due to heavyweight characteristic, many  researchers changed the focus to the lightweight reservation protocol.
the goal of our work is to introduce and verify an improved  multi-tier queueing network model for web-based software systems.
keywords: tactile perception, fabric mechanical properties,  regression analysis, textile property analysis title of the paper: identification of the most significant  properties influencing tactile fabric comfort using regression analysis download full pdf authors: les m. sztandera
in order to  establish more efficient distributed environment, in the current work, grid  computing architecture is considered a better distributed framework in  supervised classifier system (ucs).
divide 5 and 15 by 2.
these variables build up a complex relations map that requires the formulation of an exhaustive and rigorous conceptual scheme.
abstract: the purpose of this work is analysis of computational language concepts and introduction of novel pertinent ones in order to provide a new computational metamodel of interaction signatures in uml4odp fdis.
then we will illustrate the use of memorized knowledge by the mediator during an activity of technical functional analysis.
in addition, this paper proposes to incorporate both size and cost drivers together, with a fuzzy set using gaussian membership function.
this method  suffers from problems of feasibility of solutions and long training time.
a model of a simulated grid is developed and used to evaluate the resource allocation mechanisms.
also, we proposed a comparison framework of erp  solutions for higher education management using as starting point the  requirements of a romanian university.
the chipcflow project is described as a system to convert hll into a dynamic dataflow graph to be executed in dynamic reconfigurable hardware, exploring the dynamic reconfiguration.
keywords: imprecise computation, fault tolerant control, real-time,  fault detection, anytime computation title of the paper: adaptive knowledge discovery for decision  support in intensive care units download full pdf authors: pedro gago, manuel filipe santos abstract:  clinical decision support systems (cdss) are becoming commonplace.
finally we consider the three auction allocation mechanisms under a random task stream.
keywords: e-learning, animation skill, peer-assessment,  self-regulation, social cognitive title of the paper: data attribute reduction using binary conversion download full pdf authors:
‘5’ and ‘cannot divide’ are not 1 and 1.
however, paper based of work in progress information is inefficient in dealing with these unpredictable and complex workflows.
empirical mode decomposition can be treated as filtering procedure for image enhancement.
keywords: adaptive multi-constraints partitioning, hardware-software partitioning, embedded multiprocessor system, fpga system, hardware-software codesign title of the paper: intelligent entry control download full pdf authors: erik dovgan, matjaz gams abstract: entry control is an important issue for security and optimization reasons.
this paper examines stepwise regression analysis and identifies the  most significant properties influencing tactile fabric comfort.
one popular method to improve scalar multiplication is by means of hardware accelerators.
rlas integrates rfid tags, pocket pc (pda’s) and  a server to create a complete learning assessment system.
in  this paper, we propose new methods for computing normal vector and curvature  well, which are more intuitive than the previous methods.
abstract: the inclusion of analytical and experimental models in biomechanical studies leads to the obtainment of important data for the research concerning the human skeleton, its traumas and diseases.
extracting features in signature is an intense area due to complex human behavior, which is developed through repetition.
in the proposed  transform, the image is taken as the potential field and the virtual source of  the image is reversed imitating the gauss’s law.
and the last one is the extended metrix model, a stochastic project duration estimation model with schedule risk analysis elements.
xslt transformations or specialized parsers may easily convert such documents to rdf/xml semantic repositories.
keywords: computer aided design, conceptual design model, knowledge representation scheme, design catalogue, feature model, interface matrix title of the paper: rfid based learning assessment system download full pdf authors: v. drona, s. drona, c. rusell, m. h. n. tabrizi
the work also proposes a novel concept of negotiation-feedback using a novel data-structure, agreement table.
keywords: fault injection, reliability, systemc, system bus  dependability, system-on-chip (soc) issue 3, volume 8, march 2009 title of the paper: implementing lightweight reservation protocol  for mobile network using hybrid schema download full pdf authors: abdullah gani, lina yang, nor badrul anuar, omar zakaria, ros  surya taher abstract: this paper presents our method to improve  lightweight reservation protocol.
keywords: network flow; network algorithms; minimum cost flow problem  network algorithms; maximum flow; minimum flow; minimum cost flow; minimum cut title of the paper: achieving intelligent agents and its  feasibility in swarm-array computing?
title of the paper: crossing genetic and swarm intelligence  algorithms to generate logic circuits download full pdf authors: ceciia reis, j. a. tenreiro machado abstract:  genetic algorithms (gas) are adaptive heuristic search algorithm based on the  evolutionary ideas of natural selection and genetic.
abstract: this paper describes a solution for nodes and  message authentication problems in wireless sensor networks, this solution  allows effectively avoiding node-impersonation and messaging falsification  among the wsn nodes.
proposed algorithm can reduce time and  cost of forensic.
keywords: generalized noninterference, quantified propositional  satisfiability, multilevel security title of the paper: drila:
the algorithm is developed and tested for the construction of diffusion-limited aggregates.
by combining one or more of these reasons a problem can become a  ga-hard problem.
in this thesis, it used the feature images helping the classification of remote sensing and obtained good result.
power consumption is considered in addition to other design factors that are traditionally used.
keywords: computer vision, vehicle detection, image segmentation, image analysis, multilevel thresholding, autonomous vehicles title of the paper: triplet-based topology for on-chip networks download full pdf authors: wang zuo, zuo qi, li jiaxin abstract: most cmps use on-chip network to connect cores and tend to integrate more simple cores on a single die.
abstract: the automatic programming system has been considered  by means of which it becomes easier to carry out traditional programming  stages.
this classification tree also shows some features of signal processing of biological optic nerve.
keywords: case-based reasoning, fuzzy systems, relevance, taxonomies, knowledge management issue 9, volume 8, september 2009
in  this paper we present a dynamic-balanced scheduler for grid computing that  solves two typical kinds of problems of grid computing, using for them the  cycles of some resources of the grid.
but we cannot use larger and larger samples, because we have limited training examples, and there is some fluctuation in accuracy depending on the sample sizes.
obtained performance and comfort assessment  results are presented and discussed.
the resolution of the qkp via the chn is based on some energy or lyapunov  function, which diminishes as the system develops until a local minimum value  is obtained.
unlike the decomposition approach, the chn is much faster and all the solutions are feasible.
consequently,  too large of a solution space is formed to achieve hardware-software  partitioning.
some nodes may behave maliciously, resulting  in degradation of the performance of the network or even disruption of its  operation altogether.
while example sequences of sentences are given to our program, the program transforms the example sequences to generate a procedure, pg, to solve a problem.
our work focuses on the garment retrieval from the e-shopping database, which supports feature-based retrieval by shape categories and styles.
indexing the protein structure is one approach of searching for  protein similarities.
we evaluate three types of  resource-allocator agents which all use a type of auction.
the system is called generic interactive natural language  interface to databases (ginlidb).
the numerical results show the damage of bridge parts and provide a global understanding of bridge under blast loads.
the paper showcases a number of results  regarding the static and dynamic analysis of some biomechanical components by  using the finite element method (fem).
the effects of mesh size on pressure distribution produced by explosions are also studied.
since the frequency energy of different types of noise focuses on different frequency subband, the effect of corrupted noise on each frequency subband is different.
we focus on the  automatization of data acquisition avoiding human intervention, describing its  steps and some requirements.
it can resist most of the attacks by improving  nonce-based mutual authentication mechanism, and ensure the security by dynamic  session key.
the neural networks almost exactly recover the watermarking signals  from the watermarked images after training and learning.
the unification of signal and operation  interactions concepts is presented by introducing the parameterized interaction  concept.
abstract: a professional career selection is a complicated process for university student candidates and often little technical tolls are available for who aim to enter to the superior education system, since it is necessary to consider the incidence of a multiplicity of variables to obtain a satisfactory answer that comes near to the idea that they have preconceived.
results are 5 and cannot divide.
abstract: this paper presents a study of the sensitivity analysis of the artificial hopfield neural network (hnn) when segmenting natural color images.
with the help of a proper performance model and an appropriate evaluation algorithm, performance metrics can be predicted.
local slant is the longest slant among the detected slant while the global slant represents the highest quantity of classified slant whether the slant are leftward, upright or rightward.
abstract:  using the utility-theory for the decision-making process during the negotiation  between semantic web services is an appealing one.
web 2.0 world is wide  and rich.
experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and  effectiveness of the proposed approach on vehicle detection at night.
in this paper, an extended prime number address allocation (epna)  technique has been proposed that is conflict free and distributed technique.
the external knowledge base uses frame as its knowledge representation stored in rdf/xml format so that it can be placed on the www (world wide web) which is, ideally, accessible from anywhere.
the present work is based on cocomo dataset and the experimental part of the study illustrates the approach and compares it with the standard version of the cocomo.
the auction types are batch auction, continuous double auction and a pre-processed batch auction.
the purpose of this paper is to provide a solution for an erp (enterprise resource planning) system that could integrate all of a romanian heis department functionalities, to propose a model that describes how the concepts of user competence and role may optimize an erp system implementation in a romanian hei and to provide a possible architectural solution for developing a decision support system that can extract and report the information from the proposed erp system.
user may change his password freely.
in addition, unvoiced is usually eliminated.
therefore, we focused on how collaborative systems are  capable to sustain knowledge management and their impact on optimizing the km  life cycle.
the efficiency of proxy certificate which proposed as a practical solution in the field of dynamic delegation could not find solutions for its weaknesses which were the main motivation to work on this research trying to come up with new solution which integrates the pros of x.509 and the pros of proxy certificate to benefit from the specifications of each one and to avoid the weaknesses of them.
by applying the modified bilateral  filtering to each normal, and in combination with sampling likelihood and  feature intensity, the filtered point-sampled surfaces are obtained.
the initial 17  mechanical and 17 handfeel parameter sets were reduced to 4 and 5 properties,  respectively.
this research results in a web-based  environment consisting of major modules such as profiles, forums, and email  service for users to utilize.
we worked on a  supercomputer to run the pdla simulations, as well as a high performance server  for dla simulations.
this is particularly so in cases when current practices rely on conservative, engineering, decision.
as a result, misjudgment of the defect  detection system may occur.
most educational institutions teach programming using a procedural paradigm and an imperative language where the emphasis is often on learning a computer language and not on problem solving or the modeling of realistic computational problems.
keywords: learning classifier systems, ucs, genetic algorithm,  fitness, accuracy, data mining, grid computing, cloud computing, grid data  mining title of the paper: the effects of data mining in erp-crm model  – a case study of madar download full pdf authors: abdullah s. al-mudimigh, farrukh saleem, zahid ullah abstract: as enterprise resource planning (erp) implementation has become  more popular and suitable for every business organization, it has become a  essential factor for the success of a business.
abstract: nowadays, we have to deal with a large quantity  of unstructured data, produced by a number of sources.
abstract: data clustering plays an important role in various fields.
edge effect on field  strength is also eliminated using semi-infinite coplanar electrode  approximation.
there is also a strong case for  retraining many people who already have tertiary education, whether in the  workforce or not, to overcome to ominous ict skills dilemma.
keywords: embedded control and automation systems, iec 61131, iec  61499, 1131 function block model, iec61499 execution environment, execution  model semantics, factory automation title of the paper: an environment for describing software systems download full pdf authors:
the successful application of the application system  do show the efficiency of our ideas.
the clustering by compression procedure is based on a parameterfree, universal, similarity distance, the normalized compression distance or ncd, computed from the lengths of compressed data files (singly and in pair-wise concatenation).
as a practice with roots in corporate and information technology (it) governance, data governance emerged.
according to our simulation results, the proposed midbscan approach has low  execution time cost, a maximum deviation in clustering correctness rate and a  maximum deviation in noise data filtering rate.
such a system, now under construction, exploits the rapid  prototyping strategy of real-time computer controlled systems and is expected  to be added to ingerastm in the near future in order to be used remotely by the  engineers by means of virtual instrumentation.
in this paper a new block- ciphering algorithm, jea k-128 (for jamal encryption algorithm with a key of length 128 bits) is described.
we model the represented as an information  source and the representation an information carrier, and the  ‘representing’ relationship between them as that of ‘information  carrying’.
abstract:  a wireless ad-hoc network is a group of wireless devices that communicate with  each other without utilising any central management infrastructure.
agent-based technology has been taken as an important approach for developing advanced e-learning systems.
this paper concludes with discussion of new developments, challenges and opportunities.
keywords: mobile learning, e-learning-portfolio title of the paper: an imprecise computation framework for fault tolerant control design download full pdf authors: addison rios-bolivar, luis parraguez, francisco hidrobo, margarita heraoui, julima anato, francklin rivas abstract: in this work the existing relations between the imprecise computation and the fault tolerant control (ftc) are analyzed.
keywords: gps, tec, ionosphere, baseline, differential gps, transionospheric title of the paper: filtering vs. nonlinear estimation procedures for image enhancement download full pdf authors: barbara dzaja, mirjana bonkovic, spomenka bovan abstract: image enhancement methods can be divided into two groups: the ones that use only one single image and the ones that rely on specific training set or use multiple images.
finally, it is prototyped and validated by using a mobile music program to analyze performance of this framework.
in this study, we propose a useful bus  system vulnerability model and present a thorough analysis of system bus  vulnerability in systemc transaction-level modeling (tlm) design level by  injecting faults into the bus signals, which can assist us in predicting the  robustness of the system bus, in locating the weaknesses of the bus system, and  in understanding the effect of bus faults on system behavior during the soc  design phase.
in a large expert system, the knowledge base can be  represented using frames.
the value is determined by  aggregating each factor value and taking into consideration importance  coefficient.
these trust levels are then used in the  routing decision making process.
hence, an  electronic based of work in progress system is apparently required as to  overcome the shortcoming of the paper based tracking and also to enhance the  efficiency of production line.
furthermore, since these  operators are additional parts to the original ga, the algorithm can be further  improved by enhancing the operators, such as selection, crossover, and mutation.
rough set method has been recognized to be one of the powerful tools in the medical feature selection.
this model is  based on the two approaches.
keywords: game ai, reinforcement learning, conceptual learning,  semantic networks, serious games title of the paper: higher education erps: implementation factors  and their interdependecies download full pdf authors: ana-ramona bologa, mihaela muntean, gheorghe sabau, iuliana  scorta
abstract: due to high  dynamic computing environments of ubiquitous computing, it poses many  challenges for software middleware technologies.
this paper provides an overview of several different approaches to image texture analysis and demonstrates their use on the problem of land cover classification.
numerical results show the present methods are superior to the known methods in [6,11,16].
the proposed method is tested with cecc database and the results show  that the presented image recognition solution is effective and can greatly  improve the speed and consistency in performing large-scale surveys or
cryptography plays an important role in providing data  security.
compared with algorithms like apriori, this method avoids the  demerit of traversing the database repetitiously, and increases the efficiency  of association rule mining obviously in the use of sparse storage technique for  large-scale matrix.
this  grid is a test grid of eight nodes of heterogenous computer hardware and with  differing computational ability and energy usage.
in order to make the verification procedure terminate as soon as possible we also discuss how to integrate the window induction proof strategy in our technique.
with the help of model transformation, we can generate source code or other artifacts from software models.
concerning robot navigation we would like to apply efficient data  sketching algorithms for testing the automata inferred on robot motion tracking  problems as well as on maps sensorialy generated by robot exploration and  building map process.
keywords: information technology (it), data management, data integration, corporate governance, it governance, data governance, compliance title of the paper:
the processing procedure of searching for neighbors (neighborhood data points) is very time consuming in the existing well-known dbscan and idscan algorithms.
however, the real impact of integrating  web 2.0 technologies is to tie the flexibility of web 2.0 to service-oriented  principles of loose coupling, encapsulation, and reuse that are the heart and  soul of soa.
the concept of the construction of the methods is also be applied to 2d convection-diffusion equations.
as the size of samples grows, the improvement in error rates  becomes better slowly.
this paper describes this matching concept and its application in a case study of the development of a product lifecycle reporting tool at a large organization.
but the recognition  rate is low when only one scale singular value vector is used for face  recognition.
cost drivers also expressed through an unclear category which needs subjective assessment.
cor scheme cannot provide smooth handover as it affects the  smrp in mobile hosts.
results are ‘5’ and ‘cannot  divide’.
mahmoud z. iskandarani
abstract: this study proposes a  vehicle detection system for identifying the vehicles by locating their  headlights and rear-lights in the nighttime road environment.
moreover, a partitioning result with low power consumption and fast execution time is difficult to obtain since meeting simultaneously multi-constraints from hundreds of thousands of combinations of hardware-software partitions is difficult.
modern electronic products, such  as portable devices, consumer electronics and telematics, can be evaluated  rapidly in this platform via the implementation of a set of hardware and  software tasks.
then the new rules and patterns  suggested for the organization which helps the organization for solving the  problem of customers in future correspondence.
abstract:  apart from some other important semantic web service related processes such as  discovery, selection, composition etc., the process of negotiation is also  generally required in the semantic web based systems.
synthetic classifiers are made by classbench and used to simulate and evaluate performance of proposed designs.
considering comprehensibility and accuracy download full pdf authors:
this study aimed to estimate the deflection angle of  test images through polar fourier transform and phase correlation analysis, and  rotate the reference image by the same angle to compensate for the deflection  of the test image.
as the mobile  terminal's own unique portability, small size and low cost nature,it cause that  the mobile terminal weak ability of computing encryption.
for instance, the one writes a sentence from 1 to 10, repeat body, and also writes how the sentence body repeats its execution on the computer.
excessive time is needed and wasted in indentifying and correcting the errors.
one of the root causes for such a difficulty, is related to  the drastic fall in the number of students in field like computer engineering  and ict.
this paper examines the application of erp software in  romanian universities.
kleanthis thramboulidis abstract: the function  block (fb) model was first standardized by the 1131 standard of the  international electrotechnical commission (iec) for programmable controllers.
in his research kinshuk (2003), [2], concludes that the true potential of e-learning as anytime and anywhere has finally started to be realized with the advent of mobile learning, m-learning.
in  one of our previous works, we have shown the connection between the connex  components of a graph representation for the covering model and the guillotine  cuts.
these results  mean that the parallel algorithms developed by the structure of mesh network  can be executed in a faulty fhn.
keywords: incident management system, swarm intelligence, security  systems, cert, search algorithm, multiagent systems title of the paper: case-based reasoning and fuzzy logic in fault  diagnosis download full pdf authors:
abstract: developing decision support systems in public institutions such as  the national power grid companies require applying very efficient methods in  order to support the decisions.
the resulting protocol address authentication at two level  using identity based cryptography and message authentication codes with sha-1,  for node and message authentication respectively.
gheorghe sabau, mihaela munten, ana-ramona bologa, razvan bologa, traian surcel abstract: a higher education erp system can be used as a solution to integrate and increase the efficiency of the romanian university processes.
however, a number of improvements in measurement accuracy are necessary for todays applications.
next, an adaptive requirement framework is given in detail,  which can automatically tune middleware configuration parameters, and conduct a  safe and dynamic component composition to preserve the middleware qos  requirements.
however, methods are often not general or detailed enough for evaluation and  comparison.
this investigation  aims to present data clustering algorithm to identify potential musical  instruments teachers.
title of the paper: efficient message authentication protocol for wsn download full pdf authors: moises salinas rosales, gina gallegos garcia, gonzalo duchen sanchez
this is particularly important when assessment is more complex than a traditional pencil and paper variety.
keywords: steel truss bridge, blast load, hydrocode, bridge damage, ale method, numerical simulation title of the paper: texture defect detection system with image deflection compensation download full pdf authors: chun-cheng lin, cheng-yu yeh
it examines the time to complete tasks and the energy usage of completing the tasks on a grid.
as a result, the analysis of structural mri  data has been an active area of image analysis research for many years  especially in early diagnosis, tracking of disease progression, which makes it  possible to investigate how, for instance, a patient responds to treatment.
title of the paper: dealings with problem hardness in genetic  algorithms download full pdf authors: stjepan picek, marin golub abstract: genetic  algorithms (ga) have been successfully applied to various problems, both  artificial as well as real-world problems.
there is a probability of entering or recording the error information when it is in paper based system.
[5] rail track maintenance in  terms of track geometry and other modalities like rail profile,  ultrasonic’s etc has been typically based on use of reactive maintenance.
this paper firstly describes a middleware  called scudware for smart vehicle space in ubiquitous computing.
faces are then verified by linear discriminant analysis (lda) under these multiscale singular value vectors.
experiment results show that the fp-network mining association rule algorithm proposed by this paper not only inherits the merits of fp-growth algorithm, but also maintains and updates data conveniently.
hyontai sug abstract: because the target domain of data mining using decision trees usually contains a lot of data, sampling is needed.
rapid  determination of bacterial abundance, morphology.
the literature  on network flow problems is extensive, but these problems are described and  studied in networks in which only arcs could have finite capacities.
keywords: texture defect detection, image deflection compensation,  polar fourier transform, phase correlation analysis, gray level co-occurrence  matrix title of the paper: fault-tolerant mapping of a mesh network in a  flexible hypercube download
in this paper we propose an  information architecture to support an adjustment to the intcare system, an  intelligent decision support system for intensive medicine.
therefore, to shorten the time consumed, the proposed midbscan algorithm focuses lowering the number of expansion seeds added into the neighborhood data in this procedure, thus reducing the time cost of searching for neighbors.
the proposed algorithm also gives even ip address distribution and low complexity for small as well large sized manet.
the traditional paper based of work in progress information had been implementing as to manage the nozzles production.
title of the paper: the continuous hopfield networks (chn) for the placement of the electronic circuits
keywords: e-commerce, interior design, internet, multiuser  collaboration, reusable framework, three-tier architecture, virtual reality,  web-based title of the paper: digital game-based learning (dgbl) model and  development methodology for teaching history download full pdf authors: nor azan mat zin, wong seng yue, azizah jaafar
the evolution of information systems in these collaborative  environments led to the sudden necessity to adopt, for maintaining the virtual  activities/processes, the latest technologies/systems that are capable to  support integrated collaboration in business services.
a different measure is proposed, called the new negative slope coefficient (nnsc) measure, which aims to address certain drawbacks of the original method.
the color assignment to the clusters is performed based on combination  of information from the color palette used in the raw image and the last  distribution of the pixels among clusters.
for instance, a generated procedure, pgp, checks if a  given number is a prime number, another procedure, pgc, calculates the least  common multiple of any two numbers, and another procedure, pgf, adds given two  fractions.
keywords: hypertext, knowledge structures, navigation, traversal  patterns, content design, expertise title of the paper: performance assessment of search management  agent under asymmetrical problems and control design applications download full pdf authors: jukkrit kluabwang, deacha puangdownreong, sarawut sujitjorn abstract: the article presents the performance evaluation of the  management agent (ma) containing the adaptive tabu search (ats) as its search  core.
sometimes an ally, sometimes a foe, redundancy is an inherent feature of sensor networks that has to be very carefully examined in order to improve important aspects of their functioning.
analytical results show that epna is capable of auto-configuring any node without much latency and overhead irrespective of address space.
we will define the  types of knowledge defined for our proposed mediation system.
pickover stalks method created  biomorphs, diverse and complicated forms greatly resembling invertebrate  organisms.
the algorithm used for our visual analysis is closely connected to pickover stalks and buddhabrot method.
our interest is based on the fundamental problems in the randomized approximate testing algorithms.
the work also proposes a novel  concept of negotiation-feedback using a novel data-structure, agreement table.
then the knowledge  representation scheme for principle solving and the feature-based scheme for  interface representation are discussed.
in this paper, an object-oriented software library for the management of owl ontologies is presented.
keywords: decision trees, proper sample size determination title of the paper: semantic networks-based teachable agents in an  educational game download full pdf authors: harri ketamo abstract: the aim of the study was  to apply teachable agents into educational game meant for children less than 12  years of age and evaluate the outcome in context of cognitive psychology of  learning.
this paper shows the best integration of erp with customer relationship management (crm).
the suggestion is proved by experiments with promising results.
keywords: software component component composition behavioral compatibility behavioral substitutability title of the paper: a hybrid approach for indexing and searching protein structures download full pdf authors: tarek f. gharib
using opnet and matlab simulators, the  proposed approach is validated and further studied.
the costs incurred and benefits of implementing different quality practices over the software development life cycle are not well understood.
this paper firstly describes a middleware called scudware for smart vehicle space in ubiquitous computing.
after presenting the landscape inspiring the study research questions i conduct an investigation for evaluating aspects of knowledge management practice in romanian software engineering industry and discuss the major findings.
this methodology includes four modeling activities which are requirement analysis, conceptual model, navigation model and presentation model.
the establishment of medium-long transactions plays a significant role in the regulation of supply and demand, reducing price volatility and price discovery.
this paper  presents the variables involve in designing the algorithm for extracting the  slant feature.
specifically, this study attains a partitioning result with low power consumption and fast execution time.
the contribution of this work is to promote the dependability  verification to tlm abstraction level that can significantly enhance the  simulation performance, and provide the comprehensive results to validate the  system bus dependability in early design phase for safety-critical applications.
keywords: collaboration, collaborative environments, knowledge  management, distributed knowledge management, collaborative systems, portals,  knowledge portals.
wireless adapters  the modern mobile devices are equipped with can monitor radio power strength of  the emitting sources nearby.
it improves the efficiency of association rule mining significantly.
in this paper, a extensive set of complementary services via internet denominated ingerastm that provide rapid and effective access to industrial machinery, supplied by the basque company ingelectric s. a., is described.
two modal learning ideas are presented:  the snap-drift neural network (sdnn) which toggles its learning between two  modes, is incorporated into an on-line system to provide carefully targeted  guidance and feedback to students; and an adaptive function neural network  (adfunn), in which adaptation applies simultaneously to both the weights and  the individual neuron activation functions.
as an average, the ma(ats) is about 2 times faster than the ats under both symmetrical and asymmetrical problems.
the performance of the proposed device was evaluated on twelve healthy subjects performing multi-directional point-and-select task with throughput as the main performance parameter.
toward developing medium-long term spot trading e-transaction platform for bulk agricultural product in china download full pdf authors: zheng xiaoping, wang ruimei, tian dong, zhang xiaoshuan
also, we proposed a comparison framework of erp solutions for higher education management using as starting point the requirements of a romanian university.
the approach is based upon the use  of utility functions in the negotiation process and uses multiple attributes as  the basis of negotiation.
this system was established for the rural  land managers to explore their land use options.
in response to the significant changes in the competitive climate of public sector higher education institutions (heis), the romanian universities face the need to improve operational efficiency by implementing advanced information systems.
performing synchronization  manually can be an error prone task due to the number and complexity of model  elements.
in the model, a  structural graph-tree has been constituted by assembly feature as a basic unit.
eye tracking data is valuable in measuring reading patterns, user experience and reflects the specific parts of an image or documents that attract the users interest.
abstract: image texture analysis has received a considerable amount of attention over the last few years as it has played an important role in the classification of the remote sensing images.
abstract: during the software lifecycle, the software structure is subject to many changes in order to fulfill the customers requirements.
when there is any angular difference between the reference  and test images, their textural features would also be different, even if there  is no defect in the test image.
edge effect on field strength is also eliminated using semi-infinite coplanar electrode approximation.
performing synchronization manually can be an error prone task due to the number and complexity of model elements.
the paper focuses on the execution semantics of the 61499 standard since this is one of the most important reasons that the industry has not yet accepted this standard.
fortunately, there are several image pools which contain a lot of  images allowing to be accessed by the public.
a dynamics model of hydraulic ial with the nonlinear damper control parameters and hip torque was set up, and an inverse dynamic compound controller based on pd-cmac for tracking the knee swing was designed.
therefore, to shorten the time consumed, the proposed midbscan algorithm  focuses lowering the number of expansion seeds added into the neighborhood data  in this procedure, thus reducing the time cost of searching for neighbors.
a universe of 48 fabrics is examined to analyze and map the relations.
both are responsible to design the policies and strategies for the superior education in venezuela.
keywords: mutual authentication, rsa, smart card title of the paper: mathematical modeling and numerical analysis of  the programming field in peo10licf3so3-polypyrrole neural switch download full pdf authors:
this investigation aims to present data clustering algorithm to identify potential musical instruments teachers.
the proposed algorithm also gives even ip address distribution  and low complexity for small as well large sized manet.
pace is currently running resourcefully but it is facing a few  problems such as the difficulties of each faculty officer to get information  about private colleges, and a lack of information management in private  colleges itself.
abstract: an embedded multiprocessor field programmable gate array (fpga
the reported beta coefficients are the standardized regression coefficients.
keywords: visual search, visual similarity, garment, cbir, non-rigid  matching, shape context title of the paper: a visual αnalysis of calculation-paths of  the mandelbrot set download full pdf authors: raka jovanovic, milan tuba abstract: in this  paper we present a new method for analyzing some properties of the mandelbrot  set.
such a switch will function as a synaptic processor behaving in  an adaptive manner and suitable to be used as a compact programmable device  with other artificial neural network hardware.
serial acquisition  structural images of a subject’s brain are acquired over time offers  opportunities to monitor the progression of tissue volume changes in fine  detail at all anatomical locations.
abstract: searching for structural similarities of proteins has a central role in bioinformatics.
for instance, a generated procedure, pgp, checks if a given number is a prime number, another procedure, pgc, calculates the least common multiple of any two numbers, and another procedure, pgf, adds given two fractions.
due to the  fact that the wind speed significantly fluctuates even during a day at the same  location, the wind power output is difficult to be forecasted by statistical  methods.
our system is generic in nature given  the appropriate database and knowledge base.
keywords: data, class, persistence, container, serialization, xml,  tree, list, c++, wxwidgets, wxxmlserializer, wxxs title of the paper: an rdf-based distributed expert system download full pdf authors: napat prapakorn, suphamit chittayasothorn
achieved information  about logic dissipated power was obtained using an efficient dedicated  simulator.
then, a new measure, called as n-confidence, is used to restrict mining size in generation frequent sets, which can strain away the weaksupport rules without correlation.
full pdf authors: xianhu meng, yan wang, wenyu zhang, jinqi meng
thus, students' first programs are written as sequences, selections and iterations of given functions and it is in the later stages of the course, that they learn the basic constructs of the language.
the  support vector machine (svm) is trained to compute the connectivity  probabilities of cysteine pairs.
complex algorithms used in present for encrypting/decrypting messages use complex keys and complex encrypt/decrypt functions that need an increased computer power for real-time applications (media).
the proposed hybrid model could function  as an effective tool for clinical diagnostics in the future clinical  circumstance.
keywords: asymmetrical surface optimization problems, adaptive tabu search, management agent title of the paper: redundancy and its applications in wireless sensor networks:
each of the four modules produces an explanation that categorizes an event as alarm or normal, and the system proposes the final suggestion with explanation.
keywords: personal identification; infrared finger vein; tri-value template; fuzzy matching title of the paper: the relationship of sample size and accuracy in radial basis function networks download full pdf authors:
in  this paper we study minimum flow an algorithm in bipartite networks with unit  capacities combining an algorithm for minimum flow in bipartite networks with  an algorithm for minimum flow in unit capacity networks.
in this paper, a novel image transform is proposed imitating the  source reverse of magneto-static field.
for that reason, a model synchronization method is necessiated to resolve inconsistency between the modified models.
the emergence of mobile phone virus is also a potential security threat to mobile payment.
keywords: access control systems, role based access control systems rbac, role engineering, authorization, roles, permissions, constraints, role hierarchies.
several surveys performed during the last 15 years expose a  relatively poor performance in delivering successful software projects.
abstract: steganography is an application of data hiding which can attain camouflage and increase security by embedding the secret message into digital media for sending to the receiver without leaking to the third party.
this  paper presents architecture for implementing a multi-agent system within the  context of a learning environment.
the purpose of this paper is to propose a flexibility solution and new mashup platforms for e-applications and interactive services.
the entire process guarantees the security and reliability.
through the establishment of transaction-item association matrix, this paper changes the process of association rule mining to elementary matrix operation, which makes the process of data mining clear and simple.
this paper proposes a  computational model for the calculation of utilities of the negotiating  semantic web services.
these features guided us to add  "cut point heuristic" to hicuts, one of the most efficient algorithms  and resulted in two new optimized designs for hicuts, named b-hicuts and hist.
abstract: we consider the cutting and covering problem with guillotine restrictions.
after that, a component dynamic behavior model is presented.
there is discussed both recursive forms: parallel, interrecursion and  recursion of high level that exist for functional programming languages and  induction methods for the purpose of their verification.
however the increase of network traffic is huge, doing the analysis of traffic  data complicated.
there is a probability of entering or recording the error  information when it is in paper based system.
rfid tags are used to track students movements and pdas are used as communication devices.
previously unknown knowledge can be extracted from that data in order to create prediction and decision models.
drila allows discovery of distributed relational rules using data from distributed relational databases.
it consists of a collection of sites, each of which maintains a local database system, or a collection of multiple, logically interrelated databases distributed over a computer network.
keywords: genetic algorithm, paramecium, traveling salesman problem,  graph coloring problem, evolutionary algorithm title of the paper: design & development of collaborative  workflow for lean production in a repair & overhaul industry download full pdf authors: teh ying wah, ng hooi peng, ching sue hok, lai mei yoon
keywords: collaboration, collaborative environments, knowledge management, distributed knowledge management, collaborative systems, portals, knowledge portals.
keywords: slant feature, online signature, signature recognition,  signature analysis, dynamic signature title of the paper: a magneto-statics inspired transform for  structure representation and analysis of digital images download full pdf authors: xiao-dong zhuang, nikos e. mastorakis
through a quasi-experiment instruction, this paper was to examine the learning effects of the system with mechanisms of diverse assessment.
the paper aims to illustrate an enhanced process model for role engineering.
apparently, the robustness of system bus plays an  important role in the soc reliability.
keywords: tactile perception, fabric mechanical properties, stepwise regression analysis, standardized importance factors, textile property analysis title of the paper: web-based multiuser interior design with virtual reality technology download full pdf authors: yen-chun lin, chen-chuan pan abstract: a web-based interior design application system, named multiuser interior design (mid), is presented.
title of the paper: agent-based mediation system to facilitate  cooperation in distributed design download full pdf authors: victoria eugenia ospina, alain-jerome fougeres abstract: in this article we present the use of knowledge for a mediation  system, developed to give support to participants in mechanical-system-designer  activities.
there are  several applications that arise in practice and that can be reduced to a  specific network flow problem in a network in which also nodes have limited  capacity.
keywords: steganography, palette optimization, minimum spanning tree title of the paper: a novel field-source reverse transform for  image structure representation and analysis download full pdf authors: x. d. zhuang, n. e. mastorakis
the main results obtained (1) a searching path of a fhn is including approximate to (n+1) nodes, where n=2logn. therefore, there are o() faults, which can be tolerated.
abstract: in this paper the principle of fractal theory and fractal brownian motion (fbm) are analyzed in detail.
keywords: sql, nlp, database, uml, nlidb, dbms, atn title of the paper: latent knowledge structures of traversal behavior in hypertext environment download full pdf authors: perwaiz b. ismaili
keywords: p2p network, replication mechanism, load transfer, synchronize mechanism, data update consistency, load balance, reliability title of the paper: a new recognition method for natural images download full pdf authors: weiren shi, zuojin li, xin shi, zhi zhong abstract: natural images recognition is an important area of machine vision.
abstract: the influence of  computer technology on the human activities has greatly increased during the  last three decades, due to major developments in the vlsi technology.
in the first phase, the discernibility strings that are the concatenation of some of features between two different cases construct the feature forest.
abstract: user authentication is an important security mechanism for recognizing legal remote users.
keywords: data mining (dm), decision support systems (dss), wind  power plant (wpp), wind power forecast, measured weather parameters title of the paper: improving performance in integrated dss with  object oriented modeling download full pdf authors: adela bara, vlad diaconita, ion lungu, manole velicanu abstract: the development cycle of a decision support system involves many  resources, time and high cost and above all, the database schema used in the  system is built only for some specific tasks.
the result of the geometric operations  such as mesh simplification and mesh smoothing is dependent on how to compute  the normal vectors and the curvatures of vertices, because there are no exact  definitions of the normal vector and the discrete curvature in meshes.
we have designed and developed an intelligent entry system consisting of four independent modules: expert system, micro learning, macro learning and camera.
experimental results using  dynamic-balanced scheduler show that it is possible to obtain an improved use  of the resources in the grid.
keywords: data warehouse, higher education information system, etl,  maintenance, dimensional model title of the paper: traceability-based incremental model  synchronization download full pdf authors: istvan madari, laszlo angyal, laszlo lengyel abstract: model transformation is a crucial aspect of model-driven software  development.
keywords: ubiquitous computing, adaptive middleware, component-based technology title of the paper: blind watermark algorithm based on hvs and rbf neural network in dwt domain download full pdf authors: yanhong zhang
the network simulation experimental results show that this algorithm can capable of finding optimization anycast routing path and getting more resolution at less time and more balanced network load, enhancing the search ratio.
this  paper will cover the standard of digital certificates and its relation with  dynamic delegation, focusing on the weaknesses of applying these standards to  dynamic delegation then we propose our solution to make it applicable and more  efficient to apply dynamic delegation to digital certificate standards.
instead of using a single number to represent the size, it can be characterized  as a fuzzy value.
keywords: intelligent artificial leg, compound control, dynamic  model, cerebellar model articulation controller title of the paper: numerical simulation of bridge damage under  blast loads download full pdf authors: rong-bing deng, xian-long jin
keywords: balanced tree, hicuts, heuristic, packet classification, packet filter, router, tcam title of the paper: empirical determination of sample sizes for multi-layer perceptrons by simple rbf networks download full pdf authors: hyontai sug abstract: its well known that the computing time to train multilayer perceptrons is very long because of weight space of the neural networks and small amount of adjustment of the wiights for convergence.
this paper aims to determine the protocol which  outperforms others when the parameters mentioned above are taken into  consideration.
our model introduces functions and modules as  basic building blocks for producing software.
as a subfield of  machine learning, grammatical inference (gi) attempts to learn structural  models, such as grammars, from diverse data patterns, such as speech,  artificial and natural languages, sequences provided by bioinformatics  databases, amongst others.
significant research is needed to understand the  economics of implementing quality practices and its behaviour.
this paper presents a transnational hierarchical global patch consistent model called thgpcm (transnational hierarchical global patch consistent model).
the first one is the estimation of m-application project duration using top-down and bottom-up approaches.
thus, the teaching is dependent on the chosen language, which is not entirely appropriate for teaching principles of programming or sd as an engineering activity.
the network simulation experimental results show that this algorithm  can capable of finding optimization anycast routing path and getting more  resolution at less time and more balanced network load, enhancing the search  ratio.
in this paper we aim at presenting a partitional clustering algorithm for identifying crosscutting concerns in existing software systems.
keywords: mutual authentication, rsa, smart card title of the paper: mathematical modeling and numerical analysis of the programming field in peo10licf3so3-polypyrrole neural switch download full pdf authors: mahmoud z. iskandarani
keywords: grid computing, resource allocation, auctions, e-waste, energy consumption title of the paper: improving the etl process and maintenance of higher education information system data warehouse download full pdf authors: igor mekterovic, ljiljana brkic, mirta baranovic abstract: heis (higher education information system) is a project funded by the croatian ministry of science, education and sports started in the year 2001.
several proposed methods which construct stegoimage by embedding the secret  message into the colour palette.
from  a developer’s perspective, there are two types of benefits that can accrue  from the implementation of good software quality practices and tools: money and  time.
we propose an available  and secure authentication scheme for service provider to verify users without  using verification table.
the combination of the two modal learning methods, in the form of snap-drift adaptive function neural network (sadfunn) is then applied to optical and pen-based recognition of handwritten digits with results that demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.
abstract: in this paper we propose  an algorithmic verification technique to check generalized noninterference.
our results for the mapping methods are optimized mainly for balancing the processor and communication link loads.
experimental results conducted on beowulf cluster are presented to demonstrate the viability of our work as well as the efficiency of the parallel algorithm.
however, the functionality is markedly increased, resulting in  a significant raise in the number of hardware and software tasks.
in this new method  for recognition, first supervised classification is conducted to the natural  images based on their label value, then independent components linear  transforms are conducted to each category of samples, high-dimensional data are  transformed to irrelevant independent components, and finally the probability  distance between independent component subspaces is used for unsupervised  classification.
models, representing parts of the human upper limb, have been studied using static trials.
to avoid too many communication traffics during inferences,  a distributed expert system, an expert system with an inference engine on its  external knowledge base side is presented.
keywords: data mining (dm), decision support systems (dss), wind power plant (wpp), wind power forecast, measured weather parameters title of the paper: improving performance in integrated dss with object oriented modeling download full pdf authors: adela bara, vlad diaconita, ion lungu, manole velicanu abstract: the development cycle of a decision support system involves many resources, time and high cost and above all, the database schema used in the system is built only for some specific tasks.
the second one is the use of a set of performance metrics for project quality assessment.
it allows users to operate in the vr  fashion, interacting with 3d virtual objects and spaces through a web browser.
many subimages are obtained when the face image is divided in different scales, with all singular values of each subimage organized and used as an eigenvector of the face image.
rough set method has  been recognized to be one of the powerful tools in the medical feature  selection.
the  aim of the paper is to investigate and analyze brain tissue changes in  alzheimer’s disease using nonrigid medical image registration and  statistical analysis techniques.
an ionospheric delay model was developed to accurately  determine the difference in ionospheric delay expected over a short baseline so  that a more accurate differential gps correction could be made.
the proposed model uses multiple attribute in the utility function and uses the basic values of these attributes such as values for offered price, quality and others.
another study was carried out in order to determine the dynamic behavior of the model for total arm prosthesis, using fem.
one of them is an enhanced system for host security auditing which is based on nessus and runs on a pc server under linux.
keywords: data grid, e-government; metadata; global naming; data  discovery issue 4, volume 8, april 2009
the first stage is a fast automatic multilevel thresholding, which separates the bright objects from the grabbed nighttime road scene images.
keywords: frames, expert system, knowledge base, rdf, rdf/xml,  ontology title of the paper: design of an intrusion detection system based  on bayesian networks download full pdf authors: milan tuba, dusan bulatovic abstract: this paper  describes a structure of a standalone intrusion detection system (ids) based on  a large bayesian network.
the value is determined by aggregating each factor value and taking into consideration importance coefficient.
the registration part must be guarded against any malicious attacks that might try to take illegitimate advantage from any participating principal.
this paper explains our program that generates procedures, one after another, each of which solves one mathematical problem.
it examines the time to complete  tasks and the energy usage of completing the tasks on a grid.
keywords: e-services, uml, uwe, pace, uum, e-suv title of the paper: a consistency maintenance project independent  relationship of distributed data copy for supply chain management download full pdf authors: jui-wen hung
an algorithm was developed to improve the recognition rate.
todays sites are no longer limited to exchanging links and interacting via hypertext; instead, the interconnectedness of the internet has become progressively more important with the rise of web services.
the results show an enhancement in the memory usage with factor 50%.
the selection of the architecture of a neural network suitable to solve a given problem is one of the most important aspects of neural network research.
abstract: representation is a key concept for semiotics and for information systems.
but it has such as low efficiency, long time, and some other  shortcomings in measuring length, area and calculating the amount of small  object, especially for the project area with more complex terrain.
the source code clustering is used for the purpose of  recovering the artifacts, understanding the system and identifying the  relationships among the source code to plan, design and execute the changes in  the software systems.
data mining is overwhelming the integration in this model by giving support for applying best algorithm to make the successful result.
in one of our previous works, we have shown the connection between the connex components of a graph representation for the covering model and the guillotine cuts.
keywords: bp neural network, edge detection ,wastewater bacteria,  contour invariant moment title of the paper: algorithm for optimal dimensioning of three  phase and mono phase electric power lines implemented in java download full pdf authors: cristian abrudean, manuela panoiu
in order to have a reasonable performance, the hypotheses search algorithm was implemented to allow construction of new hypotheses by refining previously constructed hypotheses, thereby avoiding the work of re-computing.
keywords: payment security, mobile payment, data encryption, mobile terminal, j2me, mobile interface
the resulting protocol address authentication at two level using identity based cryptography and message authentication codes with sha-1, for node and message authentication respectively.
keywords: clinical decision support, intelligent decision support systems, knowledge discovery, intensive care, ensembles, multi-agent systems
our normal vector  computation algorithm is able to compute the normal vectors more accurately and  is available to meshes of arbitrary topology.
formalisation of the procedures and workflows brings the  need for specialised tools, helping with incident categorisation, authorisation  of incident origin and general workflow.
in this paper, an object-oriented software  library for the management of owl ontologies is presented.
through the use of an extensive database that correlates sensory and mechanical properties with tactile comfort assessments, desired comfort can be predicted by measuring a limited number of properties.
related to this, dataflow architecture, can be obtained directly from the cdfg.
their absolute  magnitudes reflect their relative importance in predicting comfort values.
keywords: balanced tree, hicuts, heuristic, packet classification,  packet filter, router, tcam title of the paper: empirical determination of sample sizes for  multi-layer perceptrons by simple rbf networks download full pdf authors: hyontai sug
the training stage is very important in the anns performance.
the study was done in two phases: design phase and evaluation phase (n=300).
keywords: generalized noninterference, quantified propositional satisfiability, multilevel security title of the paper: drila:
the over all aim of this research paper is to propose a predictive maintenance frame work that would assist in predicting future changes in rail track geometry measurements.
the chipcflow consists of various parts: the compiler to convert the c program into a dataflow graph; the operators and its instances; the tagged-token; and the matching data.
we also analysis its security.
we explore how the efficacy and the efficiency of representation may be measured, which seems overlooked in available literature of information systems and organizational semiotics.
firstly divide 10 and 15 by 2.
experiments were made with orl human face image databases.
to test the efficiency of these proposals, new simulation environments, integrating both agents and network components, are required.
in order to represent the  ontology protege 3.1.1 tool is used, based on the ontological language for the  web: owl (web ontology language) and; finally, to accede and to visualize the  ontology, an application based on the semantic web is developed.
keywords: neural, numerical, finite element, mathematical, memory, information processing, polymers title of the paper: recent advances in data management download full pdf authors:
the roles of intelligent agents within an e-learning system, called e-university, are presented.
the challenge is to perform those tasks in real-time, in order to assist the doctors in the decision making process.
keywords: mobile ip, mobility agents, confidentiality,  authentication, attack prevention and registration delay title of the paper: architecture for address auto-configuration in  manet based on extended prime number address allocation (epna)
data mining is  overwhelming the integration in this model by giving support for applying best  algorithm to make the successful result.
furthermore, a notation system has been presented for representation of the model.
in terms of moving least squares surface, the sampling likelihood for each point on point-sampled surfaces is computed, which measures the probability that a 3d point is located on the sampled surface.
abstract: in this paper are followed the necessary steps for the realisation of the maps coloring, matter that stoud in the attention of many mathematicians for a long time.
a process that matches the quality profile of final product during product derivation helps provide and validate industrial software application solutions.
we evaluate three types of resource-allocator agents which all use a type of auction.
the paper elaborates the rule of global naming, brings forward metadatas registration and storage on the naming rule, and explores how to use it to find out the long-distance data resources rapidly.
for that reason, a model synchronization method is necessiated to  resolve inconsistency between the modified models.
to combat that, there have been serious changes in national education  policies, and the way universities and other training institutions conduct  their business to inspire young students to choose ict for their studies.
keywords: protein structures, indexing, suffix array, wavelet title of the paper: symbolic algorithmic verification of generalized noninterference download
in this paper the development of the rlas system is described and its use as a tool to develop and execute individualized learning environments for students in k-12 is considered.
in model-driven technologies, where processing is carried out as a  series of model transformations, applying model transformations can also be a  reasonable option for the reconciliation.
due to heavyweight characteristic, many researchers changed the focus to the lightweight reservation protocol.
according to the great development  of it, the current web-based learning systems need to be as effective as human  tutors.
then we will  illustrate the use of memorized knowledge by the mediator during an activity of  technical functional analysis.
abstract: cesnet-certs, the computer security incident response team of the cesnet association in prague, czech republic, uses several security tools based on freely licensed programs.
in this paper we propose a mathematical  formulation in order to determine the optimal number of hidden layers and good  values of weights.
the idioms represent the graphical structure, without the probabilistic tables.
we explore how the efficacy and the efficiency of representation may be  measured, which seems overlooked in available literature of information systems  and organizational semiotics.
specifically, in  this work we use auction and tender economical models.
abstract: in this paper are followed the necessary steps for the  realisation of the map’s coloring, matter that stoud in the attention of  many mathematicians for a long time.
as a result of generating a procedure, pg, the program, pi,  acquires implicitly rules of a grammar that produce sentences.
keywords: game ai, reinforcement learning, conceptual learning, semantic networks, serious games title of the paper: higher education erps: implementation factors and their interdependecies download full pdf authors: ana-ramona bologa, mihaela muntean, gheorghe sabau, iuliana scorta
although a variety of web 2.0 oriented ontologies and microformats have been widely adopted or even standardized (dublin core, foaf, xfn etc.), in order to achieve semantic interoperability, there are scenarios in which user-relative semantics are especially important, such as in the development of customization engines (web session customization, recommender systems, targeted advertising), when a certain user must only share semantics with himself or with similar persons.
based on an initial set of curvature points, our approach adds  iteratively significant points by looking for the higher curvature contour  points.
keywords: convection-diffusion equation, finite difference, parallel  computation, exponential-type transformation, alternating group title of the paper:
as a result, all the possible clustering solutions that could be applied to the target software application are generated.
keywords: software quality, quality cost model, tqm, cost optimization, roi calculation title of the paper: realization of e-university for distance learning download full pdf authors:
the integrated services model relies on the resource reservation protocol (rsvp) for signaling and reserving resources.
the results show that the hybrid scheme can support seamless and also efficient smrp path rerouting during handoff in respect of decreased the drop probability.
by compensating for the deflection of the test image, the accuracy of the texture defect detection could be effectively enhanced.
a survey download full pdf authors: daniel-ioan curiac, constantin volosencu, dan pescaru, lucian jurca, alexa doboli abstract: in this paper we presented and classified various approaches for redundancy in the area of wireless sensor networks, related to sensing, communication and information processing.
with this model it is possible to minimize the cost of switching between design alternatives, when the current choice cannot fulfill the quality constraints.
indexing the protein structure is one approach of searching for protein similarities.
the suffix arrays are used to index protein structure and  the wavelet is used to compress the indexed database.
however, their use in the realization of applications might be further increased by the availability of more usable and efficient software library for the management of ontologies.
protecting the integrity of learning assessments, in any form, often involves complicated procedures and adjustments to the assessment process and environment.
the test results demonstrated that , when compared to the svm-based  classification models, our proposed technique with superior classification  performance could discriminate difference between the right and left side
we run multithreaded commercial benchmarks on multi-core simulator gems to generate practical traffics and simulate these traffics on network simulator garnet.
title of the paper: a fast geometric rectification of remote sensing imagery based on feature ground control point database download full pdf authors: jian yang, zhongming zhao
when the changes are performed, the source code drifts away from  the existing available system documentation (specifications, design, manuals),  which represent the functionality of the software systems.
therefore, the proposed binary conversion (bc) is a novel method to solve this kind of large attribute problem in machine learning.
the initial 17 mechanical and 17 handfeel parameter sets were reduced to 4 and 5 properties, respectively.
the way how to present imperative languages easy and double cycles by means of recursion forms is shown, the possibility of verification has been studied for each recursion form.
abstract: this paper is divided into four parts: the first one introduces  sadex, a fuzzy case based reasoning (cbr) system for fault diagnosis.
and the same time, points the  limitation of this algorithm.
finally, we present  the applications of the minimum flow problem in bipartite networks with unit  capacities.
a prototype system has been implemented in support of the  proposed model.
finally we consider the three auction allocation mechanisms under a  random task stream.
on the other and, aiming at the demerits in fp-growth algorithm, this paper proposes a fp-network model which compresses the data needed in association rule mining in a fp-network.
in this paper we  also present in detail important features of our software.
these constraints are mainly imposed by the  procedural programming paradigm and the device centric approach that are  adopted by the standard.
gheorghe sabau, mihaela munten, ana-ramona bologa, razvan  bologa, traian surcel abstract: a higher education erp system can  be used as a solution to integrate and increase the efficiency of the romanian  university processes.
the lack of creativity in history teaching caused process effectively and interestingly especially among young learners.
the existing research is reviewed and organized to summarize what we know about their usage.
in this work we present a kdd based architecture for cdss for  intensive care medicine.
the framework was applied to four of the top higher education management solutions.
keywords: access control systems, role based access control systems  – rbac, role engineering, authorization, roles, permissions, constraints,  role hierarchies.
determination of the differential ionospheric  error to sub-centimetre accuracy is described in this paper utilizing a  developed model.
a different measure is proposed, called the  new negative slope coefficient (nnsc) measure, which aims to address certain  drawbacks of the original method.
the establishment of medium-long transactions plays a  significant role in the regulation of supply and demand, reducing price  volatility and price discovery.
in a way it replaces pencil, paper, ruler and compass with equivalent computer tools.
this paper aims to determine the protocol which outperforms others when the parameters mentioned above are taken into consideration.
this scheme is composed of two parts, constructing license and validating license.
keywords: array code; mds; raid; two-disk fault-tolerance; efficient decoding; decoding complexity
this paper will describe the configurable and  customizable work in progress tracking system as a mean to improve over the  traditional paper based system.
we evaluate the performance of smrp in a mobile network environment.
to overcome this, this paper puts forward the concept of a model for automatic data resource discovery in the data grid environment for e-government applications.
the person who receives the stegoimage can extract the secret message from the palette obtained by the received image.
we evaluate the performance of smrp in a  mobile network environment.
based on the normal tensor voting, the feature intensity of sample point is evaluated.
abstract: in this work will be presented the elaboration of an educational informatics system for doing geometry on a computer.
abstract: this paper presents a method for encrypting messages, which uses for this operation an image or a part of an image as an encryption/decryption key.
in this study we highlight latest trends and evolution of mobile  social networking and online-communities.
finally a cyclic solving approach to  conceptual design is put forward, and an interface matrix is applied to  facilitate computer processing.
in this paper we apply the data mining techniques on the available measured weather data in order to predict the wind power output and determine the financial feasibility of investment.
title of the paper: research on cyclic mapping model and solving approach for conceptual design download full pdf authors:
we further show how to reduce counterexamples search and induction proof to quantified propositional satisfiability.
obtained performance and comfort assessment results are presented and discussed.
abstract: nowadays, there is a growing number of e-government portals and  solutions that provide integrated governmental data resources to the customers  (citizens, enterprises or other public sectors).
however, the real impact of integrating web 2.0 technologies is to tie the flexibility of web 2.0 to service-oriented principles of loose coupling, encapsulation, and reuse that are the heart and soul of soa.
significant research is needed to understand the economics of implementing quality practices and its behaviour.
foremost, we address improvements in the etl process and maintenance process.
therefore, we looked into the pedagogy and game  design aspects.
the goals of this work are to solve the placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp) using the continuous hopfield networks (chn) and to illustrate, from a computational point of view, the advantages of chn by its implement in the pecp.
keywords: serious games, dgbl, instructional design (id), history  educational game, video games title of the paper: adaptive multi-constraints in hardware-software  partitioning for embedded multiprocessor fpga systems download full pdf authors: trong-yen lee, yang-hsin fan, chia-chun tsai
protein  structure indexing using suffix array and wavelet (psisaw) is a hybrid approach  that provides the ability to retrieve similarities of proteins based on their  structures.
based on an initial set of curvature points, our approach adds iteratively significant points by looking for the higher curvature contour points.
the paper highlights the some aspects of the lcs and studying the competitive data mining model with homogeneous data.
certain advantages may be observed when the sizing systems are  established, using fuzzy clustering-based data mining procedure.
keywords: software test, distributed test platform, test driver , test server, metadata service issue 2, volume 8, february 2009
in a way it replaces  pencil, paper, ruler and compass with equivalent computer tools.
title of the paper: a multiagent grid metascheduler download full pdf authors: jose aguilar, rodolfo sumoza abstract: this work  proposes a metascheduler for grid platforms based on the interaction protocols  of the multiagent systems.
in the model, a structural graph-tree has been constituted by assembly feature as a basic unit.
due to the tradeoff between  the performance and area constraint in on-chip network designs, we propose the  use of triplet-based topology in on-chip interconnection networks and  demonstrate how a 9-node triplet-based topology can be mapped to on-chip  network.
the simulation results show that an arbitrary trajectory  such as a desired walking pattern can be tracked in less than 0.5 seconds,  which proves that the controller meets real time and precision demanded.
in this paper, five existing conceptual design models are reviewed from this perspective, and a new model which supports the alternation of cyclic mappings among functional decomposition,functional solving and combination of solutions in turn is presented.
an unvoiced detection  is also integrated into the system to improve the intelligibility of voice.
seven contour invariant moment features and four morphological features are extracted by analysis of microscopic images of wastewater bacteria in which six features are chosen by pca in order to reduce the dimensionality of the features extracted from the images.
pg. for instance, the one writes a sentence from 5 to 8, repeat body, and then the procedure, pg, repeats the sentence body four times.
in order to estimate the revenues, we  need to know with certain accuracy the output of these power plants.
an inverse dynamic compound control  for intelligent artificial leg was studied.
abstract: in order to convert high level language (hll) into  hardware, a control dataflow graph (cdfg) is a fundamental element to be used.
there are taken into consideration the fields that define m-learning processes as education, technology and software development.
the results suggest that this system can be a useful tool to support management decisions.
keywords: eye tracking, semantics, text skimming, microformats title of the paper: improved performance model for web-based software systems download full pdf authors:
it may be generated to supplement experimental studies for developing appropriate blast-resistant design guidelines for bridges in the future.
a small number of natural templates  (idioms) are defined which make the design of bayesian network easier.
abstract: there are many definitions of quality being given by experts that  explains quality for manufacturing industry but still unable to define it with  absolute clarity for software engineering.
the existing research is reviewed and  organized to summarize what we know about their usage.
abstract: a  distributed e-business system based on conic curve is proposed.
keywords: autonomic computing, swarm-array computing, intelligent agents, carrier agents title of the paper: developing ontology based applications with o3l download full pdf authors:
the structure of the trees is the only  feature used for the determination of approximate distances at any stage.
this paper discusses the traditional method of teaching programming  and suggests an objects-first approach where students adopt a top-down method  of learning to develop software.
according to the great development of it, the current web-based learning systems need to be as effective as human tutors.
the  proposed matching method is robust against the fuzzy edges and tips.
the paper elaborates the  rule of global naming, brings forward metadata’s registration and storage  on the naming rule, and explores how to use it to find out the long-distance  data resources rapidly.
the paper also argues,  as a result of generating a procedure, pg, the meaning of a sentence (or  sentences) is represented in the generated procedure, pg. keywords: acquisition of how to solve problems, generation of  programs from examples, meaning of a sentence title of the paper: a program that acquires how to execute sentences download full pdf authors: machiko fujiwara, kenzo iwama abstract: one  writes example sequences of sentences so that one sequence solves an instance  of a problem, and writes how each example runs on a computer.
abstract: during the software  lifecycle, the software structure is subject to many changes in order to  fulfill the customer’s requirements.
to prevent the information loss  problem during the conversion, each binary type data value occupies its own  digital position in bc.
most tasks of bioinformatics depends on investigating the homologous protein's sequence or structure these tasks vary from predicting the protein structure to determine sites in protein structure where drug can be attached.
keywords: disulfide bonding pattern, svm, multiple trajectory search title of the paper: adapting the ticket request system to the needs  of csirt teams download full pdf authors:
the suggestion is proved by experiments with  promising results.
over the last decade, security has become the primary concern when discussing e-commerce.
the approach is validated on a multi-agent  simulator.
title of the paper: crossing genetic and swarm intelligence algorithms to generate logic circuits download full pdf authors: ceciia reis, j. a. tenreiro machado abstract: genetic algorithms (gas) are adaptive heuristic search algorithm based on the evolutionary ideas of natural selection and genetic.
an e-mail interface developed in-house allows users to perform basic host security audits simply and securely without having to study the extensive nessus manuals and/or installing the nessus server.
a marketing research is proposed, in form of an  exploring, stratified inquiry, which was conducted inside  “transilvania” university of brasov, regarding the attitude and  behaviour of the academic community for the creation of a digital, free access  repository.
rsvp uses the receiver-initiated reservation mechanism to set up the reservation which executes protocol complexity and incurs additional processing and storage overheads on the routers.
as the size of samples grows, the size of generated decision trees grows with some improvement in error rates.
this paper reports  on the examination of these problems.
title of the paper: model validation for gps total electron content  (tec) using 10th polynomial function technique at an equatorial region download full pdf authors: norsuzila ya'acob, mardina abdullah, mahamod ismail, azami  zaharim abstract: gps receivers have been profitably employed by  researchers for investigations into ionospheric and atmospheric science.
abstract: in this paper, we introduce knowledge diagraph contribution (kdc) analysis as a novel categorical time-series method in observing underlying traversal knowledge structure of experts by exploiting varying hypertext (web) presentation formats and knowledge domains.
over the last decade, security has become the  primary concern when discussing e-commerce.
abstract: while learning with  data having large number of attribute, a system is easy to freeze or shut down  or run for a long time.
abstract: based on the applications of  e-portfolios, a mobile system infrastructure was designed with the discussion  of information flow scenarios.
abstract: the mission of universities and staff is to generate knowledge through scientific research.
objectives of autonomic computing.
keywords: generation of procedures from examples, acquiring how to  execute sentences from examples, acquisition of a language grammar.
keywords: computer software, electrical grid, optimal dimensioning, java title of the paper: visual interactive environment for doing geometrical constructions download full pdf authors: anca iordan, george savii, manuela panoiu, caius panoiu
mobile ipv6  will be an integral part of the next generation internet protocol.
the implementation has to deliver a system that provides  performance properties mandatory of an on-line election system of  authentication, democracy, anonymity, non-coercion, accuracy, reliability,  veracity, verifiability, neutrality, and likability.
this paper suggests a progressive resampling  technique to cope with the fluction of prediction accuracy values for better  radial basis function networks.
this software library, called o3l (object-oriented ontology library), provides a complete representation of ontologies compliant with owl 2 w3c. o3l has not the goal to be use for the creation and manipulation of ontologies, but provides a simplified and efficient api for the realization of applications, that interoperate through the use of shared ontologies, and allows: i) the use of owl individuals as data of the applications, ii) the exchange of owl individuals between applications, iii) the reasoning about owl individuals, and iv) the classification of owl classes and properties.
a three-dimensional nonlinear finite element model of an actual bridge has been developed based on the drawing design of the minpu ii bridge in shanghai.
the auction types  are batch auction, continuous double auction and a pre-processed batch auction.
with a total of 5125 candidates registered respectively  in 9 grades of taiwan united music grade test during 2000-2008.
our scheme compared with other related schemes for security efficiency.
keywords: remote experimentation, teleoperation, virtual instrumentation, internet, telelaboratory, realtime control title of the paper: a dynamic-balanced scheduler for genetic algorithms for grid computing download full pdf authors: a. j. sanchez santiago, a. j. yuste, j. e. munoz exposito, s. garcia galan, j. m. maqueira marin, s. bruque
in this paper, the system presented in [27] is modified and developed.
the numerical results assess the effectiveness of the theorical results shown in this paper and computational experiments are presented, and the advantages of the new modelling.
then the knowledge representation scheme for principle solving and the feature-based scheme for interface representation are discussed.
the crm collect the customers queries, epr analyze and integrate the data and the knowledge discovery gave predictions and advises for the betterment of an organization.
in order to implement multi-destination  and multi-path anycast routing on the heavy load network, this paper proposes a  new anycast routing algorithm based on genetic algorithm and presents a  heuristic genetic algorithmic to solve shortest path routing optimization  problem.
this paper  is concerned with security aspects of the registration protocols in mobile ip.
this paper explains our program that generates procedures, one after  another, each of which solves one mathematical problem.
and it also used c++  programming language to write a programme to compute the number of the feature  of texture.
abstract: if we analyze real life  filter sets (classifiers) and also packet classification requirements, it seems  that distribution of rule scope is non-uniform and in some sub spaces is denser  inside the total space of classifiers.
this is the reason for focusing on maximum flow problem, minimum flow  problem and minimum cost flow problem in a network with node capacities.
results are ‘cannot divide’ and ‘cannot  divide’.”
the useful properties revealed and the  algorithm proposed in this paper can find their way when the system designers  evaluate a candidate network’s competence and suitability, balancing  regularity and other performance criteria, in choosing an interconnection  network.
in the first phase, we use  the hierarchical clustering method to restructure the target software  application.
testing our method on the same  dataset spx, the accuracy rates are 54.5% and 60% for disulfide connectivity  pattern prediction and disulfide bridge prediction when the bonding state of  cysteines is not known in advance.
there are many models for educational games development which combined the instructional design (id) and game development process.
resulting in the security of mobile payment are the two main problems of the mobile terminal itself and the process of wireless communication.
abstract: this paper introduces a new open-source cross-platform software library written in c++ programming language which is able to serialize and deserialize hierarchically arranged class instances and their data members via xml files.
finally summarization is listed.
the software systems are developed using the multi-languages with different dialects and scripts.
abstract: while learning with data having large number of attribute, a system is easy to freeze or shut down or run for a long time.
hence, the main objective of this work is to keep the  average accuracy of distributed mode without loosing accuracy rate compared to  models.
based on the proposal feature mapping arithmetic, the assembly model is been built easily.
in addition, this paper proposes to incorporate both size  and cost drivers together, with a fuzzy set using gaussian membership function.
keywords: software restructuring, hierarchical clustering,  distributed systems, object oriented software, performance analysis, low  coupling title of the paper: an evaluation framework for higher education  erp systems download full pdf authors:
according to the number of available resources one of these models is used to coordinate the assignment of resources.
the human  visual system (hvs) model is used to determine the watermark insertion  strength.
keywords: fea, static analysis, dynamic analysis, biomechanics title of the paper: an algorithm for the guillotine restrictions verification in a rectangular covering model download full pdf authors: daniela marinescu, alexandra baicoianu
chunyue bi abstract: the embedded database  sqlite is widely applied in the data management of embedded environment such as  mobile devices, industrial control, information appliance etc., it has become  the focus of the development of related areas.
compression algorithms allow defining a similarity measure based on the degree of common information, whereas clustering methods allow clustering similar data without any previous knowledge.
by analyzing data-flow between di erent phases in the workflow, secure processes can be implemented using web, database and cryptographic techniques.
output systems can be optimized to exhibit the highest level of comfort by engineering a fabric with specific sensory and mechanical properties.
this paper describes the feature of medium-long term spot trading, and develops e-commerce platform for bulk agricultural product based on medium-long term spot trading model.
keywords: auto-configuration architecture, duplicate address  detection, manet, ip address, epna
in distributed object oriented systems, software engineers face many challenges to solve the software-hardware mismatch problem in which the software structure does not match the customers underlying hardware.
keywords: quality product derivation, requirements engineering,  non-functional requirements, iso quality standards, quality compliance title of the paper: a new iterative approach for dominant points  extraction in planar curves download full pdf authors: cecilia di ruberto, andrea morgera abstract: in  this paper the problem of dominant point detection on digital curves is  addressed.
for example, clustering  web pages is essential to getting structured information in response to user  queries.
this is the reason for focusing on maximum flow problem, minimum flow problem and minimum cost flow problem in a network with node capacities.
we construct rotary-code based on a bit matrix-vector  product similar to the reed-solomon coding, and provide the geometry encoding  method and detailed non-recursive decoding algorithms.
it is confirmed by experiment that the normal  vector and the curvature generated by our algorithm are more accurate than that  of the previous methods.
those are steps of  accumulating, revealing, proposing and publishing.
so, in order to determine appropriate sample sizes for multilayer perceptrons this paper suggests an effective approach with the help of simple radial basis function networks that work as a guide.
first, on the epistemological level, it unifies two apparently distinct scientific communities, namely formal languages theory and robot control communities.
this paper focuses on variable and time based linear regression analysis of track geometry parameters which can lead to significant predictive maintenance of track geometry.
considering the fact that we wish to emphasize the way in which such analyses can be done with a finite element method, we shall present only a few relevant examples for which we have experimental data, namely: analysis of the compression, bending and stretching of the humerus and bending of the radius and the ulna.
the library is published under open source licence and  can be freely utilised in both open source and commercial projects.
the decision support system in the national  power grid companies can integrate the energy prediction achieved by some data  mining algorithms that help managers to fundament their investment decisions in  order to justify the financial feasibility.
the challenge is to perform those tasks in  real-time, in order to assist the doctors in the decision making process.
keywords: erp, hei, dss, competencies, roles, knowledge title of the paper: new families of computation-efficient parallel  prefix algorithms download full pdf authors: yen-chun lin, li-ling hung
through the analysis of the effect of different parameters, there is proposed a method of controllable fractal terrain based on parameters.
proposed algorithm can reduce time and cost of forensic.
abstract: in reusable design, the reusability of product information model is a key criterion for design efficiency.
first, on the epistemological level, it unifies two apparently  distinct scientific communities, namely formal languages theory and robot  control communities.
development and analysis are reported on a database comprises of 20 signatures from 20 subjects.
track defects are macroscopic and geometric in nature and are  exclusively the consequence of train traffic.
it improves the efficiency of  association rule mining significantly.
abstract: gps receivers have been profitably employed by researchers for investigations into ionospheric and atmospheric science.
initially a sequential algorithm is fabricated from scratch and written in c language.
while producing deformation, it also influenced by light which lead to various kinds of shade at clothes, and the surface might include various kinds of pattern, texture, little piece, and decorate, these will all cause the great interference on image analysis.
most  tasks of bioinformatics depends on investigating the homologous protein's  sequence or structure these tasks vary from predicting the protein structure to  determine sites in protein structure where drug can be attached.
first, we use bark-scale wavelet  decomposition (bswd) to split the input speech into 24 critical subbands.
we model the represented as an information source and the representation an information carrier, and the representing relationship between them as that of information carrying.
the convergence and limit of the algorithm have been analyzed.
the  performance of the proposed device was evaluated on twelve healthy subjects  performing multi-directional point-and-select task with throughput as the main  performance parameter.
combining social networks to the mobile environment is a growing interest as it allows users to be in their online social community despite their mobility.
in his research kinshuk (2003), [2], concludes that the true  potential of e-learning as “anytime and anywhere” has finally started  to be realized with the advent of mobile learning, m-learning.
in the case of the information generated by sensors, given that we have no complete access to the information, and given the inherent limitations on memory space, we will apply streaming algorithms for approximate efficiently the solution of computational problems that take place on robot navigation problems.
abstract: image textural analysis technology has been widely used in the design of automated defect detection systems.
the results indicate that the proposed bc can  keep about the same level of accuracy but increase the learning efficiency.
the paper finds that the choice of auction method makes a  substantial difference in the time to complete tasks and in total energy  consumption.
in this article, we show how we can build a  hybrid model to describe the architecture of software systems.
the validity of the proposed algorithm and the correctness of the performance prediction have been proven with performance measurements.
in this paper, we propose two new concepts: discernibility string and feature forest, and an efficient algorithm, the feature forest based (ff-based) algorithm, for generation of all reducts of a medical dataset.
abstract: combining the gps location-based services and the latest web2.0 technologies, this paper builds a scalable personalized mobile information pushing platform, which can provide user-friendly and flexible location-based service.
example network is constructed and examined.
with the help of model transformation, we can generate source code  or other artifacts from software models.
keywords: conic curve, e-business system, public-key cryptosystem, digital signature, proxy signature title of the paper: the study of terrain simulation based on fractal download full pdf authors: deng fang
mri is currently the fastest developing medical imaging modality which is applied to an increasingly number of different medical diagnostic situations.
keywords: decision support systems (dss), sql optimization,  integration, object-oriented modeling, object-oriented databases title of the paper: grammatical inference methodology for control  systems download full pdf authors: aboubekeur hamdi-cherif, chafia kara-mohammed
compressing the indexed database is supposed to make the searching time faster and memory usage lower but it affects the accuracy with accepted rate of error.
first we define a metamodel for software architecture, next based on this metamodel we implement an environment for describing the architecture of software systems.
most of previous works on disulfide connectivity pattern prediction use the prior knowledge of the bonding state of cysteines.
according to the number of  available resources one of these models is used to coordinate the assignment of  resources.
but as this algorithms generating speed is faster, it also has validity and practicability.
before taking the services of a service provider, the service requester may need to negotiate with it on various issues.
digital  certificates are one of these methods for secure transactions, x.509  certificate is one standard for these digital certificates, despite the fact  that x.509 certificate is of high level of security and authenticity, it has  many weaknesses as not applying dynamic delegation to it..
the results indicate that the proposed bc can keep about the same level of accuracy but increase the learning efficiency.
keywords: soa, web services, marhups, web 2.0, service-oriented, platform, blogs title of the paper: variable precision distance search for random fractal cluster simulations download full pdf authors: sosa-herrera antonio, rodriguez-romo suemi abstract: a simple an effective algorithm for performing distance queries between a large number of points stored in quadtrees and octrees.
hence they are called frame-based expert system or  frame-based system.
rdfa and html microformats are some of the easier ways proposed by the semantic web paradigm for embedding semantics in web pages.
abstract: an embedded multiprocessor field programmable gate array (fpga) system has a powerful and flexible architecture that the interaction between hardware circuits and software applications.
experimental results conducted on beowulf cluster are presented to  demonstrate the viability of our work as well as the efficiency of the parallel  algorithm.
title of the paper: the continuous hopfield networks (chn) for the  placement of the electronic circuits
problem download full pdf authors: amal abd el-raouf
keywords: diffusion equation, parallel computation, finite  difference, iterative method, alternating group title of the paper: alternating group explicit-implicit method and  crank-nicolson method for convection-diffusion equation download full pdf authors: qinghua feng, bin zheng
abstract: the  prediction of the location of disulfide bridges helps solving the protein  folding problem.
the first problem is based on iterative  tasks that usually appear in optimization problems.
techniques download full pdf authors: yen-lin chen
these protocols use the paradigm of economic models to define the coordination mechanisms in agent communities.
however, medium-long spot trading is still at  the exploratory stage, there are many problems and challenges.
the experimentation  shows that the algorithm not only mines useful and weaksupport rules, but also  has better capability than classical association rules mining algorithms.
in  order to discard the seriously corrupted frequency subband, a method of  adaptive frequency subband extraction (afse) is then applied to only use the  frequency subband.
keywords: statistical methods, institutional repositories, open access, marketing research, h index, scientometric indicators title of the paper: power-aware, depth-optimum and area minimization mapping of k-lut based fpga
abstract: the new  paradigm of distributed computation, grid computing, has given rise to a large  amount of research on resource scheduling.
to this end we extend dretske’s semantic theory of  information.
we made an swot analysis for implementing an erp system  in romanian universities.
in this paper, the fb models of 1131 and 61499 are briefly described and several unclear issues related to the programming paradigms adopted, interoperability, composability and execution semantics of these fb models are clarified.
keywords: higher education, university management, erp systems,  integration, quality services, evaluation framework title of the paper: statistical methods and applied computing in  academic educational marketing download full pdf authors: angela repanovici, bogdan alexandrescu, razvan enoiu
the system  uses both local and global slant characteristics in extracting the feature.
today, there are numerous methods for solving ga-hard problems; every measure has its specific advantages and drawbacks.
abstract: due to high dynamic computing environments of ubiquitous computing, it poses many challenges for software middleware technologies.
doorae is a framework of supporting development on multimedia application for distributed multimedia running on home network environment.
it can be  used for determining function of protein, for clustering a given set of  proteins by their structure, for assessment in protein fold prediction.
even if the maturity of the rbac model has been already achieved, the role engineering process is not a standardized approach.
the paper also sets forth the method for restraining, sending and accessing data resources repeatedly by searching comparison table and using the time marker under the multiple data grid nodes, and points out that comparison table should adopt the strategy of prefering frequently used data and clearing rarely used data.
the proposed model uses multiple attribute in the  utility function and uses the basic values of these attributes such as values  for offered price, quality and others.
simulated a controlled fractal scene via vc ++ and opengl.
istvan gergely  czibula abstract: aspect mining is a research direction that  tries to identify crosscutting concerns in already developed software systems,  without using aspect oriented programming.
this system was established for the rural land managers to explore their land use options.
most of the projects hit schedule and budget overruns of 25% to 100% and sometimes even more.
keywords: power-aware, optimal area, k-lut based fpga, logic activity  simulator, functional power title of the paper: innovation: web 2.0, online-communities and  mobile social networking download full pdf authors: cheng-jung lee, chang-chun tsai, shung-ming tang, liang-kai  wang
keywords: binary non-adjacent form, ecc, prime field, system on  programmable chip issue 6, volume 8, june 2009
the goals of  this work are to solve the placement of the electronic circuits problem (pecp)
abstract: clinical decision support systems (cdss) are becoming commonplace.
the influence  of expertise and web traversal behavior in deriving underlying knowledge  structures is presented using kdc analysis.
this approach enables us to reveal  a necessary condition for the efficacy and the efficiency of representation,  and to measure it.
the parameters considered for comparison are: data  confidentiality, authentication, attack prevention, registration delay and  computational complexity.
first, we use bark-scale wavelet decomposition (bswd) to split the input speech into 24 critical subbands.
furthermore, this scheduling strategy enables to execute all the tasks in a  shorter time.
starting from this, it can  guide the process operation of software team, provide a new solution for  theoretical research and description of the software engineering subject and  provide a framework concept for the auxiliary system tools for the research of  software engineering.
it integrated database technology, expert system technology and spatial decision support system technology.
an evaluation of the work has been presented and a prototype system providing negotiation between semantic web services has been implemented.
on the other hand, particle swarm optimization (pso) is a population based stochastic optimization technique inspired by social behavior of bird flocking or fish schooling.
abstract: the explosion of the web has led to a situation where a majority of the traffic on the internet is web related.
modern mobile  devices produced nowadays, and almost all smartphones and pdas, have one or  more wireless communication interfaces in order to communicate with other  devices.
even though m-applications development is a new software development field, still this type of projects is not secured against the common flaws of software development projects.
keywords: clinical decision support, intelligent decision support  systems, knowledge discovery, intensive care, ensembles, multi-agent systems
the  numerical results assess the effectiveness of the theorical results shown in  this paper and computational experiments are presented, and the advantages of  the new modelling.
keywords: bidimensional covering problem, guillotine restrictions, conex components of a graph title of the paper: improved algorithm for minimum flows in bipartite networks with unit capacities download full pdf authors: eleonor ciurea, adrian deaconu
keywords: internet data base original source (idbos), region data content proxy (rdcp), odms, portal agent, global consistency, supply chain management title of the paper: the c compiler generating a source file in vhdl for a dynamic dataflow machine being executed direct into a hardware download full pdf authors: jorge luiz e. silva, kelton a. p. da costa, valentin obac roda
abstract: image  texture analysis has received a considerable amount of attention over the last  few years as it has played an important role in the classification of the  remote sensing images.
keywords: modal learning, snap-drift, adfunn, sadfunn, e-learning,  personalized learning, diagnostic feedback, multiple choice questions title of the paper: an improved bp neural network for wastewater  bacteria recognition based on microscopic image analysis download full pdf authors: li xiaojuan, chen cunshe
to overcome this, this paper puts  forward the concept of a model for automatic data resource discovery in the  data grid environment for e-government applications.
abstract: low  encoding/decoding complexity is essential for practical raid-6 storage systems.
the image is taken as a vertical magnetic field, and its curl is estimated as the virtual source of the field for image structure representation and analysis.
we mainly  introduce the concept of functional computational interface which unify signal  and operation interfaces notions.
we then propose a dgbl model for history educational games design and a development methodology which combined the id and game development process, named dgbl-id model.
the results of this study can provide an effective procedure of identifying the clusters of human body type to establish the sizing systems for integrating logistics operations internally with different functions inside the organization and also externally with business partners.
foremost, we address  improvements in the etl process and maintenance process.
keywords: e-voting, e-election, applications security, multi-tiers  web-based application, secure workflow modeling, practical cryptographic  applications title of the paper: a utility based, multi-attribute negotiation  approach for semantic web services download full pdf authors: sandeep kumar, nikos e. mastorakis
this paper proposes a network analysis algorithm  using recurrent neural network that can analyze computer network attacks  facilitating the evidence extraction.
having the same web document, different readers would attach various semantics and relevance to the ideas, concepts or structural blocks of the document.
it is due to the properties of  local conformal mapping and the mean value coordinates.
specifically,  this study attains a partitioning result with low power consumption and fast  execution time.
keywords: diffusion equation, parallel computation, finite difference, iterative method, alternating group title of the paper: alternating group explicit-implicit method and crank-nicolson method for convection-diffusion equation download full pdf authors:
it is imperative  to stress that uncertainty at the input level of the cocomo yields uncertainty  at the output, which leads to gross estimation error in the effort estimation.
one of them is an enhanced system for host security auditing which is based on  nessus and runs on a pc server under linux.
although as a consequence of those, in some parts of the world, the number of  students enrolling in these fields have stabilized or even increased, given the  number of years it takes to educate a graduate, the number of graduates has  been dropping at alarming rates.
an application on controller design for a coupled system with three-degree-of-freedom is also elaborated.
the found relations establish that the obligatory tasks in the model of imprecise computation correspond with the mission of maintaining the stability of the systems under ftc according to the redundancy degree that assure the structural properties of the systems.
the architecture proposed can be used as a  framework to upgrade other propositional learning algorithms to relational  learning.
also, special nature of incoming  report emails introduces a new issues to otherwise well-known spam and  backscatter fighting methods.
two  variations of this method are presented: one that only takes into account the  paths taken and one that also uses information about their lengths.
drila allows discovery of  distributed relational rules using data from distributed relational databases.
abstract: this paper investigates the vehicle rear impact and  its consequences and analyzes the research developed in this field.
abstract: the systems are required to understand and present at higher levels of abstractions to perform the changes and meet the current requirements.
they are  used to alert doctors about drug interactions, to suggest possible diagnostics  and in several other clinical situations.
[5] rail track maintenance in terms of track geometry and other modalities like rail profile, ultrasonics etc has been typically based on use of reactive maintenance.
the literature on network flow problems is extensive, but these problems are described and studied in networks in which only arcs could have finite capacities.
finally, an example of  e-commerce is presented to illustrate the feasibility and pertinence of this  approach.
for the practical implementation of presented model, we use madar  data and implemented apriori algorithm on it.
the external knowledge base uses frame as its knowledge representation stored  in rdf/xml format so that it can be placed on the www (world wide web) which  is, ideally, accessible from anywhere.
in the last section  some examples of polygonal approximation are shown.
the library is based on mature cross-platform toolkit called wxwidgets and thus can be successfully used on many target platforms such as ms windows, linux or os x.
the second one is the use of  a set of performance metrics for project quality assessment.
in the end, the fields in which the redundancy could be applied with significant results are highlighted.
one popular method to  improve scalar multiplication is by means of hardware accelerators.
in this paper, we propose two new concepts:  discernibility string and feature forest, and an efficient algorithm, the  feature forest based (ff-based) algorithm, for generation of all reducts of a  medical dataset.
keywords: real-time data acquisition, knowledge discovery in  databases, intensive care, intcare, intelligent decision support systems,  information models.
keywords: ad-hoc networks, behavior analysis, malicious attacks, simulation, throughput title of the paper: modal learning neural networks download full pdf authors: dominic palmer-brown, sin wee lee, chrisina draganova, miao kang
furthermore, internet allow the development of powerful tools dedicated to the remote maintenance, on-line supervision and performance optimisation of the industrial machinery.
there are various reasons why gas will not converge to optimal solutions.
in the second phase,  we decide on the best-fit clustering solution according to the customer  hardware organization.
the  system further assesses the effectiveness of the chosen tools in the  student’s learning process.
as of today there is very  little knowledge is available about the economics of software quality.
in this technique a large number of nodes  are empowered to act as proxies to assign the addresses and most of the time it  is one-hop communication.
keywords: robot navigation, motion tracking, exploration, sketching  and streaming algorithms, testability title of the paper: three different designs for packet  classification download full pdf authors: hatam abdoli
knowledge is dynamic and  evolves with technology, organizational culture and the changing needs of  organization’s software development practices.
full pdf authors: yung-yuan chen, chung-hsien hsu, kuen-long leu
this is done by estimating all the  benefits and costs during the life cycle.
we first propose a  location-based data and service middleware based on service-oriented  architecture in order to implement mobile information pushing system involved  in a variety of formats of data integration and conversion, as well as a  combination of a wide range of services.
centered on the possibility of giving that customized attention from which they must select an option between many, it is tried in the future to construct a meta-ontology that integrates the domain ontology with a user profile ontology, thus aiming towards to a semantic recommendation system under multiagent approach in the future, that could be useful to support students decision making process for career selection over different study opportunities in higher education level in venezuela.
therefore, the discrete curvature and normal vector estimation play the fundamental roles in the fields of computer graphics and computer vision.
the basic concept of gas  is designed to simulate processes in natural system necessary for evolution,  specifically those that follow the principles first laid down by charles darwin  of survival of the fittest.
in this thesis, it used the feature images helping the  classification of remote sensing and obtained good result.
keywords: steganography, palette optimization, minimum spanning tree title of the paper: a novel field-source reverse transform for image structure representation and analysis download full pdf authors: x. d. zhuang, n. e. mastorakis
we use ns2 java  version network simulator to test it.
new cryptographic features in our work include the use of many successive xoring for the plaintext with sub-keys, and the use of multiple multiplexers in sub-keys generator.
we then propose a dgbl model for history educational games  design and a development methodology which combined the id and game development  process, named dgbl-id model.
for majority of these applications,  security is a vital issue.
title of the paper: a flexible implementation of a web-based  election system for educational organizations download full pdf authors: sharil tumin, sylvia encheva
participants were 88 sophomores of 2d animation courses taught by the same instructor.
abstract: a wireless ad-hoc network is a group of wireless devices that communicate with each other without utilising any central management infrastructure.
data clustering approaches have been designed in recent years.
abstract: a professional career  selection is a complicated process for university student candidates and often  little technical tolls are available for who aim to enter to the superior  education system, since it is necessary to consider the incidence of a  multiplicity of variables to obtain a “satisfactory answer” that  comes near to the idea that they have preconceived.
human body  type classifications are also very crucial issue for garment manufacturing.
abstract: to increase the efficiency of data mining is the emphasis in  this field at present.
according to the circumstances); another is inspiration from neuroscience,  cognitive science and human learning, where it is impossible to build a serious  model without consideration of multiple modes; and a third reason is  non-stationary input data, or time-variant learning objectives, where the  required mode is a function of time.
abstract: an efficient technique for ip address auto-configuration for nodes is an important component in the manet setup.
furthermore, this  inaccurate result will lead to difficulty in tracking the nozzles.
it is imperative to stress that uncertainty at the input level of the cocomo yields uncertainty at the output, which leads to gross estimation error in the effort estimation.
the nlidb system is actually a branch of more comprehensive method called natural language processing (nlp).
keywords: the issue of the fourth colors, the map-man application, software for gps title of the paper: scoring functions of approximation of strips planning by linear programming block world example download full pdf authors: adam galuszka
title of the paper: industrial machinery optimization and  maintenance system via world wide web download full pdf authors: a. etxebarria, r. barcena, j. j. valera
in the experimental set-up, there are four input sensors: a door  sensor, an identity card reader, a fingerprint reader and a camera.
certain advantages may be observed when the sizing systems are established, using fuzzy clustering-based data mining procedure.
and so on, describe how to calculate the least common  multiple of 10 and 15.
keywords: visual search, visual similarity, garment, cbir, non-rigid matching, shape context title of the paper: a visual αnalysis of calculation-paths of the mandelbrot set download full pdf authors: raka jovanovic, milan tuba abstract: in this paper we present a new method for analyzing some properties of the mandelbrot set.
we create images that visualize statistical information for  the calculation-paths of points tested for belonging to the mandelbrot set.
in case of such reactive maintenance discrete exeecedence of track geometry  parameter measurements are compared against a pre-set threshold such that if  they exceed the threshold then reactive maintenance is required to be done.
especially that they ignore the connotation of the management relevant with concrete business and for process management it is not enough to be only with technical standard.
in addition, 4 data sets: nbuses, aclp, monk3, and buseskod data are used in this study to test and compare the learning accuracies and learning time.
we consider a task impulse response stream on energy usage and time to complete all tasks and a input stream step response.
the devs formalism introduced by  zeigler provides a means of specifying a mathematical object called a system.
these correspondences are probed in an example.
abstract: the prediction of the location of disulfide bridges helps solving the protein folding problem.
stampers framework may be seen outlining what is required for the efficacy of signs in standing for (i.e., representing) something else in an organization, among many others.
abstract: in this paper it was present a java software package useful for dimensioning of low voltage lines mono phase and three phases (ac and dc).
it integrated database  technology, expert system technology and spatial decision support system  technology.
some results are presented in order to show a proof-of-concept for  the project.
however, paper based of work  in progress information is inefficient in dealing with these unpredictable and  complex workflows.
it is an expert system which has an  rdf external knowledge base for improved flexibility and mobility in knowledge  sharing.
keywords: learning classifier systems, ucs, genetic algorithm, fitness, accuracy, data mining, grid computing, cloud computing, grid data mining title of the paper: the effects of data mining in erp-crm model a case study of madar download full pdf authors: abdullah s. al-mudimigh, farrukh saleem, zahid ullah
to enable software designers to achieve a higher quality for their design, a better insight into quality predictions for their design choices is given.
this paper first describes the definition, basic characteristics, structure and the key technologies of embedded database, analyses the features, architecture and the main interface functions of sqlite, gives a detailed porting process from sqlite to arm-linux platform, and discusses concrete application of sqlite in embedded system through a development case about the home gateway based on arm-linux.
keywords: a session and error management, a whiteboard agent, home network environment, software error, devs modeling, discrete event mode
this necessitates frequent long distance network transfers of data (potentially repeatedly) which results in a high response time for users, and is wasteful of the available network bandwidth.
such fabrics with specified consumer-desired characteristics can be computationally designed.
but, there is lack of research in the area of establishing of garment-sizing systems for business logistics.
in order to make the verification  procedure terminate as soon as possible we also discuss how to integrate the  window induction proof strategy in our technique.
experimental results indicate that the proposed source-reverse transform can  achieve efficient representation of image structure, and has promising  application in image processing tasks.
the source code clustering is used for the purpose of recovering the artifacts, understanding the system and identifying the relationships among the source code to plan, design and execute the changes in the software systems.
therefore, the proposed binary conversion (bc) is a  novel method to solve this kind of large attribute problem in machine learning.
formalisation of the procedures and workflows brings the need for specialised tools, helping with incident categorisation, authorisation of incident origin and general workflow.
keywords: adaptive multi-constraints partitioning, hardware-software  partitioning, embedded multiprocessor system, fpga system, hardware-software  codesign title of the paper: intelligent entry control download full pdf authors: erik dovgan, matjaz gams abstract: entry control  is an important issue for security and optimization reasons.
in this paper we also explore the architectural basis, technologies, frameworks and tools considered necessary to face this novel vision of web 2.0all of which adds business value and helps companies utilizes the rich collaboration and communication of the internet today.
from those relations, there are  constructed ftc systems according to the model of imprecise computation.
keywords: neural, numerical, finite element, mathematical, memory,  information processing, polymers title of the paper: recent advances in data management download full pdf authors:
it is the key to it and business  flexibility and receives a lot of attention from academia and industry as a  means to develop flexible and dynamic software solutions.
this package software allows the estimation and  calculation of parameters of power transmission lines of electric power.
it also discusses the characteristics of a good teaching  language to help academics to choose an appropriate first programming language.
there is also a strong case for retraining many people who already have tertiary education, whether in the workforce or not, to overcome to ominous ict skills dilemma.
experiment on orl face database identity  recognition shows that this method is featuring high recognition rate and low  time consumption; meanwhile, another experiment is conducted on direction  determination of intelligent robots autonomous navigation, also producing a  good result.
in this paper we propose an object-oriented (oo) approach and an oo database schema to accomplish the dss implementation which require a multidimensional modeling at the conceptual level using fundamental concepts of oo (class, attribute, method, object, polymorphism, inheritance, hierarchy) to represent all multidimensional properties of a data warehouse, at both the structural and dynamic levels.
keywords: array code; mds; raid; two-disk fault-tolerance; efficient  decoding; decoding complexity [ journals ], [books],  [conferences], [research], [contact us], [indexing], [reports], [e-library], [ faq], [upcoming conferences with expired deadline], [history of the wseas  conferences]  copyright ©  wseas www.wseas.org
our main aim by  creating the parallel algorithm is to accelerate the execution time of solving  tsp.
keywords: decision trees, proper sample size determination title of the paper: semantic networks-based teachable agents in an educational game download full pdf authors: harri ketamo abstract: the aim of the study was to apply teachable agents into educational game meant for children less than 12 years of age and evaluate the outcome in context of cognitive psychology of learning.
title of the paper: clustering the source code download full pdf authors: nadim asif, faisal shahzad, najia saher, waseem nazar
an adaptive and enhanced edge detection solution for the images of wastewater bacteria is proposed, which can effectively remove noises in the images and get clear edges of microscopic image by optimizing segmentation threshold and the varied order of edge detection.
the goal of our work is to introduce and verify an improved multi-tier queueing network model for web-based software systems.
keywords: genetic algorithm, unitation, fitness landscape, negative slope coefficient, hardness, difficulty, deception title of the paper: encrypting messages with visual key download full pdf authors: dusmanescu dorel
for this reason, we propose a method which  is based on sampling to some typical data mining algorithm.
although significant progress is being made in several fronts, many  other researchers speak of web 2.0 applications; they tend to focus on the  technology aspects of the environment.
abstract: this study proposes a vehicle detection system for identifying the vehicles by locating their headlights and rear-lights in the nighttime road environment.
the resulting algorithm is applied to the synthesis of combinational logic circuits.
abstract: in reusable design, the  reusability of product information model is a key criterion for design  efficiency.
keywords: image transform, curl source reverse, magneto-static, image structure, image restoration title of the paper: design and evaluation of fpga based hardware accelerator for elliptic curve cryptography scalar multiplication download full pdf authors: kapil a. gwalani, omar elkeelany abstract: embedded systems find applications in fields such as defense, communications, industrial automation and many more.
adjusted r2 values were 0.360 to 0.657 for mechanical and 0.713 to 0.863 for sensory parameters, reflecting sound goodness-of-fit measures, and providing reasonable ways for identifying the mechanical and sensory properties that are most significant influences on tactile fabric comfort.
however, a recurring problem in  software development is the fact that source and target models coexist and they  evolve independently.
a financial roi calculation of cost savings and the schedule roi  calculation of schedule savings are given.
keywords: constructive cost model, cocomo, fuzzy based effort  estimation, gaussian membership function, software cost estimation, software  effort estimation, software size and project management.
stamper’s  framework may be seen outlining what is required for the efficacy of signs in  standing for (i.e., representing) something else in an organization, among many  others.
this software library has been experimented in the realization of some e-business applications showing both high effortlessness in the development of the applications and high performances in their execution.
the composition of test server based on metadata  service is presented.
eye tracking data is valuable in  measuring reading patterns, user experience and reflects the specific parts of  an image or documents that attract the user’s interest.
in this paper, we propose new methods for computing normal vector and curvature well, which are more intuitive than the previous methods.
until recently, symmetric key encryption schemes were used for a  majority of these applications.
initially a sequential algorithm is fabricated from scratch  and written in c language.
in this study, we propose a useful bus system vulnerability model and present a thorough analysis of system bus vulnerability in systemc transaction-level modeling (tlm) design level by injecting faults into the bus signals, which can assist us in predicting the robustness of the system bus, in locating the weaknesses of the bus system, and in understanding the effect of bus faults on system behavior during the soc design phase.
in this paper we also explore the architectural basis,  technologies, frameworks and tools considered necessary to face this novel  vision of web 2.0—all of which adds business value and helps companies  utilizes the rich collaboration and communication of the internet today.
keywords: soa, web services, marhups, web 2.0, service-oriented,  platform, blogs title of the paper: variable precision distance search for random  fractal cluster simulations download full pdf authors: sosa-herrera antonio, rodriguez-romo suemi abstract: a simple an effective algorithm for performing distance queries  between a large number of points stored in quadtrees and octrees.
clotilde rohleder abstract: from our experience  with customers who deploy customized software products, we have learned that  deriving products from shared software assets requires more than complying with  quality standards like iso9126.
there are some prepositions, which are not being tested comprehensively, but some useful economic model of software quality costs (cosq) and data from industry are described in this article.
to prevent the information loss problem during the conversion, each binary type data value occupies its own digital position in bc.
data mining has been widely used in many fields.
keywords: tactile perception, fabric mechanical properties, stepwise  regression analysis, standardized importance factors, textile property analysis title of the paper: web-based multiuser interior design with  virtual reality technology download full pdf authors: yen-chun lin, chen-chuan pan abstract: a  web-based interior design application system, named multiuser interior design  (mid), is presented.
compared with the  primary fp-tree model, the fp-network proposed is undirected, which enlarge the  scale of transaction storage; furthermore, the fp-network is stored through the  definition of transaction-item association matrix, it is convenient to make  association rule mining on the basic of defining node capability.
keywords: on-chip network, cache protocol, network latency, energy  consumption, performance, mapping title of the paper: neural architectures optimization and genetic  algorithms download full pdf authors: mohamed ettaouil, youssef ghanou abstract: the  artificial neural networks (ann) have proven their efficiency in several  applications: pattern recognition, voice and classification problems.
users can view and elaborate designs, examine furniture, and even place purchase orders of furniture.
unlike many  other relational learning algorithms, the drila algorithm does not need its own  copy of distributed relational data to process it.
relative merits and drawbacks of parallel prefix algorithms are described and illustrated to provide insights into when and why the presented algorithms can be best used.
but they did not take into account some essential parts.
this paper proposes a computational model for the calculation of utilities of the negotiating semantic web services.
abstract: this paper introduces a new open-source cross-platform software  library written in c++ programming language which is able to serialize and  deserialize hierarchically arranged class instances and their data members via  xml files.
abstract: the  inclusion of analytical and experimental models in biomechanical studies leads  to the obtainment of important data for the research concerning the human  skeleton, its traumas and diseases.
keywords: mobile learning, e-learning-portfolio title of the paper: an imprecise computation framework for fault  tolerant control design download full pdf authors: addison rios-bolivar, luis parraguez, francisco hidrobo,  margarita heraoui, julima anato, francklin rivas abstract: in  this work the existing relations between the imprecise computation and the  fault tolerant control (ftc) are analyzed.
in  this research, it is investigated the precision of size and cost drivers in the  estimation of effort using constructive cost model (cocomo).
this  paper first describes the definition, basic characteristics, structure and the  key technologies of embedded database, analyses the features, architecture and  the main interface functions of sqlite, gives a detailed porting process from  sqlite to arm-linux platform, and discusses concrete application of sqlite in  embedded system through a development case about the home gateway based on  arm-linux.
in order to enhance mining efficiency, a novel algorithm, namely  ft-miner, is presented to discover association rules in a forest by using two  new data structures, including ufp-tree and fp-forest.
hence, an electronic based of work in progress system is apparently required as to overcome the shortcoming of the paper based tracking and also to enhance the efficiency of production line.
according to our simulation results, the proposed midbscan approach has low execution time cost, a maximum deviation in clustering correctness rate and a maximum deviation in noise data filtering rate.
to avoid too many communication traffics during inferences, a distributed expert system, an expert system with an inference engine on its external knowledge base side is presented.
kleanthis thramboulidis abstract: the function block (fb) model was first standardized by the 1131 standard of the international electrotechnical commission (iec) for programmable controllers.
the unification of signal and operation interactions concepts is presented by introducing the parameterized interaction concept.
as system-on-chip (soc) becomes prevalent in the  intelligent system applications, the reliability issue of soc is getting more  attention in the design industry while the soc fabrication enters the very deep  submicron technology.
keywords: sampling, data mining, distributed computing title of the paper: new discussion on information communication model and process model in software organization download full pdf authors: xuejun liu
in road  traffic, especially in urban traffic, numerous rear collisions have taken  place, resulting in serious injuries for passengers.
the reported  beta coefficients are the standardized regression coefficients.
in a large expert system, the knowledge base can be represented using frames.
pg. for instance, the one writes a sentence “from  5 to 8, repeat body”, and then the procedure, pg, repeats the sentence  body four times.
keywords: model transformation, model synchronization, traceability, trace mode
in the databases field, one wish to classify uncertain data and to answer queries in an approximated way in the case that data sources are incoherent.
abstract: this paper will explore the integration of  learning modes into a single neural network structure in which layers of  neurons or individual neurons adopt different modes.
also, special nature of incoming report emails introduces a new issues to otherwise well-known spam and backscatter fighting methods.
abstract: recently, an online social network phenomenon has swept over the web and the signs say that social networking sites (sns) are growing in importance not just as places for individuals to communicate, network, and express themselves but also as advertising and marketing vehicles.
these variables build up a  complex relations map that requires the formulation of an exhaustive and  rigorous conceptual scheme.
what we present in this study can be  generalized for other enterprise-grade social networks, either for their own  business purposes or as a contract job for another company.
a marketing research is proposed, in form of an exploring, stratified inquiry, which was conducted inside transilvania university of brasov, regarding the attitude and behaviour of the academic community for the creation of a digital, free access repository.
this is important in terms  of the scalability and usability of the distributed relational data mining  solution that has been developed.
this approach is found to be effective in processing the anthropometric data, and obtaining regular rules for the development of sizing systems.
all the attributes are reserved but combined into few numbers of new attributes instead of that some attributes are removed.
to incremental type of transaction matrix, it can also make  the maintainment of association rule more convenient in the use of partitioning  calculation technique of matrix.
keywords: cscw, intelligent agent system, knowledge and data  technology, mediation system title of the paper: a wavelet-based voice activity detection  algorithm in variable-level noise environment download full pdf authors: kun-ching wang
an implementation of the message authentication process into a tinyos-based node is presented; also power consumption measurements obtained are discussed.
the purpose of this  paper is to provide a solution for an erp (enterprise resource planning) system  that could integrate all of a romanian hei’s department functionalities,  to propose a model that describes how the concepts of user competence and role  may optimize an erp system implementation in a romanian hei and to provide a  possible architectural solution for developing a decision support system that  can extract and report the information from the proposed erp system.
in this work an  approximation of strips block world planning by linear programming is shown.
in processing the medical data, choosing the optimal subset of features is important, not only to reduce the processing cost but also to improve the classification performance of the model built from the selected data.
how to meet the customers requirement in product search is an import problem.
there are many models for educational  games development which combined the instructional design (id) and game  development process.
keywords: disulfide bonding pattern, svm, multiple trajectory search title of the paper: adapting the ticket request system to the needs of csirt teams download full pdf authors:
the great number of messages that flows in a computer network and over the internet is requiring very fast encrypt/decrypt processes for assuring real-time secured communications.
the rule discovery algorithm, developed, was designed to use data available from many locations (sites), any possible connected schema at each location where tables concerned are connected by foreign keys.
abstract: a vector rule-based approach and analysis to on-line slant signature recognition algorithm is presented.
compared with algorithms like apriori, this method avoids the demerit of traversing the database repetitiously, and increases the efficiency of association rule mining obviously in the use of sparse storage technique for large-scale matrix.
when the program, pi, gets a new example sequence to solve a new instance of the problem, the program, pi, executes the procedure,
in terms of moving  least squares surface, the sampling likelihood for each point on point-sampled  surfaces is computed, which measures the probability that a 3d point is located  on the sampled surface.
modern mobile devices produced nowadays, and almost all smartphones and pdas, have one or more wireless communication interfaces in order to communicate with other devices.
as system-on-chip (soc) becomes prevalent in the intelligent system applications, the reliability issue of soc is getting more attention in the design industry while the soc fabrication enters the very deep submicron technology.
the decomposition approach was used to solve the pecp.
abstract: the theory and applications of network flows is probabily the most important single tool for applications of digraphs and perhaps even of graphs as a whole.
keywords: data mining; fuzzy clustering; sizing systems; business logistics issue 8, volume 8, august 2009
keywords: grid, metascheduler, multiagents systems, auction, tender, assignment problem title of the paper: a security incidents management for a cert based on swarm intelligence download full pdf authors: jose aguilar, blanca abraham, gilberto moreno abstract: this paper proposes an incident management system based on the swarm intelligence in order to keep updated the information about computational security.
abstract: the purpose of this work is analysis of computational language  concepts and introduction of novel pertinent ones in order to provide a new  computational metamodel of interaction signatures in uml4odp fdis.
the impact of benchmarks on system bus vulnerability is also addressed.
and gives the some processes design of mobile client’s  software.
to mitigate the effect of such nodes and to achieve  higher levels of security and reliability, this paper expands on relevant fuzzy  logic concepts to propose an approach to establish quantifiable trust levels  between the nodes of ad-hoc networks.
adjusted r2 values were 0.657 for mechanical and 0.863 for  handfeel parameters, reflecting sound goodness-of-fit measures, and providing  reasonable ways for prediction of tactile fabric comfort from mechanical and  handfeel parameters.
in addition, previously reported classical data analysis (anova) are compared with kdc analysis in highlighting quantitative and qualitative differences of these derived latent knowledge structures.
the fundamental structure of this work allows each site of the distributed environment to manage independent ucs and such local sites transmit learning models to the global model for making complete knowledge of the problem.
the proposed hybrid model could function as an effective tool for clinical diagnostics in the future clinical circumstance.
it has been found that symmetrical property of the problems has a  significant effect on search performance of the ats, but ma(ats).
we propose an adaptive metascheduler for grid platforms using these ideas.
title of the paper: analysis of alzheimer's disease progression in  structural magnetic resonance images download full pdf authors: b. s. mahanand, m. aswatha kumar abstract:  structural magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of the brain is an increasingly  useful tool in the study of neurodegenerative diseases.
with this model we do not aim to automate the software design process or the identification of design alternatives.
however this widespread use of computer equipments has generated computer a considerable increase of computer crimes.
test subjects were  given two questionnaires (one per control scheme) in order to provide comfort  assessment of the device and short post-measurement interviews with test  subjects provided user feedback.
through the establishment of transaction-item  association matrix, this paper changes the process of association rule mining  to elementary matrix operation, which makes the process of data mining clear  and simple.
in the experimentation, by  comparing the classification result of contrast, energy and entropy we find out  that the preferable texture features of grey level co- occurrence matrices
keywords: software engineering, software development, programming, computer languages, teaching title of the paper: the web 2.0 movement: mashups driven and web services download full pdf authors:
in  this paper, we present a parallel implementation of a solution for the  traveling salesman problem (tsp).
however, the administration of  distributed data resources are faced with increasing challenges caused by the  discovery difficulties across the internet.
the main goal of designing jea k-128 algorithm is to reach the condition of having almost every bit of the ciphertext depend on every bit of the plaintext and every bit of the key as quickly as possible.
however, a recurring problem in software development is the fact that source and target models coexist and they evolve independently.
keywords: software architecture, cosa, architecture description languages, uml 2.0 modeling language, component, connector issue 10, volume 8, october 2009
and we approach this problem from the perspective  of what we call the ‘information carrying’ relation between the  representation and the represented.
adjusted r2 values were 0.657 for mechanical and 0.863 for handfeel parameters, reflecting sound goodness-of-fit measures, and providing reasonable ways for prediction of tactile fabric comfort from mechanical and handfeel parameters.
besides it will not inform staff regarding defects in  rail track which can subsequently helps in predictive maintenance.
the knowledge can be called upon when needed to solve a problem by the  inference engine.
by resorting to automated data acquisition our architecture allows for the evaluation of the predictions made and subsequent action aiming at improving the predictive performance thus enhancing adaptive capacities.
concentrating on the component-based software  system, this paper formally specifies the components and their interaction  behaviors, analyzes the behavior of the new component compared with the old  one, and then presents a set of rules for verifying behavioral substitutability  of components in software system to ensure the behavioral compatibility  whenever a component is replaced by a new one.
it also reports on the advantages of taking a more broad-spectrum view, requiring a combination of many existing solutions along with novel approaches and realistic analysis of the acceptance of the current global ict services and education environments to overcome these problems.
moreover, the energy concentration property of the proposed transform is investigated for promising application in lossy image compression.
abstract: the  work reported in this paper proposes ‘intelligent agents’, a  swarm-array computing approach focused to apply autonomic computing concepts to  parallel computing systems and build reliable systems for space applications.
moreover, this paper presents two methodologies:  one that implies both components of spatial redundancy and one that implies the  use of temporal redundancy for achieving the objective of fault-tolerant and  safe operation.
second, on the technological level, blending research from both fields results in the appearance of a richer community, as has been proven by the emergence of many multidisciplinary fields.
planning by linear programming – block world example download full pdf authors:
the results showed that the developed algorithm is a  function of elevation angle and tec from the reference station path to the  satellite and could give differential ionospheric delay in sub-centimetre  accuracy.
rbf will be implemented while embedding and extracting watermark.
there are some  prepositions, which are not being tested comprehensively, but some useful  economic model of software quality costs (cosq) and data from industry are  described in this article.
agostino poggi abstract: ontologies have been gaining interest and their use has been spreading in different applications fields.
furthermore, the ict skills shortages for experienced professionals, in most industrialized countries can be expected to get worse, before they eventually get better.
keywords: wireless positioning systems, radio signal strength, energy  efficiency, trilateration title of the paper: application of ε-testers algorithms  under sketch and streaming calculation model in robot navigation download full pdf authors:
we present the exploratory study of transilvania university of brasov regarding the impact and the visibility of the scientific researches.
abstract: in this paper, we  introduce “knowledge diagraph contribution” (kdc) analysis as a novel  categorical time-series method in observing underlying traversal knowledge  structure of experts by exploiting varying hypertext (web) presentation formats  and knowledge domains.
the algorithm  is developed and tested for the construction of diffusion-limited aggregates.
the foot-ground  force gait data of 24 elderly participants were acquired using a strain gauge  force platform during normal walking, and were analyzed with our proposed  model.
faraj a. el-mouadib, zakaria suliman zubi, ahmed a. almagrous,  i. el-feghi abstract: to override the complexity of sql, and to  facilitate the manipulation of data in databases for common people (not sql  professionals), many researches have turned out to use natural language instead  of sql.
elliptic curve cryptography was  first introduced in 1985 and has always been around since.
keywords: semantic web, utility, semantic web service, negotiation title of the paper: a online retrieving method for product  functional and structural information based fgt model download full pdf authors: feng qi
while producing deformation, it also influenced by light  which lead to various kinds of shade at clothes, and the surface might include  various kinds of pattern, texture, little piece, and decorate, these will all  cause the great interference on image analysis.
in that sense, the possibility of this “personalized  attention” and/or recommendations from “the system” will be  obviously conditioned by the user context.
the experimental results indicate that the proposed curl source reverse provides effective image structure representation, which can be exploited in further image processing tasks.
our model introduces functions and modules as basic building blocks for producing software.
experiments were  made with orl human face image databases.
one of the root causes for such a difficulty, is related to the drastic fall in the number of students in field like computer engineering and ict.
in this paper we propose an extension with intelligent capabilities to a networking platform.
a self-adaptive accelerated bp  algorithm is developed for training the classification of bacteria microscopic  images.
one drawback of previous systems is that the grammar must be tailor-made for each given database.
keywords: utility, semantic web, semantic web services, negotiation,  computation title of the paper: information analysis of rail track for  predictive maintenance download full pdf authors: r. b. faiz, s. singh
such a system, now under construction, exploits the rapid prototyping strategy of real-time computer controlled systems and is expected to be added to ingerastm in the near future in order to be used remotely by the engineers by means of virtual instrumentation.
keywords: cesnet association, host security audit, nessus, openvas, pc, linux, e-mail interface
the color assignment to the clusters is performed based on combination of information from the color palette used in the raw image and the last distribution of the pixels among clusters.
the conclusions of this study are going to be used in developing  an evaluation framework of erp solutions for higher education management.
carlos rodriguez lucatero abstract: the goal of  this article is the application of efficient approximate testing methods for  the robot tracking problem as well as for the building map problem .
an inverse dynamic compound control for intelligent artificial leg was studied.
most of  the projects hit schedule and budget overruns of 25% to 100% and sometimes even  more.
the third describes how equipment composition information can be used to  generalize and adapt case solutions to new and unknown occurrences; this  generalization is based on a taxonomic similarity between functionally  autonomous modules (fams).
by using group-caching protocol to exploit traffic locality, triplet-based topology achieve lower latency and energy consumption than 2d-mesh.
we have designed and developed an intelligent entry system consisting of  four independent modules: expert system, micro learning, macro learning and  camera.
abstract: to increase the efficiency of data mining is the emphasis in this field at present.
keywords: hypertext, knowledge structures, navigation, traversal patterns, content design, expertise title of the paper: performance assessment of search management agent under asymmetrical problems and control design applications download full pdf authors: jukkrit kluabwang, deacha puangdownreong, sarawut sujitjorn abstract: the article presents the performance evaluation of the management agent (ma) containing the adaptive tabu search (ats) as its search core.
keywords: slant feature, online signature, signature recognition, signature analysis, dynamic signature title of the paper: a magneto-statics inspired transform for structure representation and analysis of digital images download full pdf authors: xiao-dong zhuang, nikos e. mastorakis
keywords: rm-odp, uml4odp, computational language, meta-modeling, computational interface, interaction signature, type checking, interaction refinements title of the paper: towards a study opportunities recommender system in ontological principles-based on semantic web environment download full pdf authors: ana maria borges, richard gil, marla corniel, leonardo contreras, rafael h. borges
this paper discusses the traditional method of teaching programming and suggests an objects-first approach where students adopt a top-down method of learning to develop software.
to solve this problem, we use genetic algorithms.
pso is attractive because there are few parameters to adjust.
in order to establish more efficient distributed environment, in the current work, grid computing architecture is considered a better distributed framework in supervised classifier system (ucs).
keywords: functional programming languages, recursive forms, programs verification title of the paper: about flow problems in networks with node capacities download full pdf authors: laura ciupala abstract: in this paper, we study different network flow problems in networks with node capacity.
issue 1, volume 8, january 2009
abstract: in this paper the principle  of fractal theory and fractal brownian motion (fbm) are analyzed in detail.
uses the additional equipment to achieve the secret keys distributed storage to improve the ability of test and verify in system and enhance the computing encryption capability of mobile terminal.
recently, intelligent agents became one of the most interesting subjects of modern information technology.
zeljko panian abstract: to increase the value of data as a business asset, companies and government organizations need to establish standards, policies, and processes for the usage, development, and management of data, to create the right organizational structure, and to develop the supporting technology infrastructure.
this  necessitates frequent long distance network transfers of data (potentially  repeatedly) which results in a high response time for users, and is wasteful of  the available network bandwidth.
the ionosphere has practical importance in gps  applications because it influences transionospheric radio wave propagation.
abstract: this paper, on the basis of the traditional design of database for ground control point, tries to founded a fast auto-correction method of satellite remote sensing imagery based on feature ground control point database which brings local feature points as the effective supplement and aims to achieve the automatic matching between feature ground control points and original images that need geometric correction and improve the rectified process utilizing random sample consensus (ransac algorithm).
students traversed through different hypertext (web) presentation formats while reading content from three different knowledge domains controlled for micro (web-page, web-site) and macro (consistent semantic connections across knowledge domains) characteristics.
moreover, depending on  samples, the performance of neural networks change.
to achieve an enhancement on the searching time we accept approximate distance  values with low precision at the first levels of the hierarchical structure,  and accurate ones at the last level.
keywords: predictive maintenance management, rail track geometry, curv, cant def, cross level, dipped left, gauge title of the paper: implementation and evaluation of a peer assessment system for enhancing students' animation skills download full pdf authors: jung-chuan yen, songshen yeh, jin-lung lin
the use of a similar open-source program openvas within the audit system is also considered.
keywords: wsn, authentication, mac codes, cryptography, pairings, tinyos title of the paper: neural network based attack detection algorithm download full pdf authors: araceli barradas-acosta, eleazar aguirre anaya, mariko nakano-miyatake, hector perez-meana
taking the advantages of these three  operators, the searching and optimizing speed can be increased.
local slant is the longest slant among the detected slant while the global  slant represents the highest quantity of classified slant whether the slant are  leftward, upright or rightward.
especially, we design a multi-dimensional collaborative  filtering algorithms, in order to achieve dynamic personalized recommendation  and mobile information sharing.
abstract: nowadays, it is frequent that engineering companies use internet as  the main working environment for the complementary services offered to their  customers.
the paper introduces the principle of gps, interface of gps and  pda, realize real time interaction between the field of project area and the  electronic maps by using gps’s location function, on the basis of which  accomplishes real time judgment for project land features’ progress,  quantities and some other accuracy of information.
keywords: study opportunities, ontology, semantic web, ontology development, user profiles, user context, intelligent agents title of the paper: tactile fabric comfort prediction using regression analysis download full pdf authors: les m. sztandera
the design of the game was done in order to support relatively free  use of teachable agents in an easy-to-use environment.
they are related to specific fragments of bayesian networks representing the basic elements in reasoning about uncertain events.
keywords: constructive cost model, cocomo, fuzzy based effort estimation, gaussian membership function, software cost estimation, software effort estimation, software size and project management.
also, it is tackled the maps drawing in real time within gps system satellites, using more colors depending on the covered route and the landforms met.
mathematical  modeling of passenger movement during head impact may be a successful tool in  establishing the neck injury mechanism, especially when working in parallel  with experimental studies.
cost drivers also expressed through an unclear category which  needs subjective assessment.
secondly, we point out the fatal error of the previous discrete curvature estimations, and then propose a new discrete sectional-curvature estimation to be able to overcome the error.
keywords: association rule, association matrix, data mining, fp-growth algorithm, fp-network algorithm, frequent itemset title of the paper: a program that acquires how to solve problems in mathematics download full pdf authors: machiko fujiwara, kenzo iwama
abstract: apart from some other important semantic web service related processes such as discovery, selection, composition etc., the process of negotiation is also generally required in the semantic web based systems.
however, such an ideal situation may not  always be achievable in practice.
abstract: there are many definitions of quality being given by experts that explains quality for manufacturing industry but still unable to define it with absolute clarity for software engineering.
an ionospheric delay model was developed to accurately determine the difference in ionospheric delay expected over a short baseline so that a more accurate differential gps correction could be made.
keywords: tacit knowledge, explicit knowledge, knowledge management,  romanian software engineering title of the paper: quality control and iso quality compliance in  the product lifecycle management at siemens download full pdf authors:
numerical results show the present methods are superior to the known  methods in [6,11,16].
keywords: incident management system, swarm intelligence, security systems, cert, search algorithm, multiagent systems title of the paper: case-based reasoning and fuzzy logic in fault diagnosis download full pdf authors:
a major design problem of object oriented  software systems is the efficient distribution of software classes among the  different nodes in the system while maintaining two features: low-coupling and  high software quality.
keywords: moving least squares surface, sampling likelihood, normal voting tensor, feature intensity, bilateral filtering, point-sampled surfaces denoising title of the paper: an adaptive requirement framework for scudware middleware in ubiquitous computing download full pdf authors: qing wu, danzhen wang
the chipcflow consists of various parts: the compiler  to convert the c program into a dataflow graph; the operators and its  instances; the tagged-token; and the matching data.
title of the paper: dealings with problem hardness in genetic algorithms download full pdf authors: stjepan picek, marin golub abstract: genetic algorithms (ga) have been successfully applied to various problems, both artificial as well as real-world problems.
keywords: land-use structure optimization, land use allocation, comgis, dss title of the paper: application of image texture analysis to improve land cover classification download full pdf authors: xiaochen zou, daoliang li
the sequential algorithm is then converted into a  parallel algorithm by integrating it with the message passing interface (mpi)  libraries so that it can be executed on a cluster computer.
since encoding and decoding over conic are easily implement on conic curves, it has enabled our scheme to greatly enhance efficiency.
the achieved informatics system will be able to be used for teachning euclidean geometry, both in pre-university and in university education.
body types  could be accurately classified for garment production according the newly the  sizing systems.
keywords: data clustering, data mining, effective teaching, music  examine issue 7, volume 8, july 2009 title of the paper: a nonce-based mutual authentication system with  smart card download full pdf authors: chin-ling chen, wei-chech lin, zong-min guo, yung-fa huang,  neng-chung wang
in this paper, we present a new methodology for  efficiently restructuring distributed object oriented software systems to  improve the overall system performance and to solve the software-hardware  mismatch problem.
all the process from the detonation of the explosive charge to deck crack, including the propagation of the blast wave and its interaction with the structure is reproduced.
as an application of our modeling choices we redefine interaction,  refinement and type checking rules in a concise manner, and then specify them  using the useful specification functionalities of ocl 2.0, showing how novel  definitions as well as their specification are easy to read, write and  understand.
there are various reasons why gas will not converge to optimal  solutions.
keywords: natural image, independent component subspace, hierarchical discriminant regression, recognition of face, robot navigation
and it introduces the process of generating three dimensional terrain, cloud and sky by this algorithm.
evaluating student  performances always has been an important issue for academia.
then we present another parallel alternating group explicit iterative method, and finish the convergence analysis.
then the one gives  them to a program, pi, and lets the initial program generalize how the example  sequences run and generate a procedure, pg.
keywords: grid computing, dynamic-balanced scheduler, genetic algorithm, optimization problem title of the paper: the software quality economics model for software project optimization download full pdf authors: ljubomir lazic, amel kolasinac, dzenan avdic
there is discussed both recursive forms: parallel, interrecursion and recursion of high level that exist for functional programming languages and induction methods for the purpose of their verification.
the results showed that the developed algorithm is a function of elevation angle and tec from the reference station path to the satellite and could give differential ionospheric delay in sub-centimetre accuracy.
this paper outlines a complete framework for teaching a first course in programming.
this paper presents a clustering approach using the available source code, documentation, experience and knowledge about the domain and application to cluster the source code.
we made an swot analysis for implementing an erp system in romanian universities.
stating this, we mean  collaborative systems of different type: conversational tools, multi-agent  systems, and all these, among various enterprise applications, integrated in  portal-based it platforms.
students traversed through different hypertext  (web) presentation formats while reading content from three different knowledge  domains controlled for micro (web-page, web-site) and macro (consistent  semantic connections across knowledge domains) characteristics.
title of the paper: improving organizational efficiency and effectiveness in a romanian higher education institution download full pdf authors: scorta iuliana, bara adela, constantinescu radu, zota razvan, nastase floarea abstract:
and we approach this problem from the perspective of what we call the information carrying relation between the representation and the represented.
wlan infrastructure is a widely accepted and implemented communication  standard in many indoor environment, therefore many buildings are already  equipped with ieee 802.11 wlan infrastructure access points.
how to analyze and verify behavior-level component  substitutability is very important when the component-based software system  needs upgrading or maintaining.
as a part  of the project, a data warehouse was developed to provide reporting and  analytical features.
abstract: the  numerical simulation of the structural damage of a steel truss bridge subjected  to blast loading with the aid of a hydrocode is presented in this paper.
these techniques allowed us to build dla clusters with up to 109 particles for the two-dimensional case and up to 108 particles for the three-dimensional case.
on the other hand, particle swarm optimization  (pso) is a population based stochastic optimization technique inspired by  social behavior of bird flocking or fish schooling.
abstract: after concise introduction of software test and its significance, an integration environment of distributed test platform for software testing is proposed and its two departments, including test server and test driver, are described subsequently.
such a switch will function as a synaptic processor behaving in an adaptive manner and suitable to be used as a compact programmable device with other artificial neural network hardware.
keywords: distributed relational rule induction, rule selection  strategies, inductive learning, ila, ila2, rila, drila
one motivation is to overcome the inherent limitations of any given mode (for example some modes memorise specific features, others average across features, and both approaches may be relevant according to the circumstances); another is inspiration from neuroscience, cognitive science and human learning, where it is impossible to build a serious model without consideration of multiple modes; and a third reason is non-stationary input data, or time-variant learning objectives, where the required mode is a function of time.
for its advantages of stability  and reliability, fast and high efficiency, portability and so on, which  occupies the unique advantages among many of the main embedded databases.
this paper  proposed a specific odms dependent replicas correctness maintenance engineering  project.
to the best of our knowledge, without the prior knowledge of the bonding state of cysteines, the best accuracy rate reported in the literature for the prediction of the overall disulfide connectivity pattern (qp) and that of disulfide bridge prediction (qc) are 48% and 51% respectively for the dataset spx.
then the one gives them to a program, pi, and lets the initial program generalize how the example sequences run and generate a procedure, pg.
most  educational institutions teach programming using a procedural paradigm and an  imperative language where the emphasis is often on learning a computer language  and not on problem solving or the modeling of realistic computational problems.
this paper proposes a network analysis algorithm using recurrent neural network that can analyze computer network attacks facilitating the evidence extraction.
this solution realizes the high security and low cost of mobile payment, has good applied value and marketable foreground.
a final refinement process adjusts the position of located dominant points by a minimum integral square error criterion.
the present research intends to evaluate the effectiveness and usefulness of grammatical inference (gi) in control systems.
their absolute magnitudes reflect their relative importance in predicting comfort values.
keywords: bp neural network, edge detection ,wastewater bacteria, contour invariant moment title of the paper: algorithm for optimal dimensioning of three phase and mono phase electric power lines implemented in java download full pdf authors: cristian abrudean, manuela panoiu
abstract: history subject plays a vital role in instilling the spirits of  patriotism among the students; to nourish and instill love and loyalty to  one’s country and to be a true citizen.
so, in order to determine  appropriate sample sizes for multilayer perceptrons this paper suggests an  effective approach with the help of simple radial basis function networks that  work as a guide.
in this paper, a c compiler  to convert c into a dataflow graph and the graph implementation in vhdl is  described.
the pre-processed batch auction is developed to try to have the advantages of both the continuous double auction and the batch auction.
the pecp has been expressed as a quadratic knapsack problem (qkp) with linear constraints.
it suggests a system that is capable of detecting and  recovering software error for distributed multimedia with an integrated  whiteboard model which supports object drawing, application sharing, and web  synchronization methods of sharing information through a common view between  concurrently collaborating users for home network environment.
title of the paper: personal identification by finger vein images based on tri-value template fuzzy matching download full pdf authors: liukui chen, hong zheng abstract: to reduce the effect of fuzzy vein edges and tips of the infrared finger vein recognition, this paper presents a tri-value template fuzzy matching algorithm, which segments the vein feature image into three areas: subject area, fuzzy area and background area, and computes the average distance of non-background point to non-background area as the dissimilarity score between the two templates.
total electron content (tec) is one of the parameters of the ionosphere that  produces the most effects in many radio applications such as radio  communications, navigation and space weather.
we simulate the auction types  under the same task input streams.
we employed posix threads to provide parallelization and mutexes as control mechanisms to achieve synchronization between groups of 4 processors, hence simulating pdla clusters with early convergence to the dla model.
relative merits and drawbacks of parallel prefix algorithms  are described and illustrated to provide insights into when and why the  presented algorithms can be best used.
the key issue for scheduling tasks is that we can not obtain the execution time of irregular computations in advance.
abstract: in this paper, a novel entropy-based voice activity detection (vad) algorithm is presented in variable-level noise environment.
in this paper we study minimum flow an algorithm in bipartite networks with unit capacities combining an algorithm for minimum flow in bipartite networks with an algorithm for minimum flow in unit capacity networks.
since the generated procedures, pgs, describe how to execute sentences of conditional branches, varying number of repetitions, and varying depth of recursive calls, this paper argues our program, pi, acquires a grammar of a language that is equivalent to that used in a conventional programming language.
abstract:  this article describes a decision support system for land-use structure  optimization and land-use allocation.
abstract: web-based on-line voting and on-line election systems provide benefits of usability, manageability and security.
however, in existing support-confidence framework, the rules with lower support will be lost.
today’s sites are no longer limited to exchanging links and  interacting via hypertext; instead, the interconnectedness of the internet has  become progressively more important with the rise of web services.
the paper also presents the algorithms for various activities involved in the negotiation process.
title of the paper: association rules mining including weak-support  modes using novel measures download full pdf authors: jian hu, xiang-yang li
to reduce this problem it is necessary to carried out a network analysis using the computer network traffic.
a major design problem of object oriented software systems is the efficient distribution of software classes among the different nodes in the system while maintaining two features: low-coupling and high software quality.
additionally two scoring functions have been introduced to  estimate quality of the plan.
keywords: otrs, csirt, cert, security incident, metadata, issue management, bayesian analysis, antispam, backscatter, statistics title of the paper: audit system at cesnet-certs download full pdf authors: pavel vachek
the mean-value analysis algorithm has been improved to model the behavior of the thread pool.
the algorithm consists of two phases: feature forest construction phase and disjunctive normal form computation phase.
in our proposed approach, first the source and the target images are affinely registered to correct global differences between the images and then non-rigid registration based on free-form deformation using b-spline approximation is performed on the images.
concerning robot navigation we would like to apply efficient data sketching algorithms for testing the automata inferred on robot motion tracking problems as well as on maps sensorialy generated by robot exploration and building map process.
all codes for our algorithm were captured by using vhdl, with structured description logic.
this paper suggests a progressive resampling technique to cope with the fluction of prediction accuracy values for better radial basis function networks.
in order to improve the reusability for product information model,  a online retrieving method of product functional and structural information has  been discussed, based on the feature graph-tree model.
when there is any angular difference between the reference and test images, their textural features would also be different, even if there is no defect in the test image.
from those relations, there are constructed ftc systems according to the model of imprecise computation.
keywords: wireless sensor networks, redundancy, sensing coverage, communication title of the paper: testing inertial sensor performance as hands-free human-computer interface download full pdf authors: josip music, mojmil cecic, mirjana bonkovic abstract: the paper introduces hands-free human-computer interface designed around commercially available inertial sensor pack.
these  techniques allowed us to build dla clusters with up to 109 particles for the  two-dimensional case and up to 108 particles for the three-dimensional case.
abstract: the grand majority of software development projects are known to be late and over the budget.
clotilde rohleder abstract: from our experience with customers who deploy customized software products, we have learned that deriving products from shared software assets requires more than complying with quality standards like iso9126.
the description of software systems can be achieved by using an architecture description language (adl) or an object oriented modeling language.
one of the approaches to building cdss is by using techniques from the knowledge discovery from databases (kdd) area.
[11], and its extension ila2 [12] which were built to learn from a single table, and the relational inductive learning algorithm (rila) [13], [14] which was developed to learn from a group of interrelated tables, i.e. a centralized database.
chang-chun tsai, cheng-jung lee, shung-ming tang abstract: service-oriented architecture (soa) can be viewed as a philosophy that drives the development of components by defining their interfaces clearly and in a way that relates to real needs.
keywords: decision support systems (dss), sql optimization, integration, object-oriented modeling, object-oriented databases title of the paper: grammatical inference methodology for control systems download full pdf authors: aboubekeur hamdi-cherif, chafia kara-mohammed abstract: machine learning is a computational methodology that provides automatic means of improving programmed tasks from experience.
two other families adopt collective communication operations to reduce the communication times of the former two, respectively.
it has been found that symmetrical property of the problems has a significant effect on search performance of the ats, but ma(ats).
keywords: message, image, key, encrypting, decrypting, visual key title of the paper: analysis of m-learning applications quality download full pdf authors: catalin boja, lorena batagan abstract: the exponential growth of mobile technology in recent years, increasing availability of network infrastructures, advances in wireless technologies and popularity of handheld devices, have opened up new accessibility opportunities for education.
for the evaluation of characteristics  levels are described metrics and measured values are used to determine the  m-learning application overall quality level.