one of them is rick halsey, of san diego's  california chaparral institute.
that they can sequester carbon has been much touted in policymaking circles as one tool to help shrink our carbon footprint; and thus trees seem critical to the larger effort to reduce global warming.
what they'll need most of all is the kind of knee-bending humility evoked in the final line of the poem earlier i promised not to quote: "...only god can make a tree.
" this climatic reality is part of the reason why there has been a very long history of flawed regeneration projects on county and federal lands in the san gabriels.
more to the point, the agency's century-long inability to rearrange the san gabriels' biota to its liking is a powerful rejoinder to those who so confidently believe that planting trees, indiscriminately and in large number, will help resolve some of the challenges that a climate-changed world is bringing.
sign up for our enewsletter to receive program information, event invites and giveaways.
reply | april 24, 2012 12:59 am kcet is the nation's largest independent public television station.
because of their remarkable -- their life-essential task -- of converting carbon dioxide into organic compounds such as sugar and then releasing oxygen (their waste, our gain), trees have the unusual ability to cleanse the air we breathe.
flintham's successor, spencer turner, "was disillusioned with the high tree mortality," according to a county report, and recognized the "value of chaparral as a precious watershed cover that perhaps is fire dependent and best adapted to the site.
he comments every week on environmental issues.
to restrain it, the research team sprayed the grass-planted watersheds with herbicides, a strategy that comes with two ironies.
still, they admitted, "this  treatment should not be taken as a cure-all."
"most  of those trees died because of drought.
i do not believe they  will succeed because this is southern california, not rain-drenched  oregon.
he comments every week on  environmental issues.
that they can sequester carbon has been much touted in policymaking circles  as one tool to help shrink our carbon footprint; and thus trees seem critical  to the larger effort to reduce global warming.
what they  (re)discovered was that native plant material is a fierce competitor.
" char miller is the director and w.m. keck professor of environmental analysis at pomona college, author of "public lands, public debates: a century of controversy" (oregon state university press), and editor of "cities and nature in the american west."
more on climate, trees, and firefighting book review:  bill mckibben's doomsday book 'eaarth' opinion: the  problem with planting trees in los angeles history:  remembering the la county fire department's 100 years of service he  observes not surprisingly that trees are quite efficient water filters.
flintham's successor, spencer turner,  "was disillusioned with the high tree mortality," according to a  county report, and recognized the "value of chaparral as a precious  watershed cover that perhaps is fire dependent and best adapted to the  site.
if you'd like a more scientific reason to applaud their virtues, then considerjim robbins' op-ed in the new york times late last week.
after all, when some of the world's most-accomplished land managers have a  hard time getting it right, it's difficult to believe that modern-day johnny  appleseeds will do better.
the goal was to  re-green approximately 11,000 acres of the 160,000 that burned at a white heat  during august and september 2009.
their canopy as forests, and as cover along  streets, can cool soil and concrete, decreasing temperatures and moderating  heat-island effects; by releasing an aerosol mist (forest bathing, the japanese  call it) they can make life more bearable for any species inhabiting these  particular landscapes.
the  second-best time?
the second-best time?
"then the  ground dried out and there just wasn't enough moisture after we planted."
"then the ground dried out and there just wasn't enough moisture after we planted." the forest service has gone back to the drawing board, shrinking the number of acres to be planted and, where possible, switching to tree species that are indigenous to the san gabriel mountains.
to restrain it, the research team sprayed the grass-planted watersheds with  herbicides, a strategy that comes with two ironies.
the scientists did not fully accept the evidence their research revealed;  instead, they insisted that under ideal conditions -- ample rain, significant  labor, and chemical applications -- "land managers appear justified in  trying to establish a grass crop."
still, they admitted, "this treatment should not be taken as a cure-all."
one of them is rick halsey, of san diego's california chaparral institute.
early in the 20th-century, they collaborated with county efforts to plant seedlings in this rough terrain, with predictable results: "in the 1920s, a million trees including exotic canary island pines were planted in the san gabriel mountains in a misguided effort to fix something that was not a problem -- a predominance of native chaparral," asserted rick halsey.
but can they help humanity adapt to and mitigate the immensity of climate change?
if you'd like a more scientific reason to applaud their virtues, then  considerjim robbins' op-ed in the new york times late last week.
only about 25 percent of the seedlings dug into  charred slopes, cindered meadows, and blackened canyon floors have survived, a  mortality rate that has stunned agency foresters.
it is the easiest way to support kcet!
" undaunted, as the smoke cleared from a 1960 blaze that roared through upper  san dimas canyon, agency researchers decided again that chaparral had to go.
the news of the past year's die-off came as no surprise: "the reality we live in is a mediterranean climate, and there is just not enough water to create what they have in mind.
like a host of foresters and urban planners, robbins is convinced too that  trees form a kind of green shield.
" in 1930, three years after turner and his colleagues paid tribute to the late flintham's devoted service byplanting in his memory a 20-acre coulter-pine plantation in the angeles national forest, (it was incinerated in the 2002 williams fire), the new chief issued a restraining order: his foresters henceforth would "plant less, plant better."
the answer: 'twenty years ago.
it’s our way of saying "thank you."
"when we planted  seedlings, conditions were ideal in terms of soil composition and temperature,  rainfall and weather trends,"one of them told the la times.
theangeles national forest, or at least a portion of it, would be reborn.
i do not believe they will succeed because this is southern california, not rain-drenched oregon.
love them, in fact -- their bark: rough, smooth, or grooved; their needles or leaves: angular, flat, jagged, or pointed; branches crooked or straight; roots gnarled.
the forest service has gone back to the drawing board, shrinking the number  of acres to be planted and, where possible, switching to tree species that are  indigenous to the san gabriel mountains.
yes it is true it is not always necessary to plant trees to combat climate change.
why this institutional memory has not surfaced to check the forest  service's current aspirations to reforest portions of the angeles is an open  question.
beginning in april 2011, contract labor planted one million  seedlings of an expected three million over five years.
we offer a wide range of award-winning local programming as well as the finest public television programs from around the world.
it thus launched an aggressive restoration project.
" in 1930, three years after turner and his colleagues paid tribute to the  late flintham's devoted service byplanting in his memory a 20-acre coulter-pine  plantation in the angeles national forest, (it was incinerated in the 2002  williams fire), the new chief issued a restraining order: his foresters  henceforth would "plant less, plant better."
after all, when some of the world's most-accomplished land managers have a hard time getting it right, it's difficult to believe that modern-day johnny appleseeds will do better.
only the most humble will have a chance, for at  least they will recognize that they'll be mucking with complex ecosystems whose  mysteries we have yet to penetrate.
a doubtful tale by char
"when we planted seedlings, conditions were ideal in terms of soil composition and temperature, rainfall and weather trends,"one of them told the la times.
back in the set of control-group watersheds, chaparral, manzanita, and buckwheat, ceanothus, deervetch, and morning glory -- which began sprouting within ten days of the fire -- did even better.
yet at a more micro-level, such  as a blockface, their presence has been linked to the reduction of asthma.
critics are unappeased.
" that's where i balk.
like a host of foresters and urban planners, robbins is convinced too that trees form a kind of green shield.
but can they help humanity adapt to and mitigate the immensity of climate  change?
by themselves, they cannot compensate for the all toxins that blow out of  the tailpipes, smokestacks, or cooling towers in los angeles or houston -- cities with some of the nation's dirtiest air.
when he was hired in 1911 as the county's first trained forester (and later its fire warden),stuart j. flintham instigated an aggressive firefighting operation throughout the foothills; it included lookout towers, an extensive network of firebreaks, and the massing of tools and men to help suppress wildfire.
it has not happened.
the goal was to re-green approximately 11,000 acres of the 160,000 that burned at a white heat during august and september 2009.
read more of his columnshere dr. m. iqbal says : lesson learnt is to work with the nature rather than against it.
the second is ecological: whatever the downstream  consequences of the herbicidal spray, upslope the grasses' growth rate slowed  over the project's lifetime, and, despite the chemical assault they endured,  indigenous plants took root.
on air, online and in the community, kcet plays a vital role in the cultural and educational enrichment of southern and central california.
central to his claim for why trees matter is the positive role they can play in sustaining public health.
only the most humble will have a chance, for at least they will recognize that they'll be mucking with complex ecosystems whose mysteries we have yet to penetrate.
the forest service has never quite learned l.a. county's hard-won lesson.
sure: if we had a more complete picture of the variations of potential temperature change across ecosystems and typographies; if we could pinpoint when and where alterations in precipitation will occur; and were we able to calibrate the shifting influence that heat, light, and wet will have on differing soil types, then we might have a clue about what tree species to plant in which biota and at what times.
he also promoted, in the aftermath of the big burns of the 'teens and early 'twenties, reforestation and afforestation initiatives.
yet it does not necessarily follow, as robbins assumes, that we must  reforest the planet as rapidly as possible; his evidence and motivation for  this conclusion comes through his citing of a much-loved aphorism: "'when  is the best time to plant a tree?'
the second is ecological: whatever the downstream consequences of the herbicidal spray, upslope the grasses' growth rate slowed over the project's lifetime, and, despite the chemical assault they endured, indigenous plants took root.
so to plant trees in hopes that they will survive -- and thus  increase the odds of us doing so -- seems, at best, random.
2:30 pm photo: usfs region 5/flickr/  creative commons license i have nothing against trees.
after four years these and  other opportunistic plants had revegetated approximately 50 percent of the  burned watersheds, a speed of recovery and density of cover that modern  technology could not replicate.
"most of those trees died because of drought.
yet at a more micro-level, such as a blockface, their presence has been linked to the reduction of asthma.
what they (re)discovered was that native plant material is a fierce competitor.
early in the 20th-century, they collaborated with county efforts to plant  seedlings in this rough terrain, with predictable results: "in the 1920s,  a million trees including exotic canary island pines were planted in the san  gabriel mountains in a misguided effort to fix something that was not a problem  -- a predominance of native chaparral," asserted rick halsey.
i'll forbear quotingjoyce kilmer about how lovely trees can be (but you hear that poetic ditty in your head, don't you?), and will just confess that i'm a big fan of the arboreal.
you can choose from dvds of your favorite performers to concert tickets, frequent flyer miles and more.
it thus launched an aggressive  restoration project.
" this climatic reality is part of the reason why there has been a very long  history of flawed regeneration projects on county and federal lands in the san  gabriels.
will trees save us from climate change?
if they persist, however, their success will depend on how they approach  their self-appointed task.
so to plant trees in hopes that they will survive -- and thus increase the odds of us doing so -- seems, at best, random.
support kcet and receive a gift.
the news of the past year's die-off came as no  surprise: "the reality we live in is a mediterranean climate, and there is  just not enough water to create what they have in mind.
they're  "capable of cleaning up the most toxic wastes, including explosives,  solvents and organic wastes, largely through a dense community of microbes  around the tree's roots that clean water in exchange for nutrients, a process  known as phytoremediation." because of their remarkable -- their life-essential task -- of  converting carbon dioxide into organic compounds such as sugar and then  releasing oxygen (their waste, our gain), trees have the unusual ability to  cleanse the air we breathe.
despite what federal foresters long have understood about the low fertility of  local soils, mercurial weather patterns, and steep canyon walls, they have  repeatedly endeavored to re-engineer the san gabriels' ground cover.
he also promoted, in the aftermath of the big burns of the 'teens and  early 'twenties, reforestation and afforestation initiatives.
after 20 years of backbreaking labor, and with little to show for it, the local agency abandoned the project.
i have nothing against trees.
i'll forbear quotingjoyce kilmer  about how lovely trees can be (but you hear that poetic ditty in your head,  don't you?), and will just confess that i'm a big fan of the arboreal.
despite what federal foresters long have understood about the low fertility of local soils, mercurial weather patterns, and steep canyon walls, they have repeatedly endeavored to re-engineer the san gabriels' ground cover.
the first is cultural: rachel carson's "silent spring" had just been published, a book that  decried the very poisoning of america's waterways and life systems in which the  agency was complicit.
why this institutional memory has not surfaced to check the forest service's current aspirations to reforest portions of the angeles is an open question.
as part of a revegetation project, scientists at the san dimas experimental forest randomly selected eight watersheds to seed with annual grasses and eight with perennial grasses; four were left untouched as a control group.
the scientists did not fully accept the evidence their research revealed; instead, they insisted that under ideal conditions -- ample rain, significant labor, and chemical applications -- "land managers appear justified in trying to establish a grass crop."
if they persist, however, their success will depend on how they approach their self-appointed task.
take a local analogy.
what they'll need most of all is the kind of knee-bending humility evoked  in the final line of the poem earlier i promised not to quote: "...only  god can make a tree.
convinced that if they could replace the mediterranean-zone plants  dominating the flammable landscape with pine and fir they might decrease the  major fires that cyclically swept across this rugged terrain, and also slow  hillside erosion, the county forester's office (which evolved into the l.a.  county fire department) planted tens of thousands of seedlings.
" undaunted, as the smoke cleared from a 1960 blaze that roared through upper san dimas canyon, agency researchers decided again that chaparral had to go.
donate online so more of your contribution can go towards programming.
kcet logo © 2012 - community television of southern california
when he was hired in 1911 as the county's first trained forester (and  later its fire warden),stuart j. flintham instigated an aggressive firefighting  operation throughout the foothills; it included lookout towers, an extensive  network of firebreaks, and the massing of tools and men to help suppress  wildfire.
west alameda ave burbank, ca 91505 (747) 201-5000 viewer contributions are our largest source of funding.
more on climate, trees, and firefightingbook review: bill mckibben's doomsday book 'eaarth'
theangeles national forest, or at least a  portion of it, would be reborn.
central to his  claim for why trees matter is the positive role they can play in sustaining  public health.
in the scorched aftermath of the station fire the u.  s. forest service feared that the erosive force of coming rainy seasons would  strip the burned-over district of its soil.
more to the point, the agency's century-long inability to rearrange the san  gabriels' biota to its liking is a powerful rejoinder to those who so  confidently believe that planting trees, indiscriminately and in large number,  will help resolve some of the challenges that a climate-changed world is  bringing.
sure: if we had a more complete picture of the variations of potential  temperature change across ecosystems and typographies; if we could pinpoint  when and where alterations in precipitation will occur; and were we able to  calibrate the shifting influence that heat, light, and wet will have on  differing soil types, then we might have a clue about what tree species to  plant in which biota and at what times.
visit our press room for contact details, images and all the latest news.
by themselves, they cannot compensate for the all toxins that blow out of the tailpipes, smokestacks, or cooling towers in los angeles or houston -- cities with some of the nation's dirtiest air.
reach influential consumers, parents and kids, community leaders and business decision-makers with kcet, the most-watched public television station in southern california.
their canopy as forests, and as cover along streets, can cool soil and concrete, decreasing temperatures and moderating heat-island effects; by releasing an aerosol mist (forest bathing, the japanese call it) they can make life more bearable for any species inhabiting these particular landscapes.
the first is cultural: rachel carson's "silent spring" had just been published, a book that decried the very poisoning of america's waterways and life systems in which the agency was complicit.
convinced that if they could replace the mediterranean-zone plants dominating the flammable landscape with pine and fir they might decrease the major fires that cyclically swept across this rugged terrain, and also slow hillside erosion, the county forester's office (which evolved into the l.a. county fire department) planted tens of thousands of seedlings.
he was skeptical a year ago when he first heard  about the project, lambasting the choice of coulter pine as the keystone tree  in the regenerative mix.
beginning in april 2011, contract labor planted one million seedlings of an expected three million over five years.
read more of his columnshere tags
as  part of a revegetation project, scientists at the san dimas experimental forest  randomly selected eight watersheds to seed with annual grasses and eight with  perennial grasses; four were left untouched as a control group.
in the scorched aftermath of the station fire the u. s. forest service feared that the erosive force of coming rainy seasons would strip the burned-over district of its soil.
after 20 years of backbreaking labor, and with little to show for it, the  local agency abandoned the project.
yet it does not necessarily follow, as robbins assumes, that we must reforest the planet as rapidly as possible; his evidence and motivation for this conclusion comes through his citing of a much-loved aphorism: "'when is the best time to plant a tree?'
he was skeptical a year ago when he first heard about the project, lambasting the choice of coulter pine as the keystone tree in the regenerative mix.
love them, in fact -- their bark: rough,  smooth, or grooved; their needles or leaves: angular, flat, jagged, or pointed;  branches crooked or straight; roots gnarled.
" char miller is the director and w.m. keck professor of environmental  analysis at pomona college, author of "public lands, public debates: a  century of controversy" (oregon state university press), and editor of  "cities and nature in the american west."
miller on april 18, 2012
only about 25 percent of the seedlings dug into charred slopes, cindered meadows, and blackened canyon floors have survived, a mortality rate that has stunned agency foresters.
after four years these and other opportunistic plants had revegetated approximately 50 percent of the burned watersheds, a speed of recovery and density of cover that modern technology could not replicate.
back in the set of control-group watersheds, chaparral, manzanita, and  buckwheat, ceanothus, deervetch, and morning glory -- which began sprouting  within ten days of the fire -- did even better.
are you a member of the media looking for information about kcet?