technical report, santa  fe institute, 2002.
the objective of the exercise is to maximize the probability of  detecting contaminants that exceed some regulatory standard before they reach a  compliance boundary, while minimizing cost (i.e., number of monitoring wells).
starting with a systematic comparison of the underlying theories behind clustering approaches, we have devised a technique that combines tree-structured vector quantization and partitive k-means clustering (btsvq).
methods: normal and glaucomatous eyes underwent complete examination, standard  automated perimetry, scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal  compensation (gdx-vcc), and optical coherence tomography (oct) of the macula,  peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (rnfl), and optic disk.
performance of the gait  classifier was evaluated using areas under the receiver operating  characteristic plots.
results and  conclusions:
results: mog had the greatest area under the roc curve of the machine classifiers.
[ bib ] this pilot study was carried out to find the feasibility of  analyzing the maturity of the fetal lung using ultrasound images.
keywords: adenocarcinoma, algorithms, artificial intelligence,  automated, cell nucleus, comparative study, computational biology, computer  graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm, databases, gene expression profiling,  genetic vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, imaging,  information storage and retrieval, internet, mitochondria, models, movement,  neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence  analysis, pattern recognition, peptides, protein, proteins, proteomics,  reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity,  signal processing, software, subtraction technique, theoretical,  three-dimensional, unknown primary, video recording, 15641019 [cole2005comparing]  jason c cole, christopher w murray,  j. willem m nissink, richard d taylor, and robin taylor.
[ bib ] the learning properties of finite-size polynomial support vector  machines are analyzed in the case of realizable classification tasks.
the present protocol could process the entire  bank for one receptor in less than a week on one processor, suggesting that vls  experiments could be performed even without large computer resources.
eyes were  classified into two groups: normal birefringence pattern (nbp) and atypical  birefringence pattern (abp).
we suggest that consensus docking/scoring could be valuable to some drug discovery projects.
keywords: animals; gtp-binding proteins; humans; ligands;  models, biological; molecular conformation; receptors, cell surface [baudat2000generalized]  g. baudat and f. anouar.
re-implementations of published scoring functions may give significantly  different results from the originals.
the top 60 mrmr genes for each of the datasets are listed in http://crd.lbl.gov/ cding/mrmr/. more information related to mrmr methods can be found at http://www.hpeng.net/. keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, animals, apoptosis, artificial intelligence, automated, biological, bone marrow, breast neoplasms, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, diagnosis, dose-response relationship, drug, female, foot, gait, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, gene silencing, genetic vectors, humans, image interpretation, information storage and retrieval, kidney, liver, logistic models, male, messenger, models, myocardium, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, pharmaceutical preparations, polymerase chain reaction, principal component analysis, proteins, rna, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, small interfering, sprague-dawley, statistical, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15852500 substantial advances have been made in the fundamental understanding of human biology, ranging from dna structure to identification of diseases associated with genetic abnormalities.
the entire feature set was used as  an annotation list for describing the clinical properties of mammographic tumor  cases in a quantitative way, such that subsequent objective analyses were  possible.
odor-driven attractor dynamics in the antennal lobe allow for  simple and rapid olfactory pattern classification.
this method seems to perform slightly better than two profile based methods,  syfpeithi and hla_bind.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] motivation: with an overwhelming amount of textual information  in molecular biology and biomedicine, there is a need for effective and  efficient literature mining and knowledge discovery that can help biologists to  gather and make use of the knowledge encoded in text documents.
the work presented in this paper aims to examine the feasibility of applying  svm to predict air pollutant levels in advancing time series based on the  monitored air pollutant database in hong kong downtown area.
as targeted knowledge resides at the interface between chemistry and biology, computational tools aimed at integrating the chemical and biological spaces play a central role in chemogenomics.
the  proteins were printed onto slides at high spatial density to form a yeast  proteome microarray and screened for their ability to interact with proteins  and phospholipids.
a number of hypotheses have been suggested to explain this phenomenon.
i major histocompatibility complex  (mhci) molecules is a key step in the immune response and the structural  details of this interaction are of importance in the design of peptide  vaccines.
trained neural networks, with global and regional hrt parameters used as input,  improve on previously proposed hrt parameter-based ldfs for discriminating  between glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes.
though high accuracies have been reported for  these systems, they fall short on certain critical areas.
this complex unravels the binding mode and conformation of a ligand  under investigation and indicates the essential aspects determining its binding  affinity.
prediction of nephrotoxicant action and identification of candidate  toxicity-related biomarkers.
to identify 85%  of the epitopes in the hiv dataset, 9% and 10% of all possible nonamers in the  hiv proteins must be tested when using the bimas and syfpeithi methods,  respectively, for the selection of candidate epitopes.
to test the approach, we analyzed a nonredundant set of 244 protein structures from the pdb and found that surfnet-consurf identifies a ligand binding pocket in 75% of them.
we present a method for detecting and comparing cavities on protein surfaces that is useful for protein binding site recognition.
we present a computational framework for image-based analysis and interpretation of statistical differences in anatomical shape between populations.
here we use a recently developed shape matching method to compare the shapes of protein binding pockets to the shapes of their ligands.
in this paper we have discussed the key techniques of medical data  mining involving pretreatment of medical data, fusion of different pattern and  resource, fast and robust mining algorithms and reliability of mining results.
to show the relevance of this approach, we focused on two extreme examples illustrating convergent and divergent evolution.
we discuss the validity of the independent binding assumption in such predictions.
we compare our algorithm to four other approaches, ligsite, cast, pass, and surfnet, and evaluate all on a dataset of 48 unbound/bound structures and 210 bound-structures.
in this definition, chemogenomics deals with the systematic analysis of chemical-biological interactions.
[ bib | doi | http ] a database system and computer programs for storage and  retrieval of information about guanine nucleotide-binding protein (g protein)  -coupled receptor mutants and associated biological effects have been  developed.
methods have also been developed for predicting the antigen-processing steps preceding mhc class i binding, including proteasomal cleavage and transporter associated with antigen processing (tap) transport efficiency.
the computer program described here is accessible via the world wide  web at url address (http:@expasy.hcuge.ch/).
ieee trans  syst man cybern b cybern, 35(1):89-99, feb 2005.
the developed method achieves an average sensitivity of 97.38% (sd = 0.0125) and an average specificity of 93.30% (sd = 0.0174) in 1000 independent k-fold cross-validations, where k = 2, ..., 10.
keywords: amino acid sequence; computer communication networks; computers; gtp-binding proteins; information systems; molecular sequence data; mutagenesis, site-directed; mutation; receptors, cell surface; sequence alignment vmd is a molecular graphics program designed for the display and analysis of molecular assemblies, in particular biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids.
spot ranking analysis using a support vector machine algorithm and unsupervised classification methods identified 32 protein spots essential for the classification.
compared with eyes with nbp, glaucomatous eyes with abp demonstrated significantly lower svm scores (p < .0001, < 0.0001, 0.008, 0.03, and 0.03, respectively) and greater temporal, mean, inferior, and nasal rnfl thickness using gdx-vcc; and a weaker correlation with oct generated rnfl thickness (r(2) =
results:  expression of the nijmegen breakage syndrome (nbs1) gene correlated strongly  with svm and cytologic tumor rankings (p < 0.0001).
at each branchpoint of the tree, a structure-based sequence alignment and coordinate transformations are output, with the multiple alignment of all structures output at the root.
support vector machnies (svms) have meant a great advance in solving classification or pattern recognition.
furthermore, four sets of results-using gp extracted  features with artificial neural networks (ann) and support vector machines  (svm), as well as traditional features with ann and svm-have been obtained.
major challenges facing the field include understanding of the factors determining the selectivity of kinase inhibitors and the development of compounds with the desired selectivity profile.
the term "privileged  structures" has been defined for scaffolds, such as the benzodiazepines,  which very often produce biologically active analogs in a target family, in  this case in the class of g-protein-coupled receptors.
our data show that the trajectories reach odor-specific steady states (attractors) that correspond to stable activity patterns at about 1 second after stimulus onset.
extracting useful knowledge and providing scientific decision-making for the diagnosis and treatment of disease from the database increasingly becomes necessary.
multipredreplaces earlier requirements for individual prediction models for each hla allelic variant and simplifies computational aspects of peptide-binding prediction.
the gad system is  controlled by two repressors (h-ns and crp), one activator (gadx), one  repressor-activator (gadw), and two sigma factors (sigma(s) and sigma(70)).
keywords: affinity labels, animals, comparative study,  electrospray ionization, genetic, macromolecular substances, mass, mitosis,  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., protein interaction mapping, proteome,  proteomics, research support, ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, signal transduction,  spectrometry, transcription, u.s. gov't, 12949916 [ sheinerman2003sequence]  felix b sheinerman, bissan al-lazikani, and barry  honig.
nbs1 expression as a prognostic marker in uveal  melanoma.
j comput aided mol des , 10(1):41-54, feb 1996.
machine learning classifiers can learn  complex patterns and trends in data and adapt to create a decision surface  without the constraints imposed by statistical classifiers.
the theoretical results are in excellent agreement with  the numerical simulations.
a set of 14 peptide-human leukocyte antigen (hla) a0201 and 27 peptide-non-hla  a0201 complexes for which x-ray structures are available is used to test the  accuracy of the prediction method.
using cross-validation, we demonstrate that svms can be trained on relatively small data sets to provide prediction more accurate than those based on previously published methods or on mhc binding.
of these methods, agglomerative hierarchical clustering has been the most widely applied, although many limitations have been identified.
we have therefore developed a novel method for dimensionality reduction and tested on a published ovarian high-resolution seldi-tof dataset.
keywords: 80 and over, acid-base imbalance, acute, acute  disease, adolescent, adult, african americans, aged, anemia, animals, anti-hiv  agents, anti-infective agents, antibiotics, antibodies, antineoplastic,  antineoplastic agents, antineoplastic combined chemotherapy protocols,  antitubercular agents, aorta, asparaginase, autoimmune, b-cell, bangladesh,  bicarbonates, biological markers, blood glucose, california, camptothecin,  cellulitis, chorionic gonadotropin, chronic disease, ciprofloxacin, clinical  protocols, colorectal neoplasms, combination, comparative study, daunorubicin,  decision trees, dexamethasone, diabetes mellitus, dideoxynucleosides, directly  observed therapy, disease transmission, drug administration schedule, drug  resistance, drug therapy, english abstract, female, fluorouracil, follow-up  studies, glucose tolerance test, glucosephosphate dehydrogenase, glyburide, hiv  infections, hiv-1, health planning, health resources, helminth, hemolysis,  hemolytic, hormonal, hospital mortality, human, humans, hypoglycemic agents,  immunoglobulin m, in vitro, incidence, indinavir, insulin, intensive care  units, interstitial, lactates, leucovorin, leukemia, male, maternal age, middle  aged, motor activity, multidrug-resistant, mutation, nephritis, non-u.s. gov't,  organoplatinum compounds, pennsylvania, phytotherapy, plant extracts, plant  leaves, population dynamics, potassium channels, prednisone, pregnancy,  pregnancy outcome, prenatal, prenatal care, progesterone, prognosis,  prospective studies, pulmonary, rabbits, randomized controlled trials, rats,  research support, retrospective studies, risk assessment, scalp dermatoses,  schistosomiasis japonica, severity of illness index, spondylarthropathies,  streptozocin, survival rate, trauma centers, trauma severity indices, tubal,  tuberculosis, type 2, ultrasonography, vertical, vincristine, viral, viral  load, wistar, wounds and injuries, ziziphus, beta subunit, 12653506 [jambon2003new]  martin jambon, anne imberty, gilbert  deléage, and christophe geourjon.
the problem is formulated in such a way that it incorporates  the n-stage optimal control problem as well as a least squares support vector  machine approach for mapping the state space into the action space.
adding dynamical noise, only the nw method was capable of generating sw similar  to training data.
both modeling of antigen-processing pathway including major histocompatibility complex (mhc) binding and immunogenicity prediction of those mhc-binding peptides are essential to develop a computer-aided system of peptide-based vaccine design that is one goal of immunoinformatics.
sequence, structure and energetic determinants of phosphopeptide  selectivity of sh2 domains.
here, we use microarray gene expression data to identify a new  prognostic marker.
using this classifier, the svm  predicted the type of pathology of 28 test profiles with 100% selectivity and  82% sensitivity.
[ bib | doi | http ] small interfering rnas (sirnas) induce sequence-specific gene  silencing in mammalian cells and guide mrna degradation in the process of rna  interference (rnai).
genetic programming (gp) can generate new features from the original dataset without prior knowledge of the probabilistic distribution.
homology modelling of protein-protein complexes: a simple  method and its possibilities and limitations.
the absence of a direct functional  correlation between gene transcripts and their corresponding proteins, however,  represents a significant roadblock for improving the efficiency of biological  discoveries.
gene expression patterns of breast carcinomas distinguish  tumor subclasses with clinical implications.
high-resolution raster images of displayed molecules may be produced by generating input scripts for use by a number of photorealistic image-rendering applications.
an analysis of the degree of folding of the  bound ligands confirmed the general tendency of small molecules to bind in an  extended conformation.
taking examples from current drug development programs (hiv proteinase, t-rna transglycosylase, thymidylate synthase, thrombin and, related serine proteinases), we describe recent advances in lead discovery via computer screening, iterative design, and understanding of selectivity discrimination.
they can also be used to monitor changes in gene expression in response to drug treatments.
the analysis provides a  rationale for the empirically derived classification of sh2 domains described  by songyang & cantley, in that proteins in the same group are found to have  similar residues at positions important for binding.
the method, an extension to the chemdiverse/chem-x software (oxford molecular, oxford, england), has also been customized to enable a new internally referenced measure of pharmacophore diversity.
keywords: animals, chemistry, computer simulation, cross-over studies, crystallography, deglutition, deglutition disorders, drug design, endoscopy, enzyme inhibitors, female, fluoroscopy, glossopharyngeal nerve, hiv protease inhibitors, horse diseases, horses, male, models, molecular, nerve block, non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., pharmaceutical, proteins, quantitative structure-activity relationship, random allocation, research support, thrombin, thymidylate synthase, u.s. gov't, x-ray, 10954196 g protein-coupled, seven-transmembrane segment receptors (gpcrs or 7tm receptors), with more than 1000 different members, comprise the largest superfamily of proteins in the body.
structure-based drug design: docking and scoring.
cell-based assays that use optical endpoints permit investigation of a wide  variety of functional properties of these compounds including specific  intracellular biochemical pathways, protein-protein interactions, and the  subcellular localization of targets.
correct-classification ratios  for 50 subjects were 78.4% and 61.8%, for the recognition of three and four  categories, respectively.
a structure comparison algorithm is applied to all pairs of proteins in the  superimposed set and a similarity tree calculated.
for both mean-field algorithms and support vector machines, simulation results for three small benchmark data sets are presented.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids,  animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain  chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea,  cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging,  diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic,  glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis,  magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged,  models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis,  ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern  recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve,  regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual  fields, beta-lactamases, 15762121 [sheinerman2005high]   felix b sheinerman, elie giraud, and abdelazize laoui.
[  bib ] we derive a mean-field algorithm for binary classification with  gaussian processes that is based on the tap approach originally proposed in  statistical physics of disordered systems.
predictions of binding affinity to a given  substrate are based on similarities in binding-site signature.
recent advances in the mobj algorithm for training artificial neural  networks.
the current approach allows a very fast comparison of most human gpcrs from the focused perspective of the predicted tm cavity and permits to easily detect key residues that drive ligand selectivity or promiscuity.
we report the development and validation of the program gold (genetic optimisation for ligand docking).
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial  intelligence, biological, cell compartmentation, comparative study, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, decision trees, diagnosis, discriminant  analysis, humans, logistic models, melanoma, models, neural networks  (computer), nevus, non-u.s. gov't, organelles, p.h.s., pigmented, predictive  value of tests, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, skin  diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, u.s. gov't, 11376540 [chou2001using]  k.-c.
the mean model rmsd generated from 3d-coffee using multiple templates  is 15 and 28% (or using single templates, 3 and 13%) better than those  generated by staccato and salign, respectively.
consequently, we have applied the approach to the structural genome of mycobacterium tuberculosis to construct a protein-ligand interaction network.
staged bayesian  retrieval involves two stages of bayesian retrieval and we further find that if  the second stage is replaced by a support vector machine we again obtain a  significant improvement over the strictly bayesian approach.
application of support vector machines for  t-cell epitopes prediction.
mini-fingerprints detect similar activity of receptor  ligands previously recognized only by three-dimensional pharmacophore-based  methods.
[ bib | doi | http ] dna microarrays can be used to measure the expression patterns  of thousands of genes in parallel, generating clues to gene function that can  help to identify appropriate targets for therapeutic intervention.
[ bib ] structure-based design has emerged as a new tool in medicinal  chemistry.
keywords: artificial intelligence; computing methodologies; hla-a2 antigen; neural networks (computer); oligopeptides; protein binding; reproducibility of results the theory of artificial neural networks is briefly reviewed focusing on supervised and unsupervised techniques which have great impact on current chemical applications.
a pattern-recognition/feature-selection algorithm based on support vector machines was used to select the mass-to-charge (m/z) values from the training set data that distinguished the two groups of samples from each other.
curr opin drug  discov devel, 7(3):304-313, may 2004.
most  existing statistical models only take into account the matching vertices  between two sites that are defined by a fixed number of points.
the final conformation is chosen as the center of the best-ranked cluster.
the amino acid sequences of 369 human nonolfactory g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) have been aligned at the seven transmembrane domain (tm) and used to extract the nature of 30 critical residues supposed-from the x-ray structure of bovine rhodopsin bound to retinal-to line the tm binding cavity of ground-state receptors.
the traditional approach, which is based on solving transient transport equations for each new configuration of a conductivity field, is too time consuming in practical applications.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigens, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, chemical, computational biology, computer simulation, crystallog, crystallography, electrostatics, genes, genetic, hla antigens, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, hydrogen bonding, ligands, mhc class i, major histocompatibility complex, models, molecular, molecular conformation, molecular sequence data, pattern recognition, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, proteomics, quantitative structure-activity relationship, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, structural homology, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics, water, x-ray, x-rays, raphy, 16447245 unforeseen adverse effects exhibited by drugs contribute heavily to late-phase failure and even withdrawal of marketed drugs.
for both simulated data and alternate  kernels, we give classification results, as well as the shape of the decision  function.
rev. lett. 82, 2975 (1999)] in the  thermodynamic limit.
in nearly all cases, the machine learning classifiers predicted the confirmed abnormality, on average, 3.92 +/- 0.55 years earlier than traditional statpac-like methods.
the use of additional features  originating either from the image itself (such as cluster location and  orientation) or from the patient data may further improve the diagnostic value  of the system.
in most cases, a placement with  rms deviation below 1.0 a with respect to the x-ray structure is found among  the 10 highest ranking solutions, assuming that the receptor is given in the  bound conformation.
statistical mechanics of learning with soft margin classifiers.
keywords: ligand-volume, protein-ligand, surface motivation:
furthermore, in both benchmarks, classifying structures using mammoth alone does not work as well as using an svm with the mammoth kernel.
the underlying complexity of the diagnostic task has justified the high value of sophisticated pattern recognition architectures.
these include three new sequence-structure  alignment programs: 3d-coffee, staccato and salign, plus five homology  modelling programs and their respective loop building methods: builder, nest,  modeller, segmod/encad and swiss-model.
specifically, several standard  methodologies of statistical significance analysis were employed to create  feature rankings according to their discriminating power.
a visualization scheme (star plots) was used to display the relative importance of each selected descriptor in the final set of "bagged" models.
features for the classification task are extracted by  analyzing the heart rate, morphology and wavelet energy of the heart beats from  a single lead.
[ bib ] a new method has been developed to detect functional  relationships among proteins independent of a given sequence or fold homology.
however, existing neural fuzzy systems have their own limitations when used in the design and implementation of dss.
to date, generation of large-scale protein-protein interaction maps has relied on the yeast two-hybrid system, which detects binary interactions through activation of reporter gene expression.
a  number of successful applications of structure-based virtual screening are  described.
an elementary requirement for a successful energy function is to rank the native structure above any threaded structure.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, information storage and retrieval, initiator, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11080018
world j  gastroenterol, 11(2):208-211, jan 2005.
keywords: animals, chemistry, computer simulation, cross-over  studies, crystallography, deglutition, deglutition disorders, drug design,  endoscopy, enzyme inhibitors, female, fluoroscopy, glossopharyngeal nerve, hiv  protease inhibitors, horse diseases, horses, male, models, molecular, nerve  block, non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., pharmaceutical, proteins, quantitative  structure-activity relationship, random allocation, research support, thrombin,  thymidylate synthase, u.s. gov't, x-ray, 10954196 [ gether2000uncovering]  u. gether.
taken together, these data have important implications for the selection of epitopes for peptide-based vaccines, and also formally demonstrate the crucial role of determinant selection in the shaping of t cell responses.
its weights are obtained in closed-form, thereby overcoming problems associated with other nonlinear neural networks.
ieee trans inf technol biomed , 6(1):38-45, mar 2002.
most of the current systems for  microarray data analysis use statistical methods, hierarchical clustering,  self-organizing maps, support vector machines, or k-means clustering to  organize genes or experiments into 'meaningful' groups.
topological, subdivided surface area, and tae (transferable atom equivalent) electron-density-based descriptors are computed directly for a set of proteins using molecular connectivity patterns and crystal structure geometries.
chemogenomics in drug discovery.
keywords: amino acid sequence; animals; cell line; cytotoxicity tests, immunologic; epitopes; hla-a antigens; hepatitis b; hepatitis b antigens; humans; mice; mice, transgenic; molecular sequence data; peptides; protein binding; t-lymphocytes, cytotoxic herein we describe the establishment of assays to measure peptide binding to purified hla-b*0701, -b*0801, -b*2705, -b*3501-03, -b*5401, -cw*0401, -cw*0602, and -cw*0702 molecules.
a support vector machine approach for detection of  microcalcifications.
sci. , 8(4):312-328, aug 2007.
a region of interest of 64 x 64 pixels was used for extracting the features.
using subsite coupling to predict signal  peptides.
experiments on a large benchmark data set (forest) yielded significant time improvement (time complexity appears empirically to locally grow linearly with the number of examples).
this hybrid technique has revealed clinically relevant clusters in three large publicly available data sets.
a network that can add nodes into its map  space can approximate the input space more accurately, and often more  parsimoniously, than a network with predefined structure and size, such as the  self-organising map.
we processed 1,739 genes, including 1,143 human  orthologues of relevance to human biology, and purified 589 protein assemblies.
test sets must be  of appropriate diversity and of good experimental reliability.
[ bib | doi | http  ] reverse immunogenetic approaches attempt to optimize the  selection of candidate epitopes, and thus minimize the experimental effort  needed to identify new epitopes.
keywords: amino acid sequence; amino acids; binding sites; electrostatics; humans; ligands; molecular sequence data; piperazines; protein binding; protein kinase inhibitors; protein kinases; pyrazoles; pyrimidines; sequence alignment; thermodynamics we performed proteomic studies on lung cancer cells to elucidate the mechanisms that determine histological phenotype.
we have  clearly moved the assessment of in vitro absorption, distribution, metabolism,  excretion and toxicity (adme/tox) parameters much earlier in the discovery  organization than a decade ago with the inclusion of higher throughput systems.
methods: mage-1, mage-3, mage-8, p53 and afp were selected as objective antigens in this study for the close association with hcc.
because of the almost infinite number of drug-like organic molecules, this is an impossible task.
further, the expression changes were  indicative of tubular toxicity showing hallmarks of tubular  degeneration/regeneration and necrosis.
supplementary information:
third, sequences whose structures have not  been determined are checked to see if they have binding-site signatures similar  to one of the known complexes.
furthermore, we introduce a learning  procedure for combining false positives with the original class.
fields were classified as normal or abnormal based on statpac-like methods (humphrey instruments, dublin, ca) and by several machine learning classifiers.
the most widely used matrices are  based on the dayhoff model of evolutionary rates.
each such minimum in conformational space presents a potential candidate for the conformation of the ligand in the complexed state.
keywords: biosvm proteomics [ sassi2005automated]  alexander p sassi, frank andel, hans-marcus l  bitter, michael p s brown, robert g chapman, jeraldine espiritu,  alfred c greenquist, isabelle guyon, mariana horchi-alegre, kathy l  stults, ann wainright, jonathan c heller, and john t stults.
examination of 80 sirna oligonucleotide duplexes  designed to bind to rna from four distinct human genes revealed that, in  general, activity correlated with the activity to rnase h-dependent  oligonucleotides designed to the same site, although some exceptions were  noted.
herein we report the implementation of the smm  algorithm as a publicly available software package.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins,  artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base  sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical,  chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna,  databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis,  drug, drug design, electrostatics, epitopes, eukaryotic cells, factual, false  negative reactions, false positive reactions, feasibility studies, female, gene  expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, glaucoma, hla antigens,  hemolysins, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, internet, intraocular  pressure, ion exchange, lasers, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions,  logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains,  mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques,  molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic,  neural networks (computer), neurological, non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung,  non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer  variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, open-angle, ophthalmoscopy,  optic disk, optic nerve diseases, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern  recognition, peptides, perimetry, predictive value of tests, probability,  probability learning, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins,  quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, roc curve, receptors,  reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research  support, robotics, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical,  stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, t-lymphocyte,  thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12214886 [brusic2002prediction]  v. brusic, n. petrovsky, g. zhang,  and v. b. bajic.
over the last ten years, many geometric methods for the prediction of ligand-binding sites have been developed.
they lead to significantly  improved class predictions in extensive experiments on 6 gene expression data  sets: nci, lymphoma, lung, child leukemia, leukemia, and colon.
compared to earlier studies, a simpler dataset, a simpler structural alignment procedure, and an additional energy criterion are used.
[ bib ] an iterative reweighted least squares (irwls) procedure recently  proposed is shown to converge to the support vector machine solution.
an  asymptotic statistical analysis of support vector machines with soft margins.
keywords: 16s, 23s, 5s, affinity, algorithms, aluminum  silicates, amino acid, amino acid sequence, amyloidosis, archaeal, bacillus,  bacterial, bacterial proteins, bacteriophage t4, base sequence, chloroplast,  chromatography, circular dichroism, comparative study, computational biology,  databases, electrophoresis, entropy, enzyme stability, escherichia coli,  factual, fibroblast growth factor 2, flavin mononucleotide, fluorescence,  genetic, guanidine, humans, huntington disease, kinetics, light, models,  molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation,  p.h.s., peptides, phylogeny, polyacrylamide gel, predictive value of tests,  protein binding, protein denaturation, protein folding, protein structure, rna,  radiation, recombinant proteins, research support, ribosomal, scattering,  secondary, sequence homology, solutions, spectrometry, statistical,  temperature, thermodynamics, time factors, trinucleotide repeat expansion, u.s.  gov't, alpha-amylase, 10329189 [wilbur2000boosting]   w. j. wilbur.
this study describes svm for the identification of premature ventricular contractions (pvcs) in surface ecgs.
these subtypes proved to be reasonably robust by clustering using two different gene sets: first, a set of 456 cdna clones previously selected to reflect intrinsic properties of the tumors and, second, a gene set that highly correlated with patient outcome.
technical  report, santa fe institute, 2001.
finally, the  new network is applied to several novelty detection tasks and is compared with  both the gng and an unsupervised form of the reduced coulomb energy network on  a robotic inspection task and with a support vector machine on two benchmark  novelty detection tasks.
for each complex, 1000 peptide conformers  are obtained from the sa sampling.
[ bib | doi | http ] an improved dynamic programming algorithm is reported for rna  secondary structure prediction by free energy minimization.
a model of large-scale proteome evolution.
this has been demonstrated by unsupervised clustering of co-expressed  genes and, more importantly, by supervised learning algorithms.
the effects of  crystal-packing interactions may be important.
improvements  are observed consistently among 4 classification methods: naive bayes, linear  discriminant analysis, logistic regression, and support vector machines.
however, because of the large numbers of different mhc molecules of interest, each associated with different predictive tools, tool generation and evaluation can be a very resource intensive task.
the algorithm is part of a docking tool, called flexx, which is currently under development at gmd.
although ann has addressed more  attentions to environmental researchers, its inherent drawbacks, e.g., local  minima, over-fitting training, poor generalization performance, determination  of the appropriate network architecture, etc., impede the practical application  of ann.
finally, we compare near-native models to distinctly non-native models.
keywords: animals; artificial intelligence; comparative study; computational biology; databases, protein; epitopes, t-lymphocyte; hla antigens; histocompatibility antigens class i; humans; peptides; predictive value of tests; protein binding; research support, non-u.s. gov't; sensitivity and specificity glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy with characteristic structural changes in the optic nerve head reflected in the visual field.
using a different kernel, one  can cover a wide class of nonlinearities.
[  bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we analyze the discriminatory power of k-nearest neighbors,  logistic regression, artificial neural networks (anns), decision tress, and  support vector machines (svms) on the task of classifying pigmented skin  lesions as common nevi, dysplastic nevi, or melanoma.
electrophoresis,  26(7-8):1500-12, apr 2005.
this surface, which in  some feature space of possibly infinite dimension can be regarded as a  hyperplane, is obtained from the solution of a problem of quadratic programming  that depends on a regularization parameter.
in the case of nijmegen dataset, the performance of the svm was az=0.79 and 0.77 for the original and enhanced feature set, respectively, while for the mias dataset the corresponding characterization scores were az=0.81 and 0.80.
it is almost always found among the highest-ranking conformations computed.
evolving  protein interaction networks through gene duplication.
optimal control by least squares  support vector machines.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid, artificial intelligence, ascomycota, automated, base sequence, chromosome mapping, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, crystallography, dna, dna primers, databases, diagnostic imaging, gene expression profiling, hordeum, host-parasite relations, humans, image interpretation, informatics, kinetics, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, models, nanotechnology, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, plant, plants, predictive value of tests, protein, research support, selection (genetics), sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, skin, software, statistical, theoretical, thermodynamics, u.s. gov't, viral proteins, x-ray, 15581813 purpose: up to half of uveal melanoma patients die of metastatic disease.
congeneric series of chemical analogs are probes to investigate their action on specific target classes, e.g., gpcrs, kinases, phosphodiesterases, ion channels, serine proteases, and others.
we motivate the need for extending learning theory of scalar-valued functions by practical considerations and establish some basic results for learning vector-valued functions that should prove useful in applications.
both the statistical and the classification results have proven the explicit correlation of all the selected features with the final diagnosis, qualifying them as an adequate input base for any type of similar automated diagnosis system.
test sets must be of appropriate diversity and of good experimental reliability.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins, artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical, chromatography, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, decision making, diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, internet, ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12444731
for a given sequence, a set  of 750 generated structures contains one structure that, on average, has 86 %  of known base-pairs.
while incorrect protein identifications  also showed distinctive score patterns, indicating that protein must be  identified by other means.
from the analysis of the results we conclude that for  those cases in which the ligands are found in large, highly conserved clefts,  the combined surfnet-consurf method gives pockets that are a better match to  the ligand shape and location.
benchmark studies show that the evd model performs at least two-orders faster and is more accurate than the non-parametric statistical method in the previous soippa version.
this review focuses on the progress and the applications of proteomics science with special reference to integration of the evolving technologies involved to address biological questions.
the results suggest that the unfolding of hydrophobic ligands during binding, which exposes hydrophobic surfaces to contact with protein residues, could be one of the factors accounting for high reorganization energies.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, amino acids, animals,  artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, bacterial proteins, bicuculline,  binding sites, biological, biological availability, blood proteins, blood-brain  barrier, cation transport proteins, cats, cell membrane permeability, chemical,  chemistry, cluster analysis, combinatorial chemistry techniques, comparative  study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer systems,  computer-aided design, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, dna-binding  proteins, databases, dogs, drug design, electric stimulation, electromyography,  enzyme inhibitors, ether-a-go-go potassium channels, excitatory amino acid  antagonists, factual, false positive reactions, forecasting, forelimb, gaba  antagonists, gene expression profiling, genome, glutamic acid, humans, hydrogen  bonding, image enhancement, image interpretation, image processing, information  storage and retrieval, iontophoresis, kynurenic acid, least-squares analysis,  linear models, liver, markov chains, metabolic clearance rate,  metalloendopeptidases, microelectrodes, models, molecular, molecular  conformation, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, motor cortex,  movement, multivariate analysis, nerve net, neural networks (computer),  neuropeptides, non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, pattern recognition,  pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical preparations, pharmacokinetics, phylogeny,  potassium channels, predictive value of tests, protein interaction mapping,  protein sorting signals, protein structure, proteins, rats, reproducibility of  results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment,  sequence analysis, shoulder, signal processing, software, statistical,  stereotaxic techniques, structure-activity relationship, terminology, tertiary,  trans-activators, voltage-gated, zinc, 9830312 [ poggio1998sparse]  poggio and girosi.
a novel algorithm based on support vector machine  (svm) regression has been employed to obtain predictive qsrr models using a  two-step computational strategy.
we analyze the discriminatory power of k-nearest neighbors, logistic regression, artificial neural networks (anns), decision tress, and support vector machines (svms) on the task of classifying pigmented skin lesions as common nevi, dysplastic nevi, or melanoma.
med., 33(1):61-88, jan 2005.
application of the method at a generic site showed a rather promising  performance, which leads us to believe that svms could be successfully employed  in other areas of hydrology.
surprisingly, similarities in the signatures of different domains do not  correlate with whole-domain sequence identities unless the latter is greater  than 50%.an extensive comparison with the optimal binding motifs determined by  peptide library experiments, as well as other experimental data indicate that  the similarity in binding preferences of different sh2 domains can be deduced  on the basis of their binding-site signatures.
keywords: alzheimer disease, animals, antineoplastic agents, biological, bleomycin, cell cycle, cell cycle proteins, cell death, cell line, cell nucleus, cell shape, cell transformation, combinatorial chemistry techniques, cultured, drug delivery systems, drug design, drug evaluation, enzyme inhibitors, formazans, gene expression, humans, inhibitory concentration 50, kinetics, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass, mitochondria, models, molecular, neoplasms, neoplastic, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., paclitaxel, peptide library, pharmaceutical preparations, pharmacology, phosphoprotein phosphatase, preclinical, protease inhibitors, protein-tyrosine-phosphatase, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal transduction, spectrum analysis, stereoisomerism, structure-activity relationship, sulfonic acids, tetrazolium salts, thiazoles, toxicity tests, tumor, tumor cells, u.s. gov't, cdc25 phosphatase, 10869367 structure-based design has emerged as a new tool in medicinal chemistry.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] the generalization properties of support vector machines (svms)  are examined.
we assess the statistical significance of the performance of each  prediction scheme and conclude that hidden markov model based methods,  hmm-b2tmr, proftmb and pred-tmbb, are currently the best predictors, according  to either the per-residue accuracy, the segments overlap measure (sov) or the  total number of proteins with correctly predicted topologies in the test set.
as targeted knowledge resides  at the interface between chemistry and biology, computational tools aimed at  integrating the chemical and biological spaces play a central role in  chemogenomics.
moreover, the good generalization performances on several large databases have also been achieved.
genso-fdss: a neural-fuzzy decision support  system for pediatric all cancer subtype identification using gene expression  data.
[ bib |  doi | http ] background:
thus, microarrays of an entire eukaryotic proteome can be prepared and screened for diverse biochemical activities.
keywords: algorithms, automated, biometry, computers, dna, databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression, genes, learning, markov chains, models, neural networks (computer), neurological, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid hybridization, open reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical, tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9698352 this article shows a relationship between two different approximation techniques: the support vector machines (svm), proposed by v. vapnik (1995) and a sparse approximation scheme that resembles the basis pursuit denoising algorithm (chen, 1995; chen, donoho, and saunders, 1995).
this structure prediction method can be applied to complexes of natural or modified antigenic peptides in their mhc environment with the aim to perform rational structure-based optimizations of tumor vaccines.
the system was developed to operate as a user-independent system,  based on physiological signal databases obtained from multiple subjects.
characterization of clustered microcalcifications in  digitized mammograms using neural networks and support vector machines.
a thorough list of clinical features was constructed and the diagnostic value of each feature was verified against current clinical practices by an expert physician.
in addition, the clustering results produced by the technique have strong similarities to those of self-organizing maps (soms).
keywords: affinity labels, amino acid sequence, animals, cell  cycle proteins, cloning, comparative study, dna, dna damage, dna repair,  electrospray ionization, fungal, genetic, humans, macromolecular substances,  mass, mitosis, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't,  p.h.s., phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein binding, protein interaction  mapping, protein kinases, proteome, proteomics, research support,  ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces  cerevisiae proteins, sequence alignment, signal transduction, spectrometry,  spectrum analysis, transcription, u.s. gov't, 11805813 [ goldbaum2002comparing]  michael h goldbaum, pamela a sample,  kwokleung chan, julia williams, te-won lee, eytan blumenthal,  christopher a girkin, linda m zangwill, christopher bowd, terrence  sejnowski, and robert n weinreb.
we compare our  algorithm to four other approaches, ligsite, cast, pass, and surfnet, and  evaluate all on a dataset of 48 unbound/bound structures and 210  bound-structures.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] purpose: to define the clinical characteristics of atypical  birefringence images and to describe a quantitative method for their  identification.
protein eng., 14(2):75-79, 2001.
two complementary methods  for predicting peptides binding major histocompatibility complex molecules.
a computer  program was developed to automate the generation and evaluation of arb  predictive tools.
prediction of the peptide-binding specificity of hla-b*5401, on the basis of this consensus b and f pocket structure, verified this hypothesis and suggested that a relatively large family of hla-b alleles (which we have defined as the hla-b7-like supertype) may significantly overlap in peptide binding specificity.
as reported previously, the cancers could be classified into a basal epithelial-like group, an erbb2-overexpressing group and a normal breast-like group based on variations in gene expression.
advantageous features of the package are: (1) the output generated is easy to interpret, (2) input and output are both quantitative, (3) specific computational strategies to handle experimental noise are built in, (4) the algorithm is designed to effectively handle bounded experimental data, (5) experimental data from randomized peptide libraries and conventional peptides can easily be combined, and (6) it is possible to incorporate pair interactions between positions of a sequence.
we demonstrate a novel approach to such interpretation that allows us to argue about the identified shape differences in anatomically meaningful terms of organ deformation.
this suggests that geometrical complementarity in general is not sufficient to drive molecular recognition.
while approximately 60% of the ligands were  calculated to bind with strain energies lower than 5 kcal/mol, strain energies  over 9 kcal/mol were calculated in at least 10% of the cases regardless of the  method used.
a method for localizing ligand binding pockets in protein structures.
keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, protein; models, molecular; molecular structure; protein binding; protein folding; protein structure, tertiary; proteins, chemistry/metabolism; reproducibility of results purpose:
here we find  that scores for binding-site matching by soippa follow an extreme value  distribution (evd).
nature, 405:837-846, 2000.
nat cell biol, 3(4):384-91, apr 2001.
our procedure is successful because docking/scoring parameters are tuned according to the nature of the binding pocket and because a shape-based filtering tool is applied prior to flexible docking.
a novel algorithm based on support vector machine (svm) regression has been employed to obtain predictive qsrr models using a two-step computational strategy.
non-p.h.s.,  non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, normal distribution, nucleic acid  hybridization, ocular hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis,  oncogenes, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition,  perimetry, photography, phylogeny, polymerase chain reaction, protein, protein  structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research suppor, research  support, ribosomal proteins, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae  proteins, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence  analysis, sequence homology, soft tissue neoplasms, software, solvents,  statistical, subcellular fractions, theoretical, tumor suppressor, u.s. gov't,  user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, kappa-chain, t,  15165393
these initial proposals must be confirmed experimentally.
keywords: adrenergic, angiotensin ii, cell surface, combinatorial chemistry techniques, databases, drug evaluation, endothelins, environmental pollutants, factual, information management, ligands, molecular structure, pharmaceutical preparations, platelet glycoprotein gpiib-iiia complex, preclinical, receptors, serine proteinase inhibitors, structure-activity relationship, user-computer interface, alpha-1, 11277728 rna and dna strands produce ionic current signatures when driven through an alpha-hemolysin channel by an applied voltage.
the retrieval of molecular building blocks accommodated in a  particular sub-pocket that shares similarity with the pocket in a protein  studied by drug design can inspire the discovery of novel ligands.
we show that  in a few iterations this process converges to a gene set that is learnable with  considerably low rates of false positives and negatives and contains genes that  are biologically related to the original class, allowing for a coarse  reconstruction of the interactions between associated biological pathways.
an integrative approach to  ctl epitope prediction: a combined algorithm integrating mhc class i binding,  tap transport efficiency, and proteasomal cleavage predictions.
an introduction to molecular descriptors and  representation schemes is given.
identifying pockets on protein surfaces is of great  importance for many structure-based drug design applications and protein-ligand  docking algorithms.
many techniques have successfully been applied to unravel latent similarities among genes and/or experiments.
residues that make a significant contribution are mapped onto the  protein sequence and are used to define a "binding site signature"  for the complex being considered.
the proposed method is robust enough to detect local similarity among active sites of different sizes, to discriminate between protein subfamilies and to recover the known targets of promiscuous ligands by virtual screening.
we have therefore developed a novel method for  dimensionality reduction and tested on a published ovarian high-resolution  seldi-tof dataset.
modeling of protein interaction networks.
these results demonstrate that sirna oligonucleotide- and rnase h-dependent antisense strategies are both valid strategies for evaluating function of genes in cell-based assays.
one of the most extensively analyzed cellular functions by proteomics is the production of ribosome, the protein-synthesis machinery, in the nucle(ol)us-the main site of ribosome biogenesis.
the method improves performance over existing state-of-the-art methods of mhc class ii peptide binding predictions by using a custom, knowledge-based representation of peptides.
we report here a computational system, multipred, for the prediction of peptide binding to the hla-a2 supertype.
advantages and limitations of  neural networks for computer-aided molecular design and sequence analysis are  discussed.
keywords: affinity, affinity labels, amino acid sequence,  animals, cell cycle proteins, cells, chromatography, cloning, comparative  study, cullin proteins, cultured, cytoplasm, dna, dna damage, dna repair,  electrospray ionization, fungal, fungal proteins, gene targeting, genetic,  glucose, holoenzymes, humans, macromolecular substances, mass, matrix-assisted  laser desorption-ionization, mitosis, molecular, molecular sequence data,  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein  binding, protein interaction mapping, protein kinases, proteome, proteomics,  proton-translocating atpases, recombinant fusion proteins, research support,  ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, s-phase kinase-associated proteins,  saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, signal transduction, species specificity,  spectrometry, spectrum analysis, transcription, u.s. gov't, vacuolar  proton-translocating atpases, 11283612 [ risau-gusman2001statistical]  s. risau-gusman and m. b. gordon.
keywords: amino acid sequence; binding sites; molecular sequence data; peptide library; phosphopeptides; protein binding; sequence alignment; substrate specificity; src homology domains many different types of similarity coefficients have been described in the literature.
keywords: algorithms, cell nucleus, cytoplasm, databases, genetic vectors, humans, internet, mitochondria, models, non-u.s. gov't, peptides, protein, proteins, proteomics, reproducibility of results, research support, software, theoretical, 15647112 purpose:
the amino acid sequences of receptors for  which mutation experiments have been reported were aligned, and from this  alignment mutation data may be retrieved.
the ratios of fetal lung to  liver feature values were investigated as possible indexes for classifying the  images into those from mature (reduced pulmonary risk) and immature (possible  pulmonary risk) lung.
an introduction to molecular descriptors and representation schemes is given.
we experimentally verify this on synthetic examples.
ligand strain energies and conformational reorganization were analyzed with different computational methods on 150 crystal structures of pharmaceutically relevant protein-ligand complexes.
3d-coffee gives equivalent  modelling accuracy from multiple and single templates, but staccato and salign  are more successful with single templates, their quality deteriorating as  additional lower sequence identity templates are added.
approaches to address some of these challenges and the latest developments in the area are presented.
the requirement is to rank the new documents as  nearly in order of decreasing potential to be added to the smaller database as  possible, so as to improve the coverage of the smaller database without  increasing the effort of those who manage this specialty database.
t-cell recognition was long  considered exquisitely specific.
subsequently they are optimized toward higher  affinity and better selectivity.
we show results of using  svt for vehicle tracking in image sequences.
the second result is taken as strong support for the internal consistency of the mean-field approach.
detailed secondary anchor maps for a3, a11, a31, a*3301, and a*6801 are also  described.
computational chemogenomics  approaches to systematic knowledge-based drug discovery.
properties of support vector machines.
subsequently, the selected features were used to produce an  ensemble of nonlinear svm regression models that were combined using bootstrap  aggregation (bagging) techniques, where various combinations of training and  validation data sets were selected from the pool of available data.
the accurate models for air pollutant prediction are needed because such models would allow forecasting and diagnosing potential compliance or non-compliance in both short- and long-term aspects.
results of the cavity  detection procedure are presented for a large set of non-redundant proteins and  compared with surfnet-consurf.
this is conducted within a predefined feature space, and thus,  has limited searching power.
data for 203 synthesized peptides is available at http://linus.nci.nih.gov/data/lau203_peptide.pdf keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigen, antigen presentation, antigen-antibody complex, artificial intelligence, autoimmune diseases, autoimmunity, bacterial proteins, cd4-positive t-lymphocytes, cell proliferation, cells, clone cells, cluster analysis, conserved sequence, cross reactions, cultured, cytokines, databases, epitope mapping, epitopes, gene products, genetic, hiv-1, hla-dq antigens, hla-dr2 antigen, haplotypes, helper-inducer, hemagglutination, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, k562 cells, molecular mimicry, molecular sequence data, multiple sclerosis, myelin proteins, neural networks (computer), orthomyxoviridae, peptide library, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, roc curve, receptors, relapsing-remitting, reproducibility of results, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, structure-activity relationship, t-cell, t-lymphocyte, t-lymphocytes, torque teno virus, viral, viral proteins, gag, 14555632 resistance to being killed by acidic environments with ph values lower than 3 is an important feature of both pathogenic and nonpathogenic escherichia coli.
to define the clinical characteristics of atypical birefringence images and to describe a quantitative method for their identification.
to determine which machine learning classifier learns best to interpret standard automated perimetry (sap) and to compare the best of the machine classifiers with the global indices of statpac 2 and with experts in glaucoma.
in this paper, we propose a new method for computer-aided detection of  polyps in computed tomography (ct) colonography (virtual colonoscopy), a  technique in which polyps are imaged along the wall of the air-inflated,  cleansed colon with x-ray ct.
it combines a novel representation of peptide/mhc interactions with a hidden markov model as the prediction algorithm.
when used to dock the ligand back into the binding site, gold achieved a 71% success rate in identifying the experimental binding mode.
the authors compared performance of these classifiers with the global indices of statpac, using the area under the roc curve.
effects of base mismatches on activity were determined to be position-dependent for both sirna oligonucleotides and rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides.
the visual fields of 114 eyes of 114 patients with oht with four or  more visual field tests with standard automated perimetry over three or more  years and for whom stereophotographs were available were assessed.
keywords: culture media; escherichia coli; escherichia coli  proteins; gene expression profiling; gene expression regulation, bacterial;  heat-shock response; hydrogen-ion concentration; morpholines; oligonucleotide  array sequence analysis [sultan2002binary]  m. sultan,  d. a. wigle, c. a. cumbaa, m. maziarz, j. glasgow,  m. s. tsao, and i. jurisica.
a molecular fragment is defined as a connected part  of a molecule containing only complete ring systems.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea, cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic, glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged, models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve, regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual fields, beta-lactamases, 15765480 an iterative reweighted least squares (irwls) procedure recently proposed is shown to converge to the support vector machine solution.
the results obtained using the hybrid  approach have been compared with those available in the literature for the same  data set.
with the advent of ultrasensitive mass spectrometric protein identification methods, it is feasible to identify directly protein complexes on a proteome-wide scale.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea, cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic, glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged, models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve, regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual fields, beta-lactamases, 15762121 inhibition of protein kinase activity is a focus of intense drug discovery efforts in several therapeutic areas.
however,  it is only recently that we are beginning to gain insight into some of the most  fundamental questions in the molecular function of this class of receptors.
in conclusion, our results demonstrate the utility of quantitative proteomic analysis for molecular diagnosis and classification of lung cancer cells.
detection and characterization of microcalcification  clusters in mammograms is vital in daily clinical practice.
in  contrast to results of previous reports, we demonstrate that gad transcription  can be detected in an hns rpos mutant strain of e. coli k-12, indicating that  gad promoters can be initiated by sigma(70) in the absence of h-ns.
the  convergence to a stationary point is ensured by modifying the original irwls  procedure.
[ bib ] how to selecting a small subset out of the thousands of genes in  microarray data is important for accurate classification of phenotypes.
these results suggest that svms can function as an efficient gait classifier for recognition of young and elderly gait patterns, and has the potential for wider applications in gait identification for falls-risk minimization in the elderly.
a twofold  difference in peptide concentration could be detected with statistical  significance (p-value < 0.0001).
the algorithm for fragment placement, which is the  topic of this paper, is based on pattern recognition techniques and is able to  predict a small set of possible positions of a molecular fragment with low  flexibility within seconds on a workstation.
stamp alignments have the quality  of each alignment characterized by sc and pij' values and thus provide a  reproducible resource for studies of residue conservation within structural  motifs.
as revealed by a detailed  mathematical investigation, the trajectories are characterized by different  phases: response onset, steady-state plateau, response offset, and periods of  spontaneous activity.
[ bib | doi | http ] the antennal lobe plays a central role for odor processing in  insects, as demonstrated by electrophysiological and imaging experiments.
we find that pockets binding the same ligand show greater variation in their shapes than can be accounted for by the conformational variability of the ligand.
without prior explicit  bias almost all of these clustering methods applied to gene expression data not  only produce different results, but may also produce clusters with little or no  biological relevance.
predicting class ii mhc-peptide binding: a kernel based approach using  similarity scores.
keywords: biosvm proteomics ageing influences gait patterns causing constant threats to control of locomotor balance.
first, they can  provide a summary of experimental results, allowing for a deeper understanding  of the mechanisms involved in sequence recognition.
however, this imposes a significant challenge in assessing the statistical significance of the similarity because the conventional probability model that is based on fixed-point matching cannot be applied.
these results are consistent with the relatively hydrophobic binding nature of the hla-a2 peptide binding interface.
specificity cutoffs required confirmation of abnormality.
[ bib | doi | http ] support vector machines (svms) are the state-of-the-art models  for many classification problems, but they suffer from the complexity of their  training algorithm, which is at least quadratic with respect to the number of  examples.
keywords: amino acid, binding sites, computational biology,  databases, epitope mapping, genetic, hla-a antigens, hla-dr antigens,  histocompatibility antigens class ii, humans, peptides, protein, protein  binding, protein conformation, roc curve, reproducibility of results, sequence  alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, 17105666 [ leach2006prediction]  andrew r leach, brian k shoichet, and  catherine e peishoff.
in addition, a k-nearest neighbor (k-nn) algorithm is proposed to  resolve the data sparseness problem in our system.
the discrimination of near-native structures is fair.
also, we describe, for the first time, an effective way to combine the individual predictors, at will, to a single consensus prediction method.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] in 1995, two methods of genome-wide expression profiling were  first described: expression microarrays and serial analysis of gene expression  (sage).
we tested the correlation  between the h-b index and the gene-silencing effects on three genes (bcl-2,  htf, and cyclin b1) using a variety of sirnas.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes,  bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding  sites, biological, bone marrow cells, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child,  chromosome aberrations, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, electric conductivity,  electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female,  fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression  regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, ion channels,  kinetics, leukemia, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov  chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplastic, neural  networks (computer), nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics,  normal distribution, nucleic acid conformation, organ specificity, organelles,  p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests,  promoter regions (genetics), protein folding, protein structure, proteins,  proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sex  characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software,  statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription,  transcription factors, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 11213211
we show that the high degree of interconnections among functional classes confounds the signatures that ought to be learned for a unique class.
[ bib | doi | http ] we present an automatic method for docking organic ligands into  protein binding sites.
j  bioinform comput biol, 3(2):185-205, apr 2005.
emotion recognition system using short-term monitoring of  physiological signals.
the approach either retrieves protein cavities accommodating the  same (e.g. co-factors) or closely related ligands or it extracts proteins  exhibiting similar function in terms of a related catalytic mechanism.
proteomic  signatures for histological types of lung cancer.
examination of 80 sirna oligonucleotide duplexes designed to bind to rna from four distinct human genes revealed that, in general, activity correlated with the activity to rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides designed to the same site, although some exceptions were noted.
confident predictions of binding preference can be made for about 85% of sh2 domain sequences found in swissprot.
finally, the new network is applied to several novelty detection tasks and is compared with both the gng and an unsupervised form of the reduced coulomb energy network on a robotic inspection task and with a support vector machine on two benchmark novelty detection tasks.
the use of the connolly surface leads to slight improvements, the prediction re-ranking by conservation to significant improvements of the binding site predictions.
za zhi, 20(3):559-62, sep 2003.
moreover, the metagene models trained  with gene expression patterns evoked by ectopic production of myc or ras  proteins in primary tissue culture cells properly predict the activity of in  vivo tumor models that result from deregulation of the myc or hras pathways.
[ bib | doi | http ] we present a computational framework for image-based analysis  and interpretation of statistical differences in anatomical shape between  populations.
a region of interest of 64 x  64 pixels was used for extracting the features.
convergence of the irwls procedure  to the support vector machine solution.
torsade de pointes (tdp) is one such important adverse effect, which causes cardiac arrhythmia and, in some cases, sudden death, making it crucial for potential drugs to be screened for torsadogenicity.
high-throughput and high-resolution mass  spectrometry instruments are increasingly used for disease classification and  therapeutic guidance.
with the use of forward selection and backward elimination optimization techniques, the areas under the roc curves for svm gaussian and the current ldf were increased to approximately 0.96.
arb matrix applications.
systematic identification of protein complexes in saccharomyces  cerevisiae by mass spectrometry.
by several machine learning classifiers.
bioinformatics, 19(15):1978-1984, oct 2003.
given a classifier function in the feature space, we derive a deformation that corresponds to the differences between the two classes while ignoring shape variability within each class.
data mining in medicine can deal with this problem.
this nanopore instrument  can discriminate between individual dna hairpins that differ by one base pair  or by one nucleotide.
a graph theory clustering algorithm based on  heavy atom root-mean-square deviation (rmsd) values is applied to the sampled  conformers.
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] proteomic technologies powered by advancements in mass  spectrometry and bioinformatics and coupled with accumulated genome sequence  data allow a comprehensive study of cell function through large-scale and  systematic protein identifications of protein constituents of the cell and  tissues, as well as of multi-protein complexes that carry out many cellular  function in a higher-order network in the cell.
extracting useful knowledge and providing scientific  decision-making for the diagnosis and treatment of disease from the database  increasingly becomes necessary.
it combines an appropriate model of the physico-chemical properties of the docked molecules with efficient methods for sampling the conformational space of the ligand.
additionally, we observe a "buffer zone" or a region of free space between the ligand and protein, which results in binding pockets being on average three times larger than the ligand that they bind.
in this paper, svms are illustratively used to reproduce the behavior of monte carlo-based flow and transport models that are in turn used in the design of a ground water contamination detection monitoring system.
a comparison of non-linear  non-parametric models for epilepsy data.
our analysis indicates that classification systems with a lower borges effect  are better suitable for machine learning.
including novel constellations of metabolites into the models, the positive predictive value could be strongly increased (pku 71.9 54.6 clearly prove that the mined data confirm the known and indicate some novel metabolic patterns which may contribute to a better understanding of newborn metabolism.
this study is focused on identifying a robust set of clinical features that can  be used as the base for designing the input of any computer-aided diagnosis  system for automatic mammographic tumor evaluation.
this led to marked improvements in alignments and in searches using queries from each of the groups.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; biology;  computational biology; computer simulation; data interpretation, statistical;  databases, protein; models, biological; models, statistical; neural networks  (computer); peptide library; peptides; programming languages; prote;  sensitivity and specificity; software; in binding [ papadopoulos2005characterization]  a. papadopoulos, d. i. fotiadis,  and a. likas.
in this work, we compare the different available methods for topology  prediction of beta-barrel outer membrane proteins.
the normalization of the high-order features acts as a squeezing factor, introducing a strong anisotropy in the patterns distribution in feature space.
standard automated perimetry (sap) is a common computerized visual-field test whose output is amenable to machine learning.
this number is reduced to 7% when using the integrated method.
we compared the  performance of a number of machine learning algorithms with statpac indexes  mean deviation, pattern standard deviation, and corrected pattern standard  deviation.
for individual proteins, the most successful technique is homology modelling.
this usually means that new nodes are added only when the number of iterations is an integer multiple of some pre-defined constant, a. this paper suggests a way in which the learning algorithm can add nodes whenever the network in its current state does not sufficiently match the input.
j chem inf comput sci, 42(6):1347-57,  2002.
the trimming procedure reduces the original cleft volumes by 30% on average, while still encompassing an average 87% of the ligand volume.
this paper describes experiments in which data fusion is used to combine several binary similarity coefficients to get an overall estimate of similarity for searching databases of bioactive molecules.
the polynomial method, on the other hand, has high sensitivity and is  a superior method for eliminating false negatives.
prediction of protein  signal sequences and their cleavage sites.
additionally, we found that over 60% of the ligands do not bind in a  local minimum conformation.
[ bib | doi | http ] the purpose of this study was to classify breast carcinomas  based on variations in gene expression patterns derived from cdna microarrays  and to correlate tumor characteristics to clinical outcome.
in addition, we determined that the activity of both sirna  oligonucleotides and rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides is affected by the  secondary structure of the target mrna.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] motivation:
the recent abundance of genome sequence data has brought an urgent need for systematic proteomics to decipher the encoded protein networks that dictate cellular function.
phys rev e  stat phys plasmas fluids relat interdiscip topics, 62(5 pt b):7092-9, nov  2000.
cell biol., 80(3):280-285, jun 2002.
we consider a new neural network for data discrimination in pattern recognition applications.
methods  have also been developed for predicting the antigen-processing steps preceding  mhc class i binding, including proteasomal cleavage and transporter associated  with antigen processing (tap) transport efficiency.
multipred: a  computational system for prediction of promiscuous hla binding peptides.
in this way the network grows very quickly when new data is presented, but stops growing once the network has matched the data.
these energetically important residues are found to contribute to binding through a variety of mechanisms, involving both electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions.
j pathol, 205(2):236-47, jan 2005.
they show that one may get state-of-the-art  performance by using the leave-one-out estimator for model selection and the  built-in leave-one-out estimators are extremely precise when compared to the  exact leave-one-out estimate.
application of the method at a generic site showed a rather promising performance, which leads us to believe that svms could be successfully employed in other areas of hydrology.
however, in practice,  non-cpd kernels arise and demand application in svms.
keywords: , algorithms, amino acid sequence, antibodies,  artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, chemical, computer  simulation, databases, epitope mapping, genes, hla-a antigens, hla-dq antigens,  histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, immunoassay, immunological, mhc  class i, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, pattern recognition,  peptides, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, protein interaction  mapping, protein structure, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software,  tertiary, water, 16368108 [bui2006structural]  h.-h. bui,  a. j. schiewe, h. von grafenstein, and i. s. haworth.
[ bib | doi | http ] an innovative bioinformatic method has been designed and  implemented to detect similar three-dimensional (3d) sites in proteins.
since introducing soft margins is equivalent to reducing the convex hull of the examples, an svm with soft margins has a different learning curve from the original.
the dataset consisting of 428 human mhc class i binding peptides belonging to four classes of immunogenicity was established from mhcpep, a database of mhc-binding peptides (brusic et al., 1998).
two human experts were judged against the machine  classifiers and the global indices by plotting their sensitivity-specificity  pairs.
[ bib ] we present an algorithm for placing molecular fragments into the  active site of a receptor.
a multiple logistic regression model  was used to predict eyes with abp on the basis of a quantitative scan score  generated by a support vector machine (svm) with gdx-vcc.
we have applied mog, mgg, lda, qda, and parzen  window to the classification of glaucoma from sap.
microarray gene expression profiles  were analyzed in 25 primary uveal melanomas.
we give a geometric interpretation of svms with indefinite kernel functions.
bmc bioinformatics,  9:427, 2008.
in particular, we build upon recent work describing various kernels for protein structures, where a kernel is a similarity function that the classifier uses to compare pairs of structures.
we derive a new general representation for a function as a linear combination of local correlation kernels at optimal sparse locations (and scales) and characterize its relation to principal component analysis, regularization, sparsity principles, and support vector machines.
the learning properties of finite-size polynomial support vector machines are analyzed in the case of realizable classification tasks.
the  visual-field sensitivity test is commonly used in a clinical setting to  evaluate glaucoma.
the sabmark database provided 123  targets with at least five templates from the same scop family and sequence  identities </=50%.
fast svm training algorithm with decomposition on very large  data sets.
measurable properties include duplex  stem length, base pair mismatches, and loop length.
thus, there is  currently a huge interest in developing autonomous classification systems for  cancer diagnosis using gene expression data.
neural network analyses show promise for increasing diagnostic accuracy of tests for glaucoma.
here, we report an efficient statistical model that supports local sequence order independent ligand-binding-site similarity searching.
the entire feature set was used as an annotation list for describing the clinical properties of mammographic tumor cases in a quantitative way, such that subsequent objective analyses were possible.
however, existing neural fuzzy systems have their own limitations  when used in the design and implementation of dss.
ieee trans med imaging, 20(12):1251-60, dec  2001.
these data correlate well with class i binding affinity measurements of either naturally processed peptides or previously described t cell epitopes.
in addition, a k-nearest neighbor (k-nn) algorithm is proposed to resolve the data sparseness problem in our system.
popi, utilizing the m = 23 selected properties, performs well with the accuracy of 64.72% using leave-one-out cross-validation, compared with two sequence alignment-based prediction methods align (54.91%) and psi-blast (53.23%).
[ bib  ] the relationship between binding affinity for hla class i  molecules and immunogenicity of discrete peptide epitopes has been analyzed in  two different experimental approaches.
forward-selection and backward-elimination methodology further improved the  classification rate and also has the potential to reduce testing time by  diminishing the number of visual-field location measurements.
this is particularly important when we consider dynamic data sets, where the distribution of inputs can change to a new regime after some time.
prediction of mhc class i binding peptides, using svmhc.
for the purposes of this study, a mammographic image database was  created, with complete clinical evaluation descriptions and positive  histological verification for each case.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins,  artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base  sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical,  chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna,  databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design,  electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility studies, female, gene  expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, internet,  ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung  neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger,  models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data,  nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer),  non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation,  nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence  analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability, protein  binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna,  rna splicing, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility  of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity  and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical,  stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics,  transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12421757
in this paper we derive the asymptotic average  generalization error of svms with soft margins in simple cases, that is, only  when the dimension of inputs is one, and quantitatively show that soft margins  increase the generalization error.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antineoplastic  agents, artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, base composition, base  sequence, bayes theorem, bias (epidemiology), carcinoma, cell line, chemical,  chromosome aberrations, cluster analysis, codon, comparative study,  computational biology, computer graphics, computer simulation,  computer-assisted, conserved sequence, dna gyrase, databases, diagnosis,  electrostatics, escherichia coli, evolution, factual, female, follow-up  studies, fungal, gene dosage, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene  expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic vectors, genomics, glaucoma,  humans, hydrophobicity, immunoglobulins, information theory, intraocular  pressure, least-squares analysis, linear models, liposarcoma, lung, lung  neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, multigene  family, mycobacterium tuberculosis, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s.,  non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, normal distribution, nucleic acid  hybridization, ocular hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis,  oncogenes, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition,  perimetry, photography, phylogeny, pilot projects, polymerase chain reaction,  pregnancy, pregnancy trimester, protein, protein structure, proteins,  reproducibility of results, research suppor, research support, ribosomal  proteins, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, second,  secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis,  sequence homology, soft tissue neoplasms, software, solvents, statistical,  subcellular fractions, theoretical, third, tumor suppressor, u.s. gov't,  user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, kappa-chain, t,  11936595
in our experiments, the proposed svm framework outperformed all the  other methods tested.
if weakly stable complexes are excluded (defined by a binding energy cutoff), as well as a few unusual complexes, a simple homology principle holds: complexes that share more than 35% sequence identity share similar structures and interaction modes; this principle was less clearcut in earlier studies.
it uses  hidden markov models and artificial neural network methods as predictive  engines.
the methods can be grossly divided to those based on hidden markov  models (hmms), on neural networks (nns) and on support vector machines (svms).
the method can be used in the design process of specific  protein ligands.
genes selected via mrmr provide a more balanced coverage of the space and  capture broader characteristics of phenotypes.
ostensibly minor details in methodology  may have a profound influence on headline success rates.
first, an accurate multiple alignment  of sequences of all members of a protein family is constructed on the basis of  a multiple structural superposition of family members with known structure.
previously,  support vector machines (svms) and other machine-learning methods have been  applied to a limited number of functional classes for this purpose.
because a3-like supertype alleles are found in most major hla evolutionary lineages, possibly a reflection of common ancestry, the a3-like supermotif might in fact represent a primeval human hla class i peptide-binding specificity.
specifically, we allow an output space y to be a  hilbert space, and we consider a reproducing kernel hilbert space of functions  whose values lie in y.
[pastor-satorras2002evolving]   r. pastor-satorras, e. d. smith, and r. v. solé.
[ bib | doi | http ] unforeseen adverse effects exhibited by drugs contribute heavily  to late-phase failure and even withdrawal of marketed drugs.
ligsitecsc performs slightly better than the other tools and achieves a success rate of 71% and 75%, respectively.
the performance of the  genso-fdss system is encouraging when benchmarked against those of nn, svm and  the k-nearest neighbor (k-nn) classifier.
additionally, we found that over 60% of the ligands do not bind in a local minimum conformation.
the sabmark database provided 123 targets with at least five templates from the same scop family and sequence identities </=50%.
the mean number of years covered (+/-sd)
we proposed that this structural factor can be  characterized by a single parameter called "the hydrogen bond (h-b)  index," which represents the average number of hydrogen bonds formed  between nucleotides in the target region and the rest of the mrna.
a novel data representation method enables multipred to predict peptides that promiscuously bind multiple hla alleles within one hla supertype.
in two unrelated serine proteases, sumo detects one common site, which corresponds to the catalytic triad.
keywords: amino acid sequence; animals; cell line; cytotoxicity  tests, immunologic; epitopes; hla-a antigens; hepatitis b; hepatitis b  antigens; humans; mice; mice, transgenic; molecular sequence data; peptides;  protein binding; t-lymphocytes, cytotoxic [sidney1995several ]  j. sidney, m. f. del guercio, s. southwood, v.
the use of additional features originating either from the image itself (such as cluster location and orientation) or from the patient data may further improve the diagnostic value of the system.
two human experts were judged against the machine classifiers and the global indices by plotting their sensitivity-specificity pairs.
[ marsland2002self-organising]  stephen marsland, jonathan shapiro, and ulrich  nehmzow.
our overall approach for  cavity detection and comparison is benchmarked on several pairs of known  complexes, obtaining a good coverage of the atoms of the binding sites.
the total data acquired consisted of 750 images of immature and 250 images of mature class.
we use the svm to detect at each location in the image whether an mc is present or not.
keywords: amino acid sequence; binding sites; genomics; humans;  ligands; models, molecular; phylogeny; receptors, g-protein-coupled [salomon2006predicting]  j. salomon and d. r.  flower.
performance of the various  classifiers was compared by the areas under their receiver operating  characteristic curves and by sensitivities (true-positive rates) at chosen  specificities (true-negative rates).
methods: multilayer perceptrons (mlp), support vector machines (svm), mixture of gaussian (mog), and mixture of generalized gaussian (mgg) classifiers were trained and tested by cross validation on the numerical plot of absolute sensitivity plus age of 189 normal eyes and 156 glaucomatous eyes, designated as such by the appearance of the optic nerve.
the term "privileged structures" has been defined for scaffolds, such as the benzodiazepines, which very often produce biologically active analogs in a target family, in this case in the class of g-protein-coupled receptors.
these results demonstrate  that sirna oligonucleotide- and rnase h-dependent antisense strategies are both  valid strategies for evaluating function of genes in cell-based assays.
systematic learning of gene functional classes from dna array expression data  by using multilayer perceptrons.
[ bib ] one of the major challenges in pattern recognition problems is  the feature extraction process which derives new features from existing  features, or directly from raw data in order to reduce the cost of computation  during the classification process, while improving classifier efficiency.
minimum redundancy feature selection from microarray gene expression data.
we find cell-type-dependent global effects and cell-type-independent positional effects.
we formulate mc detection as a supervised-learning  problem and apply svm to develop the detection algorithm.
all the features are integrated effectively and efficiently through a hidden markov model (hmm) and a hmm-based named entity recognizer.
the system consisted of preprocessing, feature extraction and  pattern classification stages.
based on this finding, we suggest that the h-b index can be a useful guideline for future sirna design.
further, immunohistochemistry expression of the nbs1 protein correlated strongly with both svm and cytologic rankings (p < 0.0001).
the method can be used in the design process of specific protein ligands.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid, artificial intelligence,  ascomycota, automated, base sequence, chromosome mapping, codon, colonic  neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, crystallography, dna, dna  primers, databases, diagnostic imaging, gene expression profiling, hordeum,  host-parasite relations, humans, image interpretation, informatics, kinetics,  magnetic resonance spectroscopy, models, nanotechnology, non-p.h.s., non-u.s.  gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition,  plant, plants, predictive value of tests, protein, research support, selection  (genetics), sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, skin,  software, statistical, theoretical, thermodynamics, u.s. gov't, viral proteins,  x-ray, 15581813 [ehlers2005nbs1]  justis p ehlers and  j. william harbour.
a fast flexible docking method using an  incremental construction algorithm.
vmd: visual molecular dynamics.
recently, gene expression profiling using dna microarrays has been shown to be a viable and accurate diagnostic tool to identify the known prognostically important all subtypes.
[ bib |  .html | .pdf ] [seol2001skp1]  j. h. seol,  a. shevchenko, a. shevchenko, and r. j. deshaies.
proteomics is in its exponential  growth phase.
based on this finding, we suggest that the h-b index can be a useful guideline  for future sirna design.
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) is the most common malignancy of childhood, representing nearly one third of all pediatric cancers.
the  experimental comparisons between the svm model and the classical radial basis  function (rbf) network demonstrate that the svm is superior to the conventional  rbf network in predicting air quality parameters with different time series and  of better generalization performance than the rbf model.
this approach allows balancing between the training error and norm of network weight vectors, which are the two objective functions of the multi-objective optimization problem.
though high accuracies have been reported for these systems, they fall short on certain critical areas.
science, 293(5537):2101-5, sep  2001.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, automated, biometry, computers, dna, databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression, genes, learning, linear models, markov chains, mathematics, models, neural networks (computer), neurological, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, nucleic acid hybridization, open reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical, tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9573414
we present results on 19 complexes of which the binding geometry has been crystallographically determined.
many techniques have successfully been applied to unravel latent  similarities among genes and/or experiments.
the biologic relevance of the a3-like supertype is indicated by the  fact that high frequencies of the a3-like supertype alleles are conserved in  all major ethnic groups.
it also offers a strategy for predicting cross-reactivity of  compounds designed to bind to a particular target, for example in  structure-based drug design.
next, we  compare the xray structures to models obtained by threading the native sequence  onto other, homologous complexes.
moreover, evaluation on genia v3.0 shows that the  post-processing for the cascaded entity name phenomenon improves the f-measure  by 3.9.
ligsitecsc is based on the notion of surface-solvent-surface events and the  degree of conservation of the involved surface residues.
testing results show that multipred is both sensitive and specific and it has  good predictive ability (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve  a(roc) > 0.80).
techniques for the calculation of three-dimensional structural similarity using  inter-atomic distances.
this study focuses on mining informative  physicochemical properties from known experimental immunogenicity data to  understand immune responses and predict immunogenicity of mhc-binding peptides  accurately.
http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/3dkernel keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; artificial intelligence; molecular sequence data; pattern recognition, automated; proteins; sequence alignment; sequence analysis, protein; sequence homology, amino acid a novel method to measure distances between druggable protein cavities is presented.
in particular, our system achieves the f-measure of 75.8 on the "protein" class of genia v3.0.
a web server for prediction of peptide immunogenicity (popi) and the used dataset of mhc class i binding peptides (pepmhci) are available at http://iclab.life.nctu.edu.tw/popi keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; binding sites; epitope mapping; histocompatibility antigens class i; oligopeptides; pattern recognition, automated; protein binding; software; structure-activity relationship
by this, we obtain a sound framework and motivation for indefinite svms.
we present a statistical approach that uses support vector machines to distinguish the differentiating characteristics of polyps and healthy tissue, and uses this information for the classification of the new cases.
numerous protein complexes were identified, including many new interactions in various signalling pathways and in the dna damage response.
mog had significantly greater roc area  than psd and cpsd.
in order to  make organized and structured information available, automatically recognizing  biomedical entity names becomes critical and is important for information  retrieval, information extraction and automated knowledge acquisition.
non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern  recognition, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome,  proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research  support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, sprague-dawley,  subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s.  gov't, user-computer interface, 15794164 [dong2005prediction ]  hai-long dong and yan-fang sui.
first of all, it requires the crystal structure or a model derived from the crystal structure of a closely related homolog of the target protein, preferentially complexed with a ligand.
minimum foot clearance (mfc) data of 30 young and 28 elderly participants were analyzed using a peak-2d motion analysis system during a 20-min continuous walk on a treadmill at self-selected walking speed.
invest ophthalmol vis sci, 43(11):3444-54, nov 2002.
support vector machine (svm), a novel type of learning machine based on  statistical learning theory, can be used for regression and time series  prediction and have been reported to perform well by some promising results.
we use free-response receiver operating characteristic curves to evaluate detection performance, and compare the proposed algorithm with several existing methods.
we use the dfirebeta energy function, whose quality and complexity are typical of the models used today.
identification of epitopes carrying the b7-like supermotif and binding to a  family of alleles represented in over 40% of individuals from all major ethnic  groups may be of considerable use in the design of peptide vaccines.
an improvement in prediction accuracy is clearly seen, with the  accuracy reaching up to 97% in predicting compounds that can cause tdp and 90%  for predicting compounds that do not cause tdp.
the machine learning classifiers were two types of support vector machine (svm), a mixture of gaussian (mog) classifier, a constrained mog, and a mixture of generalized gaussian (mgg).
a methodology commonly used to predict mhc binding affinity is the matrix or linear coefficients method.
representing binding site  properties onto a discretised sphere presents many advantages: (i) a normalised  distance between binding sites of different sizes may be easily derived by  summing up the normalised differences between the 8 computed descriptors; (ii)  a structural alignment of two proteins is simply done by systematically  rotating/translating one mobile sphere around one immobile reference; (iii) a  certain degree of fuzziness in the comparison is reached by projecting global  amino acid properties (e.g., charge, size, functional groups count, distance to  the site centre) independently of local rotameric/tautomeric states of  cavity-lining residues.
keywords: affinity, affinity labels, amino acid sequence,  animals, cell cycle proteins, cells, chromatography, cloning, comparative  study, cultured, dna, dna damage, dna repair, electrospray ionization, fungal,  gene targeting, genetic, humans, macromolecular substances, mass,  matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization, mitosis, molecular, molecular  sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., phosphoric monoester  hydrolases, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, protein kinases,  proteome, proteomics, recombinant fusion proteins, research support,  ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces  cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, signal  transduction, species specificity, spectrometry, spectrum analysis,  transcription, u.s. gov't, 11805813
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] we performed proteomic studies on lung cancer cells to elucidate  the mechanisms that determine histological phenotype.
support  vector machines (svms) for monitoring network design.
we identified many new calmodulin- and phospholipid-interacting proteins; a common potential binding motif was identified for many of the calmodulin-binding proteins.
[ bib ] an hla-a3-like supertype (minimally comprised of products from  the hla class i alleles a3, a11, a31, a*3301, and a*6801) has been defined on  the basis of (a) structural similarities in the antigen-binding groove, (b)  shared main anchor peptide-binding motifs, (c) the identification of peptides  cross-reacting with most or all of these molecules, and (d) the definition of  an a3-like supermotif that efficiently predicts highly cross-reactive peptides.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated,  b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes  theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell  compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification,  codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination  learning, electric conductivity, electroencephalography, electrophysiology,  epilepsy, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric  emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics,  hemolysins, humans, indians, information storage and retrieval, initiator, ion  channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, linear models, lipid  bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov chains, melanoma,  models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks  (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear  dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian  neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive  value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein  folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of  results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, seeds,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex  characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software,  sound spectrography, statistical, stochastic processes, stomach diseases,  t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor  markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11032039 [ zhu2001global]  h. zhu, m. bilgin, r. bangham, d. hall,  a. casamayor, p. bertone, n. lan, r. jansen,  s. bidlingmaier, t. houfek, t. mitchell, p. miller,  r. a. dean, m. gerstein, and m. snyder.
the atoms displayed in each representation are chosen  using an extensive atom selection syntax, which includes boolean operators and  regular expressions.
once a quantitative description of organ shape is extracted from input images, the problem of identifying differences between the two groups can be reduced to one of the classical questions in machine learning of constructing a classifier function for assigning new examples to one of the two groups while making as few misclassifications as possible.
we present  ligsitecsc, an extension and implementation of the ligsite algorithm.
we consider specific  examples of such functionals corresponding to multiple-output regularization  networks and support vector machines, for both regression and classification.
the acid-induced genes represented only five functional  grouping categories, including eight genes involved in metabolism, nine  associated with cell envelope structures or modifications, two encoding  chaperones, six regulatory genes, and six unknown genes.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, carcinoma, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer graphics, dna gyrase, evolution, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genetic, humans, lung neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, phylogeny, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, software, statistical, subcellular fractions, user-computer interface, 12169538 a versatile, platform independent and easy to use java suite for large-scale gene expression analysis was developed.
the formulation is expressed as an eigenvalue problem resolution.
it uses neuron activation functions that are dynamically chosen based on the application.
[ bib ] this paper reports a comparison of several methods for measuring  the degree of similarity between pairs of 3-d chemical structures that are  represented by inter-atomic distance matrices.
these data correlate well with class i binding affinity measurements  of either naturally processed peptides or previously described t cell epitopes.
for example, binding pocket shape analysis relies heavily on the  correct localization of the ligand binding site.
in practical terms, this means that the experimental effort needed to identify an epitope in a hypothetical protein with 85% probability is reduced by 20-30% when using the integrated method.
nbs1 is a strong predictor of uveal melanoma survival and potentially could be used as a clinical marker for guiding clinical management.
consequently, we have  applied the approach to the structural genome of mycobacterium tuberculosis to  construct a protein-ligand interaction network.
this hybrid technique has revealed clinically relevant clusters in  three large publicly available data sets.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] [chou2001prediction]  k.-c.
t-cell recognition was long considered exquisitely specific.
the performance of both neural  networks and ldfs can be improved with optimization of the features in the  input.
results: when using modeller as the common modelling  program, 3d-coffee outperforms staccato and salign using both multiple  templates and the best single template, and across the sequence identity range  20-50%.
hence, accurate and correct
[ bib  |doi | http | .pdf ] background: prediction of the transmembrane strands and topology  of beta-barrel outer membrane proteins is of interest in current bioinformatics  research.
compared with eyes with nbp,  glaucomatous eyes with abp demonstrated significantly lower svm scores (p <  .0001, < 0.0001, 0.008, 0.03, and 0.03, respectively) and greater temporal,  mean, inferior, and nasal rnfl thickness using gdx-vcc; and a weaker  correlation with oct generated rnfl thickness (r(2) =
as such we have benchmarked several stand-alone strategies that could be implemented in a workflow for automated high-throughput homology modelling.
results: when using modeller as the common modelling program, 3d-coffee outperforms staccato and salign using both multiple templates and the best single template, and across the sequence identity range 20-50%.
keywords: binding sites, databases, estrogen, factor viia, factual, ligands, molecular structure, neuraminidase, non-u.s. gov't, protein binding, quantitative structure-activity relationship, receptors, research support, thymidine kinase, 16162004
here we  report that mfps are capable of detecting similar activities of some druglike  molecules, including endothelin a antagonists and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor  ligands, the recognition of which was previously thought to depend on the use  of multiple point three-dimensional (3d) pharmacophore methods.
invest ophthalmol vis  sci, 43(8):2660-5, aug 2002.
by protein sequencing analysis, 20 of the 27 proteins were  correctly identified.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] [ bostroem2001reproducing]  j. boström.
bioinformatics,  23(9):1090-1098, may 2007.
this behavior corresponds to the stepwise decrease  found by dietrich et al.
in order to deal with the special phenomena of naming conventions in the biomedical domain, we propose various evidential features: (1) word formation pattern; (2) morphological pattern, such as prefix and suffix; (3) part-of-speech; (4) head noun trigger; (5) special verb trigger and (6) name alias feature.
we applied these techniques to the analysis of  regulatory pathways controlled by the genes hras (harvey rat sarcoma viral  oncogene homolog), myc (myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog) and e2f1, e2f2  and e2f3 (encoding e2f transcription factors 1, 2 and 3, respectively).
several hla  alleles share overlapping peptide specificities.
we consider a large set of complexes of known structures, involving pairs of single-domain proteins.
the retrieval of molecular building blocks accommodated in a particular sub-pocket that shares similarity with the pocket in a protein studied by drug design can inspire the discovery of novel ligands.
the total number of residues that make significant contributions to binding is found to vary from nine to 19 in different complexes.
with an overwhelming amount of textual information in molecular biology and biomedicine, there is a need for effective and efficient literature mining and knowledge discovery that can help biologists to gather and make use of the knowledge encoded in text documents.
popi is the first computational system for prediction of peptide immunogenicity based on physicochemical properties.
results of the cavity detection procedure are presented for a large set of non-redundant proteins and compared with surfnet-consurf.
in the final section, we  describe some of the remaining developments that would potentially lead to a  universally applicable docking/scoring method.
structural prediction of peptides bound to mhc class i.j. mol.
however, nine acid-inducible genes are clustered in the gada region, including hdea, which encodes a putative periplasmic chaperone, and four putative regulatory genes.
+homepage.html) using the  world-wide web system.
in summary, pepssi is capable  of rapid and accurate prediction of peptide-mhc binding conformations, which  may in turn allow estimation of mhci-peptide binding affinity.
moreover, evaluation on genia v3.0 shows that the post-processing for the cascaded entity name phenomenon improves the f-measure by 3.9.
the "privileged" substructure concept for  the design of high-affinity ligands is presented, and an example of this new  method is described for the design of combinatorial libraries for  7-transmembrane g-protein-coupled receptor targets, where  "privileged" substructures are used as special features to internally  reference the pharmacophoric shapes.
it may also be important to limit the  induction of these same proteins that can result in further toxicities.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, hemolysins, humans, indians, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, 11110131 both solid- and liquid-phase combinatorial chemistry have emerged as powerful tools for identifying pharmacologically active compounds and optimizing the biological activity of a lead compound.
in addition, worked examples of recent advances in this field are highlighted and pioneering publications are discussed.
if the three-dimensional structure of a given protein is known, this information can be directly exploited for the retrieval and design of new ligands.
we derive analytically the behavior of the learning curves in the regime of very large training sets.
a closer analysis  reveals that false positives (and negatives) in a machine-learning context are  not necessarily "false" in a biological sense.
the potency, maximal effectiveness, duration of action, and sequence  specificity of optimized rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides and small  interfering rna (sirna) oligonucleotide duplexes were evaluated and found to be  comparable.
this behavior corresponds to the stepwise decrease found by dietrich et al.
by targeting endogenous lamin a/c mrna in human hela or  mouse sw3t3 cells, we investigated the positional variation of sirna-mediated  gene silencing.
congeneric series of  chemical analogs are probes to investigate their action on specific target  classes, e.g., gpcrs, kinases, phosphodiesterases, ion channels, serine  proteases, and others.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, carcinoma, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer-assisted, dna gyrase, databases, diagnosis, evolution, factual, follow-up studies, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genetic, glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lung neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, neural networks (computer), non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, ocular hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, phylogeny, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, software, statistical, subcellular fractions, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, 12147600 this pilot study was carried out to find the feasibility of analyzing the maturity of the fetal lung using ultrasound images.
v-atpases are conserved throughout eukaryotes, and have been implicated in tumour metastasis and multidrug resistance, and here we show that rave promotes glucose-triggered assembly of the v-atpase holoenzyme.
herein, we described average relative binding (arb) matrix methods that directly predict ic(50) values allowing combination of searches involving different peptide sizes and alleles into a single global prediction.
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) is the most common  malignancy of childhood, representing nearly one third of all pediatric  cancers.
the method is applied to classification and regression problems and compared with weight decay (wd), support vector machines (svms) and standard backpropagation (bp).
to address these shortcomings and to perform  binding-site mapping on a genome-wide scale, we developed a sequence-order  independent profile-profile alignment (soippa) algorithm that is able to detect  local similarity between unknown binding sites a priori.
for a protein site, complementary site points to groups displayed in the site are generated and all combinations of four site points are considered.
with all  the hrt parameters used as input, receiver operating characteristic (roc)  curves were generated for the classification of eyes, by three neural network  techniques: linear and gaussian support vector machines (svm linear and svm  gaussian, respectively) and a multilayer perceptron (mlp), as well as four  previously proposed linear discriminant functions (ldfs) and one ldf developed  on the current data with all hrt parameters used as input.
its behavior can be coarsely tuned to the strength  of binding desired and it is extendable in a straightforward fashion to other  alleles.
rav1, rav2 and skp1 form a complex that we have named  'regulator of the (h+)-atpase of the vacuolar and endosomal membranes' (rave),  which associates with the v1 domain of the vacuolar membrane (h+)-atpase  (v-atpase).
the method is available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/netctl.
on average, the experimental structure is ranked above 92%  of the alternate structures.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] support vector tracking (svt) integrates the support vector  machine (svm) classifier into an optic-flow-based tracker.
transcription factors e2f1 transcription factor e2f2 transcription factor e2f3 transcription factor female *gene expression gene expression profiling gene expression regulation, neoplastic genes, myc genes, ras mammary neoplasms, experimental/genetics mice mice, transgenic *models, genetic oligonucleotide array sequence analysis *oncogenes phenotype transcription factors/genetics small interfering rnas (sirnas) induce sequence-specific gene silencing in mammalian cells and guide mrna degradation in the process of rna interference (rnai).
[ bib | doi | http ] motivation: both modeling of antigen-processing pathway  including major histocompatibility complex (mhc) binding and immunogenicity  prediction of those mhc-binding peptides are essential to develop a  computer-aided system of peptide-based vaccine design that is one goal of  immunoinformatics.
thus, in these cases, mfps and pharmacophore fingerprints produce similar results, although they define, in terms of their complexity, opposite ends of the spectrum of methods currently used to study molecular similarity or diversity.
e-print cond-mat/0108043, aug 2001.
subsequently they are optimized toward higher affinity and better selectivity.
initial work with computer aided detection has shown high sensitivity, but at a cost of too many false positives.
the theory also yields an  approximate leave-one-out estimator for the generalization error, which is  computed with no extra computational cost.
clinical, functional, and structural  characteristics were assessed separately.
based on structure comparisons of a large set of peptide-mhc class i complexes,  a molecular dynamics protocol is proposed using simulated annealing (sa) cycles  to sample the conformational space of the peptide in its fixed mhc environment.
[ bib | doi | http ] motivation:
gene expression profiles were  generated from kidney rna using 17k rat cdna dual dye microarray and analyzed  in conjunction with histopathology.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] most cellular processes are carried out by multiprotein  complexes.
in the second stage, these clefts are trimmed in size  by cutting away regions distant from highly conserved residues, as defined by  the consurf-hssp database.
the incremental construction algorithm is based on a greedy  strategy combined with efficient methods for overlap detection and for the  search of new interactions.
development and  validation of a genetic algorithm for flexible docking.
methods: normal and glaucomatous eyes underwent complete examination, standard automated perimetry, scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation (gdx-vcc), and optical coherence tomography (oct) of the macula, peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (rnfl), and optic disk.
[ bib | doi | http ] a common assumption about the shape of protein binding pockets  is that they are related to the shape of the small ligand molecules that can  bind there.
proteomics, jul 2005.
j mol med, 78(5):269-281, 2000.
vmd provides a complete graphical user interface for  program control, as well as a text interface using the tcl embeddable parser to  allow for complex scripts with variable substitution, control loops, and  function calls.
molecules are  displayed as one or more "representations," in which each  representation embodies a particular rendering method and coloring scheme for a  selected subset of atoms.
genome sequence information is  becoming available in unprecedented amounts.
herein we report the implementation of the smm algorithm as a publicly available software package.
[ bib ] mini-fingerprints (mfps) are short binary bit string  representations of molecular structure and properties, composed of few selected  two-dimensional (2d) descriptors and a number of structural keys.
we show that if the data are noiseless, the modified version of basis pursuit denoising proposed in this article is equivalent to svm in the following sense: if applied to the same data set, the two techniques give the same solution, which is obtained by solving the same quadratic programming problem.
a new bioinformatic approach to detect  common 3d sites in protein structures.
in this paper, we present a named entity recognition system in the biomedical domain, called powerbione.
the methods by which we plan to achieve this goal are the explicit exploitation  of molecular flexibility of the ligand and the incorporation of physicochemical  properties of the molecules.
we use free-response receiver operating characteristic curves to evaluate  detection performance, and compare the proposed algorithm with several existing  methods.
predictions of binding affinity to a given substrate are based on similarities in binding-site signature.
the syfpeithi prediction values of all possible nonamers of a given protein sequence were added together and the ten high-scoring peptides of each protein were chosen for further analysis in primary prediction.
in 1995, two methods of genome-wide expression profiling were first described: expression microarrays and serial analysis of gene expression (sage).
int j neural syst, 11(3):265-70, jun 2001.
we suggest that consensus docking/scoring could be valuable to  some drug discovery projects.
the need to tap the power of computational  approaches for the prediction of adverse effects such as tdp is increasingly  becoming evident.
keywords: artificial intelligence; computing methodologies;  hla-a2 antigen; neural networks (computer); oligopeptides; protein binding;  reproducibility of results [schneider1998artificial]   g. schneider and p. wrede.
it is  observed that all high affinity targets of each inhibitor are found among a  relatively small number of kinases, which have similar residues at the specific  positions important for binding.
an efficient heuristic for finding similarities that uses graphs of triangles of chemical groups to represent the protein structures has been developed.
an efficient heuristic for finding similarities that  uses graphs of triangles of chemical groups to represent the protein structures  has been developed.
to date, generation of large-scale  protein-protein interaction maps has relied on the yeast two-hybrid system,  which detects binary interactions through activation of reporter gene  expression.
the effects of crystal-packing interactions may be important.
in both cases, it was found that an affinity threshold of approximately 500 nm (preferably 50 nm or less) apparently determines the capacity of a peptide epitope to elicit a ctl response.
we derive analytically the  behavior of the learning curves in the regime of very large training sets.
here, we use a dataset  obtained from the syfpeithi database to show that a method integrating  predictions of mhc class i binding affinity, tap transport efficiency, and  c-terminal proteasomal cleavage outperforms any of the individual methods.
the g  protein-coupled receptor, family a, point mutation database (grap) provides  detailed information on ligand-binding and signal transduction properties of  more than 2130 receptor mutants.
nucleic acids res/, 33(web server issue):w172-w179, jul 2005.
bioinformatics,  23(15):1901-1908, aug 2007.
making the smm method publicly available enables bioinformaticians and experimental biologists to easily access it, to compare its performance to other prediction methods, and to extend it to other applications.
it is based on the idea that protein function is intimately related to the  recognition and subsequent response to the binding of a substrate or an  endogenous ligand in a well-characterized binding pocket.
specificity was set to 96% for all classifiers,  using data from 94 normal eyes evaluated longitudinally.
ligsitecsc performs slightly better than the other tools and  achieves a success rate of 71% and 75%, respectively.
the advanced algorithm has been tested on a dataset of 100 complexes extracted from the brookhaven protein databank.
docking  and scoring: successes and gaps.
a svm prediction module was trained using 120 profiles of total profiles divided into four classes based on the severity of pathology and clustering.
in this work, we compare the different available methods for topology prediction of beta-barrel outer membrane proteins.
if the task is realizable by the smc, the optimal performance is better than  that of a hard margin support vector machine and is very close to that of a  bayesian classifier.
from  proteins to proteomes: large scale protein identification by two-dimensional  electrophoresis and amino acid analysis.
finally, we provide classes of operator-valued kernels of the dot product and translation-invariant type.
we found that hierarchical  clustering analysis and principal component analysis divided the cell lines  according to their original histology.
grap is available on the  internet (url: http://www-grap.fagmed.uit.no/grap/+
chemosphere, 59(5):693-701, apr 2005.
it uses hidden markov models and artificial neural network methods as predictive engines.
the need to tap the power of computational approaches for the prediction of adverse effects such as tdp is increasingly becoming evident.
to test the approach, we analyzed a nonredundant set of 244  protein structures from the pdb and found that surfnet-consurf identifies a  ligand binding pocket in 75% of them.
abp images  were significantly correlated with older age (r(2) =
[ bib ] keywords: computers; great britain; information systems; japan;  protein conformation; proteins; united states [ pepperrell1991techniques]  c. a. pepperrell and p. willett.
the results obtained using the hybrid approach have been compared with those available in the literature for the same data set.
whereas such a strategy developed in pharmaceutical industry almost 20 years ago, it is now more systematically applied in the search for target- and subtype-specific ligands.
[ bib ] resistance to being killed by acidic environments with ph values  lower than 3 is an important feature of both pathogenic and nonpathogenic  escherichia coli.
the developed method  achieves an average sensitivity of 97.38% (sd = 0.0125) and an average  specificity of 93.30% (sd = 0.0174) in 1000 independent k-fold  cross-validations, where k = 2, ..., 10.
support vector machnies (svms) have meant a  great advance in solving classification or pattern recognition.
this  interpretation is the basis for further theoretical analysis, e.g.,  investigating uniqueness, and for the derivation of practical guidelines like  characterizing the suitability of indefinite svms.
[ bib ] several programs (catalyst, confort, flo99, macromodel, and  omega) that are commonly used to generate conformational ensembles have been  tested for their ability to reproduce bioactive conformations.
the use of  the connolly surface leads to slight improvements, the prediction re-ranking by  conservation to significant improvements of the binding site predictions.
with each success and failure  we increasingly appreciate that a key to the success of synthesized molecules  through the research and development process is the possession of drug-like  properties.
once a  quantitative description of organ shape is extracted from input images, the  problem of identifying differences between the two groups can be reduced to one  of the classical questions in machine learning of constructing a classifier  function for assigning new examples to one of the two groups while making as  few misclassifications as possible.
non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, protein, protein conformation, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteomics, roc curve, reproducibility of results, research support, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, signal processing, software, statistical, structural homology, subtraction technique, tertiary, theoretical, three-dimensional, u.s. gov't, unknown primary, video recording, 15617982 a vast majority of pharmacological compounds and their metabolites are excreted via the urine, and within the complex structure of the kidney,the proximal tubules are a main target site of nephrotoxic compounds.
in the first step, a sparse linear svm was  utilized as a feature selection procedure to remove irrelevant or redundant  information.
methods and material:
here, we discuss the different ways in which microarray analysis is  likely to affect drug discovery.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins,  artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base  sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical,  chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna,  databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design,  electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility studies, female, gene  expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, internet,  ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung  neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger,  models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data,  nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer),  non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation,  nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence  analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability,  probability learning, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality  control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, receptors, reference values,  regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, robotics,  saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence  analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms,  structural, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics, transcription,  tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12416693 [ho2002systematic]   yuen ho, albrecht gruhler, adrian heilbut, gary d bader, lynda moore,  sally-lin adams, anna millar, paul taylor, keiryn bennett, kelly boutilier,  lingyun yang, cheryl wolting, ian donaldson, sãâ¸ren  schandorff, juanita shewnarane, mai vo, joanne taggart, marilyn goudreault,  brenda muskat, cris alfarano, danielle dewar, zhen lin, katerina michalickova,  andrew r willems, holly sassi, peter a nielsen, karina j  rasmussen, jens r andersen, lene e johansen, lykke h hansen,  hans jespersen, alexandre podtelejnikov, eva nielsen, janne crawford, vibeke  poulsen, birgitte d sãâ¸rensen, jesper matthiesen,  ronald c hendrickson, frank gleeson, tony pawson, michael f moran,  daniel durocher, matthias mann, christopher w v hogue, daniel figeys, and  mike tyers.
[ bib |  http | .pdf ]
although the obtained high classification performance can be successfully applied to microcalcification clusters characterization, further studies must be carried out for the clinical evaluation of the system using larger datasets.
they show that one may get state-of-the-art performance by using the leave-one-out estimator for model selection and the built-in leave-one-out estimators are extremely precise when compared to the exact leave-one-out estimate.
here, we present an algorithm,  pepssi (peptide-mhc prediction of structure through solvated interfaces), for  the prediction of peptide structure when bound to the mhci molecule, hla-a2.
this study is focused on identifying a robust set of clinical features that can be used as the base for designing the input of any computer-aided diagnosis system for automatic mammographic tumor evaluation.
we have performed a comparative study of optimized antisense  oligonucleotides designed to work by an rna interference mechanism to  oligonucleotides designed to work by an rnase h-dependent mechanism in human  cells.
these subtypes proved to be reasonably robust by clustering using two  different gene sets: first, a set of 456 cdna clones previously selected to  reflect intrinsic properties of the tumors and, second, a gene set that highly  correlated with patient outcome.
the features of the protein binding pocket  can be translated into queries used for virtual computer screening of large  compound libraries or to design novel ligands de novo.
the mean number of  years covered (+/-sd)
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins, artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical, chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, internet, ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability, probability learning, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, robotics, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12416693
abp images  exist in a subset of normal and glaucomatous eyes, are associated with older  patient age, and produce an artifactual increase in rnfl thickness using  gdx-vcc.
multipred is available at http://antigen.i2r.a-star.edu.sg/multipred/. keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigen-antibody complex, automated, binding sites, computational biology, drug delivery systems, drug design, epitopes, hla antigens, hla-a antigens, hla-dr antigens, humans, internet, markov chains, molecular sequence data, neural networks (computer), pattern recognition, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, sequence analysis, software, t-lymphocyte, user-computer interface, viral vaccines, 15980449 objective:
however, it is only recently that we are beginning to gain insight into some of the most fundamental questions in the molecular function of this class of receptors.
second, such models can be used to predict the experimental outcome for yet untested sequences.
however, this imposes a significant challenge in assessing the  statistical significance of the similarity because the conventional probability  model that is based on fixed-point matching cannot be applied.
with the increasing number of gene expression databases, the need for more powerful analysis and visualization tools is growing.
fetal lung maturity  analysis using ultrasound image features.
on the other hand, a neural fuzzy system, which is synthesized to emulate the human ability to learn and reason in the presence of imprecise and incomplete information, has the ability to overcome the above-mentioned shortcomings.
biol., 261(3):470-489, aug  1996.
our analysis provides an outline of the  eukaryotic proteome as a network of protein complexes at a level of  organization beyond binary interactions.
multipred can be used for the mapping of promiscuous t-cell epitopes as well as the regions of high concentration of these targets-termed t-cell epitope hotspots.
we anticipate that this automation framework will be generally applicable to the generation and evaluation of large numbers of mhc predictive methods and tools, and will be of value to centralize and rationalize the process of evaluation of mhc predictions.
these results are consistent with the relatively hydrophobic binding  nature of the hla-a2 peptide binding interface.
keywords: computer graphics; computer simulation; computers;  models, molecular; nucleic acids; proteins; user-computer interface [nielsen1997identification]  h. nielsen,  j. engelbrecht, s. brunak, and g. von heijne.
comparison of the hms-pci  data set with interactions reported in the literature revealed an average  threefold higher success rate in detection of known complexes compared with  large-scale two-hybrid studies.
clinical, functional, and structural characteristics were assessed separately.
ieee trans biomed eng,  49(9):963-74, sep 2002.
the results suggest that the unfolding of hydrophobic  ligands during binding, which exposes hydrophobic surfaces to contact with  protein residues, could be one of the factors accounting for high  reorganization energies.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, butadienes, chloroplasts, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, database management systems, databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, ethylamines, expert systems, factual, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic markers, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15794164 aim: to predict the hla-a2-restricted ctl epitopes of tumor antigens associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc).
typically, a single, alternate, non-native binding mode exists that has a  native-like energy.
specific features  determining the type of problems the method is most appropriate for are  discussed.
this is to achieve an unbiased  analysis of the data and also partly to handle the large amount of genetic  information extracted from the dna microarrays.
neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't,  nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid  conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity,  organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical,  pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein  biosynthesis, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna,  reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae,  secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis,  sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation,  software, sound spectrography, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes,  thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2,  u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11080018 [ risau-gusman2000generalization]  risau-gusman and gordon.
we obtain exponential and power laws for the decay of the generalization error towards the asymptotic value, depending on the task and on general characteristics of the distribution of stabilities of the patterns to be learned.
keywords: amino acid sequence; binding sites; molecular sequence  data; peptide library; phosphopeptides; protein binding; sequence alignment;  substrate specificity; src homology domains [ salim2003combination]  n. salim, j. holliday, and p. willett.
binary tree-structured vector  quantization approach to clustering and visualizing microarray data.
experiments on a large  benchmark data set (forest) yielded significant time improvement (time  complexity appears empirically to locally grow linearly with the number of  examples).
from a geometrical point of view, the estimated parameter of an  svm is the one nearest the origin in the convex hull formed with given  examples.
popi is the first computational system  for prediction of peptide immunogenicity based on physicochemical properties.
bioinformatic analysis of these assemblies defined 232 distinct multiprotein complexes and proposed new cellular roles for 344 proteins, including 231 proteins with no previous functional annotation.
j comput aided mol des, 5(5):455-474, oct 1991.
for a protein site, complementary site points to  groups displayed in the site are generated and all combinations of four site  points are considered.
this article proposes a new mixture of svms that can be easily implemented in parallel and where each svm is trained on a small subset of the whole data set.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; computer simulation;  models, chemical; models, molecular; molecular sequence data; proteins,  chemistry; reproducibility of results; sensitivity and specificity; sequence  alignment, methods; sequence analysis, protein, methods; software; software  validation [bock2007effective]  mary ellen bock,  claudio garutti, and conettina guerra.
the latter aspect is of utmost importance in defining and controlling the pharmacological profile of a ligand.
microarray gene expression profiles were analyzed in 25 primary uveal melanomas.
keywords: amino acid, binding sites, computational biology, databases, epitope mapping, genetic, hla-a antigens, hla-dr antigens, histocompatibility antigens class ii, humans, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, roc curve, reproducibility of results, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, 17105666 keywords: binding sites; drug design; ligands; models, molecular; protein binding; proteins, chemistry; quantitative structure-activity relationship chemogenomics is a new strategy in drug discovery which, in principle, searches for all molecules that are capable of interacting with any biological target.
moderate affinity of  the mhc-peptide complex is essential to induce immune responses, but the  relationship between the affinity and peptide immunogenicity is too weak to use  for predicting immunogenicity.
computational methods supplemented by molecular graphics are applied to assist  this step of hypothesis generation.
the largest clefts that remain tend to be those where ligands bind.
in  addition, the clustering results produced by the technique have strong  similarities to those of self-organizing maps (soms).
although the application of docking and  scoring has led to some remarkable successes, there are still some major  challenges ahead, which are outlined here as well.
expanded sequence dependence of thermodynamic parameters  improves prediction of rna secondary structure.
improved performance of the classifier was evident when trained with reduced number of selected good features and with radial basis function kernel.
for relatively small m, this latter result leads to a consistent  reduction of the sv number.
interestingly, the clustering of human gpcrs from these 30 residues mirrors the recently described phylogenetic tree of full-sequence human gpcrs (fredriksson et al., mol pharmacol 2003;63:1256-1272) with few exceptions.
the  experimentally observed binding mode of the ligand is reproduced with 0.5 to  1.2 a rms deviation.
numerical measures such as root-mean-square deviation need careful interpretation and may profitably be supplemented by interaction-based measures and visual inspection of dockings.
our docking method samples the conformation space of the  ligand on the basis of a discrete model and uses a tree-search technique for  placing the ligand incrementally into the active site.
second, the methods of continuum electrostatics are used to characterize the  energetic contribution of each residue in a protein to the binding of its  substrate.
first, they can provide a summary of experimental results, allowing for a deeper understanding of the mechanisms involved in sequence recognition.
non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, normal distribution, nucleic acid hybridization, ocular hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, oncogenes, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, phylogeny, pilot projects, polymerase chain reaction, pregnancy, pregnancy trimester, protein, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research suppor, research support, ribosomal proteins, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, second, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, soft tissue neoplasms, software, solvents, statistical, subcellular fractions, theoretical, third, tumor suppressor, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, kappa-chain, t, 11936595 recent advances in microarray technology have opened new ways for functional annotation of previously uncharacterised genes on a genomic scale.
specificity cutoffs  required confirmation of abnormality.
chem., 47(10):2499-2510, may 2004.
this complex unravels the binding mode and conformation of a ligand under investigation and indicates the essential aspects determining its binding affinity.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, amino acids, analysis of variance, animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, bacteriophage t4, base sequence, biological, birefringence, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, cell cycle proteins, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cornea, cross-sectional studies, databases, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, extramural, face, female, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma, humans, immunohistochemistry, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis, likelihood functions, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, markov chains, melanoma, middle aged, models, molecular, mutation, n.i.h., nerve fibers, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nuclear proteins, nucleic acid, nucleic acid conformation, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, polymorphism, prognosis, prospective studies, protein, protein structure, proteins, rna, roc curve, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, retinal ganglion cells, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, single nucleotide, single-stranded conformational, software, statistics, survival analysis, tertiary, tomography, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, untranslated, uveal neoplasms, visual fields, beta-lactamases, 15756009 training a support vector machine on a data set of huge size with thousands of classes is a challenging problem.
the  overall goal is to provide means of automatically computing low-energy  conformations of the ligand within the active site, with an accuracy  approaching the limitations of experimental methods for resolving molecular  structures and within a run time that allows for docking large sets of ligands.
an analysis based on support-vector machines quantifies  the odor specificity of the attractors and the optimal time needed for odor  discrimination.
keywords: amino acid sequence; carcinoma, hepatocellular; databases, protein; epitopes; hla-a2 antigen; humans; liver neoplasms; major histocompatibility complex; research support, non-u.s. gov't; t-lymphocytes, cytotoxic how to selecting a small subset out of the thousands of genes in microarray data is important for accurate classification of phenotypes.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid motifs, amino acid sequence,  antigen-antibody complex, automated, binding sites, computational biology, drug  delivery systems, drug design, epitopes, forecasting, genes, hla antigens,  hla-a antigens, hla-a2 antigen, hla-dr antigens, humans, internet, mhc class i,  markov chains, molecular sequence data, neural networks (computer), pattern  recognition, peptide fragments, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein  interaction mapping, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, software,  t-lymphocyte, user-computer interface, viral vaccines, 12067415 [bowd2002comparing]  christopher bowd, kwokleung chan, linda m  zangwill, michael h goldbaum, te-won lee, terrence j sejnowski, and  robert n weinreb.
activation of cytotoxic t-cells requires recognition of specific peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i molecules.
a sparse representation for function  approximation.
in this article, we study some  mathematical properties of support vectors and show that the decision surface  can be written as the sum of two orthogonal terms, the first depending on only  the margin vectors (which are svs lying on the margin), the second proportional  to the regularization parameter.
biol., 352(5):1134-1156,  oct 2005.
these include three new sequence-structure alignment programs: 3d-coffee, staccato and salign, plus five homology modelling programs and their respective loop building methods: builder, nest, modeller, segmod/encad and swiss-model.
[ bib | doi |  http ] the accurate identification of ligand binding sites in protein  structures can be valuable in determining protein function.
they lead to significantly improved class predictions in extensive experiments on 6 gene expression data sets: nci, lymphoma, lung, child leukemia, leukemia, and colon.
with the use of forward selection and backward  elimination optimization techniques, the areas under the roc curves for svm  gaussian and the current ldf were increased to approximately 0.96.
ther.,  293(3):705-709, jun 2000.
the syfpeithi prediction values of all possible  nonamers of a given protein sequence were added together and the ten  high-scoring peptides of each protein were chosen for further analysis in  primary prediction.
we use the svm to  detect at each location in the image whether an mc is present or not.
the  accurate models for air pollutant prediction are needed because such models  would allow forecasting and diagnosing potential compliance or non-compliance  in both short- and long-term aspects.
in this paper we have discussed the key techniques of medical data mining involving pretreatment of medical data, fusion of different pattern and resource, fast and robust mining algorithms and reliability of mining results.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; animals; confidence intervals; globins; humans; molecular sequence data; protein structure, tertiary; sequence alignment; sequence homology, amino acid; serine endopeptidases; software methods for alignment of protein sequences typically measure similarity by using a substitution matrix with scores for all possible exchanges of one amino acid with another.
this interpretation is the basis for further theoretical analysis, e.g., investigating uniqueness, and for the derivation of practical guidelines like characterizing the suitability of indefinite svms.
[ bib ] a physiological signal-based emotion recognition system is  reported.
hunting the primary: novel strategies for defining the origin of tumours.
this higher-order map contains  fundamental biological information and offers the context for a more reasoned  and informed approach to drug discovery.
the software is available for academic and non-commercial institutions.
the algorithm works by obtaining a reduced set of solutions, from which the one with the best generalization is selected.
thirty proteins from an e. coli 2-d map were analyzed and identities assigned.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated,  b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes  theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell  compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification,  colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination  learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins,  factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling,  gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic  predisposition to disease, hemolysins, humans, indians, ion channels, kinetics,  leukemia, likelihood functions, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic,  male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms,  neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s.,  non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american,  nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ  specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition,  physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics),  protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of  results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin  neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical,  stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription  factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, 11110131
this paper proposes an  efficient algorithm to solve this problem.
moreover, the metagene models trained with gene expression patterns evoked by ectopic production of myc or ras proteins in primary tissue culture cells properly predict the activity of in vivo tumor models that result from deregulation of the myc or hras pathways.
widely used methods typically rank genes according to their differential expressions among phenotypes and pick the top-ranked genes.
vmd is the visualization component of mdscope, a set of tools for interactive problem solving in structural biology, which also includes the parallel md program namd, and the mdcomm software used to connect the visualization and simulation programs.
the theoretical results are in excellent agreement with the numerical simulations.
utilizing neural network classification methodology, the corresponding performance for the nijmegen dataset was az=0.70 and 0.76 while for the mias dataset it was az=0.73 and 0.78.
[ bib ] quantitative structure-retention relationship (qsrr) models are  developed for the prediction of protein retention times in anion-exchange  chromatography systems.
chem., 48(19):6012-6022, sep 2005.
results: for the first time we develop a support vector machine (svm) for t-cell epitope prediction with an mhc type i restricted t-cell clone.
support vector machine (svm), a novel type of learning machine based on statistical learning theory, can be used for regression and time series prediction and have been reported to perform well by some promising results.
the input to the proposed system is a collection of volume data from candidate  polyps obtained by a high-sensitivity, low-specificity system that we developed  previously.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, cell surface,  cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study,  computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases,  diagnosis, differential, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression  profiling, genetic, humans, imaging, internet, male, middle aged, models,  molecular sequence data, molecular structure,  n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, principal  component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics),  protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors,  reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity,  sequence alignment, software, statistical, substrate specificity, theoretical,  three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, u.s. gov't, x-ray computed,  11811825 [dreiseitl2001comparison]  s. dreiseitl,  l. ohno-machado, h. kittler, s. vinterbo, h. billhardt, and  m. binder.
a twofold difference in peptide concentration could be detected with statistical significance (p-value < 0.0001).
specific features determining the type of problems the method is most appropriate for are discussed.
endocr rev, 21(1):90-113,  feb 2000.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data  processing, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface,  chromosomes, clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography,  comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic,  computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual,  false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression  profiling, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease,  genotype, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging,  internet, karyotyping, learning, male, mathematical computing, middle aged,  models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, multigene family,  n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms, neural networks (computer),  neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution,  nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic  nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, phenotype,  photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages,  promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image  interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical,  structure-activity relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity,  theoretical, thermodynamics, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription,  tumor markers, u.s. gov't, visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value  of tests, 11574964 [talukder2001closed-form]   a. talukder and d. casasent.
multipredis both sensitive and specific, and demonstrates  high accuracy of peptide-binding predictions for hla-a*0201, *0204, and *0205  alleles, good accuracy for *0206 allele, and marginal accuracy for *0203  allele.
in the  past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the  stabilized matrix method (smm).
from experimental data, a model of the sequence specificity of these processes can be constructed, such as a sequence motif, a scoring matrix or an artificial neural network.
keywords: alleles; amino acid sequence; cell line, transformed;  consensus sequence; epitopes; genes, mhc class i; hla-b antigens; hla-c  antigens; humans; molecular sequence data; peptide fragments; protein binding;  protein structure, tertiary; structure-activity relationship; substrate  specificity [wilkins1996from]  m. r. wilkins,  c. pasquali, r. d. appel, k. ou, o. golaz, j. c.  sanchez, j. x. yan, a. a. gooley, g. hughes,  i. humphery-smith, k. l. williams, and d. f. hochstrasser.
we conclude that these gene expression phenotypes have the potential to characterize the complex genetic alterations that typify the neoplastic state, whether in vitro or in vivo, in a way that truly reflects the complexity of the regulatory pathways that are affected.
second, such models can be  used to predict the experimental outcome for yet untested sequences.
keywords: binding sites; computational biology, methods; drug discovery, methods; genome; ligands; models, statistical; mycobacterium tuberculosis, genetics/metabolism; proteins, chemistry
such a finding would be an indication that the two regions likely bind to the same ligand.
svm is a machine-learning method, based on the principle of structural risk minimization, which performs well when applied to data outside the training set.
the latter aspect is of utmost importance in  defining and controlling the pharmacological profile of a ligand.
[el-naqa2002support]   i. el-naqa, y. yang, m. n. wernick, n. p. galatsanos, and  r. m. nishikawa.
keywords: 16s, 23s, 5s, affinity, algorithms, aluminum silicates, amino acid, amino acid sequence, amyloidosis, archaeal, bacillus, bacterial, bacterial proteins, bacteriophage t4, base sequence, chloroplast, chromatography, circular dichroism, comparative study, computational biology, databases, electrophoresis, entropy, enzyme stability, escherichia coli, factual, fibroblast growth factor 2, flavin mononucleotide, fluorescence, genetic, guanidine, humans, huntington disease, kinetics, light, models, molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, p.h.s., peptides, phylogeny, polyacrylamide gel, predictive value of tests, protein binding, protein denaturation, protein folding, protein structure, rna, radiation, recombinant proteins, research support, ribosomal, scattering, secondary, sequence homology, solutions, spectrometry, statistical, temperature, thermodynamics, time factors, trinucleotide repeat expansion, u.s. gov't, alpha-amylase, 10329189
in the subsequent 10 years, many hundreds of papers have been published describing the application of these technologies to a wide spectrum of biological and clinical questions.
in this paper, we apply an artificial intelligence technique [support vector machines (svm)] for the automatic recognition of young-old gait types from their respective gait-patterns.
finally, we compare near-native models to distinctly  non-native models.
neural comput, 10(6):1455-80, jul 1998.
svm  is a technique that can be derived from the structural risk minimization  principle (vapnik, 1982) and can be used to estimate the parameters of several  different approximation schemes, including radial basis functions, algebraic  and trigonometric polynomials, b-splines, and some forms of multilayer  perceptrons.
we demonstrate a novel approach to such interpretation that  allows us to argue about the identified shape differences in anatomically  meaningful terms of organ deformation.
from a geometrical point of view, the estimated parameter of an svm is the one nearest the origin in the convex hull formed with given examples.
but to what extent is that assumption true?
evaluation by cross validation, when segregating binders and non-binders, produced an average of 0.824 aroc for the mhcbench data sets (up from 0.756), and an average of 0.96 aroc for multiple alleles of the mhcpep database.
in the classification stage, a rule-based system, an artificial neural network (ann) and a support vector machine (svm) have been implemented and evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (roc) analysis.
the trimming procedure reduces the  original cleft volumes by 30% on average, while still encompassing an average  87% of the ligand volume.
on both dichotomous and trichotomous tasks, logistic regression, anns, and svms performed on about the same level, with k-nearest neighbors and decision trees performing worse.
prot references [bernstein1977protein]  f. c. bernstein,  t. f. koetzle, g. j. williams, e. f. meyer, m. d. brice,  j. r. rodgers, o. kennard, t. shimanouchi, and m. tasumi.
dependent on the therapeutic area being investigated it might also be desirable to avoid certain enzymes or transporters to circumvent potential drug-drug interactions.
functional organization of the yeast proteome by  systematic analysis of protein complexes.
in particular, a sensitivity as high as 94% was achieved by the svm method at an error rate of one false-positive cluster per image.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, initiator, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 0011102066 we derive a mean-field algorithm for binary classification with gaussian processes that is based on the tap approach originally proposed in statistical physics of disordered systems.
our analysis indicates that classification systems with a lower borges effect are better suitable for machine learning.
for a large-scale comparison, it is critical to  accurately and efficiently assess the statistical significance of this  similarity.
initial work with computer aided detection has  shown high sensitivity, but at a cost of too many false positives.
experimental data from randomized peptide libraries and conventional peptides  can easily be combined, and (6) it is possible to incorporate pair interactions  between positions of a sequence.
we have applied mog, mgg, lda, qda, and parzen window to the classification of glaucoma from sap.
experimental constraints, derived from enzymatic and flavin mononucleotide cleavage, improve the accuracy of structure predictions.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, cell surface, chromosomes, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet, karyotyping, male, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity, theoretical, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, u.s. gov't, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11773027 most cellular processes are carried out by multiprotein complexes.
because the medical information is characteristic of redundancy, multi-attribution, incompletion and closely related with time, medical data mining differs from other one.
we represent these spatiotemporal patterns as trajectories in a multidimensional space, where each dimension accounts for the activity of one glomerulus.
proteins identification is a requirement to understand their functional diversity.
we show that the high  degree of interconnections among functional classes confounds the signatures  that ought to be learned for a unique class.
neural comput, 10(4):955-74, may 1998.
previously, support vector machines (svms) and other machine-learning methods have been applied to a limited number of functional classes for this purpose.
comparing protein-ligand docking programs is difficult.
although the obtained high classification  performance can be successfully applied to microcalcification clusters  characterization, further studies must be carried out for the clinical  evaluation of the system using larger datasets.
on the other hand, a neural fuzzy system, which is synthesized to  emulate the human ability to learn and reason in the presence of imprecise and  incomplete information, has the ability to overcome the above-mentioned  shortcomings.
a comparative analysis.
bioinformatics,  25(12):i305-i312, jun 2009.
we refer to this as a maximum discriminating feature (mdf) neural network.
mlp and svm are classifiers that work directly on the decision boundary and fall under the discriminative paradigm.
keywords: alzheimer disease, animals, antineoplastic agents,  biological, bleomycin, cell cycle, cell cycle proteins, cell death, cell line,  cell nucleus, cell shape, cell transformation, combinatorial chemistry  techniques, cultured, drug delivery systems, drug design, drug evaluation,  enzyme inhibitors, formazans, gene expression, humans, inhibitory concentration  50, kinetics, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass, mitochondria, models,  molecular, neoplasms, neoplastic, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s.,  paclitaxel, peptide library, pharmaceutical preparations, pharmacology,  phosphoprotein phosphatase, preclinical, protease inhibitors,  protein-tyrosine-phosphatase, research support, sensitivity and specificity,  signal transduction, spectrum analysis, stereoisomerism, structure-activity  relationship, sulfonic acids, tetrazolium salts, thiazoles, toxicity tests,  tumor, tumor cells, u.s. gov't, cdc25 phosphatase, 10869367 [klebe2000recent]  g. klebe.
svmhc currently contains prediction for 26 mhc class i types from the mhcpep database or alternatively 6 mhc class i types from the higher quality syfpeithi database.
these energetically  important residues are found to contribute to binding through a variety of  mechanisms, involving both electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions.
we are also now faced with huge amounts of adme/tox data for each molecule that need interpretation and also provide a valuable resource for generating predictive computational models for future drug discovery.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antineoplastic  agents, artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, base composition, base  sequence, bayes theorem, bias (epidemiology), carcinoma, cell line, chemical,  chromosome aberrations, cluster analysis, codon, comparative study,  computational biology, computer graphics, computer simulation,  computer-assisted, conserved sequence, dna gyrase, databases, diagnosis,  electrostatics, escherichia coli, evolution, factual, follow-up studies,  fungal, gene dosage, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene  expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic vectors, genomics, glaucoma,  humans, hydrophobicity, immunoglobulins, information theory, intraocular  pressure, least-squares analysis, linear models, liposarcoma, lung neoplasms,  markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, multigene family,  mycobacterium tuberculosis, neural networks (computer),
using roc  analysis to measure the discriminatory power of the methods shows that  excellent results for specific classification problems in the domain of  pigmented skin lesions can be achieved with machine-learning methods.
the t-cell receptor, a major histocompatibility  complex (mhc) molecule, and a bound antigenic peptide, play major roles in the  process of antigen-specific t-cell activation.
a chemogenomic analysis of the transmembrane  binding cavity of human g-protein-coupled receptors.
transcriptional expression of escherichia coli glutamate-dependent acid  resistance genes gada and gadbc in an hns rpos mutant.
therefore chemogenomics has been defined  as the investigation of classes of compounds (libraries) against families of  functionally related proteins.
in both cases, it was found  that an affinity threshold of approximately 500 nm (preferably 50 nm or less)  apparently determines the capacity of a peptide epitope to elicit a ctl  response.
structural analyses of these peptide-hla-a2 conformations showed that peptide  binding affinity is positively correlated with the number of peptide-mhc  contacts and negatively correlated with the number of interfacial water  molecules.
in other cases, additional model filtering with more  sophisticated tools is needed.
in this article, we study some mathematical properties of support vectors and show that the decision surface can be written as the sum of two orthogonal terms, the first depending on only the margin vectors (which are svs lying on the margin), the second proportional to the regularization parameter.
a new method has been developed to detect functional relationships among proteins independent of a given sequence or fold homology.
detailed secondary anchor maps for a3, a11, a31, a*3301, and a*6801 are also described.
in this paper, we provide a step toward the comprehension of svm classifiers in these situations.
in this review, we first present the current status of docking and scoring methods, with exhaustive lists of these.
neural comput,  16(5):999-1012, may 2004.
j chem inf comput sci, 41(2):394-401, 2001.
it is observed that all high affinity targets of each inhibitor are found among a relatively small number of kinases, which have similar residues at the specific positions important for binding.
mutation data on the receptors were collected from the literature and a database of mutants and effects of mutations was developed.
keywords: abstracting and indexing, algorithms, amino acid sequence, amino acids, animals, antibody, antigens, aromatic, artificial intelligence, automated, brca1, bibliographic, binding, binding sites, carrier proteins, cell cycle proteins, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative study, competitive, complementary, computational biology, computing methodologies, controlled, dna, dna damage, dna-binding proteins, data interpretation, database management systems, databases, drug design, electrostatics, epitopes, evolution, female, fibroblasts, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, hla-dr antigens, heterozygote, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, hydrophobicity, information storage and retrieval, membrane proteins, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, mutation, natural language processing, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, oligopeptides, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptide fragments, periodicals, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, protein sorting signals, protein structure, protein-serine-threonine kinases, proteins, rna-binding proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical, structural homology, structure-activity relationship, t-lymphocyte, terminology, tertiary, tumor suppressor proteins, u.s. gov't, vocabulary, 14871877 this paper describes a large-scale study on the nature and the energetics of the conformational changes drug-like molecules experience upon binding.
the experimental comparisons between the svm model and the classical radial basis function (rbf) network demonstrate that the svm is superior to the conventional rbf network in predicting air quality parameters with different time series and of better generalization performance than the rbf model.
the results are discussed for support vector machines with  radial basis function kernel.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antineoplastic agents, artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, base composition, base sequence, bayes theorem, bias (epidemiology), carcinoma, cell line, chemical, chromosome aberrations, cluster analysis, codon, comparative study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer simulation, computer-assisted, conserved sequence, dna gyrase, databases, diagnosis, electrostatics, escherichia coli, evolution, factual, follow-up studies, fungal, gene dosage, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic vectors, genomics, glaucoma, humans, hydrophobicity, immunoglobulins, information theory, intraocular pressure, least-squares analysis, linear models, liposarcoma, lung neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, multigene family, mycobacterium tuberculosis, neural networks (computer),
we proposed that this structural factor can be characterized by a single parameter called "the hydrogen bond (h-b) index," which represents the average number of hydrogen bonds formed between nucleotides in the target region and the rest of the mrna.
we have developed a four-step strategy for data preprocessing based on: (1) binning, (2) kolmogorov-smirnov test, (3) restriction of coefficient of variation and (4) wavelet analysis.
activation of cytotoxic t-cells requires recognition of  specific peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i  molecules.
based on the  expression profile of the 32 spots, the isolated cancer cells were categorized  into three histological groups: the squamous cell carcinoma group, the  adenocarcinoma group, and a group of carcinomas with other histological types.
in the first approach, the  immunogenicity of potential epitopes ranging in mhc binding affinity over a  10,000-fold range was analyzed in hla-a*0201 transgenic mice.
furthermore, we show that the available predictors perform better when only transmembrane beta-barrel domains are used for prediction, rather than the precursor full-length sequences, even though the hmm-based predictors are not influenced significantly.
keywords: ligand-volume, protein-ligand, surface [tung2007popi:]  chun-wei tung and shinn-ying ho.
the results support the hypothesis of a spatial olfactory code  in the antennal lobe and suggest a perceptron-like readout mechanism that is  biologically implemented in a downstream network, such as the mushroom body.
we suggest that the number of binding peptides needed for  svm training is at least 20 sequences.
we found that the gene-silencing effect is inversely dependent on the h-b index, indicating that the local mrna structure at the targeted site is the main cause of the positional effect.
we sought to connect features of gene expression data with biological hypotheses by integrating 'metagene' patterns from dna microarray experiments in the characterization and prediction of oncogenic phenotypes.
artificial neural networks (ann) are regarded as reliable and cost-effective method to achieve such tasks and have produced some promising results to date.
this suggests that our system achieves an acceptable f-measure of 83.6 on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and in particular 86.2 on the "protein" class, without help of any dictionaries.
moreover, the antigenic peptides have variable lengths, making naive modelling methods difficult to apply.
we next discuss reported comparative studies, outlining criteria for their interpretation.
we identified many new calmodulin- and  phospholipid-interacting proteins; a common potential binding motif was  identified for many of the calmodulin-binding proteins.
this review covers the recent progress made in integrative  computational approaches to data annotation and knowledge generation for the  systematic knowledge-based design and screening of chemical libraries.
this adaptation allowed the machine learning classifiers to identify abnormality in visual field converts much earlier than the traditional methods.
in this paper, svms are illustratively used to  reproduce the behavior of monte carlo-based flow and transport models that are  in turn used in the design of a ground water contamination detection monitoring  system.
in the second  approach, the antigenicity of approximately 100 different hepatitis b virus  (hbv)-derived potential epitopes, all carrying a*0201 binding motifs, was  assessed by using pbl of acute hepatitis patients.
the machine learning algorithms studied included multilayer  perceptron (mlp), support vector machine (svm), and linear (lda) and quadratic  discriminant analysis (qda), parzen window, mixture of gaussian (mog), and  mixture of generalized gaussian (mgg).
because of the almost infinite number of drug-like organic  molecules, this is an impossible task.
prediction of protein-ligand interactions.
the time needed for searching a given site in a protein structure is typically 0.1 s on a piii 800mhz/linux computer; thus, in further studies, sumo will be used to screen the pdb.
the method incorporates transient isotachophoresis for in-line preconcentration and a sheathless electrospray interface.
gold is an automated ligand docking program that uses a genetic algorithm to explore the full range of ligand conformational flexibility with partial flexibility of the protein, and satisfies the fundamental requirement that the ligand must displace loosely bound water on binding.
here we report the identification, using sequential rounds of epitope tagging,  affinity purification and mass spectrometry, of 16 skp1 and cdc53-associated  proteins in budding yeast, including all components of scf, 9 fbps, yjr033  (rav1) and ydr202 (rav2).
re-implementations of published scoring functions may give significantly different results from the originals.
standard automated perimetry (sap) is a common computerized  visual-field test whose output is amenable to machine learning.
keywords: abnormalities, adolescent, adult, aldosterone  synthase, algorithms, amino acids, anatomic, animals, antibodies, arrhythmia,  artificial intelligence, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylases, astrocytoma, automated,  bacterial proteins, bayes theorem, bees, biological, biopsy, brain, brain  mapping, brain neoplasms, breast neoplasms, calibration, cation exchange  resins, child, chromatography, cluster analysis, comparative study,  computational biology, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, congenital,  craniofacial abnormalities, cysteine, cystine, dna-binding proteins, data  interpretation, databases, diagnosis, disease susceptibility, dysplastic nevus  syndrome, electrocardiography, electrodes, electroencephalography, entropy,  eosine yellowish-(ys), evoked potentials, expert systems, face, factual, false  positive reactions, female, gene expression profiling, genetic predisposition  to disease, genome, gram-negative bacteria, heart defects, heart rate,  hematoxylin, high pressure liquid, horseradish peroxidase, humans, image  interpretation, image processing, imagery (psychotherapy), imagination,  imaging, infant, information storage and retrieval, intracellular space, ion  exchange, laterality, linear models, male, mammography, melanoma, middle aged,  models, monoclonal, movement, multiple, neoplasms, nerve net, neural networks  (computer), neuropeptides, newborn, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonparametric,  noonan syndrome, normal distribution, odds ratio, odors, olfactory bulb,  p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, perception, polymorphism, preschool,  principal component analysis, prognosis, protein, protein array analysis,  protein interaction mapping, proteins, proto-oncogene proteins, radiographic  image enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, regression analysis,  reproducibility of results, research support, risk, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, sequence ana, sequence analysis, signal  processing, single nucleotide, skin neoplasms, smell, software, statistical,  statistics, syndrome, theoretical, three-dimensional, time factors,  transcription factors, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface,  velopharyngeal insufficiency, world health organization, lysis, 15070507 [zhang2005multipred]  g. l. zhang, a. m. khan,  k. n. srinivasan, j. t. august, and v. brusic.
multipredreplaces earlier requirements for individual prediction models  for each hla allelic variant and simplifies computational aspects of  peptide-binding prediction.
a unified statistical model to support  local sequence order independent similarity searching for ligand-binding sites  and its application to genome-based drug discovery.
[ bib ] we present a new method that we call generalized discriminant  analysis (gda) to deal with nonlinear discriminant analysis using kernel  function operator.
docking-based virtual screening methods have been developed and successfully applied to a number of pharmaceutical targets.
here  we analyze the detailed temporal evolution of glomerular activity patterns in  the antennal lobe of honeybees.
vmd is the visualization component of mdscope, a set of  tools for interactive problem solving in structural biology, which also  includes the parallel md program namd, and the mdcomm software used to connect  the visualization and simulation programs.
these included (a)  being able to present the extracted knowledge and explain the computed  solutions to the users; (b) having a logical deduction process that is similar  and intuitive to the human reasoning process; and (c) flexible enough to  incorporate new knowledge without running the risk of eroding old but valid  information.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] [ miwakeichi2001comparison]  f. miwakeichi, r. ramirez-padron,  p. a. valdes-sosa, and t. ozaki.
the results of the clustering  are transparent across all implemented methods and enable the analysis of the  outcome of different algorithms and parameters.
mhc-peptide complexes are potential tools for diagnosis and treatment of pathogens and cancer, as well as for the development of peptide vaccines.
thirty lung cancer cell lines with three different histological backgrounds (squamous cell carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) were subjected to two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2-d dige) and grouped by multivariate analyses on the basis of their protein expression profiles.
proteins, 62(2):479-488, february 2006.
[ bib | doi | http ] functional relationships between proteins that do not share  global structure similarity can be established by detecting their  ligand-binding-site similarity.
using cross-validation, we demonstrate that  svms can be trained on relatively small data sets to provide prediction more  accurate than those based on previously published methods or on mhc binding.
the methods and applications of medical data mining based on computation  intelligence such as artificial neural network, fuzzy system, evolutionary  algorithms, rough set, and support vector machine have been introduced.
the  features and problems in data mining are summarized in the last section.
the present review aims to show what tools exist today for visualizing and modeling adme/tox data, what tools need to be developed, and how both the present and future tools are valuable for virtual filtering using adme/tox and bioactivity properties in parallel as a viable addition to present practices.
however, on average nest  produces the best loops with an 8% improvement by mean rmsd compared to the  loops generated by builder.
such a finding would be an indication  that the two regions likely bind to the same ligand.
an overview of different approaches and algorithms is provided.
statistical hypothesis testing is  required to ensure that differences in pose-prediction success rates and  enrichment rates are significant.
genesis integrates various tools for microarray data analysis such as filters, normalization and visualization tools, distance measures as well as common clustering algorithms including hierarchical clustering, self-organizing maps, k-means, principal component analysis, and support vector machines.
grap is available on the internet (url: http://www-grap.fagmed.uit.no/grap/+
multiple sequence alignments are then generated by following the tree from the branches to the root.
keywords: animals, binding sites, chemical, combinatorial chemistry techniques, computational biology, computer graphics, computer simulation, databases, drug, drug design, drug evaluation, enzyme inhibitors, factor xa, factual, humans, indicators and reagents, ligands, models, molecular, molecular conformation, phosphotransferases (alcohol group acceptor), preclinical, protein, protein binding, receptor protein-tyrosine kinases, receptors, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, serine endopeptidases, software, structure-activity relationship, user-computer interface, 10464012 dna microarrays can be used to measure the expression patterns of thousands of genes in parallel, generating clues to gene function that can help to identify appropriate targets for therapeutic intervention.
we propose a minimum redundancy - maximum relevance (mrmr) feature selection framework.
if the  three-dimensional structure of a given protein is known, this information can  be directly exploited for the retrieval and design of new ligands.
utilizing neural network classification methodology, the corresponding  performance for the nijmegen dataset was az=0.70 and 0.76 while for the mias  dataset it was az=0.73 and 0.78.
evaluation by cross validation,  when segregating binders and non-binders, produced an average of 0.824 aroc for  the mhcbench data sets (up from 0.756), and an average of 0.96 aroc for  multiple alleles of the mhcpep database.
this higher-order map contains fundamental biological information and offers the context for a more reasoned and informed approach to drug discovery.
we employ a support vector  machine (svm) classifier to map from a given class of structures to their  corresponding structural (scop) or functional (gene ontology) annotation.
potential assessment of the  "support vector machine" method in forecasting ambient air pollutant  trends.
in nearly all cases, the machine learning classifiers predicted the  confirmed abnormality, on average, 3.92 +/- 0.55 years earlier than traditional  statpac-like methods.
the most potent e. coli acid resistance system utilizes two  isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase encoded by gada and gadb and a putative  glutamate:gamma-aminobutyric acid antiporter encoded by gadc.
keywords: algorithms, alleles, amino acid sequence, amino acids,  animals, antigens, artificial intelligence, automated, biological, biological  markers, blood-brain barrier, breast diseases, breast neoplasms, cd36,  calcinosis, carcinoma, case-control studies, central nervous system, chemical,  chromosome aberr, clear cell, cluster analysis, comparative study,  computational biology, computer-aided design, computer-assisted, computing  methodologies, coronary disease, cultured, dna, dna-binding proteins,  databases, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis, disease  susceptibility, drug design, expert systems, factual, false positive reactions,  female, fungal, gene expression profiling, genome, genotype, hamsters,  haplotypes, hepatocellular, humans, image processing, immunohistochemistry,  immunologic, information storage and retrieval, least-squares analysis,  lipoprotein, liver neoplasms, local, lung, male, mammary, mammography, mass,  melanoma, membrane proteins, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data,  molecular structure, neoplasm, neoplasm recurrence, neural networks (computer),  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organic  chemicals, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, permeability, pharmaceutical  preparations, polymorphism, predictive value of tests, protein, protein  conformation, protein interaction mapping, protein structure, proteins,  proteomics, pubmed, rna-binding proteins, roc curve, radiographic image  enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of  results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae  proteins, sarcoma, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, single  nucleotide, soft tissue neoplasms, spectrum analysis, structure-activity  relationship, tertiary, tumor cells, u.s. gov't, ultrasonography, ations,  12588039 [ekins2002towards]  s. ekins,  b. boulanger, p. w. swaan, and m. a. z. hupcey.
dependent on the therapeutic area being investigated it might  also be desirable to avoid certain enzymes or transporters to circumvent  potential drug-drug interactions.
we describe a kernel that is derived in a straightforward fashion from an existing structural alignment program, mammoth.
using an independent evaluation dataset of hiv epitopes from the los alamos  database, the validity of the integrated method is confirmed.
keywords: algorithms, anion exchange resins, automatic data processing, chemical, chromatography, computational biology, computer-assisted, data interpretation, databases, decision making, decision trees, english abstract, factual, fuzzy logic, humans, indicators and reagents, information storage and retrieval, ion exchange, models, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, p.h.s., proteins, quantitative structure-activity relationship, rna, roc curve, research support, sequence analysis, statistical, transfer, u.s. gov't, 14565039 motivation:
three different classification tasks were used as benchmarks: the dichotomous problem of distinguishing common nevi from dysplastic nevi and melanoma, the dichotomous problem of distinguishing melanoma from common and dysplastic nevi, and the trichotomous problem of correctly distinguishing all three classes.
[ bib  ] we study the typical learning properties of the recently  introduced soft margin classifiers (smcs), learning realizable and unrealizable  tasks, with the tools of statistical mechanics.
the following classifiers were used to classify the fetal lung images as belonging to mature or immature lung: nearest neighbor, k-nearest neighbor, modified k-nearest neighbor, multilayer perceptron, radial basis function network, and support vector machines.
how  can, for example, so many chemically diverse hormones, neurotransmitters, and  other signaling molecules activate receptors believed to share a similar  overall tertiary structure?
identification of  prokaryotic and eukaryotic signal peptides and prediction of their cleavage  sites.
a svm prediction module was trained using 120  profiles of total profiles divided into four classes based on the severity of  pathology and clustering.
[ bib ] modern medicine generates a great deal of information stored in  the medical database.
thus, recognition of similar ligands, supposedly linked to similar function, requires conserved recognition features exposed in terms of common physicochemical interaction properties via the functional groups of the residues flanking a particular binding cavity.
the visual fields of 114 eyes of 114 patients with oht with four or more visual field tests with standard automated perimetry over three or more years and for whom stereophotographs were available were assessed.
the kernel approach presented here  shows increased prediction accuracy with a significantly higher number of true  positives and negatives on multiple mhc class ii alleles, when testing data  sets from mhcpep 1, mchbn 2, and mhcbench 3.
previous systematic genome-wide two-hybrid screens yielded 17 proteins that interact with skp1 and cdc53, only 3 of which overlap with those reported here.
the best configurations of well networks selected by the svm were identical with the ones obtained from the physical model, but the reliabilities provided by the respective networks differ slightly.
supplementary material is available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/suppl/immunology/ctl.php.
the results are confirmed using real data to perform seed  classification.
phys rev e  stat nonlin soft matter phys, 64(3 pt 1):031907, sep 2001.
availability: http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/3dkernel keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; artificial  intelligence; molecular sequence data; pattern recognition, automated;  proteins; sequence alignment; sequence analysis, protein; sequence homology,  amino acid [schalon2008simple]  claire schalon,  jean-sébastien surgand, esther kellenberger, and didier rognan.
nbs1 is a strong  predictor of uveal melanoma survival and potentially could be used as a  clinical marker for guiding clinical management.
two-dimensional electrophoresis complemented with mass spectrometry provides a global view of the state of the proteins from the sample.
structural  prediction of peptides binding to mhc class
[ bib | doi | http  ] a novel method to measure distances between druggable protein  cavities is presented.
in this paper the performance of the nw, the local linear polynomial regression  and support vector machines (svm) methods were compared.
vmd is written in c++, using an  object-oriented design; the program, including source code and extensive  documentation, is freely available via anonymous ftp and through the world wide  web.
abp images were observed in 5 of 20 (25%) normal eyes and 23 of 45 (51%) glaucomatous eyes.
[ bib | doi  |http ] in this letter, we provide a study of learning in a hilbert  space of vectorvalued functions.
algorithms based on primary sequence have had success in predicting  potential antigenic peptides for mhci, but such algorithms have limited  accuracy and provide no structural information.
we consider a large set of complexes of known structures, involving  pairs of single-domain proteins.
keywords: , algorithms, amino acid sequence, antibodies, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, chemical, computer simulation, databases, epitope mapping, genes, hla-a antigens, hla-dq antigens, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, immunoassay, immunological, mhc class i, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, pattern recognition, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, protein interaction mapping, protein structure, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, tertiary, water, 16368108 peptide binding to class
three of the proteins  were unknown.
keywords: biosvm proteomics [begg2005support]  rezaul k begg, marimuthu palaniswami, and brendan owen.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] monitoring and forecasting of air quality parameters are popular  and important topics of atmospheric and environmental research today due to the  health impact caused by exposing to air pollutants existing in urban air.
the success of proteomics depends on the ability to identify and analyze protein products in a cell or tissue and, this is reliant on the application of several key technologies.
this index can be determined using a computational approach.
only one in 100 to 200 potential binders actually binds to a certain  mhc molecule, therefore a good prediction method for mhc class i binding  peptides can reduce the number of candidate binders that need to be synthesized  and tested.
the resulting classifier must be interpreted in terms of shape differences between the two groups back in the image domain.
diagnosis of the various leukemia subtypes becomes an important first step in  the treatment process.
the detected similarity is ranked according to property-based surface patches shared in common by the different clique solutions.
measurable properties include duplex stem length, base pair mismatches, and loop length.
[ bib |  doi | http ] this paper describes a large-scale study on the nature and the  energetics of the conformational changes drug-like molecules experience upon  binding.
in addition, some effective strategies  such as kernel caching and efficient computation of kernel matrix are  integrated to speed up the training process.
nat genet, 34(2):226-30, 2003.
on average, a classification rate of  above 90% has been achieved using the genso-fdss system.
keywords: algorithms; carcinogens; chemistry, pharmaceutical; computational biology; drug evaluation, preclinical; drug industry; humans; models, chemical; models, statistical; neural networks (computer); pattern recognition, automated; roc curve; sequence analysis, protein; software; torsades de pointes the accurate identification of ligand binding sites in protein structures can be valuable in determining protein function.
in the legume lectins family composed of >100 structures that share similar sequences and folds but may have lost their ability to bind a carbohydrate molecule, sumo discriminates between functional and non-functional lectins with a selectivity of 96%.
keywords: animals, apoptosis, base composition, base pairing, base sequence, binding sites, cell cycle, cell proliferation, comparative study, cultured, cyclin b, cyclin d1, dna-binding proteins, down-regulation, extramural, fluorescence, gene silencing, gene targeting, genetic vectors, green fluorescent proteins, hela cells, humans, hydrogen bonding, luminescent proteins, male, messenger, mice, microscopy, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, n.i.h., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nude, p.h.s., prostatic neoplasms, proto-oncogene proteins c-bcl-2, proto-oncogene proteins c-myc, rna, regression analysis, research support, stat3 transcription factor, small interfering, thromboplastin, trans-activators, tumor cells, u.s. gov't, 15110788 a physiological signal-based emotion recognition system is reported.
we think that a f-measure of 90 on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and in particular 92 on the "protein" class, can be achieved through refining of the annotation scheme in the genia corpus, such as flexible annotation scheme and annotation consistency, and inclusion of a reasonable biomedical dictionary.
working paper 02-02-008.
keywords: algorithms, automated, biometry, computers, dna, databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression, genes, learning, markov chains, models, neural networks (computer), neurological, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid hybridization, open reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical, tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9698353 support vector machines (svms) perform pattern recognition between two point classes by finding a decision surface determined by certain points of the training set, termed support vectors (sv).
[ bib ] this review gives an introduction into ligand - receptor docking  and illustrates the basic underlying concepts.
ieee trans  pattern anal mach intell, 27(4):482-92, apr 2005.
the 6-year actuarial survival  was 100% in patients with low immunohistochemistry expression of nbs1 and 22%  in those with high nbs1 expression (p = 0.01).
keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans,  neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase  chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown  primary, 15896573 [haasdonk2005feature]  bernard haasdonk.
we find that pockets binding the same  ligand show greater variation in their shapes than can be accounted for by the  conformational variability of the ligand.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] objective:
the one major difference between the two strategies is that rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides were determined to be active when directed against targets in the pre-mrna, whereas sirnas were not.
new 4-point pharmacophore method for molecular  similarity and diversity applications: overview of the method and applications,  including a novel approach to the design of combinatorial libraries containing  privileged substructures.
for relatively small m, this latter result leads to a consistent reduction of the sv number.
the processes of  class discovery (using clustering and self-organizing maps), class prediction  (weighted voting, k nearest neighbour, support vector machines, and artificial  neural networks), target identification (fold change, discriminant analysis,  and principal component analysis), and target validation (rt-pcr and tissue  microarrays) are described.
using this classifier, the svm predicted the type of pathology of 28 test profiles with 100% selectivity and 82% sensitivity.
in this report single protein spots, from polyvinylidene difluoride blots of  micropreparative e. coli 2-d gels, were rapidly and economically identified by  matching their amino acid composition, estimated pi and molecular weight  against all e. coli entries in the swiss-prot database.
the threshold of polynomial  scores was set to -24.
chem., 42(17):3251-3264, aug 1999.
two-dimensional electrophoresis complemented with mass  spectrometry provides a global view of the state of the proteins from the  sample.
keywords: animals, antisense, base sequence, cos cells, calf  thymus, cultured, dose-response relationship, drug, flow cytometry, humans,  intercellular adhesion molecule-1, introns, luciferases, messenger, molecular  sequence data, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotides, pten  phosphohydrolase, phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein structure, rna,  ribonuclease h, small interfering, tertiary, time factors, tumor cells, tumor  suppressor proteins, 12500975 [takahashi2003proteomic]   nobuhiro takahashi, mitsuaki yanagida, sally fujiyama, toshiya hayano, and  toshiaki isobe.
keywords: animals; binding sites; computer simulation;  databases, protein; epitopes; histocompatibility antigens; humans; major  histocompatibility complex; models, biological; protein binding [bagos2005evaluation]  pantelis g bagos, theodore d  liakopoulos, and stavros j hamodrakas.
finally, error analysis shows that about half of the errors are caused by the strict annotation scheme and the annotation inconsistency in the genia corpus.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, cell surface, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, humans, imaging, internet, male, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, substrate specificity, theoretical, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, u.s. gov't, x-ray computed, 11811825
the classification accuracy obtained for the testing set ranges from 73% to 96%.
keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; computational biology; computer simulation; computer-aided design; drug design; imaging, three-dimensional; ligands; models, molecular; protein binding; protein conformation; software; structure-activity relationship a common assumption about the shape of protein binding pockets is that they are related to the shape of the small ligand molecules that can bind there.
we anticipate that this  automation framework will be generally applicable to the generation and  evaluation of large numbers of mhc predictive methods and tools, and will be of  value to centralize and rationalize the process of evaluation of mhc  predictions.
comput med imaging graph, 29(5):343-55, jul 2005.
we used tandem-affinity purification (tap) and mass spectrometry in a large-scale approach to characterize multiprotein complexes in saccharomyces cerevisiae.
an improvement in prediction accuracy is clearly seen, with the accuracy reaching up to 97% in predicting compounds that can cause tdp and 90% for predicting compounds that do not cause tdp.
[ bib | doi | http ] peptide binding to class
it is then used to generate new ideas about ways of improving an  existing ligand or of developing new alternative bonding skeletons.
the areas under the roc curves for svm linear and svm gaussian were 0.938 and 0.945, respectively; for mlp, 0.941; for the current ldf, 0.906; and for the best previously proposed ldf, 0.890.
three different  classification tasks were used as benchmarks: the dichotomous problem of  distinguishing common nevi from dysplastic nevi and melanoma, the dichotomous  problem of distinguishing melanoma from common and dysplastic nevi, and the  trichotomous problem of correctly distinguishing all three classes.
in hela cells, 26 of 44 tested standard 21-nucleotide (nt) sirna duplexes reduced the protein expression by at least 90%, and only 2 duplexes reduced the lamin a/c proteins to 96.8 to all investigated algorithms.
proteins, 71(4):1755-1778, jun 2008.
the sosa approach is a  strategy to modify the selectivity of biologically active compounds, generating  new drug candidates from the side activities of therapeutically used drugs.
we represent these spatiotemporal patterns as  trajectories in a multidimensional space, where each dimension accounts for the  activity of one glomerulus.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] purpose:
docking-based virtual screening methods have been  developed and successfully applied to a number of pharmaceutical targets.
keywords: adrenergic, angiotensin ii, cell surface,  combinatorial chemistry techniques, databases, drug evaluation, endothelins,  environmental pollutants, factual, information management, ligands, molecular  structure, pharmaceutical preparations, platelet glycoprotein gpiib-iiia  complex, preclinical, receptors, serine proteinase inhibitors,  structure-activity relationship, user-computer interface, alpha-1, 11277728 [vercoutere2001rapid]  w. vercoutere,  s. winters-hilt, h. olsen, d. deamer, d. haussler, and
in the first  stage, the surfnet program identifies clefts in the protein surface that are  potential binding sites.
with conformational free energies, the overall prediction success is 83% using a 1.00 angstroms crystal rmsd criterion for main-chain atoms, and 76% using a 1.50 angstroms rmsd criterion for heavy atoms.
keywords: algorithms; breast neoplasms; carcinoma in situ; carcinoma, ductal, breast; carcinoma, lobular; dna, neoplasm; female; fibroadenoma; gene expression; gene expression profiling; humans; oligonucleotide array sequence analysis; tumor suppressor protein p53 support vector machines have been very successful in pattern recognition and function estimation problems.
keywords: atp-binding cassette transporters, algorithms, animals, biological, biological availability, computer simulation, drug design, drug evaluation, drug industry, gene expression profiling, humans, models, organic anion transporters, p.h.s., pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical preparations, pharmacogenetics, pharmacokinetics, preclinical, proteomics, research support, software, systems biology, technology, toxicity tests, u.s. gov't, 12489686 background: t-cells are key players in regulating a specific immune response.
keywords: algorithms, anion exchange resins, automatic data  processing, chemical, chromatography, computational biology, computer-assisted,  data interpretation, databases, decision making, decision trees, english  abstract, factual, fuzzy logic, humans, indicators and reagents, information  storage and retrieval, ion exchange, models, neural networks (computer),  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, p.h.s., proteins,  quantitative structure-activity relationship, rna, roc curve, research support,  sequence analysis, statistical, transfer, u.s. gov't, 14565039 [zhao2003applicationa]  y. zhao, c. pinilla, d. valmori,  r. martin, and r. simon.
given the high degree of connectivity observed  in this study, even partial hms-pci coverage of complex proteomes, including  that of humans, should allow comprehensive identification of cellular networks.
bioinformatics, 21(10):2200-9,  may 2005.
model.,  46(6):2478-2486, 2006.
keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, apoptosis, artificial intelligence, automated, computer-assisted, female, foot, gait, gene expression profiling, humans, image interpretation, male, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, polymerase chain reaction, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15882333 motivation:
the relationship  between class i binding affinity and immunogenicity of potential cytotoxic t  cell epitopes.
in this setting, we derive the form of the minimal norm interpolant to a finite set of data and apply it to study some regularization functionals that are important in learning theory.
this file was generated by bibtex2html 1.94.
several methods have been applied so far for this task, utilizing different algorithmic techniques and a number of freely available predictors exist.
taking examples  from current drug development programs (hiv proteinase, t-rna transglycosylase,  thymidylate synthase, thrombin and, related serine proteinases), we describe  recent advances in lead discovery via computer screening, iterative design, and  understanding of selectivity discrimination.
keywords: 80 and over, acute, adolescent, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, bacillus, bacteria, bacterial, bacterial typing techniques, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, biometry, blood coagulation, breast neoplasms, breath tests, calcinosis, carcinoma, child, chromatography, chromosomes, cluster analysis, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, complementary, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, controlled, cross-sectional studies, dna, data interpretation, databases, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, environment, environmental microbiology, equipment failure, equipment failure analysis, escherichia coli, extramural, face, factual, false negative reactions, female, gas, gene expression profiling, genetic, human, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, information storage and retrieval, lasers, leukemia, linear models, lung neoplasms, male, mass, messenger, micrococcus, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, n.i.h., neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pair 15, pair 17, pair 22, papillary, pattern recognition, peptide mapping, phenotype, photobleaching, photography, precancerous conditions, predictive value of tests, preschool, principal component analysis, promoter regions (genetics), promyelocytic, protein biosynthesis, proteomics, rna, rna polymerase ii, radiographic image enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, raman, reproducibility of results, research support, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, sensitivity and specificit, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, severity of illness index, signal processing, spectrum analysis, spores, staphylococcus, statistical, statistical distributions, theoretical, thyroid neoplasms, time factors, translocation, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, y, 15719936
spot ranking analysis using a support  vector machine algorithm and unsupervised classification methods identified 32  protein spots essential for the classification.
a "hill-climbing" feature selection algorithm demonstrated that a small subset (3-5) of gait features extracted from mfc plots could differentiate the gait patterns with 90% accuracy.
automated generation and evaluation of specific mhc binding  predictive tools:
based on structure comparisons of a large set of peptide-mhc class i complexes, a molecular dynamics protocol is proposed using simulated annealing (sa) cycles to sample the conformational space of the peptide in its fixed mhc environment.
here, we present a novel approach, svmhc, based on support  vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to mhc class i molecules.
here, we report an efficient statistical model that supports local  sequence order independent ligand-binding-site similarity searching.
the features used are fractal dimension, lacunarity, and features derived from the histogram of the images.
keywords: alleles; amino acid sequence; cell line, transformed;  cross reactions; hla antigens; hla-a3 antigen; hla-b antigens; haplotypes;  humans; molecular sequence data; peptide fragments; protein binding;  structure-activity relationship [rarey1996placement]   m. rarey, s. wefing, and t. lengauer.
the most potent e. coli acid resistance system utilizes two isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase encoded by gada and gadb and a putative glutamate:gamma-aminobutyric acid antiporter encoded by gadc.
machine classifiers may augment the global indices of  statpac.
in the past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the stabilized matrix method (smm).
keywords: amino acid sequence; carcinoma, hepatocellular;  databases, protein; epitopes; hla-a2 antigen; humans; liver neoplasms; major  histocompatibility complex; research support, non-u.s. gov't; t-lymphocytes,  cytotoxic [ding2005minimum]  chris ding and hanchuan peng.
in the special but important case of feature space of finite dimension m, we also show that m + 1 svs are usually sufficient to determine the decision surface fully.
biol., 112(3):535-542, may 1977.
svms are based on minimization of a bound on the generalized error (risk) model, rather than just the mean square error over a training set.
in  an initial test of the algorithm, pepssi was used to predict the conformation  of eight peptides bound to hla-a2, for which x-ray data are available.
these techniques allow large-scale screening of the  protein complement of simple organisms, or tissues in normal and disease  states.
for each of the studied compound classes, comparison of mfp bit settings identified a consensus or signature pattern.
biotechnology (n y),  14(1):61-65, jan 1996.
as a function of the training set size, the corresponding generalization error  presents a crossover, more or less abrupt depending on the distribution's  anisotropy and on the task to be learned, between a fast-decreasing and a  slowly decreasing regime.
in the legume lectins family composed of >100  structures that share similar sequences and folds but may have lost their  ability to bind a carbohydrate molecule, sumo discriminates between functional  and non-functional lectins with a selectivity of 96%.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins, artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical, chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, internet, ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12421757
first, an accurate multiple alignment of sequences of all members of a protein family is constructed on the basis of a multiple structural superposition of family members with known structure.
moderate affinity of the mhc-peptide complex is essential to induce immune responses, but the relationship between the affinity and peptide immunogenicity is too weak to use for predicting immunogenicity.
the implementation of this heuristic constitutes a software named sumo (surfing the molecules), which allows the dynamic definition of chemical groups, the selection of sites in the proteins, and the management and screening of databases.
keywords: computers; great britain; information systems; japan; protein conformation; proteins; united states this paper reports a comparison of several methods for measuring the degree of similarity between pairs of 3-d chemical structures that are represented by inter-atomic distance matrices.
thus, the method holds promise for wide applicability in toxicity prediction.
the generic nature of the  method has been demonstrated with four data sets available for carcinogenicity,  where prediction accuracies were significantly higher, with a best receiver  operating characteristics (roc) value of 0.81 as against a best roc value of  0.7 reported in the literature for the same data set.
keywords: agricultural, alleles, alternaria, amino acid, amino acid chloromethyl ketones, amino acid sequence, animal, animals, apoptosis, asthma, bacteria, base sequence, binding sites, biotechnology, blotting, bone density, bone matrix, bone and bones, ccr5, camptothecin, caspases, cathepsins, cell surface, central america, chloroplast, chondrocytes, chromosome mapping, chromosomes, cloning, cluster analysis, collagen, comparative study, coumarins, crops, crystallography, dna, dna primers, dipeptides, disease, disease models, drug design, drug evaluation, drug industry, enzyme activation, enzyme inhibitors, escherichia coli, evolution, exons, expressed sequence tags, female, fetus, fluorescent dyes, food microbiology, founder effect, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression, gene frequency, gene library, genes, genetic, genetic predisposition to disease, genome, geography, growth plate, haplotypes, hordeum, human, humans, inclusion bodies, injections, intraperitoneal, introns, isatin, knockout, male, membrane proteins, messenger, mice, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, mutation, mycotoxins, neutrophils, non-u.s. gov't, northern, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, osteoarthritis, osteochondrodysplasias, osteoclasts, osteopetrosis, pair 15, phaseolus, polymorphism, preclinical, pregnancy, promoter regions (genetics), protein precursors, proteomics, rna, receptors, recombinant fusion proteins, recombinant proteins, research support, restriction fragment length, ribosomal proteins, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, south america, species specificity, splenomegaly, sulfonamides, synteny, tissue distribution, transcription, trichothecenes, x-ray, 9915501
design: prospective, comparative, clinical observational study.
pattern sd (psd) and corrected psd (cpsd) had the largest areas  under the curve of the global indices.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; animals;  caenorhabditis elegans; drosophila; lod score; mathematics; molecular sequence  data; probability; proteins; sequence homology, amino acid; software [sette1994relationship]  a. sette, a. vitiello,  b. reherman, p. fowler, r. nayersina, w. m. kast,  c. j. melief, c. oseroff, l. yuan, j. ruppert,  j. sidney, m. f. del guercio, s. southwood, r. t. kubo,  r. w. chesnut, h. m. grey, and f. v. chisari.
conclusions: mog, using the  entire visual field and age for input, interpreted sap better than the global  indices of statpac.
beginning with 10% of predicted yeast proteins as baits, we detected 3,617 associated proteins covering 25% of the yeast proteome.
availability: weka machine learning package: www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ ml/weka  and statistical software package ade-4: http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/ade-4 keywords: biosvm proteomics [ avidan2004support]  shai avidan.
in this paper, we apply an artificial  intelligence technique [support vector machines (svm)] for the automatic  recognition of young-old gait types from their respective gait-patterns.
finally  the new method has strong potential to suggest alternative molecular skeletons  in de novo design.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid motifs, amino acid sequence, antigen-antibody complex, automated, binding sites, computational biology, drug delivery systems, drug design, epitopes, forecasting, genes, hla antigens, hla-a antigens, hla-a2 antigen, hla-dr antigens, humans, internet, mhc class i, markov chains, molecular sequence data, neural networks (computer), pattern recognition, peptide fragments, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, software, t-lymphocyte, user-computer interface, viral vaccines, 12067415 purpose:
an important  component of the approach is the introduction of a context-specific  substitution matrix suitable for comparison of binding-site residues.
structural analyses of these peptide-hla-a2 conformations showed that peptide binding affinity is positively correlated with the number of peptide-mhc contacts and negatively correlated with the number of interfacial water molecules.
since the cloning of the first receptors  more than a decade ago, extensive experimental work has uncovered multiple  aspects of their function and challenged many traditional paradigms.
once  these predictive models have been validated, they can be used as an automated  prediction tool for virtual high-throughput screening (vhts).
results from the  automated evaluation of tool efficiency are presented.
in this definition, chemogenomics deals with the  systematic analysis of chemical-biological interactions.
third, sequences whose structures have not been determined are checked to see if they have binding-site signatures similar to one of the known complexes.
the findings have implications for the design of novel inhibitors with a desired selectivity profile (e.g. targeted at multiple kinases), the discovery of new targets for kinase inhibitor drugs, comparative analysis of different in vivo models, and the design of "a-la-carte" chemical libraries tailored for individual kinases.
gold is an automated ligand docking program that uses a genetic  algorithm to explore the full range of ligand conformational flexibility with  partial flexibility of the protein, and satisfies the fundamental requirement  that the ligand must displace loosely bound water on binding.
this method seems to perform slightly better than two profile based methods, syfpeithi and hla_bind.
subsequently, support vector machines were used for classification.
neural comput , 12(10):2385-404, oct 2000.
the use of tagged proteins as affinity bait, coupled with mass spectrometric identification, enabled us to isolate synthetic intermediates of ribosomes that might represent snapshots of nascent ribosomes at particular stages of ribosome biogenesis and to identify their constituents-some of which showed dynamic changes for association with the intermediates at various stages of ribosome biogenesis.
however, the analysis of immense amount of data poses considerable challenges.
however, there is no single  combination which gives a consistently high performance for all search types.
conformational analysis of drug-like  molecules bound to proteins: an extensive study of ligand reorganization upon  binding.
keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, apoptosis, artificial intelligence, automated, computer-assisted, female, foot, gait, gene expression profiling, humans, image interpretation, male, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, polymerase chain reaction, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15887532
keywords: amino acid sequence; computer communication networks;  computers; gtp-binding proteins; information systems; molecular sequence data;  mutagenesis, site-directed; mutation; receptors, cell surface; sequence  alignment [humphrey1996vmd]  w. humphrey,  a. dalke, and k. schulten.
a novel finding was that the previously  characterized luminal epithelial/estrogen receptor-positive group could be  divided into at least two subgroups, each with a distinctive expression  profile.
given a classifier function in the  feature space, we derive a deformation that corresponds to the differences  between the two classes while ignoring shape variability within each class.
keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15896573 kernel methods are becoming increasingly popular for various kinds of machine learning tasks, the most famous being the support vector machine (svm) for classification.
a set of  potential biomarkers showing a time- and dose-response with respect to the  progression of proximal tubular toxicity were identified.
chem., 49(20):5851-5855,
an overview of different  approaches and algorithms is provided.
keywords: bacterial proteins; dna-binding proteins; drug  resistance, bacterial; escherichia coli; escherichia coli proteins; gene  expression regulation, bacterial; glutamate decarboxylase; glutamates;  hydrogen-ion concentration; membrane proteins; mutation; sigma factor;  transcription, genetic [vickers2003efficient]  t. a.  vickers, s. koo, c. f. bennett, s. t. crooke, n. m. dean,  and b. f. baker.
cell-based assays that use optical endpoints permit investigation of a wide variety of functional properties of these compounds including specific intracellular biochemical pathways, protein-protein interactions, and the subcellular localization of targets.
neural netw , 14(9):1201-18, nov 2001.
keywords: algorithms; data interpretation, statistical;  epitopes, t-lymphocyte; histocompatibility antigens class i; humans;  hydrolysis; predictive value of tests; proteasome endopeptidase complex;  protein binding; research support, n.i.h., extramural; research support,  non-u.s. gov't; research support, u.s. gov't, p.h.s.; t-lymphocytes, cytotoxic [ikeda2005asymptotic]  kazushi ikeda and tsutomu aoishi.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins,  artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base  sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical,  chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna,  databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis,  drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility  studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression  regulation, genes, genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, glaucoma,  hemolysins, humans, internet, intraocular pressure, ion exchange, lasers,  leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms,  lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models,  molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology,  neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s.,  non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid  hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis,  open-angle, ophthalmoscopy, optic disk, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern  recognition, probability, probability learning, protein binding, protein  conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, roc  curve, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of  results, research support, robotics, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software,  statistical, stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship,  thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12407155 [collobert2002parallel]  ronan collobert, samy bengio, and yoshua bengio.
each such minimum in conformational  space presents a potential candidate for the conformation of the ligand in the  complexed state.
specificity was set to 96% for all classifiers, using data from 94 normal eyes evaluated longitudinally.
a number of successful applications of structure-based virtual screening are described.
here, we use microarray gene expression data to identify a new prognostic marker.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, automated,  biometry, computers, dna, databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins,  gtp-binding proteins, gene expression, genes, learning, linear models, markov  chains, mathematics, models, neural networks (computer), neurological,  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, nucleic acid hybridization,  open reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure,  proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical,  tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9573414 [mason1999new]  j. s.  mason, i. morize, p. r. menard, d. l. cheney, c. hulme, and  r. f. labaudiniere.
availability of quantitative binding assays allowed verification that, indeed, many (25%) of the peptide ligands carrying proline in position 2 and hydrophobic/aromatic residues at the c-terminus (the b7-like supermotif) were capable of binding at least three of five hla-b7-like supertype alleles.
we find that adaptive boosting outperforms naï ve bayes, but that a new form of boosting which we term staged bayesian retrieval outperforms adaptive boosting.
the procedure of  "plugging" these indefinite kernels in svms often yields good  empirical classification results.
a multiple logistic regression model was used to predict eyes with abp on the basis of a quantitative scan score generated by a support vector machine (svm) with gdx-vcc.
rapid discrimination among individual dna hairpin molecules at  single-nucleotide resolution using an ion channel.
evaluation shows that our system achieves the f-measure of 66.6 and 62.2 on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and v1.1, respectively.
biol.,  267(3):727-748, apr 1997.
neural netw , 15(8-9):1041-58, 2002.
the microarrays can also be used to screen protein-drug  interactions and to detect posttranslational modifications.
we discuss the validity of  the independent binding assumption in such predictions.
med.,  31(1):41-57, jan 2001.
sequence, chemical, and structural variation  of small interfering rnas and short hairpin rnas and the effect on mammalian  gene silencing.
we refer to this as a maximum discriminating  feature (mdf) neural network.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; computer simulation; models, chemical; models, molecular; molecular sequence data; proteins, chemistry; reproducibility of results; sensitivity and specificity; sequence alignment, methods; sequence analysis, protein, methods; software; software validation
this review focuses on the progress and  the applications of proteomics science with special reference to integration of  the evolving technologies involved to address biological questions.
generative classifiers, which first model the data probability density and then perform classification via bayes' rule, usually give deeper insight into the structure of the data space.
finally, different methods for conformational analysis were evaluated, and guidelines were defined to maximize the prevalence of bioactive conformations in computationally generated ensembles.
alternatively, a search form allowing detailed specification of which mutants to retrieve may be used, for example, to search for specific amino acid substitutions, substitutions in specific protein domains or reported biological effects.
basis pursuit denoising is a sparse approximation technique in  which a function is reconstructed by using a small number of basis functions  chosen from a large set (the dictionary).
given the high degree of connectivity observed in this study, even partial hms-pci coverage of complex proteomes, including that of humans, should allow comprehensive identification of cellular networks.
ostensibly minor details in methodology may have a profound influence on headline success rates.
in the case of nijmegen dataset, the performance of the svm was  az=0.79 and 0.77 for the original and enhanced feature set, respectively, while  for the mias dataset the corresponding characterization scores were az=0.81 and  0.80.
it may also be important to limit the induction of these same proteins that can result in further toxicities.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid, amino acids, artificial intelligence, ascomycota, automated, base sequence, chromosome mapping, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, crystallography, dna, dna primers, databases, decision support techniques, diagnostic imaging, enzymes, feedback, fixation, gene expression profiling, genetic, hordeum, host-parasite relations, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, informatics, information storage and retrieval, kinetics, logistic models, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mathematical computing, models, nanotechnology, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, ocular, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, plant, plants, predictive value of tests, protein, protein conformation, regression analysis, research support, sample size, selection (genetics), sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, signal processing, skin, software, statistical, subtraction technique, theoretical, thermodynamics, u.s. gov't, viral proteins, x-ray, 15563752 advances in modern technologies and computers have enabled digital image processing to become a vital tool in conventional clinical practice, including mammography.
a "hill-climbing" feature selection algorithm demonstrated that a  small subset (3-5) of gait features extracted from mfc plots could  differentiate the gait patterns with 90% accuracy.
finally, the diagnostic problem of adenocarcinomas that present as metastases of unknown origin is reviewed, and it is demonstrated how integration of expression profiling techniques promises to throw new light on this important clinical challenge.
keywords: acute, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid, amino acid motifs, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, cell nucleus, chemical, child, comparative study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm, databases, decision making, decision trees, fuzzy logic, gene expression, gene expression profiling, genetic vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, imaging, information storage and retrieval, internet, leukemia, lymphocytic, mitochondria, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, monte carlo method, movement, neoplasms, neural networks (computer),
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids,  animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain  chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea,  cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging,  diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic,  glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis,  magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged,  models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis,  ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern  recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve,  regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual  fields, beta-lactamases, 15765480 [perez-cruz2005convergence ]  fernando pérez-cruz, carlos bousoño-calzón, and antonio  artés-rodrãâ­guez.
for a large-scale comparison, it is critical to accurately and efficiently assess the statistical significance of this similarity.
on average, a classification rate of above 90% has been achieved using the genso-fdss system.
high affinity  targets of protein kinase inhibitors have similar residues at the positions  energetically important for binding.
thus,  our results provide a distinct view of the interactions that link proteins into  a comprehensive cellular network.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; animals; caenorhabditis elegans; drosophila; lod score; mathematics; molecular sequence data; probability; proteins; sequence homology, amino acid; software the relationship between binding affinity for hla class i molecules and immunogenicity of discrete peptide epitopes has been analyzed in two different experimental approaches.
a web  server for ligsitecsc and its source code is available at  scoppi.biotec.tu-dresden.de/pocket keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, protein;  ligands; models, molecular; proteins, chemistry [ theres2006structural]  theres fagerberg, jean-charles cerottini, and olivier  michielin.
vmd has also been expressly designed with the ability to animate molecular dynamics (md) simulation trajectories, imported either from files or from a direct connection to a running md simulation.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic,  artificial intelligence, butadienes, chloroplasts, comparative study, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response  relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography,  ethylamines, expert systems, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling,  genes, genetic markers, humans, implanted, industrial, information storage and  retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray  analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language  processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, plant  proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin  aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support,  sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors,  toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15805072 [shen2005[detection]  li shen, jie yang, and yue zhou.
the identification and analysis of their components provides insight  into how the ensemble of expressed proteins (proteome) is organized into  functional units.
it is also possible that these phenomena might be related to optimal exploitation of the peptide specificity by human tap molecules.
a  visualization scheme (star plots) was used to display the relative importance  of each selected descriptor in the final set of "bagged" models.
keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15894178 a protocol was devised in which fred, dock, and surflex were combined in a multistep virtual ligand screening (vls) procedure to screen the pocket of four different proteins.
high-throughput and high-resolution mass spectrometry instruments are increasingly used for disease classification and therapeutic guidance.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial  intelligence, automated, carcinoma, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative  study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer-assisted, dna gyrase,  databases, diagnosis, evolution, factual, follow-up studies, gene expression  profiling, gene expression regulation, genetic, glaucoma, humans, intraocular  pressure, lung neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence  data, neural networks (computer), non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, ocular  hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic disk, optic nerve  diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, phylogeny,  protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support,  saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, secondary,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence  homology, software, statistical, subcellular fractions, u.s. gov't,  user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, 12147600 [prakash2002fetal]  k. n bhanu prakash, a. g.  ramakrishnan, s. suresh, and teresa w p chow.
substructure-based support vector machine classifiers for prediction of adverse  effects in diverse classes of drugs.
without prior explicit bias almost all of these clustering methods applied to gene expression data not only produce different results, but may also produce clusters with little or no biological relevance.
proteomics is in its exponential growth phase.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid, amino acids, artificial  intelligence, ascomycota, automated, base sequence, chromosome mapping, codon,  colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted,  computing methodologies, crystallography, dna, dna primers, databases, decision  support techniques, diagnostic imaging, enzymes, feedback, fixation, gene  expression profiling, genetic, hordeum, host-parasite relations, humans, image  enhancement, image interpretation, informatics, information storage and  retrieval, kinetics, logistic models, magnetic resonance spectroscopy,  mathematical computing, models, nanotechnology, neural networks (computer),
using an in-house mhc binding database, we generated a total of 85 and 13 mhc class i and class ii matrices, respectively.
once the binding site is known, it becomes easier to perform in silico and experimental procedures that may allow the ligand type and the protein function to be determined.
the svm is well understood when using  conditionally positive definite (cpd) kernel functions.
keywords: animals; binding sites; computer simulation; databases, protein; epitopes; histocompatibility antigens; humans; major histocompatibility complex; models, biological; protein binding background: prediction of the transmembrane strands and topology of beta-barrel outer membrane proteins is of interest in current bioinformatics research.
one method is based on simulating a neural network and another, called the polynomial method, is based on statistical parameter estimation assuming independent binding of the side-chains of residues.
the neural net is superior to simple motif searches in eliminating false positives.
[ bib | http | .pdf ] [opper2000gaussian]   m. opper and o. winther.
the results suggest that the simple modelling procedure applied here could help identify and characterize protein-protein complexes.
similarity scores, in contrast to a fixed-length, pocket-specific representation of amino acids, provide a flexible and powerful way of modelling mhc binding, and can easily be applied to other dynamic sequence problems.
we show that from the tap approach, it is possible to derive both a simpler "naive" mean-field theory and support vector machines (svms) as limiting cases.
bioinformatics, 23(8):942-949, apr 2007.
efficient statistical analysis makes it possible to apply soippa to genome-based drug discovery.
to perform this ranking task we have considered several machine learning approaches based on the naï ve bayesian algorithm.
in this report single protein spots, from polyvinylidene difluoride blots of micropreparative e. coli 2-d gels, were rapidly and economically identified by matching their amino acid composition, estimated pi and molecular weight against all e. coli entries in the swiss-prot database.
[ bib | doi |  http | .pdf ] objective:
in order for these automated diagnostic systems to perform in levels of sensitivity and specificity similar to that of human experts, it is essential that a robust framework on problem-specific design parameters is formulated.
finally, we provide classes of operator-valued kernels of the dot product and  translation-invariant type.
previous  systematic genome-wide two-hybrid screens yielded 17 proteins that interact  with skp1 and cdc53, only 3 of which overlap with those reported here.
minimum foot clearance (mfc) data of 30 young and 28 elderly participants were  analyzed using a peak-2d motion analysis system during a 20-min continuous walk  on a treadmill at self-selected walking speed.
the  final conformation is chosen as the center of the best-ranked cluster.
[ bib ] herein we describe the establishment of assays to measure  peptide binding to purified hla-b*0701, -b*0801, -b*2705, -b*3501-03, -b*5401,  -cw*0401, -cw*0602, and -cw*0702 molecules.
computer  simulation, computer-assisted, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response  relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography,  ethylamines, expert systems, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling,  genes, genetic markers, humans, implanted, industrial, information storage and  retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray  analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language  processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, plant  proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin  aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support,  sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors,  toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15797296 [lu2005potential]  wei-zhen lu and wen-jian wang.
in our experiments, the proposed svm framework outperformed all the other methods tested.
[ bib ] methods for alignment of protein sequences typically measure  similarity by using a substitution matrix with scores for all possible  exchanges of one amino acid with another.
genesis: cluster analysis of microarray data.
although mitomycin c and amphotericin b treatments  did not cause toxicity, their expression profiles were included in the svm  prediction module to increase the sample size.
the  input signals were electrocardiogram, skin temperature variation and  electrodermal activity, all of which were acquired without much discomfort from  the body surface, and can reflect the influence of emotion on the autonomic  nervous system.
a new 4-point pharmacophore method for molecular similarity and diversity that rapidly calculates all potential pharmacophores/pharmacophoric shapes for a molecule or a protein site is described.
bmc bioinformatics, 3:25, sep 2002.
mhc-peptide complexes are potential tools for diagnosis and  treatment of pathogens and cancer, as well as for the development of peptide  vaccines.
major challenges facing the  field include understanding of the factors determining the selectivity of  kinase inhibitors and the development of compounds with the desired selectivity  profile.
the common knowledge that ligands rarely bind in their lowest calculated energy conformation was confirmed.
popi, utilizing the m = 23 selected  properties, performs well with the accuracy of 64.72% using leave-one-out  cross-validation, compared with two sequence alignment-based prediction methods  align (54.91%) and psi-blast (53.23%).
neural comput, 12(11):2655-84, nov 2000.
following a technique commonly used in the comparison of small molecule ligands, generic pseudocenters coding for possible interaction properties were assigned for a large sample set of cavities extracted from the entire pdb and stored in the database cavbase.
the absence of a direct functional correlation between gene transcripts and their corresponding proteins, however, represents a significant roadblock for improving the efficiency of biological discoveries.
[ bib ] we present a method for detecting and comparing cavities on  protein surfaces that is useful for protein binding site recognition.
data mining in medicine can deal with this  problem.
in contrast to already  existing tools, the basis for this method is a representation of the protein  structure by a set of stereochemical groups that are defined independently from  the notion of amino acid.
proteomics to study genes and genomes.
it is almost always found among the highest-ranking  conformations computed.
these include several transporters (slc21a2, slc15, slc34a2), kim 1, igfbp-1, osteopontin, alpha-fibrinogen, and gstalpha.
several methods have been applied so far for this task, utilizing  different algorithmic techniques and a number of freely available predictors  exist.
modelling the interaction between potentially antigenic peptides and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules is a key step in identifying potential t-cell epitopes.
an elementary requirement for a successful  energy function is to rank the native structure above any threaded structure.
bioinformatics, 18 suppl 1:s111-9, 2002.
currently, the treatment of pediatric all is centered on tailoring the intensity of the therapy applied to a patient's risk of relapse, which is linked to the type of leukemia the patient has.
a thorough list of clinical  features was constructed and the diagnostic value of each feature was verified  against current clinical practices by an expert physician.
the most widely used matrices are based on the dayhoff model of evolutionary rates.
both the statistical and the  classification results have proven the explicit correlation of all the selected  features with the final diagnosis, qualifying them as an adequate input base  for any type of similar automated diagnosis system.
keywords: 80 and over, acute, adolescent, adult, aged,  algorithms, amino acids, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, bacillus,  bacteria, bacterial, bacterial typing techniques, base sequence, bayes theorem,  binding sites, biological, biometry, blood coagulation, breast neoplasms,  breath tests, calcinosis, carcinoma, child, chromatography, chromosomes,  cluster analysis, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, complementary,  computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, computing  methodologies, controlled, cross-sectional studies, dna, data interpretation,  databases, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, environment, environmental  microbiology, equipment failure, equipment failure analysis, escherichia coli,  extramural, face, factual, false negative reactions, female, gas, gene  expression profiling, genetic, human, humans, image enhancement, image  interpretation, information storage and retrieval, lasers, leukemia, linear  models, lung neoplasms, male, mass, messenger, micrococcus, middle aged,  models, molecular sequence data, n.i.h., neural networks (computer),  non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence  analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pair 15, pair 17, pair 22, papillary,  pattern recognition, peptide mapping, phenotype, photobleaching, photography,  precancerous conditions, predictive value of tests, preschool, principal  component analysis, promoter regions (genetics), promyelocytic, protein  biosynthesis, proteomics, rna, rna polymerase ii, radiographic image  enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, raman, reproducibility of  results, research support, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction,  sensitivity and specificit, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis,  severity of illness index, signal processing, spectrum analysis, spores,  staphylococcus, statistical, statistical distributions, theoretical, thyroid  neoplasms, time factors, translocation, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, y, 15719936 [golland2005detection]  polina golland, w. eric l  grimson, martha e shenton, and ron kikinis.
methods and material: the proposed method has been implemented in three stages:  (a) the cluster detection stage to identify clusters of microcalcifications,  (b) the feature extraction stage to compute the important features of each  cluster and (c) the classification stage, which provides with the final  characterization.
we evaluate their  performance on a non-redundant dataset of 20 beta-barrel outer membrane  proteins of gram-negative bacteria, with structures known at atomic resolution.
keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; binding sites;  computational biology, methods; computer simulation; crystallization;  crystallography, x-ray; databases, protein; ligands; models, molecular;  molecular structure; programming languages; protein binding; proteins,  chemistry; proteomics, methods; reproducibility of results; software [bui2005automated]  huynh-hoa bui, john sidney, bjoern  peters, muthuraman sathiamurthy, asabe sinichi, kelly-anne purton,  bianca r mothé, francis v chisari, david i watkins, and  alessandro sette.
in addition, and surprisingly, a significant improvement in generalization was observed.
an analysis of the degree of folding of the bound ligands confirmed the general tendency of small molecules to bind in an extended conformation.
this is at the expense of taking the trajectory of state variables as additional unknowns in the optimization problem, while classical neural network approaches typically lead to parametric optimization problems.
one of the main  contributions of the paper is the new three-dimensional pattern processing  approach, called random orthogonal shape sections method, which combines the  information from many random images to generate reliable signatures of shape.
our study is novel in that we report  systematic results for  100 classes in the munich information center for  protein sequences (mips) functional catalog.
popi: predicting  immunogenicity of mhc class i binding peptides by mining informative  physicochemical properties.
[ sole2001model]  r. v. solé, r. pastor-satorras, e. d.  smith, and t. kepler.
the requirement is to rank the new documents as nearly in order of decreasing potential to be added to the smaller database as possible, so as to improve the coverage of the smaller database without increasing the effort of those who manage this specialty database.
one goal was to evaluate the impact of  chaining "freely available packages to academic users" on  docking/scoring accuracy and cpu time consumption.
thermodynamic  parameters for the stabilities of secondary structure motifs are revised to  include expanded sequence dependence as revealed by recent experiments.
the authors compared  performance of these classifiers with the global indices of statpac, using the  area under the roc curve.
bmc bioinformatics, 7:501, 2006.
results and conclusion:
our analysis provides an outline of the eukaryotic proteome as a network of protein complexes at a level of organization beyond binary interactions.
we use the dfirebeta energy function, whose quality and complexity are typical  of the models used today.
the polynomial method, on the other hand, has high sensitivity and is a superior method for eliminating false negatives.
thus, discrimination of the native structure is  good but not perfect.
the svm  score was the only significant (p < .0001) predictor of abp images and  provided high discriminating power between eyes with nbp and abp (area under  the receiver operator characteristic curve = 0.98).
finally, different methods for conformational analysis  were evaluated, and guidelines were defined to maximize the prevalence of  bioactive conformations in computationally generated ensembles.
extensive testing was performed for validation of the prediction models.
j. immunol.,  154(1):247-259, jan 1995.
improvements are observed consistently among 4 classification methods: naive bayes, linear discriminant analysis, logistic regression, and support vector machines.
analysis of  the sequences of various hla class i alleles suggested that alleles with  peptide motifs characterized by proline in position 2 and aromatic or  hydrophobic residues at their c-terminus shared key consensus residues at  positions 9, 63, 66, 67, and 70 (b pocket) and residue 116 (f pocket).
keywords: alleles; amino acid sequence; cell line, transformed; cross reactions; hla antigens; hla-a3 antigen; hla-b antigens; haplotypes; humans; molecular sequence data; peptide fragments; protein binding; structure-activity relationship we present an algorithm for placing molecular fragments into the active site of a receptor.
in this paper, a gp-based approach is developed for feature  extraction from raw vibration data recorded from a rotating machine with six  different conditions.
in this paper, we report the development of a prediction method based on a support machine vector algorithm.
keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, factual;  ligands; models, chemical; peptide fragments, chemistry; proteins, chemistry;  software [rarey1996fast]  m. rarey, b. kramer,  t. lengauer, and g. klebe.
gait features extracted from  individual mfc histogram-plot and poincaré-plot images were used to  train the svm.
experimental results demonstrate the ability of gp to discover autimatically  the different bearing conditions using features expressed in the form of  nonlinear functions.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, butadienes, chloroplasts, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, ethylamines, expert systems, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic markers, humans, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15797296 monitoring and forecasting of air quality parameters are popular and important topics of atmospheric and environmental research today due to the health impact caused by exposing to air pollutants existing in urban air.
comparison of yeast and human  complexes showed that conservation across species extends from single proteins  to their molecular environment.
was 5.92 +/- 2.34 (range, 2.81-11.77).
in the second stage, these clefts are trimmed in size by cutting away regions distant from highly conserved residues, as defined by the consurf-hssp database.
[ bib ] the classifiction of heart beats is the foundation for automated  arrhythmia monitoring devices.
numerical measures such as root-mean-square  deviation need careful interpretation and may profitably be supplemented by  interaction-based measures and visual inspection of dockings.
the dataset consisting of 428 human mhc class i binding peptides belonging to  four classes of immunogenicity was established from mhcpep, a database of  mhc-binding peptides (brusic et al., 1998).
prediction of the peptide-binding specificity of hla-b*5401, on the basis of  this consensus b and f pocket structure, verified this hypothesis and suggested  that a relatively large family of hla-b alleles (which we have defined as the  hla-b7-like supertype) may significantly overlap in peptide binding  specificity.
keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans,  neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase  chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown  primary, 15894178 [miteva2005fast]  m. a. miteva,  w. h. lee, m. o. montes, and b. o. villoutreix.
global analysis of  protein activities using proteome chips.
thirty-two percent (36/114) of  the eyes converted to abnormal fields during follow-up based on the  statpac-like methods.
methods: mage-1,  mage-3, mage-8, p53 and afp were selected as objective antigens in this study  for the close association with hcc.
in the appendix, we present a derivation of the svm technique in one framework of regularization theory, rather than statistical learning theory, establishing a connection between svm, sparse approximation, and regularization theory.
recognizing names in biomedical texts: a machine  learning approach.
using machine learning classifiers to identify  glaucomatous change earlier in standard visual fields.
fast  structure-based virtual ligand screening combining fred, dock, and surflex.
cross-validation test results indicate that the generalization  performance of the svm was on average 83.3% (+/-2.9) to recognize young and  elderly gait patterns, compared to a neural network's accuracy of 75.0+/-5.0%.
j.  pharmacol., 153 suppl 1:s7-26, mar 2008.
torsade de pointes  (tdp) is one such important adverse effect, which causes cardiac arrhythmia  and, in some cases, sudden death, making it crucial for potential drugs to be  screened for torsadogenicity.
one of the main contributions of the paper is the new three-dimensional pattern processing approach, called random orthogonal shape sections method, which combines the information from many random images to generate reliable signatures of shape.
here, we present a novel approach, svmhc, based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to mhc class i molecules.
to determine whether neural network techniques can  improve differentiation between glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes, using  the optic disc topography parameters of the heidelberg retina tomograph (hrt;  heidelberg engineering, heidelberg, germany).
[ bib | http | .pdf ] [teixeira2001recent]   r. d. teixeira, a. p. braga, r. h. takahashi, and r. r.  saldanha.
the methods that have been  tested use the distance information in very different ways and have very  different computational requirements.
a tm cavity could be found for all investigated gpcrs with physicochemical properties matching that of their cognate ligands.
male sprague-dawley rats were dosed via intraperitoneal injection once daily for mercuric chloride and amphotericin (up to 7 doses), while a single dose was given for all other compounds.
ligand strain energies and conformational reorganization were analyzed  with different computational methods on 150 crystal structures of  pharmaceutically relevant protein-ligand complexes.
additionaly,  it significantly reduces the time for computation compared with genetic  algorithm (ga), therefore, makes a more practical realization of the solution.
in contrast to results of previous reports, we demonstrate that gad transcription can be detected in an hns rpos mutant strain of e. coli k-12, indicating that gad promoters can be initiated by sigma(70) in the absence of h-ns.
the ligands from  thirty-two different ligand-protein complexes determined by high-resolution  (10.5, and six code for small acidic proteins with pis ranging  from 5.7 to 4.0; the roles of these small basic and acidic proteins in acid  resistance are unknown.
the visual-field sensitivity test is commonly used in a clinical setting to evaluate glaucoma.
keywords: algorithms; protein binding; protein conformation;  protein interaction domains and motifs; proteins, chemistry/metabolism;  structural homology, protein [xie2009unified]  lei xie,  li xie, and philip e bourne.
we find in our benchmark experiments that this kernel significantly out-performs a variety of other kernels, including several previously described kernels.
these features were  directly or indirectly related to the overall morphological properties of the  mammographic tumor or the texture of the fine-scale tissue structures as they  appear in the digitized image, while others contained external clinical data of  outmost importance, like the patient's age.
thus, there is a need to capture the behavior of the transport phenomenon in random media in a relatively simple manner.
abp images were significantly correlated with older age (r(2) =
all considered ligands are docked in at most three minutes on a current workstation.
including novel constellations of metabolites into the models, the  positive predictive value could be strongly increased (pku 71.9 54.6 clearly  prove that the mined data confirm the known and indicate some novel metabolic  patterns which may contribute to a better understanding of newborn metabolism.
the consensus prediction method described in  this work, optimizes the predicted topology with a dynamic programming  algorithm and is implemented in a web-based application freely available to  non-commercial users at http://bioinformatics.biol.uoa.gr/conbbpred.
hence, it is hopeless to try to solve real-life problems having more  than a few hundred thousand examples with svms.
keywords: animals; artificial intelligence; comparative study;  computational biology; databases, protein; epitopes, t-lymphocyte; hla  antigens; histocompatibility antigens class i; humans; peptides; predictive  value of tests; protein binding; research support, non-u.s. gov't; sensitivity  and specificity [chan2002comparison]  kwokleung chan,  te-won lee, pamela a sample, michael h goldbaum, robert n  weinreb, and terrence j sejnowski.
due to mercer's conditions on the kernels, the corresponding optimization problems are convex and hence have no local minima.
nature,  409:211-215, 2001.
reproducing the conformations  of protein-bound ligands: a critical evaluation of several popular  conformational searching tools.
the areas  under the roc curves for svm linear and svm gaussian were 0.938 and 0.945,  respectively; for mlp, 0.941; for the current ldf, 0.906; and for the best  previously proposed ldf, 0.890.
in this review, in conjunction with the results from  yeast cells, our proteomic approach to analyze ribosome biogenesis in mammalian  cells is described.
keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, protein; models,  molecular; molecular structure; protein binding; protein folding; protein  structure, tertiary; proteins, chemistry/metabolism; reproducibility of results [sample2002using]  pamela a sample, michael h  goldbaum, kwokleung chan, catherine boden, te-won lee, christiana vasile,  andreas g boehm, terrence sejnowski, chris a johnson, and  robert n weinreb.
keywords: binding sites; computer simulation; models, chemical;  models, molecular; protein binding; protein conformation; protein folding;  proteins, chemistry/ultrastructure; sequence analysis, protein, methods;  surface properties [qiu2007structural]  j. qiu,  j. hue, a. ben-hur, j.-p. vert, and w. s. noble.
for placing the first  fragment of the ligand into the protein, we use hashing techniques adapted from  computer vision.
availability: weka machine learning package: www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ ml/weka and statistical software package ade-4: http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/ade-4 keywords: biosvm proteomics support vector tracking (svt) integrates the support vector machine (svm) classifier into an optic-flow-based tracker.
[ bib | doi | http  ] background:
we have developed a four-step strategy for data  preprocessing based on: (1) binning, (2) kolmogorov-smirnov test, (3)  restriction of coefficient of variation and (4) wavelet analysis.
the 6-year actuarial survival was 100% in patients with low immunohistochemistry expression of nbs1 and 22% in those with high nbs1 expression (p = 0.01).
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; biology; computational biology; computer simulation; data interpretation, statistical; databases, protein; models, biological; models, statistical; neural networks (computer); peptide library; peptides; programming languages; prote; sensitivity and specificity; software; in binding objective: detection and characterization of microcalcification clusters in mammograms is vital in daily clinical practice.
animals were exposed to 2 different doses of these compounds and kidney tissues were collected on day 1, 3, and 7 postdosing.
staged bayesian retrieval involves two stages of bayesian retrieval and we further find that if the second stage is replaced by a support vector machine we again obtain a significant improvement over the strictly bayesian approach.
nevertheless, we show when considering only shape and size that a significant  proportion of the recognition power of a binding pocket for its ligand resides  in its shape.
furthermore, we introduce a learning procedure for combining false positives with the original class.
detection of pvcs  with support vector machine.
we show that such svms are optimal hyperplane classifiers not by margin maximization, but by minimization of distances between convex hulls in pseudo-euclidean spaces.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination learning, electric conductivity, electroencephalography, electrophysiology, epilepsy, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, information storage and retrieval, initiator, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, linear models, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, seeds, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical, stochastic processes, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11032039 to facilitate studies of the yeast proteome, we cloned 5800 open reading frames and overexpressed and purified their corresponding proteins.
this surface, which in some feature space of possibly infinite dimension can be regarded as a hyperplane, is obtained from the solution of a problem of quadratic programming that depends on a regularization parameter.
keywords: binding sites; computational biology, methods; drug  discovery, methods; genome; ligands; models, statistical; mycobacterium  tuberculosis, genetics/metabolism; proteins, chemistry
in particular, a sensitivity as high as 94% was achieved  by the svm method at an error rate of one false-positive cluster per image.
neural comput , 14(5):1105-14, may 2002.
vmd can simultaneously display any number of structures  using a wide variety of rendering styles and coloring methods.
this method has been successfully applied to predicting peptide binding to mhc molecules, peptide transport by the transporter associated with antigen presentation (tap) and proteasomal cleavage of protein sequences.
a web server for prediction of peptide immunogenicity (popi) and  the used dataset of mhc class i binding peptides (pepmhci) are available at  http://iclab.life.nctu.edu.tw/popi keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; binding sites;  epitope mapping; histocompatibility antigens class i; oligopeptides; pattern  recognition, automated; protein binding; software; structure-activity  relationship [kroemer2007structure]  romano t kroemer.
[ bib ] training a support vector machine on a data set of huge size  with thousands of classes is a challenging problem.
153(12):5586-5592, dec 1994.
up to 7 features and 15 distance ranges are considered, giving up to 350 million potential 4-point 3d pharmacophores/molecule.
machine learning classifiers can learn complex patterns and trends in data and adapt to create a decision surface without the constraints imposed by statistical classifiers.
the  phenotypic models accurately predict the activity of these pathways in the  context of normal cell proliferation.
we find cell-type-dependent global effects and  cell-type-independent positional effects.
sixty-five eyes of 65 patients were enrolled.
this suggests that geometrical  complementarity in general is not sufficient to drive molecular recognition.
structure-based ligand design is an iterative approach.
the computer program described here is accessible via the world wide web at url address (http:@expasy.hcuge.ch/).
as more peptide data are put into mhc databases, svmhc can easily be updated to give prediction for additional mhc class i types.
if the ligand is flexible, it can adopt a  large variety of different conformations.
it also shows that our hmm and the k-nn algorithm outperform other models, such as back-off hmm, linear interpolated hmm, support vector machines, c4.5, c4.5 rules and ripper, by effectively capturing the local context dependency and resolving the data sparseness problem.
because the  medical information is characteristic of redundancy, multi-attribution,  incompletion and closely related with time, medical data mining differs from  other one.
ieee trans biomed eng,  52(5):828-38, may 2005.
we also show that this approach works better for enzymes than for nonenzyme proteins.
we have performed a comparative study of optimized antisense oligonucleotides designed to work by an rna interference mechanism to oligonucleotides designed to work by an rnase h-dependent mechanism in human cells.
keywords: affinity labels, amino acid sequence, animals, cell cycle proteins, cloning, comparative study, dna, dna damage, dna repair, electrospray ionization, fungal, genetic, humans, macromolecular substances, mass, mitosis, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, protein kinases, proteome, proteomics, research support, ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sequence alignment, signal transduction, spectrometry, spectrum analysis, transcription, u.s. gov't, 11805813 purpose:
an equivalence between sparse approximation and support vector machines.
the combination of syfpeithi prediction method and polynomial method can improve the prediction efficiency and accuracy.
we have developed surfnet-consurf, a modular, two-stage method for identifying the location and shape of potential ligand binding pockets in protein structures.
tumors were ranked by support vector machine (svm) and by cytologic severity.
the  method is available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/netctl.
identification of epitopes carrying the b7-like supermotif and binding to a family of alleles represented in over 40% of individuals from all major ethnic groups may be of considerable use in the design of peptide vaccines.
the objective of the exercise is to maximize the probability of detecting contaminants that exceed some regulatory standard before they reach a compliance boundary, while minimizing cost (i.e., number of monitoring wells).
numerous enhancements and modifications have been applied to the original technique resulting in a substantial increase in the reliability and the applicability of the algorithm.
images were acquired at two centers located at  different geographical locations.
here we find that scores for binding-site matching by soippa follow an extreme value distribution (evd).
prediction of mhc class i binding  peptides using support vector machines, shows high performance and is easy to  apply to a large number of mhc class i types.
hum immunol, 45(2):79-93, feb 1996.
proteins identification is a requirement to understand their functional  diversity.
similarity scores, in contrast to a fixed-length, pocket-specific  representation of amino acids, provide a flexible and powerful way of modelling  mhc binding, and can easily be applied to other dynamic sequence problems.
keywords: biosvm proteomics a capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (ce-ms) method has been developed to perform routine, automated analysis of low-molecular-weight peptides in human serum.
this  usually means that new nodes are added only when the number of iterations is an  integer multiple of some pre-defined constant, a. this paper suggests a way in  which the learning algorithm can add nodes whenever the network in its current  state does not sufficiently match the input.
the ability to grow extra nodes is a potentially useful facility for a self-organising neural network.
since introducing soft margins is equivalent to reducing the convex  hull of the examples, an svm with soft margins has a different learning curve  from the original.
[ bib ] with the continual pressure to ensure follow-up molecules to  billion dollar blockbuster drugs, there is a hurdle in profitability and growth  for pharmaceutical companies in the next decades.
the ce-ms data from the serum samples were divided into separate  training and test sets.
subtle difference in protein structure and function can contribute to complexity and diversity of life.
in the transformed space, linear  properties make it easy to extend and generalize the classical linear  discriminant analysis (lda) to nonlinear discriminant analysis.
our docking method samples the conformation space of the ligand on the basis of a discrete model and uses a tree-search technique for placing the ligand incrementally into the active site.
although ann has addressed more attentions to environmental researchers, its inherent drawbacks, e.g., local minima, over-fitting training, poor generalization performance, determination of the appropriate network architecture, etc., impede the practical application of ann.
keywords: algorithms, alleles, amino acid sequence, amino acids, animals, antigens, artificial intelligence, automated, biological, biological markers, blood-brain barrier, breast diseases, breast neoplasms, cd36, calcinosis, carcinoma, case-control studies, central nervous system, chemical, chromosome aberr, clear cell, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-aided design, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, coronary disease, cultured, dna, dna-binding proteins, databases, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis, disease susceptibility, drug design, expert systems, factual, false positive reactions, female, fungal, gene expression profiling, genome, genotype, hamsters, haplotypes, hepatocellular, humans, image processing, immunohistochemistry, immunologic, information storage and retrieval, least-squares analysis, lipoprotein, liver neoplasms, local, lung, male, mammary, mammography, mass, melanoma, membrane proteins, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, neoplasm, neoplasm recurrence, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organic chemicals, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, permeability, pharmaceutical preparations, polymorphism, predictive value of tests, protein, protein conformation, protein interaction mapping, protein structure, proteins, proteomics, pubmed, rna-binding proteins, roc curve, radiographic image enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sarcoma, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, single nucleotide, soft tissue neoplasms, spectrum analysis, structure-activity relationship, tertiary, tumor cells, u.s. gov't, ultrasonography, ations, 12588039
we compared the performance of a number of machine learning algorithms with statpac indexes mean deviation, pattern standard deviation, and corrected pattern standard deviation.
keywords: aldehyde reductase, algorithms, amiloride, aminoimidazole carboxamide, animals, arabinose, automation, binding sites, carbonic anhydrases, computational biology, computer simulation, concanavalin a, crystallography, databases, drug design, drug evaluation, enzyme inhibitors, factual, folic acid, folic acid antagonists, fructose-bisphosphatase, humans, internet, ligands, methotrexate, models, molecular, non-u.s. gov't, pancreatic elastase, pentamidine, pliability, point mutation, preclinical, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, ribonucleosides, software, tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, thermolysin, time factors, trypsin, x-ray, 8780787 a database system and computer programs for storage and retrieval of information about guanine nucleotide-binding protein (g protein) -coupled receptor mutants and associated biological effects have been developed.
we evaluate their performance on a non-redundant dataset of 20 beta-barrel outer membrane proteins of gram-negative bacteria, with structures known at atomic resolution.
starting from user-defined ligand binding sites, eight  topological and physicochemical properties are projected from cavity-lining  protein residues to an 80 triangle-discretised sphere placed at the centre of  the binding site, thus defining a cavity fingerprint.
mlp and svm are classifiers that work  directly on the decision boundary and fall under the discriminative paradigm.
the common knowledge that  ligands rarely bind in their lowest calculated energy conformation was  confirmed.
comput  syst bioinformatics conf, 6:263-274, 2007.
[ bib ] vmd is a molecular graphics program designed for the display and  analysis of molecular assemblies, in particular biopolymers such as proteins  and nucleic acids.
based on the expression profile of the 32 spots, the isolated cancer cells were categorized into three histological groups: the squamous cell carcinoma group, the adenocarcinoma group, and a group of carcinomas with other histological types.
at the same time,  the functional characteristics of svm are investigated in the study.
neural comput, 10(6):1445-54, jul 1998.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data  processing, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface,  chromosomes, clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography,  comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic,  computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual,  false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression  profiling, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease,  genotype, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging,  internet, karyotyping, learning, male, mathematical computing, middle aged,  models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, multigene family,  n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms, neural networks (computer),  neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution,  nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic  nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, phenotype,  photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages,  promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image  interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical,  structure-activity relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity,  theoretical, thermodynamics, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription,  tumor markers, u.s. gov't, visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value  of tests, 11580367 [rain2001protein-protein]  j.-c. rain,  l. selig, h. de reuse, v. battaglia, c. reverdy,  s. simon, g. lenzen, f. petel, j. wojcik,  v. schächter, y. chemama, a. labigne, and p. legrain.
in addition, a growing network can deal with dynamic input distributions.
keywords: algorithms, binding sites, computer simulation, crystallography, genetic, humans, ligands, models, molecular, nadp, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, x-ray, 9126849 peptides that bind to major histocompatibility complex products (mhc) are known to exhibit certain sequence motifs which, though common, are neither necessary nor sufficient for binding: mhcs bind certain peptides that do not have the characteristic motifs and only about 30% of the peptides having the required motif, bind.
this index  can be determined using a computational approach.
feature generation using  genetic programming with application to fault classification.
in the svm methodology the number of unknowns equals the number of training data, while in the primal space the number of unknowns can be infinite dimensional.
since different coefficients take into account different characteristics when assessing the degree of similarity between molecules, it is reasonable to combine them to further optimize the measures of similarity between molecules.
moreover, three different classification models, namely linear classifiers, neural networks and support vector machines, were employed to investigate the true efficiency of each one of them, as well as the overall complexity of the diagnostic task of mammographic tumor characterization.
our overall approach for cavity detection and comparison is benchmarked on several pairs of known complexes, obtaining a good coverage of the atoms of the binding sites.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; animals; confidence  intervals; globins; humans; molecular sequence data; protein structure,  tertiary; sequence alignment; sequence homology, amino acid; serine  endopeptidases; software [henikoff1992amino]   s. henikoff and j. g. henikoff.
cancer res., 11(5):1849-53, mar 2005.
high performance of popi arises  mainly from an inheritable bi-objective genetic algorithm, which aims to  automatically determine the best number m out of 531 physicochemical  properties, identify these m properties and tune svm parameters simultaneously.
binding-site signatures are found to involve residues in different positions in sh2 sequences, some of them as far as 9a away from a bound peptide.
by targeting endogenous lamin a/c mrna in human hela or mouse sw3t3 cells, we investigated the positional variation of sirna-mediated gene silencing.
prediction of promiscuous peptides that bind hla class i  molecules.
the results are confirmed using real data to perform seed classification.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, amino acids, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, bacterial proteins, bicuculline, binding sites, biological, biological availability, blood proteins, blood-brain barrier, cation transport proteins, cats, cell membrane permeability, chemical, chemistry, cluster analysis, combinatorial chemistry techniques, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer systems, computer-aided design, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, dna-binding proteins, databases, dogs, drug design, electric stimulation, electromyography, enzyme inhibitors, ether-a-go-go potassium channels, excitatory amino acid antagonists, factual, false positive reactions, forecasting, forelimb, gaba antagonists, gene expression profiling, genome, glutamic acid, humans, hydrogen bonding, image enhancement, image interpretation, image processing, information storage and retrieval, iontophoresis, kynurenic acid, least-squares analysis, linear models, liver, markov chains, metabolic clearance rate, metalloendopeptidases, microelectrodes, models, molecular, molecular conformation, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, motor cortex, movement, multivariate analysis, nerve net, neural networks (computer), neuropeptides, non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, pattern recognition, pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical preparations, pharmacokinetics, phylogeny, potassium channels, predictive value of tests, protein interaction mapping, protein sorting signals, protein structure, proteins, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, shoulder, signal processing, software, statistical, stereotaxic techniques, structure-activity relationship, terminology, tertiary, trans-activators, voltage-gated, zinc, 9830312
in this paper, we investigate an approach based on support vector machines (svms) for detection of microcalcification (mc) clusters in digital mammograms, and propose a successive enhancement learning scheme for improved performance.
the approach involves a number of steps.
the time needed for  searching a given site in a protein structure is typically 0.1 s on a piii  800mhz/linux computer; thus, in further studies, sumo will be used to screen  the pdb.
thirty lung cancer cell  lines with three different histological backgrounds (squamous cell carcinoma,  small cell lung carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) were subjected to two-dimensional  difference gel electrophoresis (2-d dige) and grouped by multivariate analyses  on the basis of their protein expression profiles.
the implementation of this heuristic constitutes a software  named sumo (surfing the molecules), which allows the dynamic definition of  chemical groups, the selection of sites in the proteins, and the management and  screening of databases.
the svm is well understood when using conditionally positive definite (cpd) kernel functions.
the biologic relevance of the a3-like supertype is indicated by the fact that high frequencies of the a3-like supertype alleles are conserved in all major ethnic groups.
a review of recent comparisons shows that it is difficult to  draw conclusions of general applicability.
explicit "on-the-fly" conformational sampling is  performed for a molecule to enable the calculation of all geometries accessible  for all combinations of four features (i.e., 4-point pharmacophores) at any  desired sampling resolution.
the machine learning algorithms studied included multilayer perceptron (mlp), support vector machine (svm), and linear (lda) and quadratic discriminant analysis (qda), parzen window, mixture of gaussian (mog), and mixture of generalized gaussian (mgg).
support vector  machines for automated gait classification.
keywords: algorithms; data interpretation, statistical; epitopes, t-lymphocyte; histocompatibility antigens class i; humans; hydrolysis; predictive value of tests; proteasome endopeptidase complex; protein binding; research support, n.i.h., extramural; research support, non-u.s. gov't; research support, u.s. gov't, p.h.s.; t-lymphocytes, cytotoxic
as more peptide data are put into  mhc databases, svmhc can easily be updated to give prediction for additional  mhc class i types.
a clear correlation was found between acceptable strain energy and  ligand flexibility, while there was no correlation between strain energy and  binding affinity, thus indicating that expensive conformational rearrangements  can be tolerated in some cases without overly penalizing the tightness of  binding.
we give a  geometric interpretation of svms with indefinite kernel functions.
we describe two methods for predicting whether a given peptide will bind to an mhc and apply them to these peptides.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antineoplastic agents, artificial intelligence, automated, bacterial, base composition, base sequence, bayes theorem, bias (epidemiology), carcinoma, cell line, chemical, chromosome aberrations, cluster analysis, codon, comparative study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer simulation, computer-assisted, conserved sequence, dna gyrase, databases, diagnosis, electrostatics, escherichia coli, evolution, factual, female, follow-up studies, fungal, gene dosage, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic vectors, genomics, glaucoma, humans, hydrophobicity, immunoglobulins, information theory, intraocular pressure, least-squares analysis, linear models, liposarcoma, lung, lung neoplasms, markov chains, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, multigene family, mycobacterium tuberculosis, neural networks (computer),
protein eng., 10(1):1-6, 1997.
sc quantifies the global structural similarity between  pairs or groups of proteins, whereas pij' provides a normalized measure of the  confidence in the alignment of each residue.
we discuss the advantages  and the mathematical reasoning behind our approach.
j.  immunol., 35(8):2295-2303, aug 2005.
the approach described in this work is quite general and can, in principle, be used to analyze binding preferences of members of large protein families for which structural information for a number of family members is available.
we describe  two methods for predicting whether a given peptide will bind to an mhc and  apply them to these peptides.
applications of several types of artificial neural networks to  compound classification, modelling of structure-activity relationships,  biological target identification, and feature extraction from biopolymers are  presented and compared to other techniques.
med., 34(2):141-50, jun 2005.
a number of  hypotheses have been suggested to explain this phenomenon.
the created features are then used as the inputs to a  neural classifier for the identification of six bearing conditions.
evaluation shows that our system achieves the f-measure of 66.6 and  62.2 on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and v1.1, respectively.
e-print cond-mat/0203167, 2001.
comparison of the predicted and x-ray conformations of these peptides gave rmsd values between 1.301 and 2.475 a. binding conformations of 266 peptides with known binding affinities for hla-a2 were then predicted using pepssi.
neural network analyses show promise for increasing diagnostic accuracy  of tests for glaucoma.
the "privileged" substructure concept for the design of high-affinity ligands is presented, and an example of this new method is described for the design of combinatorial libraries for 7-transmembrane g-protein-coupled receptor targets, where "privileged" substructures are used as special features to internally reference the pharmacophoric shapes.
the proposed method was evaluated using the nijmegen and mammographic image analysis society (mias) mammographic databases.
in order to make organized and structured information available, automatically recognizing biomedical entity names becomes critical and is important for information retrieval, information extraction and automated knowledge acquisition.
evolving  protein interaction networks.
the noise-free realizations obtained by the nw and svm methods reproduced sw better than as reported in previous works.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface, chromosomes, clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual, false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genotype, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet, karyotyping, learning, male, mathematical computing, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, multigene family, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms, neural networks (computer), neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, phenotype, photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, structure-activity relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity, theoretical, thermodynamics, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11580367 eeg spike and wave (sw) activity has been described through a non-parametric stochastic model estimated by the nadaraya-watson (nw) method.
methods: multilayer perceptrons (mlp), support vector machines  (svm), mixture of gaussian (mog), and mixture of generalized gaussian (mgg)  classifiers were trained and tested by cross validation on the numerical plot  of absolute sensitivity plus age of 189 normal eyes and 156 glaucomatous eyes,  designated as such by the appearance of the optic nerve.
the noise-free  realizations obtained by the nw and svm methods reproduced sw better than as  reported in previous works.
although the application of docking and scoring has led to some remarkable successes, there are still some major challenges ahead, which are outlined here as well.
a self-organising network that grows when required.
our study is novel in that we report systematic results for 100 classes in the munich information center for protein sequences (mips) functional catalog.
for each complex, 1000 peptide conformers are obtained from the sa sampling.
additionaly, it significantly reduces the time for computation compared with genetic algorithm (ga), therefore, makes a more practical realization of the solution.
[ bib | doi | http ] rna interference can be considered as an antisense mechanism of  action that utilizes a double-stranded rnase to promote hydrolysis of the  target rna.
this approach allows balancing between the training  error and norm of network weight vectors, which are the two objective functions  of the multi-objective optimization problem.
the features used are fractal dimension, lacunarity, and  features derived from the histogram of the images.
however, on average nest produces the best loops with an 8% improvement by mean rmsd compared to the loops generated by builder.
topological, subdivided surface area, and tae  (transferable atom equivalent) electron-density-based descriptors are computed  directly for a set of proteins using molecular connectivity patterns and  crystal structure geometries.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, butadienes, chloroplasts, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, database management systems, databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, ethylamines, expert systems, factual, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic markers, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15794155 one of the major challenges in pattern recognition problems is the feature extraction process which derives new features from existing features, or directly from raw data in order to reduce the cost of computation during the classification process, while improving classifier efficiency.
the  normalization of the high-order features acts as a squeezing factor,  introducing a strong anisotropy in the patterns distribution in feature space.
numerous protein  complexes were identified, including many new interactions in various  signalling pathways and in the dna damage response.
vmd can simultaneously display any number of structures using a wide variety of rendering styles and coloring methods.
[ bib | doi | http ] the amino acid sequences of 369 human nonolfactory  g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) have been aligned at the seven  transmembrane domain (tm) and used to extract the nature of 30 critical  residues supposed-from the x-ray structure of bovine rhodopsin bound to  retinal-to line the tm binding cavity of ground-state receptors.
in addition, a growing network can deal with dynamic input  distributions.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface, chromosomes, clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual, false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet, karyotyping, male, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, multigene family, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms, neural networks (computer), neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, structure-activity relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity, theoretical, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11718421
gov't, open reading frames, p.h.s., peptide library, phosphatidylcholines,  phosphatidylinositols, phospholipids, protein binding, proteome, recombinant  fusion proteins, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, signal  transduction, streptavidin, u.s. gov't, 11474067 [ xue2001mini-fingerprints]  l. xue, f. l. stahura, j. w. godden,  and j. bajorath.
this paper introduces a kernel method that can handle variable length  peptides effectively by quantifying similarities between peptide sequences and  integrating these into the kernel.
j comput aided mol des,  15(12):1137-1152, dec 2001.
the system consisted of preprocessing, feature extraction and pattern classification stages.
the experimentally observed binding mode of the ligand is reproduced with 0.5 to 1.2 a rms deviation.
[ bib | doi | http ] substantial advances have been made in the fundamental  understanding of human biology, ranging from dna structure to identification of  diseases associated with genetic abnormalities.
determined by comparative sequence analysis was assembled to allow optimization of parameters not based on experiments and to test the accuracy of the algorithm.
the results of our ten-fold cross-validation experiments show that,  on the average, the system increases the specificity from 0.19 (0.35) to 0.69  (0.74) at a sensitivity level of 1.0 (0.95).
the overall goal is to provide means of automatically computing low-energy conformations of the ligand within the active site, with an accuracy approaching the limitations of experimental methods for resolving molecular structures and within a run time that allows for docking large sets of ligands.
[ bib | doi | http ] background: structure-based computational methods are needed to  help identify and characterize protein-protein complexes and their function.
interestingly,  the clustering of human gpcrs from these 30 residues mirrors the recently  described phylogenetic tree of full-sequence human gpcrs (fredriksson et al.,  mol pharmacol 2003;63:1256-1272) with few exceptions.
in addition, worked examples of recent  advances in this field are highlighted and pioneering publications are  discussed.
neural comput, 17(1):7-18, jan  2005.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins, artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical, chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis, drug, drug design, electrostatics, epitopes, eukaryotic cells, factual, false negative reactions, false positive reactions, feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, glaucoma, hla antigens, hemolysins, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, internet, intraocular pressure, ion exchange, lasers, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, open-angle, ophthalmoscopy, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, perimetry, predictive value of tests, probability, probability learning, protein, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, roc curve, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, robotics, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, t-lymphocyte, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12214886 promiscuous t-cell epitopes make ideal targets for vaccine development.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial  intelligence, automated, carcinoma, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative  study, computer graphics, dna gyrase, evolution, gene expression profiling,  gene expression regulation, genetic, humans, lung neoplasms, markov chains,  models, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-small-cell lung, non-u.s.  gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, phylogeny,  proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity,  sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, software,  statistical, subcellular fractions, user-computer interface, 12169538 [sturn2002genesis:]  alexander sturn, john quackenbush, and  zlatko trajanoski.
it combines an appropriate model of the physico-chemical  properties of the docked molecules with efficient methods for sampling the  conformational space of the ligand.
biol.,  323(2):387-406, oct 2002.
applications of such analysis include understanding developmental and anatomical aspects of disorders when comparing patients versus normal controls, studying morphological changes caused by aging, or even differences in normal anatomy, for example, differences between genders.
the performance  of the integrated method is found to be significantly higher than that of the  two publicly available prediction methods bimas and syfpeithi.
improved performance of the classifier was evident when  trained with reduced number of selected good features and with radial basis  function kernel.
furthermore, in both benchmarks, classifying structures using mammoth  alone does not work as well as using an svm with the mammoth kernel.
the accuracy of the assignment was 95%, demonstrating the utility of this technique for the discovery of patterns of biomarkers in serum.
towards the development of universal,  fast and highly accurate docking/scoring methods: a long way to go.
[ bib | doi | http ] motivation: there are two main areas of difficulty in homology  modelling that are particularly important when sequence identity between target  and template falls below 50%: sequence alignment and loop building.
in this review, in conjunction with the results from yeast cells, our proteomic approach to analyze ribosome biogenesis in mammalian cells is described.
human experts were not better at classifying visual fields than the machine classifiers or the global indices.
amino acid substitution matrices from  protein blocks.
definition of an hla-a3-like supermotif  demonstrates the overlapping peptide-binding repertoires of common hla  molecules.
h.  engelhard, e. appella, h. g. rammensee, k. falk,  o. rötzschke, m. takiguchi, and r. t. kubo.
thus, in these  cases, mfps and pharmacophore fingerprints produce similar results, although  they define, in terms of their complexity, opposite ends of the spectrum of  methods currently used to study molecular similarity or diversity.
as reported  previously, the cancers could be classified into a basal epithelial-like group,  an erbb2-overexpressing group and a normal breast-like group based on  variations in gene expression.
thus, recognition of  similar ligands, supposedly linked to similar function, requires conserved  recognition features exposed in terms of common physicochemical interaction  properties via the functional groups of the residues flanking a particular  binding cavity.
ovarian cancer identification based on dimensionality reduction for  high-throughput mass spectrometry data.
the g protein-coupled receptor, family a, point mutation database (grap) provides detailed information on ligand-binding and signal transduction properties of more than 2130 receptor mutants.
finally, error analysis shows that about half of the errors are caused  by the strict annotation scheme and the annotation inconsistency in the genia  corpus.
the key idea is to introduce a  parallel optimization step to quickly remove most of the nonsupport vectors,  where block diagonal matrices are used to approximate the original kernel  matrix so that the original problem can be split into hundreds of subproblems  which can be solved more efficiently.
due to mercer's  conditions on the kernels, the corresponding optimization problems are convex  and hence have no local minima.
it is unlikely that all of these genes are involved in the glutamate-dependent ar.
a prerequisite for this new approach is an understanding of the principles of molecular recognition in protein-ligand complexes.
when predicting cytotoxic t cell epitopes, the  main focus has been on the highly specific mhc class i binding event.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data  processing, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface, chromosomes,  clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study,  computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases,  diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual, false negative reactions,  female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma,  human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet,  karyotyping, male, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular  structure, multigene family, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms,  neural networks (computer), neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear  dynamics, nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis,  optic nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, photography,  pred, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions  (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation,  receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, structure-activity  relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity, theoretical,  three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't,  visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11718421 [soerlie2001genea]  t. sørlie, c. m.  perou, r. tibshirani, t. aas, s. geisler, h. johnsen,  t. hastie, m. b. eisen, m. van de rijn, s. s. jeffrey,  t. thorsen, h. quist, j. c. matese, p. o. brown,  d. botstein, p. eystein lønning, and a. l.  børresen-dale.
comparing neural networks and linear discriminant  functions for glaucoma detection using confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy  of the optic disc.
keywords: binding sites, databases, estrogen, factor viia,  factual, ligands, molecular structure, neuraminidase, non-u.s. gov't, protein  binding, quantitative structure-activity relationship, receptors, research  support, thymidine kinase, 16162004 [micchelli2005on]   charles a micchelli and massimiliano pontil.
some of the associated failures may correspond to genuine,  alternate binding modes and/or native complexes that are artefacts of the  crystal environment.
the key idea is to introduce a parallel optimization step to quickly remove most of the nonsupport vectors, where block diagonal matrices are used to approximate the original kernel matrix so that the original problem can be split into hundreds of subproblems which can be solved more efficiently.
they can  also be used to monitor changes in gene expression in response to drug  treatments.
j.  pharm., 299(1-2):1-18, aug 2005.
[ bib ] separation and identification of proteins by two-dimensional  (2-d) electrophoresis can be used for protein-based gene expression analysis.
however, in practice, non-cpd kernels arise and demand application in svms.
analysis of gene expression profiles showed that the profiles clustered based on similarities in the severity and type of pathology of individual animals.
the solution is characterized by a set of nonlinear equations.
the following classifiers  were used to classify the fetal lung images as belonging to mature or immature  lung: nearest neighbor, k-nearest neighbor, modified k-nearest neighbor,  multilayer perceptron, radial basis function network, and support vector  machines.
results: mog had the greatest area under the roc curve of the machine  classifiers.
genome sequence information is becoming available in unprecedented amounts.
what is the nature of the physical changes linking agonist binding to receptor activation and subsequent transduction of the signal to the associated g protein on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane and to other putative signaling pathways?
the grouping of hla alleles into supertypes on the basis of their overlapping peptide-binding repertoires represents an alternative to serologic or phylogenetic classification.
the mean  (+/-sd) number of visual field tests was 7.89 +/- 3.04.
a molecular fragment is defined as a connected part of a molecule containing only complete ring systems.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy with characteristic  structural changes in the optic nerve head reflected in the visual field.
technology license is available upon the bilateral agreement.
the software is  available for academic and non-commercial institutions.
for placing the first fragment of the ligand into the protein, we use hashing techniques adapted from computer vision.
in hela cells, 26 of 44 tested  standard 21-nucleotide (nt) sirna duplexes reduced the protein expression by at  least 90%, and only 2 duplexes reduced the lamin a/c proteins to 96.8 to all investigated  algorithms.
importantly, correct identifications showed unambiguous "correct" score patterns.
using an in-house mhc binding database, we generated a total  of 85 and 13 mhc class i and class ii matrices, respectively.
in order to develop and test more accurate methods we  measured the binding affinity of 463 nonamer peptides to hla-a2.1.
we describe a kernel that is derived in a  straightforward fashion from an existing structural alignment program, mammoth.
the current approach allows a very fast comparison of  most human gpcrs from the focused perspective of the predicted tm cavity and  permits to easily detect key residues that drive ligand selectivity or  promiscuity.
the method was implemented in a new program (sitealign) and tested in a number of various scenarios: measuring the distance between 376 related active site pairs, computing the cross-similarity of members of a protein family, predicting the targets of ligands with various promiscuity levels.
finally the new method has strong potential to suggest alternative molecular skeletons in de novo design.
[ bib | doi |  http ] peptides that bind to major histocompatibility complex products  (mhc) are known to exhibit certain sequence motifs which, though common, are  neither necessary nor sufficient for binding: mhcs bind certain peptides that  do not have the characteristic motifs and only about 30% of the peptides having  the required motif, bind.
when predicting cytotoxic t cell epitopes, the main focus has been on the highly specific mhc class i binding event.
the next step is to apply it on a genomic scale.
up to 7 features and 15 distance ranges  are considered, giving up to 350 million potential 4-point 3d  pharmacophores/molecule.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins, artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical, chromatography, citric acid cycle, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, databases, decision making, diagnosis, differential, discriminant analysis, drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells, factual, feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic heterogeneity, genetic markers, glaucoma, hemolysins, humans, internet, intraocular pressure, ion exchange, lasers, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics, messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, open-angle, ophthalmoscopy, optic disk, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition, probability, probability learning, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control, quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, roc curve, receptors, reference values, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, robotics, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical, stomach neoplasms, structural, structure-activity relationship, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 12407155 support vector machines (svms) are the state-of-the-art models for many classification problems, but they suffer from the complexity of their training algorithm, which is at least quadratic with respect to the number of examples.
neural comput, 17(1):177-204, jan 2005.
the generalization properties of support vector machines (svms) are examined.
keywords: chemistry, pharmaceutical; combinatorial chemistry techniques; computational biology; drug design; genomics; ligands; proteins; receptors, g-protein-coupled the gene-silencing effect of short interfering rna (sirna) is known to vary strongly with the targeted position of the mrna.
from our best knowledge, powerbione is the first system which deals with the cascaded entity name phenomenon.
we compare these methods with each other and with standard  motif-based methods.
furthermore, we show that the available predictors perform better when only  transmembrane beta-barrel domains are used for prediction, rather than the  precursor full-length sequences, even though the hmm-based predictors are not  influenced significantly.
the optimal learning curves of the smcs, which give the minimal generalization error, are obtained by tuning the coefficient controlling the trade-off between the error and the regularization terms in the cost function.
the methods by which we plan to achieve this goal are the explicit exploitation of molecular flexibility of the ligand and the incorporation of physicochemical properties of the molecules.
common to all of this research is a basic  process of data gathering and analysis.
results: for the first time we  develop a support vector machine (svm) for t-cell epitope prediction with an  mhc type i restricted t-cell clone.
the prediction models for these mhc types are implemented in a public web service available at http://www.sbc.su.se/svmhc/. conclusions: prediction of mhc class i binding peptides using support vector machines, shows high performance and is easy to apply to a large number of mhc class i types.
the input to the proposed system is a collection of volume data from candidate polyps obtained by a high-sensitivity, low-specificity system that we developed previously.
this approach allows the comparison of protein structures or substructures and detects local spatial similarities: this method is completely independent from the amino acid sequence and from the backbone structure.
on average, the experimental structure is ranked above 92% of the alternate structures.
dna microarrays in drug discovery and development.
comparison of yeast and human complexes showed that conservation across species extends from single proteins to their molecular environment.
thus, the acid-inducible genes clustered in the gada region appear to be involved in glutatmate-dependent acid resistance, although their specific roles remain to be elucidated.
keywords: algorithms; catalytic domain; chymotrypsin, chemistry/genetics; computational biology, methods; evolution, molecular; fabaceae, chemistry; models, molecular; plant lectins, chemistry/genetics; protein conformation; proteins, chemistry; reproducibility of results; subtilisin, chemistry/genetics high-density dna microarrays measure expression of large numbers of genes in one assay.
mhc binding predictions based on arb matrices were made available  at http://epitope.liai.org:8080/matrix web server.
med biol eng comput, 42(3):419-27, may 2004.
sc quantifies the global structural similarity between pairs or groups of proteins, whereas pij' provides a normalized measure of the confidence in the alignment of each residue.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic,  artificial intelligence, butadienes, chloroplasts, comparative study,
the hla-a*0201 restricted ctl epitopes of objective tumor antigens were predicted by syfpeithi prediction method combined with the polynomial quantitative motifs method.
hence, this paper proposed  the use of a novel neural fuzzy system: the generic self-organising fuzzy  neural network (gensofnn) with truth-value restriction (tvr) fuzzy inference,  as a fuzzy dss (denoted as genso-fdss) for the classification of all subtypes  using gene expression data.
the ability to find underlying structure in complex gene  expression data sets and rigorously test association of that structure with  biological conditions is essential to developing multi-faceted views of the  gene activity that defines cellular phenotype.
availability of quantitative binding assays allowed verification  that, indeed, many (25%) of the peptide ligands carrying proline in position 2  and hydrophobic/aromatic residues at the c-terminus (the b7-like supermotif)  were capable of binding at least three of five hla-b7-like supertype alleles.
proteins, 52(2):137-145, aug  2003.
[ bib | doi | http ] prediction of small molecule binding modes to macromolecules of  known three-dimensional structure is a problem of paramount importance in  rational drug design (the "docking" problem).
here we report that mfps are capable of detecting similar activities of some druglike molecules, including endothelin a antagonists and alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor ligands, the recognition of which was previously thought to depend on the use of multiple point three-dimensional (3d) pharmacophore methods.
hence, it is hopeless to try to solve real-life problems having more than a few hundred thousand examples with svms.
ieee trans med imaging, 21(12):1552-63, dec 2002.
in the special but important case of feature space of finite dimension  m, we also show that m + 1 svs are usually sufficient to determine the decision  surface fully.
on learning vector-valued  functions.
here, we use a dataset obtained from the syfpeithi database to show that a method integrating predictions of mhc class i binding affinity, tap transport efficiency, and c-terminal proteasomal cleavage outperforms any of the individual methods.
in the experiments, many appealing properties  of the proposed algorithm have been investigated and the results show that the  proposed algorithm has a much better scaling capability than libsvm, svmlight,  and svmtorch.
the machine-learning-type classifiers  showed improved performance over the best indexes from statpac.
ieee trans pattern anal mach intell, 27(4):603-18, apr 2005.
in addition, and surprisingly, a significant improvement in  generalization was observed.
evaluating the  different homology modelling programs, on average modeller performs marginally  better in overall modelling than the others tested.
we found that hierarchical clustering analysis and principal component analysis divided the cell lines according to their original histology.
this study  describes svm for the identification of premature ventricular contractions  (pvcs) in surface ecgs.
with the advent of ultrasensitive mass spectrometric protein  identification methods, it is feasible to identify directly protein complexes  on a proteome-wide scale.
keywords: animals; gtp-binding proteins; humans; ligands; models, biological; molecular conformation; receptors, cell surface we present a new method that we call generalized discriminant analysis (gda) to deal with nonlinear discriminant analysis using kernel function operator.
the purpose of these models is two-fold.
male sprague-dawley rats were dosed via  intraperitoneal injection once daily for mercuric chloride and amphotericin (up  to 7 doses), while a single dose was given for all other compounds.
specifically, several standard methodologies of statistical significance analysis were employed to create feature rankings according to their discriminating power.
in the first step, a sparse linear svm was utilized as a feature selection procedure to remove irrelevant or redundant information.
this gp-based approach is used for bearing fault classification for the first time and exhibits superior searching power over other techniques.
in  particular, we build upon recent work describing various kernels for protein  structures, where a kernel is a similarity function that the classifier uses to  compare pairs of structures.
we show that if the data are  noiseless, the modified version of basis pursuit denoising proposed in this  article is equivalent to svm in the following sense: if applied to the same  data set, the two techniques give the same solution, which is obtained by  solving the same quadratic programming problem.
biol.,  288(5):911-940, may 1999.
we find that adaptive boosting  outperforms naï ve bayes, but that a new form of boosting which we term  staged bayesian retrieval outperforms adaptive boosting.
the underlying theory is close to the support vector  machines (svm) insofar as the gda method provides a mapping of the input  vectors into high-dimensional feature space.
we are also now faced with huge amounts of adme/tox data for each molecule that  need interpretation and also provide a valuable resource for generating  predictive computational models for future drug discovery.
the consensus prediction method performs  significantly better than each individual available predictor, since it  increases the accuracy up to 4% regarding sov and up to 15% in correctly  predicted topologies.
the sosa approach is a strategy to modify the selectivity of biologically active compounds, generating new drug candidates from the side activities of therapeutically used drugs.
the mean (+/-sd) number of visual field tests was 7.89 +/- 3.04.
making the smm method publicly  available enables bioinformaticians and experimental biologists to easily  access it, to compare its performance to other prediction methods, and to  extend it to other applications.
additionally, we observe a "buffer zone" or a region of  free space between the ligand and protein, which results in binding pockets  being on average three times larger than the ligand that they bind.
in order to develop and test more accurate methods we measured the binding affinity of 463 nonamer peptides to hla-a2.1.
in this setting, we derive the form of the minimal norm  interpolant to a finite set of data and apply it to study some regularization  functionals that are important in learning theory.
the machine-learning-type classifiers showed improved performance over the best indexes from statpac.
for both simulated data and alternate kernels, we give classification results, as well as the shape of the decision function.
it can also improve the management level of hospital information and promote the development of telemedicine and community medicine.
additionally, mapping of gene  expression data onto chromosomal sequences was implemented to enhance promoter  analysis and investigation of transcriptional control mechanisms.
the  machine learning classifiers were two types of support vector machine (svm), a  mixture of gaussian (mog) classifier, a constrained mog, and a mixture of  generalized gaussian (mgg).
from our best knowledge,  powerbione is the first system which deals with the cascaded entity name  phenomenon.
in contrast to already existing tools, the basis for this method is a representation of the protein structure by a set of stereochemical groups that are defined independently from the notion of amino acid.
all 36 were identified by at least one machine classifier.
it also offers a strategy for predicting cross-reactivity of compounds designed to bind to a particular target, for example in structure-based drug design.
it is theoretically shown to provide nonlinear transforms of the  input data that are more general than those provided by other nonlinear  multilayer perceptron neural network and support-vector machine techniques for  cases involving high-dimensional (image) inputs where training data are limited  and the classes are not linearly separable.
the svm was trained using 510 monitoring  configuration samples generated from 200 monte carlo flow and transport  realizations.
our analysis of the proposed algorithm shows that its time complexity grows linearly with the number of classes and size of the data set.
proteins,  62(2):509-538, feb 2006.
additionally, mapping of gene expression data onto chromosomal sequences was implemented to enhance promoter analysis and investigation of transcriptional control mechanisms.
to this end, the energetic roles of all protein residues in 17  different complexes of sh2 domains with their cognate targets are analyzed.
in order to deal with the special phenomena of  naming conventions in the biomedical domain, we propose various evidential  features: (1) word formation pattern; (2) morphological pattern, such as prefix  and suffix; (3) part-of-speech; (4) head noun trigger; (5) special verb trigger  and (6) name alias feature.
i major histocompatibility complex (mhci) molecules is a key step in the immune response and the structural details of this interaction are of importance in the design of peptide vaccines.
combinatorial  chemistry and contemporary pharmacology.
the incremental construction algorithm is based on a greedy strategy combined with efficient methods for overlap detection and for the search of new interactions.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, binding sites, cell surface,  chromosomes, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study,  computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases,  diagnosis, differential, false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding  proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma, human, humans, image  cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet, karyotyping, male, middle aged,  models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure,  n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't,  nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic  nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, pred, principal  component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics),  protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors,  reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity,  sequence alignment, software, statistical, subcellular fractions, substrate  specificity, theoretical, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, u.s.  gov't, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11773027 [gavin2002functionala]  anne-claude gavin, markus  bösche, roland krause, paola grandi, martina marzioch, andreas bauer,  jörg schultz, jens m rick, anne-marie michon, cristina-maria cruciat,  marita remor, christian höfert, malgorzata schelder, miro brajenovic,  heinz ruffner, alejandro merino, karin klein, manuela hudak, david dickson,  tatjana rudi, volker gnau, angela bauch, sonja bastuck, bettina huhse,  christina leutwein, marie-anne heurtier, richard r copley, angela  edelmann, erich querfurth, vladimir rybin, gerard drewes, manfred raida, tewis  bouwmeester, peer bork, bertrand seraphin, bernhard kuster, gitte neubauer, and  giulio superti-furga.
these properties include an adequate bioactivity as well as adequate solubility, an ability to cross critical membranes (intestinal and sometimes blood-brain barrier), reasonable metabolic stability and of course safety in humans.
keywords: binding sites; computer simulation; models, chemical; models, molecular; protein binding; protein conformation; protein folding; proteins, chemistry/ultrastructure; sequence analysis, protein, methods; surface properties motivation:
the  total number of residues that make significant contributions to binding is  found to vary from nine to 19 in different complexes.
in reality, the  boundary of the binding site is not known or is dependent on the bound ligand  making these approaches limited.
taken together, these data have important implications for the selection of  epitopes for peptide-based vaccines, and also formally demonstrate the crucial  role of determinant selection in the shaping of t cell responses.
one of these putative regulators, yhie, was shown to significantly increase  acid resistance when overexpressed in cells that had not been preinduced by  growth at ph 5.5, and mutation of yhie decreased acid resistance; yhie could  therefore encode an activator of ar genes.
artificial neural networks for  computer-based molecular design.
[ bib | doi | http  ] accelerating the drug discovery process requires predictive  computational protocols capable of reducing or simplifying the synthetic and/or  combinatorial challenge.
these features were directly or indirectly related to the overall morphological properties of the mammographic tumor or the texture of the fine-scale tissue structures as they appear in the digitized image, while others contained external clinical data of outmost importance, like the patient's age.
moreover, three  different classification models, namely linear classifiers, neural networks and  support vector machines, were employed to investigate the true efficiency of  each one of them, as well as the overall complexity of the diagnostic task of  mammographic tumor characterization.
methods: with the hrt, one eye  was imaged from each of 108 patients with glaucoma (defined as having  repeatable visual field defects with standard automated perimetry) and 189  subjects without glaucoma (no visual field defects with healthy-appearing optic  disc and retinal nerve fiber layer on clinical examination) and the optic nerve  topography was defined by 17 global and 66 regional hrt parameters.
the  combination of syfpeithi prediction method and polynomial method can improve  the prediction efficiency and accuracy.
identifying pockets on protein surfaces is of great importance for many structure-based drug design applications and protein-ligand docking algorithms.
furthermore, four sets of results-using gp extracted features with artificial neural networks (ann) and support vector machines (svm), as well as traditional features with ann and svm-have been obtained.
[ bib ] the ability to grow extra nodes is a potentially useful facility  for a self-organising neural network.
high-resolution raster images of displayed molecules  may be produced by generating input scripts for use by a number of  photorealistic image-rendering applications.
modelling the interaction between potentially  antigenic peptides and major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules is a  key step in identifying potential t-cell epitopes.
the methods that have been tested use the distance information in very different ways and have very different computational requirements.
based on this approach, we present a system for statistical shape analysis using distance transforms for shape representation and the support vector machines learning algorithm for the optimal classifier estimation and demonstrate it on artificially generated data sets, as well as real medical studies.
multipred can be used for the mapping of promiscuous t-cell  epitopes as well as the regions of high concentration of these targets-termed  t-cell epitope hotspots.
the largest clefts that remain tend to be those  where ligands bind.
finally, we present a pattern-based post-processing to automatically extract rules from the training data to deal with the cascaded entity name phenomenon.
for a given sequence, a set of 750 generated structures contains one structure that, on average, has 86 % of known base-pairs.
it is shown that the systematic procedure for training proposed results on good generalization neural models, and outperforms traditional methods.
this structure prediction  method can be applied to complexes of natural or modified antigenic peptides in  their mhc environment with the aim to perform rational structure-based  optimizations of tumor vaccines.
+homepage.html) using the world-wide web system.
shape variation in protein binding  pockets and their ligands.
preliminary testing indicates that multipred can predict peptide binding to hla-a2 supertype molecules with high accuracy, including those allelic variants for which no experimental binding data are currently available.
here, we report the analysis of sequence variability among high and  low affinity targets of eight different small molecule kinase inhibitors  (birb796, tarceva, nu6102, gleevec, sb203580, balanol, h89, pp1).
molecules are displayed as one or more "representations," in which each representation embodies a particular rendering method and coloring scheme for a selected subset of atoms.
the hla-a*0201 restricted ctl epitopes of  objective tumor antigens were predicted by syfpeithi prediction method combined  with the polynomial quantitative motifs method.
adding dynamical noise, only the nw method was capable of generating sw similar to training data.
deciphering the patterns of peptides that elicit a mhc restricted t-cell response is critical for vaccine development.
the kernel approach presented here shows increased prediction accuracy with a significantly higher number of true positives and negatives on multiple mhc class ii alleles, when testing data sets from mhcpep 1, mchbn 2, and mhcbench 3.
the consensus prediction method performs significantly better than each individual available predictor, since it increases the accuracy up to 4% regarding sov and up to 15% in correctly predicted topologies.
a set of 14 peptide-human leukocyte antigen (hla) a0201 and 27 peptide-non-hla a0201 complexes for which x-ray structures are available is used to test the accuracy of the prediction method.
the performance of the integrated method is found to be significantly higher than that of the two publicly available prediction methods bimas and syfpeithi.
computational methods supplemented by molecular graphics are applied to assist this step of hypothesis generation.
however, they are hard to interpret due to  missing geometrical and theoretical understanding.
in order to reduce the need for visual verification, two  similarity indices are introduced to determine the quality of each generated  structural alignment.
we also demonstrate the preservation of neighbourhood relations in the data by the network.
we applied these techniques to the analysis of regulatory pathways controlled by the genes hras (harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog), myc (myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog) and e2f1, e2f2 and e2f3 (encoding e2f transcription factors 1, 2 and 3, respectively).
we present results on 19 complexes of which the  binding geometry has been crystallographically determined.
the findings are highly statistically significant, and allow one to exclude the majority of kinases in a genome from a list of likely targets for an inhibitor.
[goektuerk2001statistical]  s. b.  göktürk, c. tomasi, b. acar, c. f. beaulieu,  d. s. paik, r. b. jeffrey, j. yee, and s. napel.
thus, there is a need to capture the  behavior of the transport phenomenon in random media in a relatively simple  manner.
in this paper we report (i) the details of our  customized implementation of the method and its modification to systematically  measure 4-point pharmacophores relative to a "special" substructure  of interest present in the molecules under study; (ii) comparisons of 3- and  4-point pharmacophore methods, highlighting the much increased resolution of  the 4-point method; (iii) applications of the 4-point potential pharmacophore  descriptors as a new measure of molecular similarity and diversity and for the  design of focused/biased combinatorial libraries.
since the cloning of the first receptors more than a decade ago, extensive experimental work has uncovered multiple aspects of their function and challenged many traditional paradigms.
the success of proteomics depends on the ability to identify and  analyze protein products in a cell or tissue and, this is reliant on the  application of several key technologies.
analysis of the sequences of various hla class i alleles suggested that alleles with peptide motifs characterized by proline in position 2 and aromatic or hydrophobic residues at their c-terminus shared key consensus residues at positions 9, 63, 66, 67, and 70 (b pocket) and residue 116 (f pocket).
for delineating  toxicophores, a novel pattern-recognition method that utilizes substructures  within a molecule has been developed.
vessel  enhancement in digital x-ray angiographic sequences by temporal statistical  learning.
moreover, the good generalization performances on several large  databases have also been achieved.
pattern sd (psd) and corrected psd (cpsd) had the largest areas under the curve of the global indices.
the algorithm for fragment placement, which is the topic of this paper, is based on pattern recognition techniques and is able to predict a small set of possible positions of a molecular fragment with low flexibility within seconds on a workstation.
to address these shortcomings and to perform binding-site mapping on a genome-wide scale, we developed a sequence-order independent profile-profile alignment (soippa) algorithm that is able to detect local similarity between unknown binding sites a priori.
[ bib ] this paper presents a new scheme for training mlps which employs  a relaxation method for multi-objective optimization.
abp images were observed in 5 of 20 (25%)  normal eyes and 23 of 45 (51%) glaucomatous eyes.
in conclusion, our results demonstrate the utility of quantitative proteomic  analysis for molecular diagnosis and classification of lung cancer cells.
keywords: algorithms; protein binding; protein conformation; protein interaction domains and motifs; proteins, chemistry/metabolism; structural homology, protein functional relationships between proteins that do not share global structure similarity can be established by detecting their ligand-binding-site similarity.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids,  animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain  chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea,  cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging,  diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic,  glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis,  magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged,  models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis,  ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern  recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve,  regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual  fields, beta-lactamases, 15767051 [asefa2005support]   tirusew asefa, mariush kemblowski, gilberto urroz, and mac mckee.
treatment of the primary eye tumor does not improve survival in high-risk patients due to occult micrometastatic disease, which is present at the time of eye tumor diagnosis but is not detected and treated until months to years later.
survival analyses on a subcohort of patients  with locally advanced breast cancer uniformly treated in a prospective study  showed significantly different outcomes for the patients belonging to the  various groups, including a poor prognosis for the basal-like subtype and a  significant difference in outcome for the two estrogen receptor-positive groups.
keywords: algorithms; carcinogens; chemistry, pharmaceutical;  computational biology; drug evaluation, preclinical; drug industry; humans;  models, chemical; models, statistical; neural networks (computer); pattern  recognition, automated; roc curve; sequence analysis, protein; software;  torsades de pointes [glaser2006method]  f. glaser,  r. j. morris, r. j. najmanovich, r. a. laskowski, and j. m.  thornton.
an  automated, sheathless capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry platform for  discovery of biomarkers in human serum.
the results of our ten-fold cross-validation experiments show that, on the average, the system increases the specificity from 0.19 (0.35) to 0.69 (0.74) at a sensitivity level of 1.0 (0.95).
in contrast to existing systems, our approach is less sensitive to data preprocessing and data normalization.
while approximately 60% of the ligands were calculated to bind with strain energies lower than 5 kcal/mol, strain energies over 9 kcal/mol were calculated in at least 10% of the cases regardless of the method used.
the svm score was the only significant (p < .0001) predictor of abp images and provided high discriminating power between eyes with nbp and abp (area under the receiver operator characteristic curve = 0.98).
we also demonstrate the preservation of neighbourhood relations in the  data by the network.
the algorithm combines sampling of peptide backbone conformations and flexible  movement of mhc side chains and is unique among other prediction algorithms in  its incorporation of explicit water molecules at the peptide-mhc interface.
results: expression of the nijmegen breakage syndrome (nbs1) gene correlated strongly with svm and cytologic tumor rankings (p < 0.0001).
in the subsequent 10 years, many hundreds of papers have been published  describing the application of these technologies to a wide spectrum of  biological and clinical questions.
the ratios of fetal lung to liver feature values were investigated as possible indexes for classifying the images into those from mature (reduced pulmonary risk) and immature (possible pulmonary risk) lung.
in an initial test of the algorithm, pepssi was used to predict the conformation of eight peptides bound to hla-a2, for which x-ray data are available.
the algorithm is part of a  docking tool, called flexx, which is currently under development at gmd.
these results suggest that svms can function as an efficient  gait classifier for recognition of young and elderly gait patterns, and has the  potential for wider applications in gait identification for falls-risk  minimization in the elderly.
we  obtain exponential and power laws for the decay of the generalization error  towards the asymptotic value, depending on the task and on general  characteristics of the distribution of stabilities of the patterns to be  learned.
a total of 85 cdna  microarray experiments representing 78 cancers, three fibroadenomas, and four  normal breast tissues were analyzed by hierarchical clustering.
a support vector machine was adopted as a pattern classifier to resolve this difficulty.
in  this review, we first present the current status of docking and scoring  methods, with exhaustive lists of these.
to perform  this ranking task we have considered several machine learning approaches based  on the naï ve bayesian algorithm.
approaches to address some  of these challenges and the latest developments in the area are presented.
am j  ophthalmol, 139(3):437-46, mar 2005.
correct-classification ratios for 50 subjects were 78.4% and 61.8%, for the recognition of three and four categories, respectively.
the advanced algorithm has been tested on a dataset of 100  complexes extracted from the brookhaven protein databank.
keywords: algorithms, binding sites, chemical, chemistry, comparative study, computer simulation, databases, factual, macromolecular substances, models, molecular conformation, molecular structure, non-u.s. gov't, physical, protein conformation, protein structure, proteins, research support, structure-activity relationship, tertiary, 1770381 an algorithm is presented for the accurate and rapid generation of multiple protein sequence alignments from tertiary structure comparisons.
comparison of the predicted and x-ray conformations of these peptides gave
deciphering the patterns of peptides that elicit a mhc restricted t-cell  response is critical for vaccine development.
automated recognition of gait changes has many advantages including, early identification of at-risk gait and monitoring the progress of treatment outcomes.
the convergence to a stationary point is ensured by modifying the original irwls procedure.
the protein-protein interaction map of helicobacter pylori.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic,  artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, butadienes,  chloroplasts, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer simulation,  computer-assisted, computing methodologies, database management systems,  databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug  toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, ethylamines, expert systems,  factual, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic  markers, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, implanted,  industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline,  male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex,  movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer),
keywords: animals, antisense, base sequence, cos cells, calf thymus, cultured, dose-response relationship, drug, flow cytometry, humans, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, introns, luciferases, messenger, molecular sequence data, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotides, pten phosphohydrolase, phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein structure, rna, ribonuclease h, small interfering, tertiary, time factors, tumor cells, tumor suppressor proteins, 12500975 proteomic technologies powered by advancements in mass spectrometry and bioinformatics and coupled with accumulated genome sequence data allow a comprehensive study of cell function through large-scale and systematic protein identifications of protein constituents of the cell and tissues, as well as of multi-protein complexes that carry out many cellular function in a higher-order network in the cell.
it is then used to generate new ideas about ways of improving an existing ligand or of developing new alternative bonding skeletons.
use of gene expression data in predicting the type of nephrotoxicity was then tested with a support vector machine (svm)-based approach.
finally, the diagnostic problem of adenocarcinomas  that present as metastases of unknown origin is reviewed, and it is  demonstrated how integration of expression profiling techniques promises to  throw new light on this important clinical challenge.
in two  unrelated serine proteases, sumo detects one common site, which corresponds to  the catalytic triad.
once these predictive models have been validated, they can be used as an automated prediction tool for virtual high-throughput screening (vhts).
keywords: computer graphics; computer simulation; computers; models, molecular; nucleic acids; proteins; user-computer interface prediction of small molecule binding modes to macromolecules of known three-dimensional structure is a problem of paramount importance in rational drug design (the "docking" problem).
the results show that search performances can be improved by combining  coefficients with little extra computational cost.
[ bib ] here, we present an approach for the prediction of binding  preferences of members of a large protein family for which structural  information for a number of family members bound to a substrate is available.
genes selected via mrmr provide a more balanced coverage of the space and capture broader characteristics of phenotypes.
an extended database of 151,503 nt in 955 structures?
keywords: algorithms, binding sites, chemical, chemistry,  comparative study, computer simulation, databases, factual, macromolecular  substances, models, molecular conformation, molecular structure, non-u.s.  gov't, physical, protein conformation, protein structure, proteins, research  support, structure-activity relationship, tertiary, 1770381 [russell1992multiple]  r. b. russell and g. j. barton.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, butadienes, chloroplasts, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, ethylamines, expert systems, feedback, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic markers, humans, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15805072
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] the recent abundance of genome sequence data has brought an  urgent need for systematic proteomics to decipher the encoded protein networks  that dictate cellular function.
here, we report the analysis of sequence variability among high and low affinity targets of eight different small molecule kinase inhibitors (birb796, tarceva, nu6102, gleevec, sb203580, balanol, h89, pp1).
linear and neural full static state feedback controllers  are considered.
[ bib ] both solid- and liquid-phase combinatorial chemistry have  emerged as powerful tools for identifying pharmacologically active compounds  and optimizing the biological activity of a lead compound.
all tumors contained in the database  were characterized according to the identified clinical features' set and the  resulting dataset was used as input for discrimination and diagnostic value  analysis for each one of these features.
one method is based on simulating a neural  network and another, called the polynomial method, is based on statistical  parameter estimation assuming independent binding of the side-chains of  residues.
a novel data representation method enables multipred to predict  peptides that promiscuously bind multiple hla alleles within one hla supertype.
here we report, using the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae as a test case, an example of this approach, which we term high-throughput mass spectrometric protein complex identification (hms-pci).
in summary, pepssi is capable of rapid and accurate prediction of peptide-mhc binding conformations, which may in turn allow estimation of mhci-peptide binding affinity.
[zhu2003introduction]  lingyun zhu, baoming wu,  and changxiu cao.
in the experiments, many appealing properties of the proposed algorithm have been investigated and the results show that the proposed algorithm has a much better scaling capability than libsvm, svmlight, and svmtorch.
advantageous features of the package are: (1) the output generated  is easy to interpret, (2) input and output are both quantitative, (3) specific  computational strategies to handle experimental noise are built in, (4) the  algorithm is designed to effectively handle bounded experimental data, (5)
we discuss the advantages and the mathematical reasoning behind our approach.
[ bib | .html | .pdf  ] [mateos2002systematic]  alvaro mateos, joaquãâ­n  dopazo, ronald jansen, yuhai tu, mark gerstein, and gustavo stolovitzky.
the proposed method is robust enough to detect local similarity among  active sites of different sizes, to discriminate between protein subfamilies  and to recover the known targets of promiscuous ligands by virtual screening.
the system was developed to operate as a user-independent system, based on physiological signal databases obtained from multiple subjects.
the identification and analysis of their components provides insight into how the ensemble of expressed proteins (proteome) is organized into functional units.
the standard deviation of the dynamical noise was estimated  by means of the correlation dimension.
the method is  illustrated both on stabilization and tracking problems including examples on  swinging up an inverted pendulum with local stabilization at the endpoint and a  tracking problem for a ball and beam system.
keywords: computational biology; electrophoresis, gel,  two-dimensional; humans; peptide mapping; protein interaction mapping;  proteomics; spectrometry, mass, matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization [dennis2005hunting]  jayne l dennis and karin a
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; binding sites, drug effects; drug design; hydrogen bonding; ligands; protein binding; sequence alignment; structure-activity relationship accelerating the drug discovery process requires predictive computational protocols capable of reducing or simplifying the synthetic and/or combinatorial challenge.
this method has been successfully applied to  predicting peptide binding to mhc molecules, peptide transport by the  transporter associated with antigen presentation (tap) and proteasomal cleavage  of protein sequences.
mutation data on the receptors were collected from the literature  and a database of mutants and effects of mutations was developed.
once the binding  site is known, it becomes easier to perform in silico and experimental  procedures that may allow the ligand type and the protein function to be  determined.
quantitative assessment of atypical birefringence images  using scanning laser polarimetry with variable corneal compensation.
the analysis provides a rationale for the empirically derived classification of sh2 domains described by songyang & cantley, in that proteins in the same group are found to have similar residues at positions important for binding.
on both  dichotomous and trichotomous tasks, logistic regression, anns, and svms  performed on about the same level, with k-nearest neighbors and decision trees  performing worse.
the performance of the genso-fdss system is encouraging when benchmarked against those of nn, svm and the k-nearest neighbor (k-nn) classifier.
to this end, the energetic roles of all protein residues in 17 different complexes of sh2 domains with their cognate targets are analyzed.
the classifiction of heart beats is the foundation for automated arrhythmia monitoring devices.
hela cells were about 2-fold more  responsive to sirnas than sw3t3 cells but displayed a very similar pattern of  positional variation of lamin a/c silencing.
we next discuss reported comparative  studies, outlining criteria for their interpretation.
on average, the predicted lowest free energy structure contains 73 % of known base-pairs when domains of fewer than 700 nt are folded; this compares with 64 % accuracy for previous versions of the algorithm and parameters.
keywords: bacterial proteins; dna-binding proteins; drug resistance, bacterial; escherichia coli; escherichia coli proteins; gene expression regulation, bacterial; glutamate decarboxylase; glutamates; hydrogen-ion concentration; membrane proteins; mutation; sigma factor; transcription, genetic rna interference can be considered as an antisense mechanism of action that utilizes a double-stranded rnase to promote hydrolysis of the target rna.
svm is a machine-learning method, based on the principle  of structural risk minimization, which performs well when applied to data  outside the training set.
the t-cell receptor, a major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecule, and a bound antigenic peptide, play major roles in the process of antigen-specific t-cell activation.
keywords: culture media; escherichia coli; escherichia coli proteins; gene expression profiling; gene expression regulation, bacterial; heat-shock response; hydrogen-ion concentration; morpholines; oligonucleotide array sequence analysis motivation:
one of the most extensively  analyzed cellular functions by proteomics is the production of ribosome, the  protein-synthesis machinery, in the nucle(ol)us-the main site of ribosome  biogenesis.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated,  b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes  theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell  compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification,  codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination  learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins,  factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling,  gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic  predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, initiator,  ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, lipid bilayers,  logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular,  myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer),  neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal  distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array  sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary,  p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests,  promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein folding, protein  structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research  support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity,  sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin  neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical,  stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription  factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 0011102066
scaling factors can be applied to these bits in order to increase the probability of finding compounds with similar activity by virtual screening.
we assess the statistical significance of the performance of each prediction scheme and conclude that hidden markov model based methods, hmm-b2tmr, proftmb and pred-tmbb, are currently the best predictors, according to either the per-residue accuracy, the segments overlap measure (sov) or the total number of proteins with correctly predicted topologies in the test set.
in this paper we present a hydrologic application of a new statistical learning methodology called support vector machines (svms).
thus, there is currently a huge interest in developing autonomous classification systems for cancer diagnosis using gene expression data.
representing binding site properties onto a discretised sphere presents many advantages: (i) a normalised distance between binding sites of different sizes may be easily derived by summing up the normalised differences between the 8 computed descriptors; (ii) a structural alignment of two proteins is simply done by systematically rotating/translating one mobile sphere around one immobile reference; (iii) a certain degree of fuzziness in the comparison is reached by projecting global amino acid properties (e.g., charge, size, functional groups count, distance to the site centre) independently of local rotameric/tautomeric states of cavity-lining residues.
in addition, we determined that the activity of both sirna oligonucleotides and rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides is affected by the secondary structure of the target mrna.
keywords: binding sites; computer simulation; ligands; models,  molecular; models, statistical; protein binding; protein conformation; protein  folding [dalton2007evaluation]  james a r dalton and  richard m jackson.
ligsitecsc: predicting ligand binding sites using the connolly surface and  degree of conservation.
keywords: animals; chemistry, pharmaceutical; combinatorial chemistry techniques; drug design; drug industry; genomics; humans; models, chemical; molecular structure; mutation; pharmacogenetics; protein binding background:
most of the growing networks that have been proposed in the  literature add new nodes to support the node that has accumulated the highest  error during previous iterations or to support topological structures.
survival analyses on a subcohort of patients with locally advanced breast cancer uniformly treated in a prospective study showed significantly different outcomes for the patients belonging to the various groups, including a poor prognosis for the basal-like subtype and a significant difference in outcome for the two estrogen receptor-positive groups.
genome res., 12(11):1703-15, nov 2002.
thus, microarrays of an  entire eukaryotic proteome can be prepared and screened for diverse biochemical  activities.
it uses  neuron activation functions that are dynamically chosen based on the  application.
subsequently,  support vector machines were used for classification.
the prediction success is even higher for the set of 14 peptide-hla a0201 complexes: 100% of the peptides have main-chain rmsd values < or =1.00 angstroms and 93% of the peptides have heavy atom rmsd values < or =1.50 angstroms.
we think that a  f-measure of 90 on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and in particular 92 on the  "protein" class, can be achieved through refining of the annotation  scheme in the genia corpus, such as flexible annotation scheme and annotation  consistency, and inclusion of a reasonable biomedical dictionary.
the phenotypic models accurately predict the activity of these pathways in the context of normal cell proliferation.
keywords: amino acid motifs, amino acid sequence, calmodulin,  calmodulin-binding proteins, cell membrane, cloning, fungal proteins, glucose,  liposomes, membrane proteins, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-u.s.
however, because of the large numbers of different mhc molecules  of interest, each associated with different predictive tools, tool generation  and evaluation can be a very resource intensive task.
this paper introduces a kernel method that can handle variable length peptides effectively by quantifying similarities between peptide sequences and integrating these into the kernel.
the ability to find underlying structure in complex gene expression data sets and rigorously test association of that structure with biological conditions is essential to developing multi-faceted views of the gene activity that defines cellular phenotype.
its behavior can be coarsely tuned to the strength of binding desired and it is extendable in a straightforward fashion to other alleles.
the proteins corresponding to the spots were identified by mass spectrometry.
a  preliminary multiple sequence alignment is performed using sequence  information, which then determines an initial superposition of the structures.
as revealed by a detailed mathematical investigation, the trajectories are characterized by different phases: response onset, steady-state plateau, response offset, and periods of spontaneous activity.
thus, discrimination of the native structure is good but not perfect.
this study focuses on mining informative physicochemical properties from known experimental immunogenicity data to understand immune responses and predict immunogenicity of mhc-binding peptides accurately.
in the appendix, we present a  derivation of the svm technique in one framework of regularization theory,  rather than statistical learning theory, establishing a connection between svm,  sparse approximation, and regularization theory.
using a different kernel, one can cover a wide class of nonlinearities.
keywords: binding sites; computer simulation; ligands; models, molecular; models, statistical; protein binding; protein conformation; protein folding motivation:
the scope of this work is to present a novel computer-based automated method for the characterization of microcalcification clusters in digitized mammograms.
the binding of known peptide  epitopes or naturally processed peptides correlates well with hla restriction  or origin, underscoring the immunologic relevance of these assays.
therefore chemogenomics has been defined as the investigation of classes of compounds (libraries) against families of functionally related proteins.
keywords: animals *cell cycle proteins *dna-binding proteins e2f  transcription factors e2f1 transcription factor e2f2 transcription factor e2f3  transcription factor female *gene expression gene expression profiling gene  expression regulation, neoplastic genes, myc genes, ras mammary neoplasms,  experimental/genetics mice mice, transgenic *models, genetic oligonucleotide  array sequence analysis *oncogenes phenotype transcription factors/genetics [harborth2003sequence]  j. harborth, s. m.  elbashir, k. vandenburgh, h. manninga, s. a. scaringe,  k. weber, and t. tuschl.
the traditional approach, which is based on solving transient transport  equations for each new configuration of a conductivity field, is too time  consuming in practical applications.
furthermore, ligand and  bibliographic oriented queries may be performed.
we used tandem-affinity purification (tap) and mass  spectrometry in a large-scale approach to characterize multiprotein complexes  in saccharomyces cerevisiae.
we investigate a simple extension of this technique to protein-protein  complexes.
a structure comparison algorithm is applied to all pairs of proteins in the superimposed set and a similarity tree calculated.
comparisons based on rescoring require local optimization of the ligand in the space of the new objective function.
a database of mutants and effects of site-directed  mutagenesis experiments on g protein-coupled receptors.
while incorrect protein identifications also showed distinctive score patterns, indicating that protein must be identified by other means.
an important component of the approach is the introduction of a context-specific substitution matrix suitable for comparison of binding-site residues.
we show that  such svms are optimal hyperplane classifiers not by margin maximization, but by  minimization of distances between convex hulls in pseudo-euclidean spaces.
the clusters are ranked using cluster size, mean effective or conformational free energies, with solvation free energies computed using generalized born mv 2 (gb-mv2) and poisson-boltzmann (pb) continuum models.
bmc struct biol, 6:19, 2006.
keywords: amino acids; bacterial proteins; blood proteins;  databases, factual; electrophoresis, gel, two-dimensional; escherichia coli;  humans; microchemistry; molecular weight; multienzyme complexes; proteins;  reproducibility of results; software; time factors [ sidney1996definition]  j. sidney, h. m. grey, s. southwood,  e. celis, p. a. wentworth, m. f. del guercio, r. t. kubo,  r. w. chesnut, and a. sette.
an improved dynamic programming algorithm is reported for rna secondary structure prediction by free energy minimization.
a new method to detect related function among proteins  independent of sequence and fold homology.
since different coefficients take into account  different characteristics when assessing the degree of similarity between  molecules, it is reasonable to combine them to further optimize the measures of  similarity between molecules.
the method is based on a representation of the protein structures by a collection of spin-images and their associated spin-image profiles.
the approach either retrieves protein cavities accommodating the same (e.g. co-factors) or closely related ligands or it extracts proteins exhibiting similar function in terms of a related catalytic mechanism.
a web server for ligsitecsc and its source code is available at scoppi.biotec.tu-dresden.de/pocket keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, protein; ligands; models, molecular; proteins, chemistry an ab initio structure prediction approach adapted to the peptide-major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i system is presented.
biol., 368(1):283-301, apr 2007.
experimental constraints, derived from enzymatic and  flavin mononucleotide cleavage, improve the accuracy of structure predictions.
a clear correlation was found between acceptable strain energy and ligand flexibility, while there was no correlation between strain energy and binding affinity, thus indicating that expensive conformational rearrangements can be tolerated in some cases without overly penalizing the tightness of binding.
in contrast to existing systems, our  approach is less sensitive to data preprocessing and data normalization.
comparisons based on rescoring require local  optimization of the ligand in the space of the new objective function.
in the first stage, the surfnet program identifies clefts in the protein surface that are potential binding sites.
the complexes are compared with each other to establish their sequence and structural similarities and the relation between the two.
in most cases, a placement with rms deviation below 1.0 a with respect to the x-ray structure is found among the 10 highest ranking solutions, assuming that the receptor is given in the bound conformation.
in practical terms, this means that the  experimental effort needed to identify an epitope in a hypothetical protein  with 85% probability is reduced by 20-30% when using the integrated method.
cross-validation test results indicate that the generalization performance of the svm was on average 83.3% (+/-2.9) to recognize young and elderly gait patterns, compared to a neural network's accuracy of 75.0+/-5.0%.
using prior knowledge, these algorithms can assign functional annotations based on more complex expression signatures found in existing functional classes.
[ bib | doi | http ] there is currently great interest in comparing protein-ligand  docking programs.
methodology: generally, existing medical decision support systems (dss) for cancer classification and diagnosis are based on traditional statistical methods such as bayesian decision theory and machine learning models such as neural networks (nn) and support vector machine (svm).
however, the analysis of immense amount of data poses  considerable challenges.
in addition, some effective strategies such as kernel caching and efficient computation of kernel matrix are integrated to speed up the training process.
all 36 were identified by at least one machine  classifier.
the consensus prediction method described in this work, optimizes the predicted topology with a dynamic programming algorithm and is implemented in a web-based application freely available to non-commercial users at http://bioinformatics.biol.uoa.gr/conbbpred.
proteins,  63(1):43-52, apr 2006.
ligsitecsc is based on the notion of surface-solvent-surface events and the degree of conservation of the involved surface residues.
a computer program was developed to automate the generation and evaluation of arb predictive tools.
the curse of dimensionality is avoided in comparison with defining a regular grid for the centers in classical radial basis function networks.
a  statistical 3-d pattern processing method for computer-aided detection of  polyps in ct colonography.
we  conclude that these gene expression phenotypes have the potential to  characterize the complex genetic alterations that typify the neoplastic state,  whether in vitro or in vivo, in a way that truly reflects the complexity of the  regulatory pathways that are affected.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] a capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (ce-ms) method has  been developed to perform routine, automated analysis of low-molecular-weight  peptides in human serum.
keywords: abstracting and indexing, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, amino acids, animals, antibody, antigens, aromatic, artificial  intelligence, automated, brca1, bibliographic, binding, binding sites, carrier  proteins, cell cycle proteins, chemical, cluster analysis, comparative study,  competitive, complementary, computational biology, computing methodologies,  controlled, dna, dna damage, dna-binding proteins, data interpretation,  database management systems, databases, drug design, electrostatics, epitopes,  evolution, female, fibroblasts, gene expression profiling, gene expression  regulation, genes, hla-dr antigens, heterozygote, histocompatibility antigens  class i, humans, hydrophobicity, information storage and retrieval, membrane  proteins, models, molecular, molecular sequence data, mutation, natural  language processing, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s.,  non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, oligopeptides, p.h.s.,  pattern recognition, peptide fragments, periodicals, protein, protein binding,  protein conformation, protein sorting signals, protein structure,  protein-serine-threonine kinases, proteins, rna-binding proteins,  reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae  proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis,  software, statistical, structural homology, structure-activity relationship,  t-lymphocyte, terminology, tertiary, tumor suppressor proteins, u.s. gov't,  vocabulary, 14871877 [perola2004conformational]  emanuele  perola and paul s charifson.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes,  bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding  sites, biological, bone marrow cells, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child,  chromosome aberrations, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, electric conductivity,  electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, female, fungal, gastric  emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia,  lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma,  models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplastic, neural networks (computer),  nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, organ  specificity, organelles, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented,  predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein folding,  protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results,  research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin  neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, statistical, stomach diseases,  t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor  markers, u.s. gov't, 11231558 [vazquez2001modeling]   a. vazquez, a. flammini, a. maritan, and a. vespignani.
animals  were exposed to 2 different doses of these compounds and kidney tissues were  collected on day 1, 3, and 7 postdosing.
185(15):4644-4647, aug 2003.
specifically, we allow an output space y to be a hilbert space, and we consider a reproducing kernel hilbert space of functions whose values lie in y.
[ bib  |doi | http ] keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans,  neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase  chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown  primary, 15893453 [larsen2005integrative]   mette voldby larsen, claus lundegaard, kasper lamberth, søren buus,  søren brunak, ole lund, and morten nielsen.
biol., 356(2):521-546, feb 2006.
keywords: agricultural, alleles, alternaria, amino acid, amino  acid chloromethyl ketones, amino acid sequence, animal, animals, apoptosis,  asthma, bacteria, base sequence, binding sites, biotechnology, blotting, bone  density, bone matrix, bone and bones, ccr5, camptothecin, caspases, cathepsins,  cell surface, central america, chloroplast, chondrocytes, chromosome mapping,  chromosomes, cloning, cluster analysis, collagen, comparative study, coumarins,  crops, crystallography, dna, dna primers, dipeptides, disease, disease models,  drug design, drug evaluation, drug industry, enzyme activation, enzyme  inhibitors, escherichia coli, evolution, exons, expressed sequence tags,  female, fetus, fluorescent dyes, food microbiology, founder effect, gtp-binding  proteins, gene expression, gene frequency, gene library, genes, genetic,  genetic predisposition to disease, genome, geography, growth plate, haplotypes,  hordeum, human, humans, inclusion bodies, injections, intraperitoneal, introns,  isatin, knockout, male, membrane proteins, messenger, mice, models, molecular,  molecular sequence data, molecular structure, mutation, mycotoxins,  neutrophils, non-u.s. gov't, northern, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis,  osteoarthritis, osteochondrodysplasias, osteoclasts, osteopetrosis, pair 15,  phaseolus, polymorphism, preclinical, pregnancy, promoter regions (genetics),  protein precursors, proteomics, rna, receptors, recombinant fusion proteins,  recombinant proteins, research support, restriction fragment length, ribosomal  proteins, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, south  america, species specificity, splenomegaly, sulfonamides, synteny, tissue  distribution, transcription, trichothecenes, x-ray, 9915501 [mathews1999expandeda]  d. h. mathews, j. sabina, m. zuker, and  d. h. turner.
graph., 14(1):33-8, 27-8, feb 1996.
advantages of ls-svm control are that no number  of hidden units has to be determined for the controller and that no centers  have to be specified for the gaussian kernels when applying mercer's condition.
in the final section, we describe some of the remaining developments that would potentially lead to a universally applicable docking/scoring method.
the potency, maximal effectiveness, duration of action, and sequence specificity of optimized rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides and small interfering rna (sirna) oligonucleotide duplexes were evaluated and found to be comparable.
using an independent evaluation dataset of hiv epitopes from the los alamos database, the validity of the integrated method is confirmed.
the threshold of polynomial scores was set to -24.
data were collected from normal pregnant women at intervals of two weeks from the gestation age of 24 to 38 weeks.
in this paper we derive the asymptotic average generalization error of svms with soft margins in simple cases, that is, only when the dimension of inputs is one, and quantitatively show that soft margins increase the generalization error.
the generic nature of the method has been demonstrated with four data sets available for carcinogenicity, where prediction accuracies were significantly higher, with a best receiver operating characteristics (roc) value of 0.81 as against a best roc value of 0.7 reported in the literature for the same data set.
the  ability of svm to out perform several well-known methods developed for the  widely studied problem of mc detection suggests that svm is a promising  technique for object detection in a medical imaging application.
experimental results demonstrate the ability of gp to discover autimatically the different bearing conditions using features expressed in the form of nonlinear functions.
new frontiers in proteomics research: a perspective.
the method uses a combination of  descriptors, encoding both the type of toxicophore as well as the position of  the toxicophore in the drug molecule, thus considering both the pharmacophore  and the three-dimensional shape information of the molecule.
skp1 forms  multiple protein complexes, including rave, a regulator of v-atpase assembly.
the  solution is characterized by a set of nonlinear equations.
this adaptation  allowed the machine learning classifiers to identify abnormality in visual  field converts much earlier than the traditional methods.
values between 1.301 and 2.475 a. binding conformations of 266 peptides with  known binding affinities for hla-a2 were then predicted using pepssi.
over the last ten years, many geometric methods for the  prediction of ligand-binding sites have been developed.
it is based on the idea that protein function is intimately related to the recognition and subsequent response to the binding of a substrate or an endogenous ligand in a well-characterized binding pocket.
hela cells were about 2-fold more responsive to sirnas than sw3t3 cells but displayed a very similar pattern of positional variation of lamin a/c silencing.
[pandey2000proteomics]  a. pandey and m. mann.
keywords: amino acid motifs, amino acid sequence, calmodulin, calmodulin-binding proteins, cell membrane, cloning, fungal proteins, glucose, liposomes, membrane proteins, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-u.s. gov't, open reading frames, p.h.s., peptide library, phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylinositols, phospholipids, protein binding, proteome, recombinant fusion proteins, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, signal transduction, streptavidin, u.s. gov't, 11474067 mini-fingerprints (mfps) are short binary bit string representations of molecular structure and properties, composed of few selected two-dimensional (2d) descriptors and a number of structural keys.
keywords: animals; chemistry, pharmaceutical; combinatorial  chemistry techniques; drug design; drug industry; genomics; humans; models,  chemical; molecular structure; mutation; pharmacogenetics; protein binding [huang2006ligsite]  bingding huang and michael schroeder.
the new network is compared to an existing growing  network, the growing neural gas (gng), on a artificial dataset, showing how the  network deals with a change in input distribution after some time.
conclusions: abp images exist in a subset of normal and glaucomatous eyes, are associated with older patient age, and produce an artifactual increase in rnfl thickness using gdx-vcc.
a demo system is available at http://textmining.i2r.a-star.edu.sg/nls/demo.htm.
this article proposes a new  mixture of svms that can be easily implemented in parallel and where each svm  is trained on a small subset of the whole data set.
our comparison method is used to find a surface region in one cavity of a protein that is geometrically similar to a surface region in the cavity of another protein.
to evaluate  the performance of the method and demonstrate the utility of the approach, an  experiment was designed in which peptides were added to sera from individuals  at each of two different concentrations, artificially creating two groups of  samples.
using a different approach,  we have derived substitution matrices from about 2000 blocks of aligned  sequence segments characterizing more than 500 groups of related proteins.
the soippa scoring integrates geometric, evolutionary and physical information into a unified framework.
we would like to  test if this positional effect is mainly due to the secondary structure of the  mrna at the target site.
to determine whether positions on target rna identified as being susceptible for rnase h-mediated degradation would be coincident with sirna target sites, we evaluated the effectiveness of sirnas designed to bind the same position on the target mrna as rnase h-dependent oligonucleotides.
the methods and applications of medical data mining based on computation intelligence such as artificial neural network, fuzzy system, evolutionary algorithms, rough set, and support vector machine have been introduced.
keywords: computational biology; electrophoresis, gel, two-dimensional; humans; peptide mapping; protein interaction mapping; proteomics; spectrometry, mass, matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization
we present a  statistical approach that uses support vector machines to distinguish the  differentiating characteristics of polyps and healthy tissue, and uses this  information for the classification of the new cases.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antisense, artificial  intelligence, autonomic nervous system, cell line, child, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation,  computer-assisted, dna fingerprinting, drug evaluation, emotions, fluorescence,  fuzzy logic, gene silencing, gene targeting, genetic, hela cells, humans,  imaging, intracellular space, microscopy, models, monitoring, neoplasms, neural  networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotides, p.h.s., physiologic,  preclinical, preschool, prognosis, proteomics, quantitative structure-activity  relationship, rna, rna interference, recognition (psychology), research  support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, small interfering,  thionucleotides, three-dimensional, tumor, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface,  15191089 [galan2004odor-driven]  roberto fdez  galãâ¡n, silke sachse, c. giovanni galizia, and andreas  v m herz.
non-p.h.s.,  non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, plant proteins,  predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin  aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support,  sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, sprague-dawley, subcellular  fractions, terminology, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't,  user-computer interface, 15794155 [guo2005feature]  hong  guo, lindsay b jack, and asoke k nandi.
with each success and failure we increasingly appreciate that a key to the success of synthesized molecules through the research and development process is the possession of drug-like properties.
the implementation of svmhc is quite simple and does not involve any manual steps, therefore as more data become available it is trivial to provide prediction for more mhc types.
the neural net is superior to simple motif searches in  eliminating false positives.
a closed-form neural network for  discriminatory feature extraction from high-dimensional data.
keywords: animals *cell cycle proteins *dna-binding proteins e2f
the added peptides were identified correctly as the distinguishing  features, and pattern recognition based on these peptides was used to assign  each sample in the independent test set to its respective group.
we compare these methods with each other and with standard motif-based methods.
binding-site signatures are found to involve residues in different positions in  sh2 sequences, some of them as far as 9a away from a bound peptide.
the resultant pharmacophore "key"  ("fingerprint") serves as a powerful measure for diversity or  similarity, calculable for both a ligand and a protein site, and provides a  consistent frame of reference for comparing molecules, sets of molecules, and  protein sites.
feature space interpretation of svms with indefinite kernels.
in the second approach, the antigenicity of approximately 100 different hepatitis b virus (hbv)-derived potential epitopes, all carrying a*0201 binding motifs, was assessed by using pbl of acute hepatitis patients.
we found that the gene-silencing  effect is inversely dependent on the h-b index, indicating that the local mrna  structure at the targeted site is the main cause of the positional effect.
the resultant pharmacophore "key" ("fingerprint") serves as a powerful measure for diversity or similarity, calculable for both a ligand and a protein site, and provides a consistent frame of reference for comparing molecules, sets of molecules, and protein sites.
the original feature set was enhanced by the addition of four rule-based features.
a bank of 65 660 compounds including 49 known actives was generated.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] to facilitate studies of the yeast proteome, we cloned 5800 open  reading frames and overexpressed and purified their corresponding proteins.
its weights are obtained in closed-form, thereby  overcoming problems associated with other nonlinear neural networks.
the atoms displayed in each representation are chosen using an extensive atom selection syntax, which includes boolean operators and regular expressions.
additional algorithmic improvements include reduced search time and storage for multibranch loop free energies and improved imposition of folding constraints.
the top 60 mrmr genes for each of the datasets are listed in  http://crd.lbl.gov/ cding/mrmr/. more information related to mrmr methods  can be found at http://www.hpeng.net/. keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, animals, apoptosis,  artificial intelligence, automated, biological, bone marrow, breast neoplasms,  classification, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer simulation,  computer-assisted, diagnosis, dose-response relationship, drug, female, foot,  gait, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, gene silencing,  genetic vectors, humans, image interpretation, information storage and  retrieval, kidney, liver, logistic models, male, messenger, models, myocardium,  neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern  recognition, pharmaceutical preparations, polymerase chain reaction, principal  component analysis, proteins, rna, rats, reproducibility of results, research  support, sensitivity and specificity, small interfering, sprague-dawley,  statistical, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15852500 [dhingra2005substantial]  vikas dhingra, mukta gupta, tracy andacht, and  zhen f fu.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] scf ubiquitin ligases are composed of skp1, cdc53, hrt1 and one  member of a large family of substrate receptors known as f-box proteins (fbps).
the methods are applied to the prediction of phosphopeptide selectivity of sh2 domains.
thus, the acid-inducible genes  clustered in the gada region appear to be involved in glutatmate-dependent acid  resistance, although their specific roles remain to be elucidated.
we present ligsitecsc, an extension and implementation of the ligsite algorithm.
the features of the protein binding pocket can be translated into queries used for virtual computer screening of large compound libraries or to design novel ligands de novo.
automated recognition of gait changes has many  advantages including, early identification of at-risk gait and monitoring the  progress of treatment outcomes.
we report here a computational system, multipred, for the  prediction of peptide binding to the hla-a2 supertype.
combination of fingerprint-based similarity coefficients using data fusion.
the clusters are ranked using cluster size, mean effective or  conformational free energies, with solvation free energies computed using  generalized born mv 2 (gb-mv2) and poisson-boltzmann (pb) continuum models.
methods: with the hrt, one eye was imaged from each of 108 patients with glaucoma (defined as having repeatable visual field defects with standard automated perimetry) and 189 subjects without glaucoma (no visual field defects with healthy-appearing optic disc and retinal nerve fiber layer on clinical examination) and the optic nerve topography was defined by 17 global and 66 regional hrt parameters.
here we present, for the first time, the comprehensive application of supervised neural networks (snns) for functional annotation.
[ bib | doi | http ] an algorithm is presented for the accurate and rapid generation  of multiple protein sequence alignments from tertiary structure comparisons.
keywords: aldehyde reductase, algorithms, amiloride,  aminoimidazole carboxamide, animals, arabinose, automation, binding sites,  carbonic anhydrases, computational biology, computer simulation, concanavalin  a, crystallography, databases, drug design, drug evaluation, enzyme inhibitors,  factual, folic acid, folic acid antagonists, fructose-bisphosphatase, humans,  internet, ligands, methotrexate, models, molecular, non-u.s. gov't, pancreatic  elastase, pentamidine, pliability, point mutation, preclinical, protein  binding, protein conformation, proteins, reproducibility of results, research  support, ribonucleosides, software, tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase,  thermolysin, time factors, trypsin, x-ray, 8780787 [ kristiansen1996database]  k. kristiansen, s. g. dahl, and  o. edvardsen.
artificial neural networks (ann) are  regarded as reliable and cost-effective method to achieve such tasks and have  produced some promising results to date.
furthermore, ligand and bibliographic oriented queries may be performed.
ieee trans  pattern anal mach intell, 26(8):1064-72, aug 2004.
here we analyze the detailed temporal evolution of glomerular activity patterns in the antennal lobe of honeybees.
it is theoretically shown to provide nonlinear transforms of the input data that are more general than those provided by other nonlinear multilayer perceptron neural network and support-vector machine techniques for cases involving high-dimensional (image) inputs where training data are limited and the classes are not linearly separable.
comparison of machine learning and  traditional classifiers in glaucoma diagnosis.
we show that in a few iterations this process converges to a gene set that is learnable with considerably low rates of false positives and negatives and contains genes that are biologically related to the original class, allowing for a coarse reconstruction of the interactions between associated biological pathways.
keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, apoptosis, artificial  intelligence, automated, computer-assisted, female, foot, gait, gene expression  profiling, humans, image interpretation, male, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, polymerase chain  reaction, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity  and specificity, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15882333 [yu2005ovarian]  j. s. yu, s. ongarello, r. fiedler,  x. w. chen, g. toffolo, c. cobelli, and z. trajanoski.
we tested the correlation between the h-b index and the gene-silencing effects on three genes (bcl-2, htf, and cyclin b1) using a variety of sirnas.
most existing statistical models only take into account the matching vertices between two sites that are defined by a fixed number of points.
we investigate a simple extension of this technique to protein-protein complexes.
we are concerned with the rating of new documents that appear in a large database (medline) and are candidates for inclusion in a small specialty database (rebase).
, 21(1 suppl):48-50, jan 1999.
effective labeling of molecular surface  points for cavity detection and location of putative binding sites.
there are two main areas of difficulty in homology modelling that are particularly important when sequence identity between target and template falls below 50%: sequence alignment and loop building.
further,  immunohistochemistry expression of the nbs1 protein correlated strongly with  both svm and cytologic rankings (p < 0.0001).
supplementary  material is available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/suppl/immunology/ctl.php.
keywords: chemistry, pharmaceutical; combinatorial chemistry  techniques; computational biology; drug design; genomics; ligands; proteins;  receptors, g-protein-coupled [luo2004gene-silencing]   k. q. luo and d. c. chang.
experiments with 10 small datasets, for  which both structural and biological activity data are available, suggest that  the most cost-effective technique is based on a mapping procedure that tries to  match pairs of atoms, one from each of the molecules that are being compared,  that have neighbouring atoms at approximately the same distances.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, organ specificity, organelles, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 11231558 this paper presents a new scheme for training mlps which employs a relaxation method for multi-objective optimization.
keywords: algorithms; catalytic domain; chymotrypsin,  chemistry/genetics; computational biology, methods; evolution, molecular;  fabaceae, chemistry; models, molecular; plant lectins, chemistry/genetics;  protein conformation; proteins, chemistry; reproducibility of results;  subtilisin, chemistry/genetics [bild2003]  e. huang,  s. ishida, j. pittman, h. dressman, a. bild, m. kloos,  m. d'amico, r. g. pestell, m. west, and j. r. nevins.
one of these putative regulators, yhie, was shown to significantly increase acid resistance when overexpressed in cells that had not been preinduced by growth at ph 5.5, and mutation of yhie decreased acid resistance; yhie could therefore encode an activator of ar genes.
all considered  ligands are docked in at most three minutes on a current workstation.
whereas such a strategy developed in pharmaceutical  industry almost 20 years ago, it is now more systematically applied in the  search for target- and subtype-specific ligands.
the microarrays can also be used to screen protein-drug interactions and to detect posttranslational modifications.
effects of base mismatches on activity were determined to be  position-dependent for both sirna oligonucleotides and rnase h-dependent  oligonucleotides.
we experimentally verify this on  synthetic examples.
keywords: adenocarcinoma, algorithms, artificial intelligence, automated, cell nucleus, comparative study, computational biology, computer graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm, databases, gene expression profiling, genetic vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, imaging, information storage and retrieval, internet, mitochondria, models, movement, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, peptides, protein, proteins, proteomics, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, software, subtraction technique, theoretical, three-dimensional, unknown primary, video recording, 15641019 there is currently great interest in comparing protein-ligand docking programs.
the algorithm combines sampling of peptide backbone conformations and flexible movement of mhc side chains and is unique among other prediction algorithms in its incorporation of explicit water molecules at the peptide-mhc interface.
most of the current systems for microarray data analysis use statistical methods, hierarchical clustering, self-organizing maps, support vector machines, or k-means clustering to organize genes or experiments into 'meaningful' groups.
thirty proteins from an  e. coli 2-d map were analyzed and identities assigned.
genesis integrates various  tools for microarray data analysis such as filters, normalization and  visualization tools, distance measures as well as common clustering algorithms  including hierarchical clustering, self-organizing maps, k-means, principal  component analysis, and support vector machines.
[ bib ] a versatile, platform independent and easy to use java suite for  large-scale gene expression analysis was developed.
the  methods are applied to the prediction of phosphopeptide selectivity of sh2  domains.
the findings are highly statistically  significant, and allow one to exclude the majority of kinases in a genome from  a list of likely targets for an inhibitor.
generalized discriminant analysis using a kernel approach.
from the analysis of the results we conclude that for those cases in which the ligands are found in large, highly conserved clefts, the combined surfnet-consurf method gives pockets that are a better match to the ligand shape and location.
[ bib | doi | http ] an ab initio structure prediction approach adapted to the  peptide-major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i system is presented.
the tuning parameters had to be estimated manually.
mhc binding predictions based on arb matrices were made available at http://epitope.liai.org:8080/matrix web server.
[ bib | doi | http ] inhibition of protein kinase activity is a focus of intense drug  discovery efforts in several therapeutic areas.
we would like to test if this positional effect is mainly due to the secondary structure of the mrna at the target site.
next, lung cancer cells isolated from tumor tissue by laser microdissection were classified on the basis of the expression pattern of these 32 protein spots.
efficient reduction of target rnas by small interfering  rna and rnase h-dependent antisense agents.
towards a  new age of virtual adme/tox and multidimensional drug discovery.
j chem inf comput sci, 43(2):435-442, 2003.
vmd is written in c++, using an object-oriented design; the program, including source code and extensive documentation, is freely available via anonymous ftp and through the world wide web.
we consider specific examples of such functionals corresponding to multiple-output regularization networks and support vector machines, for both regression and classification.
this work aims to develop computational methods to annotate protein structures in an automated fashion.
although the features were carefully extracted, their distribution formed a classification problem, with large overlap among clusters and large variance within clusters.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification, codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination learning, electric conductivity, electroencephalography, electrophysiology, epilepsy, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, information storage and retrieval, initiator, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, linear models, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography, statistical, stochastic processes, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2, u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11058693 adenomatous polyps in the colon are believed to be the precursor to colorectal carcinoma, the second leading cause of cancer deaths in united states.
the gad system is controlled by two repressors (h-ns and crp), one activator (gadx), one repressor-activator (gadw), and two sigma factors (sigma(s) and sigma(70)).
the problem is formulated in such a way that it incorporates the n-stage optimal control problem as well as a least squares support vector machine approach for mapping the state space into the action space.
to evaluate the performance of the method and demonstrate the utility of the approach, an experiment was designed in which peptides were added to sera from individuals at each of two different concentrations, artificially creating two groups of samples.
this suggests that our system achieves an acceptable f-measure of 83.6  on the 23 classes of genia v3.0 and in particular 86.2 on the  "protein" class, without help of any dictionaries.
a set of potential biomarkers showing a time- and dose-response with respect to the progression of proximal tubular toxicity were identified.
this  led to marked improvements in alignments and in searches using queries from  each of the groups.
keywords: 80 and over, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals, area under curve, automated, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, genetic, glaucoma, humans, lasers, least-squares analysis, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, middle aged, models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, protein, roc curve, regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, u.s. gov't, beta-lactamases, 15779160 background:
what is the nature of the physical changes linking  agonist binding to receptor activation and subsequent transduction of the  signal to the associated g protein on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane and  to other putative signaling pathways?
[ bib ] purpose: to compare the ability of several machine learning  classifiers to predict development of abnormal fields at follow-up in ocular  hypertensive (oht) eyes that had normal visual fields in baseline examination.
various textural features were  computed from the fetal lung and liver images.
three of the proteins were unknown.
subtle difference in protein structure and function can contribute  to complexity and diversity of life.
invest ophthalmol  vis sci, 43(1):162-9, jan 2002.
sixty-five  eyes of 65 patients were enrolled.
the findings have implications for  the design of novel inhibitors with a desired selectivity profile (e.g.  targeted at multiple kinases), the discovery of new targets for kinase  inhibitor drugs, comparative analysis of different in vivo models, and the  design of "a-la-carte" chemical libraries tailored for individual  kinases.
as a function of the training set size, the corresponding generalization error presents a crossover, more or less abrupt depending on the distribution's anisotropy and on the task to be learned, between a fast-decreasing and a slowly decreasing regime.
comparing machine learning classifiers  for diagnosing glaucoma from standard automated perimetry.
2-d dige achieves more  accurate quantification of protein expression by using highly sensitive  fluorescence dyes to label the cysteine residues of proteins prior to  two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
keywords: algorithms; binding sites; databases, factual; ligands; models, chemical; peptide fragments, chemistry; proteins, chemistry; software we present an automatic method for docking organic ligands into protein binding sites.
[ bib | http | .pdf  ] [jones1997development]  g. jones, p. willett,  r. c. glen, a. r. leach, and r. taylor.
the methods can be grossly divided to those based on hidden markov models (hmms), on neural networks (nns) and on support vector machines (svms).
[ bib ] we are concerned with the rating of new documents that appear in  a large database (medline) and are candidates for inclusion in a small  specialty database (rebase).
the accuracy of the assignment was 95%,  demonstrating the utility of this technique for the discovery of patterns of  biomarkers in serum.
explicit "on-the-fly" conformational sampling is performed for a molecule to enable the calculation of all geometries accessible for all combinations of four features (i.e., 4-point pharmacophores) at any desired sampling resolution.
the gene-silencing efficiency of sirna is  strongly dependent on the local structure of mrna at the targeted region.
all the features are integrated effectively and  efficiently through a hidden markov model (hmm) and a hmm-based named entity  recognizer.
this is conducted within a predefined feature space, and thus, has limited searching power.
the formulation  is expressed as an eigenvalue problem resolution.
ernst schering res found  workshop, 58:1-19, 2006.
the scope of this  work is to present a novel computer-based automated method for the  characterization of microcalcification clusters in digitized mammograms.
the results are discussed for support vector machines with radial basis function kernel.
these initial proposals  must be confirmed experimentally.
[ bib | doi |  http ] many different types of similarity coefficients have been  described in the literature.
methodology: generally,  existing medical decision support systems (dss) for cancer classification and  diagnosis are based on traditional statistical methods such as bayesian  decision theory and machine learning models such as neural networks (nn) and  support vector machine (svm).
of these methods, agglomerative hierarchical clustering  has been the most widely applied, although many limitations have been  identified.
we processed 1,739 genes, including 1,143 human orthologues of relevance to human biology, and purified 589 protein assemblies.
the results show that search performances can be improved by combining coefficients with little extra computational cost.
this is particularly important when we consider dynamic data  sets, where the distribution of inputs can change to a new regime after some  time.
the obtained enrichment factors are in line with those reported in  recent studies.
nbs1 protein expression was  assessed by quantitative immunohistochemistry in 49 primary uveal melanomas.
a structural  alignment kernel for protein structures.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] ageing influences gait patterns causing constant threats to  control of locomotor balance.
beginning with 10% of predicted yeast proteins as baits, we detected 3,617  associated proteins covering 25% of the yeast proteome.
commun., 318(1):303-10, may 2004.
these data indicate that valid predictions could be made based  on gene expression changes from a small set of expression profiles.
the proteins were printed onto slides at high spatial density to form a yeast proteome microarray and screened for their ability to interact with proteins and phospholipids.
the method is illustrated both on stabilization and tracking problems including examples on swinging up an inverted pendulum with local stabilization at the endpoint and a tracking problem for a ball and beam system.
the protein data bank: a computer-based archival file for macromolecular  structures.
numerous  enhancements and modifications have been applied to the original technique  resulting in a substantial increase in the reliability and the applicability of  the algorithm.
the performance of different svms is evaluated on the mit-bih  arrhythmia database following the association for the advancement of medical  instrumentation (aami) recommendations.
determined by comparative  sequence analysis was assembled to allow optimization of parameters not based  on experiments and to test the accuracy of the algorithm.
svm is a technique that can be derived from the structural risk minimization principle (vapnik, 1982) and can be used to estimate the parameters of several different approximation schemes, including radial basis functions, algebraic and trigonometric polynomials, b-splines, and some forms of multilayer perceptrons.
the ligands from thirty-two different ligand-protein complexes determined by high-resolution (10.5, and six code for small acidic proteins with pis ranging from 5.7 to 4.0; the roles of these small basic and acidic proteins in acid resistance are unknown.
[ bib | doi | http  |.pdf ] advances in modern technologies and computers have enabled  digital image processing to become a vital tool in conventional clinical  practice, including mammography.
the soippa scoring  integrates geometric, evolutionary and physical information into a unified  framework.
gaussian processes for classification:  mean-field algorithms.
proteins,  60(3):325-332, aug 2005.
we show results of using svt for vehicle tracking in image sequences.
recent developments in structure-based drug  design.
[ bib | doi | http ] a new 4-point pharmacophore method for molecular similarity and  diversity that rapidly calculates all potential pharmacophores/pharmacophoric  shapes for a molecule or a protein site is described.
the work presented in this paper aims to examine the feasibility of applying svm to predict air pollutant levels in advancing time series based on the monitored air pollutant database in hong kong downtown area.
generative classifiers, which first model the data probability density and then  perform classification via bayes' rule, usually give deeper insight into the  structure of the data space.
this nanopore instrument can discriminate between individual dna hairpins that differ by one base pair or by one nucleotide.
most  current feature extraction techniques transform the original pattern vector  into a new vector with increased discrimination capability but lower  dimensionality.
further, the expression changes were indicative of tubular toxicity showing hallmarks of tubular degeneration/regeneration and necrosis.
we tested  the proposed method using a database of 76 clinical mammograms containing 1120  mcs.
keywords: acute, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid, amino  acid motifs, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, cell  nucleus, chemical, child, comparative study, computational biology, computer  graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm, databases, decision making, decision  trees, fuzzy logic, gene expression, gene expression profiling, genetic  vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, imaging, information  storage and retrieval, internet, leukemia, lymphocytic, mitochondria, models,  molecular, molecular sequence data, monte carlo method, movement, neoplasms,  neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides,  protein, protein conformation, protein folding, protein structure, proteins,  proteomics, roc curve, reproducibility of results, research support, secondary,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence  homology, signal processing, software, statistical, structural homology,  subtraction technique, tertiary, theoretical, three-dimensional, u.s. gov't,  unknown primary, video recording, 15617982 [ thukral2005prediction]  sushil k thukral, paul j nordone, rong hu,  leah sullivan, eric galambos, vincent d fitzpatrick, laura healy,  michael b bass, mary e cosenza, and cynthia a afshari.
non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, ocular, oligonucleotide array  sequence analysis, p.h.s., pattern recognition, plant, plants, predictive value  of tests, protein, protein conformation, regression analysis, research support,  sample size, selection (genetics), sequence alignment, sequence analysis,  sequence homology, signal processing, skin, software, statistical, subtraction  technique, theoretical, thermodynamics, u.s. gov't, viral proteins, x-ray,  15563752 [mavroforakis2005significance]  michael  mavroforakis, harris georgiou, nikos dimitropoulos, dionisis cavouras, and  sergios theodoridis.
[ bib ] motivation: with the increasing number of gene expression  databases, the need for more powerful analysis and visualization tools is  growing.
analysis of gene expression profiles showed  that the profiles clustered based on similarities in the severity and type of  pathology of individual animals.
[ bib ] this article shows a relationship between two different  approximation techniques: the support vector machines (svm), proposed by v.  vapnik (1995) and a sparse approximation scheme that resembles the basis  pursuit denoising algorithm (chen, 1995; chen, donoho, and saunders, 1995).
keywords: affinity, affinity labels, amino acid sequence, animals, cell cycle proteins, cells, chromatography, cloning, comparative study, cultured, dna, dna damage, dna repair, electrospray ionization, fungal, gene targeting, genetic, humans, macromolecular substances, mass, matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization, mitosis, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, protein kinases, proteome, proteomics, recombinant fusion proteins, research support, ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, signal transduction, species specificity, spectrometry, spectrum analysis, transcription, u.s. gov't, 11805813
the use of tagged proteins as affinity bait, coupled with mass  spectrometric identification, enabled us to isolate synthetic intermediates of  ribosomes that might represent snapshots of nascent ribosomes at particular  stages of ribosome biogenesis and to identify their constituents-some of which  showed dynamic changes for association with the intermediates at various stages  of ribosome biogenesis.
a simple  and fuzzy method to align and compare druggable ligand-binding sites.
vmd has also been expressly  designed with the ability to animate molecular dynamics (md) simulation  trajectories, imported either from files or from a direct connection to a  running md simulation.
svms  are based on minimization of a bound on the generalized error (risk) model,  rather than just the mean square error over a training set.
a prerequisite to tailoring selectivity by rational design is a detailed understanding of molecular parameters determining selectivity.
conclusions: mog, using the entire visual field and age for input, interpreted sap better than the global indices of statpac.
although mitomycin c and amphotericin b treatments did not cause toxicity, their expression profiles were included in the svm prediction module to increase the sample size.
here we combine this nanopore detector with a support vector machine (svm) to analyze dna hairpin molecules on the millisecond time scale.
multipred is available at  http://antigen.i2r.a-star.edu.sg/multipred/. keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigen-antibody  complex, automated, binding sites, computational biology, drug delivery  systems, drug design, epitopes, hla antigens, hla-a antigens, hla-dr antigens,  humans, internet, markov chains, molecular sequence data, neural networks  (computer), pattern recognition, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein  interaction mapping, sequence analysis, software, t-lymphocyte, user-computer  interface, viral vaccines, 15980449
surprisingly, similarities in the signatures of different domains do not correlate with whole-domain sequence identities unless the latter is greater than 50%.an extensive comparison with the optimal binding motifs determined by peptide library experiments, as well as other experimental data indicate that the similarity in binding preferences of different sh2 domains can be deduced on the basis of their binding-site signatures.
we suggest that the number of binding peptides needed for svm training is at least 20 sequences.
we term this the "borges  effect" and introduce two new numerical indices for its quantification.
at each  branchpoint of the tree, a structure-based sequence alignment and coordinate  transformations are output, with the multiple alignment of all structures  output at the root.
if weakly stable complexes are excluded (defined by  a binding energy cutoff), as well as a few unusual complexes, a simple homology  principle holds: complexes that share more than 35% sequence identity share  similar structures and interaction modes; this principle was less clearcut in  earlier studies.
[ bib ] background: t-cells are key players in regulating a specific  immune response.
keywords: algorithms; animals; artificial intelligence; computer simulation; drug evaluation, preclinical, methods; humans; metals, chemistry; models, molecular; molecular conformation; nucleic acids, chemistry/drug effects; proteins, chemistry/drug effects; reproducibility of results; stochastic processes background: structure-based computational methods are needed to help identify and characterize protein-protein complexes and their function.
the goal of the present review is to specifically address these questions as well as to depict the current awareness about gpcr structure-function relationships in general.
keywords: algorithms; breast neoplasms; carcinoma in situ;  carcinoma, ductal, breast; carcinoma, lobular; dna, neoplasm; female;  fibroadenoma; gene expression; gene expression profiling; humans;  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis; tumor suppressor protein p53 [suykens2001optimal]  j. a. suykens,  j. vandewalle, and b. de moor.
this review covers the recent progress made in integrative computational approaches to data annotation and knowledge generation for the systematic knowledge-based design and screening of chemical libraries.
svmhc currently contains  prediction for 26 mhc class i types from the mhcpep database or alternatively 6  mhc class i types from the higher quality syfpeithi database.
these data indicate that valid predictions could be made based on gene expression changes from a small set of expression profiles.
some  aspects of the assessment of docking program performance are discussed.
integration of combinatorial chemistry  with contemporary pharmacology now represents an important factor in drug  discovery and development.
using prior  knowledge, these algorithms can assign functional annotations based on more  complex expression signatures found in existing functional classes.
testing results show that multipred is both sensitive and specific and it has good predictive ability (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve a(roc) > 0.80).
[tung2005genso-fdss]   w. l. tung and c. quek.
the proposed method was evaluated using the nijmegen and mammographic  image analysis society (mias) mammographic databases.
boosting naï ve bayesian learning on a large subset of  medline.proc amia symp, pages 918-22, 2000.
stamp alignments have the quality of each alignment characterized by sc and pij' values and thus provide a reproducible resource for studies of residue conservation within structural motifs.
[ bib ] in this paper, we investigate an approach based on support  vector machines (svms) for detection of microcalcification (mc) clusters in  digital mammograms, and propose a successive enhancement learning scheme for  improved performance.
efficient statistical analysis makes it  possible to apply soippa to genome-based drug discovery.
vmd provides a complete graphical user interface for program control, as well as a text interface using the tcl embeddable parser to allow for complex scripts with variable substitution, control loops, and function calls.
the performance of both neural networks and ldfs can be improved with optimization of the features in the input.
to determine whether neural network techniques can improve differentiation between glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes, using the optic disc topography parameters of the heidelberg retina tomograph (hrt; heidelberg engineering, heidelberg, germany).
these included (a) being able to present the extracted knowledge and explain the computed solutions to the users; (b) having a logical deduction process that is similar and intuitive to the human reasoning process; and (c) flexible enough to incorporate new knowledge without running the risk of eroding old but valid information.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, biological, cell compartmentation, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, decision trees, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, humans, logistic models, melanoma, models, neural networks (computer), nevus, non-u.s. gov't, organelles, p.h.s., pigmented, predictive value of tests, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, u.s. gov't, 11376540 several programs (catalyst, confort, flo99, macromodel, and omega) that are commonly used to generate conformational ensembles have been tested for their ability to reproduce bioactive conformations.
a methodology commonly  used to predict mhc binding affinity is the matrix or linear coefficients  method.
the added peptides were identified correctly as the distinguishing features, and pattern recognition based on these peptides was used to assign each sample in the independent test set to its respective group.
[ bib  ] support vector machines have been very successful in pattern  recognition and function estimation problems.
advantages and limitations of neural networks for computer-aided molecular design and sequence analysis are discussed.
features for the classification task are extracted by analyzing the heart rate, morphology and wavelet energy of the heart beats from a single lead.
the procedure of "plugging" these indefinite kernels in svms often yields good empirical classification results.
recently, gene expression profiling using dna  microarrays has been shown to be a viable and accurate diagnostic tool to  identify the known prognostically important all subtypes.
preliminary testing indicates that multipred can  predict peptide binding to hla-a2 supertype molecules with high accuracy,  including those allelic variants for which no experimental binding data are  currently available.
a  prerequisite to tailoring selectivity by rational design is a detailed  understanding of molecular parameters determining selectivity.
keywords: atp-binding cassette transporters, algorithms,  animals, biological, biological availability, computer simulation, drug design,  drug evaluation, drug industry, gene expression profiling, humans, models,  organic anion transporters, p.h.s., pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical  preparations, pharmacogenetics, pharmacokinetics, preclinical, proteomics,  research support, software, systems biology, technology, toxicity tests, u.s.  gov't, 12489686 [doennes2002prediction]  pierre dönnes  and arne elofsson.
immunogenetics,  57(5):304-314, jun 2005.
we  exemplify this methodology using the well-studied tricarboxylic acid cycle.
an alternative  formulation as a constrained nonlinear optimization problem in less unknowns is  given, together with a method for imposing local stability in the ls-svm  control scheme.
[ bib ] high-density dna microarrays measure expression of large numbers  of genes in one assay.
at the same time, the functional characteristics of svm are investigated in the study.
keywords: air pollutants, algorithms, animals, antibiotics,  antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing,  butadienes, chloroplasts, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, database management  systems, databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug,  drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, environmental, ethylamines,  expert systems, factual, feedback, forecasting, fungicides, gene expression  profiling, genes, genetic markers, hong kong, humans, image enhancement, image  interpretation, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval,  kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis,  models, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing,  neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis,  pattern recognition, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins,  proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of  results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing,  sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, theoretical, therapy, time  factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, vehicle  emissions, 15792667 [lasso2005vessel]   andrãâ¡s lassó and emanuele trucco.
however, nine  acid-inducible genes are clustered in the gada region, including hdea, which  encodes a putative periplasmic chaperone, and four putative regulatory genes.
the features and problems in data mining are summarized in the last section.
bioinformatic analysis of these assemblies defined 232 distinct multiprotein  complexes and proposed new cellular roles for 344 proteins, including 231  proteins with no previous functional annotation.
comparison of the hms-pci data set with interactions reported in the literature revealed an average threefold higher success rate in detection of known complexes compared with large-scale two-hybrid studies.
med image anal,  9(1):69-86, feb 2005.
hence, accurate and correct diagnosis of the various leukemia subtypes becomes an important first step in the treatment process.
by  this, we obtain a sound framework and motivation for indefinite svms.
complementary high-throughput in vitro assays are essential for compound evaluation.
the techniques and statistical and bio-informatic tools involved in this process are reviewed.
these include several  transporters (slc21a2, slc15, slc34a2), kim 1, igfbp-1, osteopontin,  alpha-fibrinogen, and gstalpha.
if the task is realizable by the smc, the optimal performance is better than that of a hard margin support vector machine and is very close to that of a bayesian classifier.
when used to dock the  ligand back into the binding site, gold achieved a 71% success rate in  identifying the experimental binding mode.
for class ii mhc alleles,  the binding groove is open at both ends, causing ambiguity in the positional  alignment between the groove and peptide, as well as creating uncertainty as to  what parts of the peptide interact with the mhc.
keywords: drug design; endopeptidases; ligands; molecular  conformation; pharmaceutical preparations; phosphotransferases; protein  binding; protein folding; proteins; thermodynamics [ mestres2004computational]  jordi mestres.
to identify 85% of the epitopes in the hiv dataset, 9% and 10% of all possible nonamers in the hiv proteins must be tested when using the bimas and syfpeithi methods, respectively, for the selection of candidate epitopes.
algorithms based on primary sequence have had success in predicting potential antigenic peptides for mhci, but such algorithms have limited accuracy and provide no structural information.
v-atpases are conserved throughout eukaryotes, and have been  implicated in tumour metastasis and multidrug resistance, and here we show that  rave promotes glucose-triggered assembly of the v-atpase holoenzyme.
the total data acquired consisted of 750  images of immature and 250 images of mature class.
these properties include an adequate bioactivity as well as  adequate solubility, an ability to cross critical membranes (intestinal and  sometimes blood-brain barrier), reasonable metabolic stability and of course  safety in humans.
uncovering molecular mechanisms involved  in activation of g protein-coupled receptors.
[ bib ] aim: to predict the hla-a2-restricted ctl epitopes of tumor  antigens associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc).
in the first approach, the immunogenicity of potential epitopes ranging in mhc binding affinity over a 10,000-fold range was analyzed in hla-a*0201 transgenic mice.
full session logging is supported, which produces a vmd command script for later playback.
gene expression profiles were generated from kidney rna using 17k rat cdna dual dye microarray and analyzed in conjunction with histopathology.
performance of the gait classifier was evaluated using areas under the receiver operating characteristic plots.
it is unlikely that  all of these genes are involved in the glutamate-dependent ar.
eyes were classified into two groups: normal birefringence pattern (nbp) and atypical birefringence pattern (abp).
the proteins corresponding to  the spots were identified by mass spectrometry.
benchmark studies show that the evd model performs at least  two-orders faster and is more accurate than the non-parametric statistical  method in the previous soippa version.
267(5):1258-1267, apr 1997.
a bank of 65 660 compounds  including 49 known actives was generated.
keywords: animals, apoptosis, base composition, base pairing,  base sequence, binding sites, cell cycle, cell proliferation, comparative  study, cultured, cyclin b, cyclin d1, dna-binding proteins, down-regulation,  extramural, fluorescence, gene silencing, gene targeting, genetic vectors,  green fluorescent proteins, hela cells, humans, hydrogen bonding, luminescent  proteins, male, messenger, mice, microscopy, models, molecular, molecular  sequence data, n.i.h., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid conformation, nude, p.h.s.,  prostatic neoplasms, proto-oncogene proteins c-bcl-2, proto-oncogene proteins  c-myc, rna, regression analysis, research support, stat3 transcription factor,  small interfering, thromboplastin, trans-activators, tumor cells, u.s. gov't,  15110788 [kim2004emotion]  k. h. kim, s. w. bang,  and s. r. kim.
we tested the proposed method using a database of 76 clinical mammograms containing 1120 mcs.
this gp-based approach is used for bearing fault classification for the first  time and exhibits superior searching power over other techniques.
the svm was trained using 510 monitoring configuration samples generated from 200 monte carlo flow and transport realizations.
the techniques and statistical and  bio-informatic tools involved in this process are reviewed.
the algorithm encoded in stamp (structural alignment of multiple proteins) is shown to give alignments in good agreement with published structural accounts within the dehydrogenase fold domains, globins, and serine proteinases.
in other cases, additional model filtering with more sophisticated tools is needed.
trained neural networks, with global and regional hrt parameters used as input, improve on previously proposed hrt parameter-based ldfs for discriminating between glaucomatous and nonglaucomatous eyes.
[ bib  |doi | http ] multipred is a web-based computational system for the prediction  of peptide binding to multiple molecules (proteins) belonging to human  leukocyte antigens (hla) class i a2, a3 and class ii dr supertypes.
the best configurations of well networks selected by the svm were  identical with the ones obtained from the physical model, but the reliabilities  provided by the respective networks differ slightly.
it combines a novel  representation of peptide/mhc interactions with a hidden markov model as the  prediction algorithm.
the method used for generating  starting ligand geometries and positions may have an appreciable effect on  docking results.
to compare the ability of several machine learning classifiers to predict development of abnormal fields at follow-up in ocular hypertensive (oht) eyes that had normal visual fields in baseline examination.
[ bib ] adenomatous polyps in the colon are believed to be the precursor  to colorectal carcinoma, the second leading cause of cancer deaths in united  states.
here we report the identification, using sequential rounds of epitope tagging, affinity purification and mass spectrometry, of 16 skp1 and cdc53-associated proteins in budding yeast, including all components of scf, 9 fbps, yjr033 (rav1) and ydr202 (rav2).
a tm cavity could be  found for all investigated gpcrs with physicochemical properties matching that  of their cognate ligands.
we found that only  10% of  these are learnable (based on the rate of false negatives).
most of the growing networks that have been proposed in the literature add new nodes to support the node that has accumulated the highest error during previous iterations or to support topological structures.
in this paper we introduce the use of least squares support vector machines (ls-svm's) for the optimal control of nonlinear systems.
applications of several types of artificial neural networks to compound classification, modelling of structure-activity relationships, biological target identification, and feature extraction from biopolymers are presented and compared to other techniques.
the mean model rmsd generated from 3d-coffee using multiple templates is 15 and 28% (or using single templates, 3 and 13%) better than those generated by staccato and salign, respectively.
typically, a single, alternate, non-native binding mode exists that has a native-like energy.
[ bib ] purpose: to determine which machine learning classifier learns  best to interpret standard automated perimetry (sap) and to compare the best of  the machine classifiers with the global indices of statpac 2 and with experts  in glaucoma.
gene  expression phenotypic models that predict the activity of oncogenic pathways.
performance of the various classifiers was compared by the areas under their receiver operating characteristic curves and by sensitivities (true-positive rates) at chosen specificities (true-negative rates).
mfps were specifically designed to recognize compounds with similar activity.
the optimal learning curves of the smcs, which give the minimal  generalization error, are obtained by tuning the coefficient controlling the  trade-off between the error and the regularization terms in the cost function.
data were  collected from normal pregnant women at intervals of two weeks from the  gestation age of 24 to 38 weeks.
keywords: adult, aged, aging, algorithms, apoptosis, artificial  intelligence, automated, computer-assisted, female, foot, gait, gene expression  profiling, humans, image interpretation, male, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, pattern recognition, polymerase chain  reaction, proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity  and specificity, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15887532 [surgand2006chemogenomic]  jean-sebastien surgand, jordi rodrigo, esther  kellenberger, and didier rognan.
nature, 415(6868):141-7, jan  2002.
it is shown  that the systematic procedure for training proposed results on good  generalization neural models, and outperforms traditional methods.
eur j radiol, 54(1):80-9, apr 2005.
it can also improve the management level of hospital information and  promote the development of telemedicine and community medicine.
for almost all values of the parameter, this  enables us to predict how the decision surface varies for small parameter  changes.
proteomic snapshot analyses of preribosomal ribonucleoprotein  complexes formed at various stages of ribosome biogenesis in yeast and  mammalian cells.
the method, an extension  to the chemdiverse/chem-x software (oxford molecular, oxford, england), has  also been customized to enable a new internally referenced measure of  pharmacophore diversity.
the algorithm works by  obtaining a reduced set of solutions, from which the one with the best  generalization is selected.
keywords: algorithms; amino acid sequence; binding sites, drug  effects; drug design; hydrogen bonding; ligands; protein binding; sequence  alignment; structure-activity relationship [ moitessier2008towards]  n. moitessier, p. englebienne, d. lee,  j. lawandi, and c. r. corbeil.
results and conclusions:
evaluating the different homology modelling programs, on average modeller performs marginally better in overall modelling than the others tested.
multiple sequence alignments  are then generated by following the tree from the branches to the root.
keywords: abnormalities, adolescent, adult, aldosterone synthase, algorithms, amino acids, anatomic, animals, antibodies, arrhythmia, artificial intelligence, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylases, astrocytoma, automated, bacterial proteins, bayes theorem, bees, biological, biopsy, brain, brain mapping, brain neoplasms, breast neoplasms, calibration, cation exchange resins, child, chromatography, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, congenital, craniofacial abnormalities, cysteine, cystine, dna-binding proteins, data interpretation, databases, diagnosis, disease susceptibility, dysplastic nevus syndrome, electrocardiography, electrodes, electroencephalography, entropy, eosine yellowish-(ys), evoked potentials, expert systems, face, factual, false positive reactions, female, gene expression profiling, genetic predisposition to disease, genome, gram-negative bacteria, heart defects, heart rate, hematoxylin, high pressure liquid, horseradish peroxidase, humans, image interpretation, image processing, imagery (psychotherapy), imagination, imaging, infant, information storage and retrieval, intracellular space, ion exchange, laterality, linear models, male, mammography, melanoma, middle aged, models, monoclonal, movement, multiple, neoplasms, nerve net, neural networks (computer), neuropeptides, newborn, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonparametric, noonan syndrome, normal distribution, odds ratio, odors, olfactory bulb, p.h.s., pattern recognition, peptides, perception, polymorphism, preschool, principal component analysis, prognosis, protein, protein array analysis, protein interaction mapping, proteins, proto-oncogene proteins, radiographic image enhancement, radiographic image interpretation, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, risk, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence ana, sequence analysis, signal processing, single nucleotide, skin neoplasms, smell, software, statistical, statistics, syndrome, theoretical, three-dimensional, time factors, transcription factors, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, velopharyngeal insufficiency, world health organization, lysis, 15070507 multipred is a web-based computational system for the prediction of peptide binding to multiple molecules (proteins) belonging to human leukocyte antigens (hla) class i a2, a3 and class ii dr supertypes.
here we combine this  nanopore detector with a support vector machine (svm) to analyze dna hairpin  molecules on the millisecond time scale.
however, the core problem of the clinical evaluation of mammographic tumors remains a highly demanding cognitive task.
for each of  the studied compound classes, comparison of mfp bit settings identified a  consensus or signature pattern.
this is at  the expense of taking the trajectory of state variables as additional unknowns  in the optimization problem, while classical neural network approaches  typically lead to parametric optimization problems.
keywords: amino acid sequence; amino acids; binding sites;  electrostatics; humans; ligands; molecular sequence data; piperazines; protein  binding; protein kinase inhibitors; protein kinases; pyrazoles; pyrimidines;  sequence alignment; thermodynamics [seike2005proteomic]   m. seike, t. kondo, k. fujii, t. okano, t. yamada,  y. matsuno, a. gemma, s. kudoh, and s. hirohashi.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, databases, gene expression profiling, genetic, models, molecular structure, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, research support, software, statistical, transcription, 11836235 quantitative structure-retention relationship (qsrr) models are developed for the prediction of protein retention times in anion-exchange chromatography systems.
the input signals were electrocardiogram, skin temperature variation and electrodermal activity, all of which were acquired without much discomfort from the body surface, and can reflect the influence of emotion on the autonomic nervous system.
the grouping of hla alleles into supertypes on the basis of their  overlapping peptide-binding repertoires represents an alternative to serologic  or phylogenetic classification.
keywords: acute, algorithms, animals, anion exchange resins,  artificial intelligence, automated, base pair mismatch, base pairing, base  sequence, biological, biosensing techniques, carcinoma, chemical,  chromatography, classification, cluster analysis, comparative study,  computational biology, computer-assisted, cystadenoma, dna, decision making,  diagnosis, differential, drug, drug design, electrostatics, eukaryotic cells,  feasibility studies, female, gene expression, gene expression profiling, gene  expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans,  internet, ion exchange, leukemia, ligands, likelihood functions, logistic  models, lung neoplasms, lymphocytic, lymphoma, markov chains, mathematics,  messenger, models, molecular, molecular probe techniques, molecular sequence  data, nanotechnology, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks  (computer), non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid  conformation, nucleic acid hybridization, observer variation, oligonucleotide  array sequence analysis, ovarian neoplasms, p.h.s., pattern recognition,  probability, protein binding, protein conformation, proteins, quality control,  quantum theory, rna, rna splicing, receptors, reference values, regression  analysis, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence analysis, signal processing, software, statistical,  stomach neoplasms, thermodynamics, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't,  12444731 [schmitt2002new]  stefan schmitt, daniel kuhn, and  gerhard klebe.
as such we have benchmarked several  stand-alone strategies that could be implemented in a workflow for automated  high-throughput homology modelling.
the complexes are compared with each other to  establish their sequence and structural similarities and the relation between  the two.
[ bib  ] promiscuous t-cell epitopes make ideal targets for vaccine  development.
for comparison, our system outperforms the best published result by 7.8  on genia v1.1, without help of any dictionaries.
neural netw, 14(1):23-35, jan 2001.
finally, we present a  pattern-based post-processing to automatically extract rules from the training  data to deal with the cascaded entity name phenomenon.
this paper proposes an efficient algorithm to solve this problem.
next, we compare the xray structures to models obtained by threading the native sequence onto other, homologous complexes.
in this paper we introduce the  use of least squares support vector machines (ls-svm's) for the optimal control  of nonlinear systems.
instead of minimizing an intensity difference function between successive frames, svt maximizes the svm classification score.
integration of combinatorial chemistry with contemporary pharmacology now represents an important factor in drug discovery and development.
multipredis both sensitive and specific, and demonstrates high accuracy of peptide-binding predictions for hla-a*0201, *0204, and *0205 alleles, good accuracy for *0206 allele, and marginal accuracy for *0203 allele.
some aspects of the assessment of docking program performance are discussed.
following a technique commonly used in the comparison of small  molecule ligands, generic pseudocenters coding for possible interaction  properties were assigned for a large sample set of cavities extracted from the  entire pdb and stored in the database cavbase.
one goal was to evaluate the impact of chaining "freely available packages to academic users" on docking/scoring accuracy and cpu time consumption.
keywords: algorithms; animals; artificial intelligence; computer  simulation; drug evaluation, preclinical, methods; humans; metals, chemistry;  models, molecular; molecular conformation; nucleic acids, chemistry/drug  effects; proteins, chemistry/drug effects; reproducibility of results;  stochastic processes [launay2008homology]  guillaume launay  and thomas simonson.
various textural features were computed from the fetal lung and liver images.
for the purposes of this study, a mammographic image database was created, with complete clinical evaluation descriptions and positive histological verification for each case.
all tumors contained in the database were characterized according to the identified clinical features' set and the resulting dataset was used as input for discrimination and diagnostic value analysis for each one of these features.
using roc analysis to measure the discriminatory power of the methods shows that excellent results for specific classification problems in the domain of pigmented skin lesions can be achieved with machine-learning methods.
numerous studies have dealt with modeling the immunogenic pathway but not the intractable problem of immunogenicity prediction due to complex effects of many intrinsic and extrinsic factors.
the processes of class discovery (using clustering and self-organizing maps), class prediction (weighted voting, k nearest neighbour, support vector machines, and artificial neural networks), target identification (fold change, discriminant analysis, and principal component analysis), and target validation (rt-pcr and tissue microarrays) are described.
images were acquired at two centers located at different geographical locations.
the underlying complexity  of the diagnostic task has justified the high value of sophisticated pattern  recognition architectures.
using a different approach, we have derived substitution matrices from about 2000 blocks of aligned sequence segments characterizing more than 500 groups of related proteins.
the created features are then used as the inputs to a neural classifier for the identification of six bearing conditions.
[ bib ] g protein-coupled, seven-transmembrane segment receptors (gpcrs  or 7tm receptors), with more than 1000 different members, comprise the largest  superfamily of proteins in the body.
because a3-like supertype alleles are found in most  major hla evolutionary lineages, possibly a reflection of common ancestry, the  a3-like supermotif might in fact represent a primeval human hla class i  peptide-binding specificity.
however, the core problem of the clinical  evaluation of mammographic tumors remains a highly demanding cognitive task.
bioinformatics, 20(7):1178-90, may 2004.
keywords: drug design; endopeptidases; ligands; molecular conformation; pharmaceutical preparations; phosphotransferases; protein binding; protein folding; proteins; thermodynamics chemogenomics, the identification of all possible drugs for all possible targets, has recently emerged as a new paradigm in drug discovery in which efficiency in the compound design and optimization process is achieved through the gain and reuse of targeted knowledge.
in  order for these automated diagnostic systems to perform in levels of  sensitivity and specificity similar to that of human experts, it is essential  that a robust framework on problem-specific design parameters is formulated.
however, they are hard to interpret due to missing geometrical and theoretical understanding.
working paper 01-08-041.
however, there is no single combination which gives a consistently high performance for all search types.
a total of 85 cdna microarray experiments representing 78 cancers, three fibroadenomas, and four normal breast tissues were analyzed by hierarchical clustering.
the method used for generating starting ligand geometries and positions may have an appreciable effect on docking results.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated,  b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes  theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell  compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification,  codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination  learning, electric conductivity, electroencephalography, electrophysiology,  epilepsy, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric  emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes,  genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genomics,  hemolysins, humans, indians, information storage and retrieval, initiator, ion  channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood functions, linear models, lipid  bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov chains, melanoma,  models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic, neural networks  (computer), neurological, nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear  dynamics, normal distribution, north american, nucleic acid conformation,  oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, organ specificity, organelles, ovarian  neoplasms, ovary, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive  value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein biosynthesis, protein  folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of  results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and  specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sex characteristics, skin  diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, sound spectrography,  statistical, stochastic processes, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes,  thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, type 2,  u.s. gov't, vertebrates, 11058693 [kim2001evolving]   j. kim, p.l. krapivsky, b. kahng, and s. redner.
[ lazo2000combinatorial]  j. s. lazo and p. wipf.
this has been demonstrated by unsupervised clustering of co-expressed genes and, more importantly, by supervised learning algorithms.
ground water,  43(3):413-22, 2005.
widely  used methods typically rank genes according to their differential expressions  among phenotypes and pick the top-ranked genes.
antisense nucleic acid.
in order to reduce the need for visual verification, two similarity indices are introduced to determine the quality of each generated structural alignment.
in this paper, we report the development of a prediction method  based on a support machine vector algorithm.
the results of the clustering are transparent across all implemented methods and enable the analysis of the outcome of different algorithms and parameters.
high performance of popi arises mainly from an inheritable bi-objective genetic algorithm, which aims to automatically determine the best number m out of 531 physicochemical properties, identify these m properties and tune svm parameters simultaneously.
we have clearly moved the assessment of in vitro absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity (adme/tox) parameters much earlier in the discovery organization than a decade ago with the inclusion of higher throughput systems.
on the basis of the trends observed, thresholds for the acceptable  strain energies of bioactive conformations were defined with consideration of  the impact of ligand flexibility.
recent data also indicate that it is highly flexible, and one receptor may recognize thousands of different peptides.
3d-coffee gives equivalent modelling accuracy from multiple and single templates, but staccato and salign are more successful with single templates, their quality deteriorating as additional lower sequence identity templates are added.
common to all of this research is a basic process of data gathering and analysis.
if the ligand is flexible, it can adopt a large variety of different conformations.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] rna and dna strands produce ionic current signatures when driven  through an alpha-hemolysin channel by an applied voltage.
basis pursuit denoising is a sparse approximation technique in which a function is reconstructed by using a small number of basis functions chosen from a large set (the dictionary).
second, the methods of continuum electrostatics are used to characterize the energetic contribution of each residue in a protein to the binding of its substrate.
j biomed inform, 34(1):28-36, feb 2001.
the method was implemented in a new program (sitealign)  and tested in a number of various scenarios: measuring the distance between 376  related active site pairs, computing the cross-similarity of members of a  protein family, predicting the targets of ligands with various promiscuity  levels.
a preliminary multiple sequence alignment is performed using sequence information, which then determines an initial superposition of the structures.
keywords: affinity labels, animals, comparative study, electrospray ionization, genetic, macromolecular substances, mass, mitosis, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., protein interaction mapping, proteome, proteomics, research support, ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, signal transduction, spectrometry, transcription, u.s. gov't, 12949916 here, we present an approach for the prediction of binding preferences of members of a large protein family for which structural information for a number of family members bound to a substrate is available.
how can, for example, so many chemically diverse hormones, neurotransmitters, and other signaling molecules activate receptors believed to share a similar overall tertiary structure?
the two methods are complementary, and both are superior  to sequence motifs.
for example, binding pocket shape analysis relies heavily on the correct localization of the ligand binding site.
fields were  classified as normal or abnormal based on statpac-like methods (humphrey  instruments, dublin, ca) and
importantly, correct identifications showed unambiguous  "correct" score patterns.
nature, 415(6868):180-3, jan 2002.
these techniques allow large-scale screening of the protein complement of simple organisms, or tissues in normal and disease states.
neural netw, 18(3):251-9, apr 2005.
with all the hrt parameters used as input, receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves were generated for the classification of eyes, by three neural network techniques: linear and gaussian support vector machines (svm linear and svm gaussian, respectively) and a multilayer perceptron (mlp), as well as four previously proposed linear discriminant functions (ldfs) and one ldf developed on the current data with all hrt parameters used as input.
support vector tracking.
moreover, the antigenic  peptides have variable lengths, making naive modelling methods difficult to  apply.
in reality, the boundary of the binding site is not known or is dependent on the bound ligand making these approaches limited.
these nonamers may be useful in the  design of therapeutic peptide vaccine for hcc and as immunotherapeutic  strategies against hcc after identified by immunology experiment.
2-d dige achieves more accurate quantification of protein expression by using highly sensitive fluorescence dyes to label the cysteine residues of proteins prior to two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
[ bib ] eeg spike and wave (sw) activity has been described through a  non-parametric stochastic model estimated by the nadaraya-watson (nw) method.
these nonamers may be useful in the design of therapeutic peptide vaccine for hcc and as immunotherapeutic strategies against hcc after identified by immunology experiment.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, automated, cell  nucleus, comparative study, computer graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm,  databases, genetic vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation,  imaging, information storage and retrieval, internet, mitochondria, models,  movement, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, peptides,  protein, proteins, proteomics, reproducibility of results, research support,  sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, software, subtraction  technique, theoretical, three-dimensional, video recording, 15641735 [zhou2004recognizing]  guodong zhou, jie zhang, jian su,  dan shen, and chewlim tan.
we show that from the tap approach,  it is possible to derive both a simpler "naive" mean-field theory and  support vector machines (svms) as limiting cases.
the original feature set  was enhanced by the addition of four rule-based features.
starting from user-defined ligand binding sites, eight topological and physicochemical properties are projected from cavity-lining protein residues to an 80 triangle-discretised sphere placed at the centre of the binding site, thus defining a cavity fingerprint.
the implementation of svmhc is quite simple and does  not involve any manual steps, therefore as more data become available it is  trivial to provide prediction for more mhc types.
this  approach allows the comparison of protein structures or substructures and  detects local spatial similarities: this method is completely independent from  the amino acid sequence and from the backbone structure.
[ bib ] chemogenomics is a new strategy in drug discovery which, in  principle, searches for all molecules that are capable of interacting with any  biological target.
the goal of the present review is to  specifically address these questions as well as to depict the current awareness  about gpcr structure-function relationships in general.
biol., 334(4):823-841, dec 2003.
the theory also yields an approximate leave-one-out estimator for the generalization error, which is computed with no extra computational cost.
the classification accuracy obtained for the testing set ranges from  73% to 96%.
alternatively, a search form allowing  detailed specification of which mutants to retrieve may be used, for example,  to search for specific amino acid substitutions, substitutions in specific  protein domains or reported biological effects.
our data show that the trajectories reach  odor-specific steady states (attractors) that correspond to stable activity  patterns at about 1 second after stimulus onset.
prediction of hla-a2-restricted ctl epitope  specific to hcc by syfpeithi combined with polynomial method.
the new network is compared to an existing growing network, the growing neural gas (gng), on a artificial dataset, showing how the network deals with a change in input distribution after some time.
here, we discuss the different ways in which microarray analysis is likely to affect drug discovery.
instead of  minimizing an intensity difference function between successive frames, svt  maximizes the svm classification score.
[ bib | doi | http ] keywords: binding sites; drug design; ligands; models,  molecular; protein binding; proteins, chemistry; quantitative  structure-activity relationship [kubinyi2006chemogenomics]   h. kubinyi.
the proposed method has been implemented in three stages: (a) the cluster detection stage to identify clusters of microcalcifications, (b) the feature extraction stage to compute the important features of each cluster and (c) the classification stage, which provides with the final characterization.
the network reveals highly connected proteins, which represent suitable targets for promiscuous drugs.
u. s. a. , 98(19):10869-10874, sep 2001.
[ bib ] support vector machines (svms) perform pattern recognition  between two point classes by finding a decision surface determined by certain  points of the training set, termed support vectors (sv).
the purpose of this study was to classify breast carcinomas based on variations in gene expression patterns derived from cdna microarrays and to correlate tumor characteristics to clinical outcome.
by protein sequencing analysis, 20 of the 27 proteins were correctly identified.
for fair comparison, programs must be given search problems of equal complexity (e.g. binding-site regions of the same size) and approximately equal time in which to solve them.
the one major difference between the two strategies is that rnase  h-dependent oligonucleotides were determined to be active when directed against  targets in the pre-mrna, whereas sirnas were not.
placement of medium-sized  molecular fragments into active sites of proteins.
on average, the  predicted lowest free energy structure contains 73 % of known base-pairs when  domains of fewer than 700 nt are folded; this compares with 64 % accuracy for  previous versions of the algorithm and parameters.
in this paper, a gp-based approach is developed for feature extraction from raw vibration data recorded from a rotating machine with six different conditions.
in this paper, we propose a new method for computer-aided detection of polyps in computed tomography (ct) colonography (virtual colonoscopy), a technique in which polyps are imaged along the wall of the air-inflated, cleansed colon with x-ray ct.
keywords: algorithms, cell nucleus, cytoplasm, databases,  genetic vectors, humans, internet, mitochondria, models, non-u.s. gov't,  peptides, protein, proteins, proteomics, reproducibility of results, research  support, software, theoretical, 15647112 [ bagga2005quantitative]  harmohina bagga, david s greenfield, and  william j feuer.
[ bib | doi |  http ] a protocol was devised in which fred, dock, and surflex were  combined in a multistep virtual ligand screening (vls) procedure to screen the  pocket of four different proteins.
the acid-induced genes represented only five functional grouping categories, including eight genes involved in metabolism, nine associated with cell envelope structures or modifications, two encoding chaperones, six regulatory genes, and six unknown genes.
keywords: alleles; amino acid sequence; cell line, transformed; consensus sequence; epitopes; genes, mhc class i; hla-b antigens; hla-c antigens; humans; molecular sequence data; peptide fragments; protein binding; protein structure, tertiary; structure-activity relationship; substrate specificity separation and identification of proteins by two-dimensional (2-d) electrophoresis can be used for protein-based gene expression analysis.
the svm score is highly predictive of abp images.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, brain, cell surface, chromosomes, clinical, cluster analysis, colonic polyps, colonography, comparative study, computational biology, computed tomographic, computer-assisted, databases, diagnosis, differential, drug design, factual, false negative reactions, female, gtp-binding proteins, gene expression profiling, genetic, genetic markers, genetic predisposition to disease, genotype, glaucoma, human, humans, image cytometry, image processing, imaging, internet, karyotyping, learning, male, mathematical computing, middle aged, models, molecular sequence data, molecular structure, multigene family, n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferases, neoplasms, neural networks (computer), neurons, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, nucleic acid hybridization, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, optic nerve, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, pharmacology, phenotype, photography, pred, principal component analysis, programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, roc curve, radiographic image interpretation, receptors, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, software, statistical, structure-activity relationship, subcellular fractions, substrate specificity, theoretical, thermodynamics, three-dimensional, tomography, transcription, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, visual, visual fields, x-ray computed, ictive value of tests, 11574964
the amino acid sequences of receptors for which mutation experiments have been reported were aligned, and from this alignment mutation data may be retrieved.
on the basis of the trends observed, thresholds for the acceptable strain energies of bioactive conformations were defined with consideration of the impact of ligand flexibility.
thirty-five candidates of ctl epitopes (nonamers) derived from the primary prediction results were selected by analyzing with the polynomial method and compared with reported ctl epitopes.
we motivate the need for extending learning  theory of scalar-valued functions by practical considerations and establish  some basic results for learning vector-valued functions that should prove  useful in applications.
proteins, 14(2):309-323, oct  1992.
the curse of dimensionality is avoided in comparison with defining a regular  grid for the centers in classical radial basis function networks.
it is also possible that these phenomena might be  related to optimal exploitation of the peptide specificity by human tap  molecules.
additional algorithmic improvements include reduced search time and storage for  multibranch loop free energies and improved imposition of folding constraints.
currently, the treatment of pediatric all is centered on tailoring the  intensity of the therapy applied to a patient's risk of relapse, which is  linked to the type of leukemia the patient has.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, automated, cell nucleus, comparative study, computer graphics, computer-assisted, cytoplasm, databases, genetic vectors, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, imaging, information storage and retrieval, internet, mitochondria, models, movement, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, peptides, protein, proteins, proteomics, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, software, subtraction technique, theoretical, three-dimensional, video recording, 15641735 motivation:
because in most (but not all) cases, high affinity peptides seem to be immunogenic, our data also suggest that holes in the functional t cell repertoire, if they exist, may be relatively rare.
for delineating toxicophores, a novel pattern-recognition method that utilizes substructures within a molecule has been developed.
a parallel mixture of svms for very large scale problems.
the ce-ms data from the serum samples were divided into separate training and test sets.
nbs1 protein expression was assessed by quantitative immunohistochemistry in 49 primary uveal melanomas.
an evaluation of automated homology modelling methods  at low target template sequence similarity.
non-p.h.s., non-small-cell lung, non-u.s. gov't, normal distribution, nucleic acid hybridization, ocular hypertension, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, oncogenes, optic disk, optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, perimetry, photography, phylogeny, polymerase chain reaction, protein, protein structure, proteins, reproducibility of results, research suppor, research support, ribosomal proteins, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, sequence homology, soft tissue neoplasms, software, solvents, statistical, subcellular fractions, theoretical, tumor suppressor, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, vision disorders, visual fields, kappa-chain, t, 15165393 modern medicine generates a great deal of information stored in the medical database.
dev., 13(2):83-105, apr  2003.
an alternative formulation as a constrained nonlinear optimization problem in less unknowns is given, together with a method for imposing local stability in the ls-svm control scheme.
[ bib ] chemogenomics, the identification of all possible drugs for all  possible targets, has recently emerged as a new paradigm in drug discovery in  which efficiency in the compound design and optimization process is achieved  through the gain and reuse of targeted knowledge.
[ bib | doi | http ] prediction of which peptides can bind major histocompatibility  complex (mhc) molecules is commonly used to assist in the identification of t  cell epitopes.
we have developed  surfnet-consurf, a modular, two-stage method for identifying the location and  shape of potential ligand binding pockets in protein structures.
in the transformed space, linear properties make it easy to extend and generalize the classical linear discriminant analysis (lda) to nonlinear discriminant analysis.
the energy function was then tested for its ability to  identify experimental structures among sets of decoys, produced by a simple  threading procedure.
the detected similarity is ranked according to  property-based surface patches shared in common by the different clique  solutions.
in the classification stage, a rule-based system, an  artificial neural network (ann) and a support vector machine (svm) have been  implemented and evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (roc)  analysis.
for comparison, our system outperforms the best published result by 7.8 on genia v1.1, without help of any dictionaries.
experiments with 10 small datasets, for which both structural and biological activity data are available, suggest that the most cost-effective technique is based on a mapping procedure that tries to match pairs of atoms, one from each of the molecules that are being compared, that have neighbouring atoms at approximately the same distances.
in the svm methodology the  number of unknowns equals the number of training data, while in the primal  space the number of unknowns can be infinite dimensional.
this paper describes experiments in which data  fusion is used to combine several binary similarity coefficients to get an  overall estimate of similarity for searching databases of bioactive molecules.
detection and analysis of  statistical differences in anatomical shape.
this review gives an introduction into ligand - receptor docking and illustrates the basic underlying concepts.
[ bib | doi  |http | .pdf ] kernel methods are becoming increasingly popular for various  kinds of machine learning tasks, the most famous being the support vector  machine (svm) for classification.
many processes in molecular biology involve the recognition of short sequences of nucleic-or amino acids, such as the binding of immunogenic peptides to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules.
prog biophys mol biol, 70(3):175-222,  1998.
data for 203 synthesized peptides is available at  http://linus.nci.nih.gov/data/lau203_peptide.pdf keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigen, antigen  presentation, antigen-antibody complex, artificial intelligence, autoimmune  diseases, autoimmunity, bacterial proteins, cd4-positive t-lymphocytes, cell  proliferation, cells, clone cells, cluster analysis, conserved sequence, cross  reactions, cultured, cytokines, databases, epitope mapping, epitopes, gene  products, genetic, hiv-1, hla-dq antigens, hla-dr2 antigen, haplotypes,  helper-inducer, hemagglutination, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans,  k562 cells, molecular mimicry, molecular sequence data, multiple sclerosis,  myelin proteins, neural networks (computer), orthomyxoviridae, peptide library,  peptides, protein, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, roc curve,  receptors, relapsing-remitting, reproducibility of results, reverse  transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, sensitivity and specificity, sequence  analysis, structure-activity relationship, t-cell, t-lymphocyte, t-lymphocytes,  torque teno virus, viral, viral proteins, gag, 14555632 [ waterman2003transcriptional]  scott r waterman and p. l c small.
in this paper, we present a named entity recognition system in the biomedical  domain, called powerbione.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms, amino acid sequence, artificial intelligence, automated, b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, cell compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision trees, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins, factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling, gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, hemolysins, humans, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, male, markov chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplastic, neural networks (computer), nevus, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nonlinear dynamics, normal distribution, nucleic acid conformation, organ specificity, organelles, p.h.s., pattern recognition, physical, pigmented, predictive value of tests, promoter regions (genetics), protein folding, protein structure, proteins, proteome, rna, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces cerevisiae, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, sex characteristics, skin diseases, skin neoplasms, skin pigmentation, software, statistical, stomach diseases, t-lymphocytes, thermodynamics, transcription, transcription factors, tumor markers, u.s. gov't, 11213211 scf ubiquitin ligases are composed of skp1, cdc53, hrt1 and one member of a large family of substrate receptors known as f-box proteins (fbps).
thus, our results provide a distinct view of the interactions that link proteins into a comprehensive cellular network.
thirty-five candidates of ctl epitopes (nonamers) derived  from the primary prediction results were selected by analyzing with the  polynomial method and compared with reported ctl epitopes.
the performance of different svms is evaluated on the mit-bih arrhythmia database following the association for the advancement of medical instrumentation (aami) recommendations.
although the features were carefully extracted, their  distribution formed a classification problem, with large overlap among clusters  and large variance within clusters.
the approach described in this work is quite general and can, in  principle, be used to analyze binding preferences of members of large protein  families for which structural information for a number of family members is  available.
with the continual pressure to ensure follow-up molecules to billion dollar blockbuster drugs, there is a hurdle in profitability and growth for pharmaceutical companies in the next decades.
usa, 89(22):10915-10919, nov  1992.
rev. lett. 82, 2975 (1999)] in the thermodynamic limit.
toxicol pathol, 33(3):343-55, 2005.
keywords: algorithms, automated, biometry, computers, dna,  databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins, gtp-binding proteins, gene  expression, genes, learning, markov chains, models, neural networks (computer),  neurological, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid hybridization, open  reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure,  proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical,  tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9698353 [pontil1998properties]   m. pontil and a. verri.
survival was assessed using kaplan-meier life-table analysis.
to account for large motions between successive frames, we build pyramids from the support vectors and use a coarse-to-fine approach in the classification stage.
prediction of protein retention times in anion-exchange chromatography systems  using support vector regression.
keywords: 80 and over, acid-base imbalance, acute, acute disease, adolescent, adult, african americans, aged, anemia, animals, anti-hiv agents, anti-infective agents, antibiotics, antibodies, antineoplastic, antineoplastic agents, antineoplastic combined chemotherapy protocols, antitubercular agents, aorta, asparaginase, autoimmune, b-cell, bangladesh, bicarbonates, biological markers, blood glucose, california, camptothecin, cellulitis, chorionic gonadotropin, chronic disease, ciprofloxacin, clinical protocols, colorectal neoplasms, combination, comparative study, daunorubicin, decision trees, dexamethasone, diabetes mellitus, dideoxynucleosides, directly observed therapy, disease transmission, drug administration schedule, drug resistance, drug therapy, english abstract, female, fluorouracil, follow-up studies, glucose tolerance test, glucosephosphate dehydrogenase, glyburide, hiv infections, hiv-1, health planning, health resources, helminth, hemolysis, hemolytic, hormonal, hospital mortality, human, humans, hypoglycemic agents, immunoglobulin m, in vitro, incidence, indinavir, insulin, intensive care units, interstitial, lactates, leucovorin, leukemia, male, maternal age, middle aged, motor activity, multidrug-resistant, mutation, nephritis, non-u.s. gov't, organoplatinum compounds, pennsylvania, phytotherapy, plant extracts, plant leaves, population dynamics, potassium channels, prednisone, pregnancy, pregnancy outcome, prenatal, prenatal care, progesterone, prognosis, prospective studies, pulmonary, rabbits, randomized controlled trials, rats, research support, retrospective studies, risk assessment, scalp dermatoses, schistosomiasis japonica, severity of illness index, spondylarthropathies, streptozocin, survival rate, trauma centers, trauma severity indices, tubal, tuberculosis, type 2, ultrasonography, vertical, vincristine, viral, viral load, wistar, wounds and injuries, ziziphus, beta subunit, 12653506 an innovative bioinformatic method has been designed and implemented to detect similar three-dimensional (3d) sites in proteins.
in particular, our  system achieves the f-measure of 75.8 on the "protein" class of genia  v3.0.
recent data also indicate that it is highly  flexible, and one receptor may recognize thousands of different peptides.
keywords: algorithms, automated, biometry, computers, dna,  databases, factual, fungal, fungal proteins, gtp-binding proteins, gene  expression, genes, learning, markov chains, models, neural networks (computer),  neurological, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nucleic acid hybridization, open  reading frames, p.h.s., pattern recognition, protein, protein structure,  proteins, reproducibility of results, research support, saccharomyces  cerevisiae, sequence alignment, sequence analysis, software, statistical,  tertiary, u.s. gov't, 9698352 [girosi1998equivalence]   girosi.
keywords: animals, binding sites, chemical, combinatorial  chemistry techniques, computational biology, computer graphics, computer  simulation, databases, drug, drug design, drug evaluation, enzyme inhibitors,  factor xa, factual, humans, indicators and reagents, ligands, models,  molecular, molecular conformation, phosphotransferases (alcohol group  acceptor), preclinical, protein, protein binding, receptor protein-tyrosine  kinases, receptors, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, serine endopeptidases,  software, structure-activity relationship, user-computer interface, 10464012 [debouck1999dna]  c. debouck and p. n.  goodfellow.
za zhi,  22(1):78-81, feb 2005.
[ bib ] we derive a new general representation for a function as a  linear combination of local correlation kernels at optimal sparse locations  (and scales) and characterize its relation to principal component analysis,  regularization, sparsity principles, and support vector machines.
thus, the method holds  promise for wide applicability in toxicity prediction.
keywords: amino acids; bacterial proteins; blood proteins; databases, factual; electrophoresis, gel, two-dimensional; escherichia coli; humans; microchemistry; molecular weight; multienzyme complexes; proteins; reproducibility of results; software; time factors an hla-a3-like supertype (minimally comprised of products from the hla class i alleles a3, a11, a31, a*3301, and a*6801) has been defined on the basis of (a) structural similarities in the antigen-binding groove, (b) shared main anchor peptide-binding motifs, (c) the identification of peptides cross-reacting with most or all of these molecules, and (d) the definition of an a3-like supermotif that efficiently predicts highly cross-reactive peptides.
a review of recent comparisons shows that it is difficult to draw conclusions of general applicability.
the present protocol could process the entire bank for one receptor in less than a week on one processor, suggesting that vls experiments could be performed even without large computer resources.
keywords: acute, acute disease, adenocarcinoma, algorithms,  amino acid sequence, animals, artificial intelligence, automated,  b-lymphocytes, bacterial proteins, base pair mismatch, base sequence, bayes  theorem, binding sites, biological, bone marrow cells, brachyura, cell  compartmentation, chemistry, child, chromosome aberrations, classification,  codon, colonic neoplasms, comparative study, computational biology, computer  simulation, computer-assisted, dna, data interpretation, databases, decision  trees, diabetes mellitus, diagnosis, discriminant analysis, discrimination  learning, electric conductivity, electrophysiology, escherichia coli proteins,  factual, feedback, female, fungal, gastric emptying, gene expression profiling,  gene expression regulation, genes, genetic, genetic markers, genetic  predisposition to disease, genomics, hemolysins, humans, indians, information  storage and retrieval, initiator, ion channels, kinetics, leukemia, likelihood  functions, lipid bilayers, logistic models, lymphocytic, medline, male, markov  chains, melanoma, models, molecular, myeloid, neoplasm, neoplasms, neoplastic,  neural networks (computer),
the algorithm encoded in stamp (structural alignment of  multiple proteins) is shown to give alignments in good agreement with published  structural accounts within the dehydrogenase fold domains, globins, and serine  proteinases.
this work aims to develop computational methods to  annotate protein structures in an automated fashion.
keywords: algorithms, binding sites, computer simulation,  crystallography, genetic, humans, ligands, models, molecular, nadp, protein  binding, protein conformation, proteins, tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, x-ray,  9126849 [gulukota1997two]  k. gulukota,  j. sidney, a. sette, and c. delisi.
thermodynamic parameters for the stabilities of secondary structure motifs are revised to include expanded sequence dependence as revealed by recent experiments.
linear and neural full static state feedback controllers are considered.
mass spectrom rev, 22(5):287-317, 2003.
we found that only 10% of these are learnable (based on the rate of false negatives).
many processes in molecular biology involve the  recognition of short sequences of nucleic-or amino acids, such as the binding  of immunogenic peptides to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules.
a support vector machine was adopted as a  pattern classifier to resolve this difficulty.
in this letter, we provide a study of learning in a hilbert space of vectorvalued functions.
generalization  properties of finite-size polynomial support vector machines.
the  method is based on a representation of the protein structures by a collection  of spin-images and their associated spin-image profiles.
the energy function was then tested for its ability to identify experimental structures among sets of decoys, produced by a simple threading procedure.
[  bib | doi | http ] a vast majority of pharmacological compounds and their  metabolites are excreted via the urine, and within the complex structure of the  kidney,the proximal tubules are a main target site of nephrotoxic compounds.
preprocessing and feature extraction methods  were devised so that emotion-specific characteristics could be extracted from  short-segment signals.
next, lung cancer cells  isolated from tumor tissue by laser microdissection were classified on the  basis of the expression pattern of these 32 protein spots.
a network that can add nodes into its map space can approximate the input space more accurately, and often more parsimoniously, than a network with predefined structure and size, such as the self-organising map.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acid  sequence, amino acids, analysis of variance, animals, area under curve,  artifacts, automated, bacteriophage t4, base sequence, biological,  birefringence, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, cell cycle proteins,  comparative study, computational biology, computer-assisted, cornea,  cross-sectional studies, databases, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic  imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, extramural,  face, female, gene expression profiling, genetic, glaucoma, humans,  immunohistochemistry, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis,  likelihood functions, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance  spectroscopy, male, markov chains, melanoma, middle aged, models, molecular,  mutation, n.i.h., nerve fibers, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, nuclear proteins,  nucleic acid, nucleic acid conformation, numerical analysis, oligonucleotide  array sequence analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical  coherence, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, polymorphism,  prognosis, prospective studies, protein, protein structure, proteins, rna, roc  curve, regression analysis, reproducibility of results, research support,  retinal ganglion cells, secondary, sensitivity and specificity, sequence  analysis, single nucleotide, single-stranded conformational, software,  statistics, survival analysis, tertiary, tomography, tumor markers, u.s. gov't,  untranslated, uveal neoplasms, visual fields, beta-lactamases, 15756009 [dong2005fast]  jian xiong dong, adam krzyzak, and  ching y suen.
in this paper the performance of the nw, the local linear polynomial regression and support vector machines (svm) methods were compared.
this study proposes a computational method to mine a  feature set of informative physicochemical properties from mhc class i binding  peptides to design a support vector machine (svm) based system (named popi) for  the prediction of peptide immunogenicity.
these  problems become magnified with automatic modelling processes, as there is no  human input to correct mistakes.
to account for large motions between  successive frames, we build pyramids from the support vectors and use a  coarse-to-fine approach in the classification stage.
to show the relevance of this approach, we focused on  two extreme examples illustrating convergent and divergent evolution.
thirty-two percent (36/114) of the eyes converted to abnormal fields during follow-up based on the statpac-like methods.
confident predictions of  binding preference can be made for about 85% of sh2 domain sequences found in  swissprot.
keywords: amino acid sequence; binding sites; genomics; humans; ligands; models, molecular; phylogeny; receptors, g-protein-coupled background:
mfps were  specifically designed to recognize compounds with similar activity.
subsequently, the selected features were used to produce an ensemble of nonlinear svm regression models that were combined using bootstrap aggregation (bagging) techniques, where various combinations of training and validation data sets were selected from the pool of available data.
the method is applied to  classification and regression problems and compared with weight decay (wd),  support vector machines (svms) and standard backpropagation (bp).
to determine whether positions on  target rna identified as being susceptible for rnase h-mediated degradation  would be coincident with sirna target sites, we evaluated the effectiveness of  sirnas designed to bind the same position on the target mrna as rnase  h-dependent oligonucleotides.
our procedure is successful because  docking/scoring parameters are tuned according to the nature of the binding  pocket and because a shape-based filtering tool is applied prior to flexible  docking.
the results suggest that the simple  modelling procedure applied here could help identify and characterize  protein-protein complexes.
multiple  protein sequence alignment from tertiary structure comparison: assignment of  global and residue confidence levels.
[ bib ] we consider a new neural network for data discrimination in  pattern recognition applications.
chem., 278(9):7108-18, feb 2003.
these problems become magnified with automatic modelling processes, as there is no human input to correct mistakes.
hence, this paper proposed the use of a novel neural fuzzy system: the generic self-organising fuzzy neural network (gensofnn) with truth-value restriction (tvr) fuzzy inference, as a fuzzy dss (denoted as genso-fdss) for the classification of all subtypes using gene expression data.
a pattern-recognition/feature-selection algorithm based  on support vector machines was used to select the mass-to-charge (m/z) values  from the training set data that distinguished the two groups of samples from  each other.
the ability of svm to out perform several well-known methods developed for the widely studied problem of mc detection suggests that svm is a promising technique for object detection in a medical imaging application.
we report the  development and validation of the program gold (genetic optimisation for ligand  docking).
we formulate mc detection as a supervised-learning problem and apply svm to develop the detection algorithm.
the second result is taken as strong support for  the internal consistency of the mean-field approach.
for class ii mhc alleles, the binding groove is open at both ends, causing ambiguity in the positional alignment between the groove and peptide, as well as creating uncertainty as to what parts of the peptide interact with the mhc.
we sought to connect features of  gene expression data with biological hypotheses by integrating 'metagene'  patterns from dna microarray experiments in the characterization and prediction  of oncogenic phenotypes.
here we use a recently  developed shape matching method to compare the shapes of protein binding  pockets to the shapes of their ligands.
here we  present, for the first time, the comprehensive application of supervised neural  networks (snns) for functional annotation.
only one in 100 to 200 potential binders actually binds to a certain mhc molecule, therefore a good prediction method for mhc class i binding peptides can reduce the number of candidate binders that need to be synthesized and tested.
the present review  aims to show what tools exist today for visualizing and modeling adme/tox data,  what tools need to be developed, and how both the present and future tools are  valuable for virtual filtering using adme/tox and bioactivity properties in  parallel as a viable addition to present practices.
here, we present an algorithm, pepssi (peptide-mhc prediction of structure through solvated interfaces), for the prediction of peptide structure when bound to the mhci molecule, hla-a2.
the method improves  performance over existing state-of-the-art methods of mhc class ii peptide  binding predictions by using a custom, knowledge-based representation of  peptides.
we propose a  minimum redundancy - maximum relevance (mrmr) feature selection framework.
use of gene expression data in  predicting the type of nephrotoxicity was then tested with a support vector  machine (svm)-based approach.
j comput  aided mol des, 16(5-6):381-401, 2002.
the prediction success is even  higher for the set of 14 peptide-hla a0201 complexes: 100% of the peptides have  main-chain rmsd values < or =1.00 angstroms and 93% of the peptides have  heavy atom rmsd values < or =1.50 angstroms.
residues that make a significant contribution are mapped onto the protein sequence and are used to define a "binding site signature" for the complex being considered.
a comparison of machine learning methods for the diagnosis of  pigmented skin lesions.
the availability of screening data including those in organized databases greatly facilitates exploration of newer computational approaches.
this is to achieve an unbiased analysis of the data and also partly to handle the large amount of genetic information extracted from the dna microarrays.
the underlying theory is close to the support vector machines (svm) insofar as the gda method provides a mapping of the input vectors into high-dimensional feature space.
a closer analysis reveals that false positives (and negatives) in a machine-learning context are not necessarily "false" in a biological sense.
bmc bioinformatics, 6(1):7, jan 2005.
rav1, rav2 and skp1 form a complex that we have named 'regulator of the (h+)-atpase of the vacuolar and endosomal membranes' (rave), which associates with the v1 domain of the vacuolar membrane (h+)-atpase (v-atpase).
we term this the "borges effect" and introduce two new numerical indices for its quantification.
generating quantitative models describing the  sequence specificity of biological processes with the stabilized matrix method.
keywords: algorithms, artificial intelligence, cluster analysis,  comparative study, computational biology, databases, gene expression profiling,  genetic, models, molecular structure, neural networks (computer), non-u.s.  gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, principal component analysis,  programming languages, promoter regions (genetics), protein, proteins, research  support, software, statistical, transcription, 11836235 [ song2002prediction]  minghu song, curt m breneman, jinbo bi,  n. sukumar, kristin p bennett, steven cramer, and nihal tugcu.
for almost all values of the parameter, this enables us to predict how the decision surface varies for small parameter changes.
the results support the hypothesis of a spatial olfactory code in the antennal lobe and suggest a perceptron-like readout mechanism that is biologically implemented in a downstream network, such as the mushroom body.
also, we describe, for the first time, an effective way to combine the  individual predictors, at will, to a single consensus prediction method.
applications of such analysis include understanding developmental  and anatomical aspects of disorders when comparing patients versus normal  controls, studying morphological changes caused by aging, or even differences  in normal anatomy, for example, differences between genders.
tumors were ranked by support  vector machine (svm) and by cytologic severity.
some of the associated failures may correspond to genuine, alternate binding modes and/or native complexes that are artefacts of the crystal environment.
the standard deviation of the dynamical noise was estimated by means of the correlation dimension.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antisense, artificial intelligence, autonomic nervous system, cell line, child, cluster analysis, comparative study, computational biology, computer simulation, computer-assisted, dna fingerprinting, drug evaluation, emotions, fluorescence, fuzzy logic, gene silencing, gene targeting, genetic, hela cells, humans, imaging, intracellular space, microscopy, models, monitoring, neoplasms, neural networks (computer), non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotides, p.h.s., physiologic, preclinical, preschool, prognosis, proteomics, quantitative structure-activity relationship, rna, rna interference, recognition (psychology), research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, small interfering, thionucleotides, three-dimensional, tumor, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, 15191089 the antennal lobe plays a central role for odor processing in insects, as demonstrated by electrophysiological and imaging experiments.
bioinformatics, 18(1):207-8, jan 2002.
genetic programming (gp) can generate new features  from the original dataset without prior knowledge of the probabilistic  distribution.
first of all, it  requires the crystal structure or a model derived from the crystal structure of  a closely related homolog of the target protein, preferentially complexed with  a ligand.
scaling factors can be applied to these bits in  order to increase the probability of finding compounds with similar activity by  virtual screening.
the prediction  models for these mhc types are implemented in a public web service available at  http://www.sbc.su.se/svmhc/. conclusions:
from experimental data, a model of the sequence specificity of these processes  can be constructed, such as a sequence motif, a scoring matrix or an artificial  neural network.
complementary  high-throughput in vitro assays are essential for compound evaluation.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] in this paper we present a hydrologic application of a new  statistical learning methodology called support vector machines (svms).
the network reveals highly  connected proteins, which represent suitable targets for promiscuous drugs.
advantages of ls-svm control are that no number of hidden units has to be determined for the controller and that no centers have to be specified for the gaussian kernels when applying mercer's condition.
keywords: air pollutants, algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic, artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, butadienes, chloroplasts, cluster analysis, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted, computing methodologies, database management systems, databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography, environmental, ethylamines, expert systems, factual, feedback, forecasting, fungicides, gene expression profiling, genes, genetic markers, hong kong, humans, image enhancement, image interpretation, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval, kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis, models, molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural networks (computer), non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, pattern recognition, plant proteins, predictive value of tests, proteins, proteome, proximal, puromycin aminonucleoside, rats, reproducibility of results, research support, sensitivity and specificity, signal processing, sprague-dawley, subcellular fractions, terminology, theoretical, therapy, time factors, toxicogenetics, u.s. gov't, user-computer interface, vehicle emissions, 15792667 keywords: apoptosis, gene expression profiling, humans, neoplasms, non-u.s. gov't, oligonucleotide array sequence analysis, polymerase chain reaction, proteins, research support, subcellular fractions, unknown primary, 15893453 reverse immunogenetic approaches attempt to optimize the selection of candidate epitopes, and thus minimize the experimental effort needed to identify new epitopes.
the method incorporates transient isotachophoresis for  in-line preconcentration and a sheathless electrospray interface.
a prerequisite for this new approach is an understanding of the  principles of molecular recognition in protein-ligand complexes.
the availability of screening data including those in  organized databases greatly facilitates exploration of newer computational  approaches.
keywords: 80 and over, adult, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals, area under curve, artifacts, automated, birefringence, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative study, computer-assisted, cornea, cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis, diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution, face, female, genetic, glaucoma, humans, intraocular pressure, lasers, least-squares analysis, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, male, middle aged, models, molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, ophthalmological, optic nerve diseases, optical coherence, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, prospective studies, protein, roc curve, regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells, sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, tomography, u.s. gov't, visual fields, beta-lactamases, 15767051
keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; computational  biology; computer simulation; computer-aided design; drug design; imaging,  three-dimensional; ligands; models, molecular; protein binding; protein  conformation; software; structure-activity relationship [ kahraman2007shape]  abdullah kahraman, richard j morris, roman a  laskowski, and janet m thornton.
nevertheless, we show when considering only shape and size that a significant proportion of the recognition power of a binding pocket for its ligand resides in its shape.
keywords: algorithms, animals, antibiotics, antineoplastic,  artificial intelligence, automated, automatic data processing, butadienes,  chloroplasts, comparative study, computer simulation, computer-assisted,  database management systems, databases, diagnosis, disinfectants, dose-response  relationship, drug, drug toxicity, electrodes, electroencephalography,  ethylamines, expert systems, factual, feedback, fungicides, gene expression  profiling, genes, genetic markers, humans, image enhancement, image  interpretation, implanted, industrial, information storage and retrieval,  kidney, kidney tubules, medline, male, mercuric chloride, microarray analysis,  molecular biology, motor cortex, movement, natural language processing, neural  networks (computer),
we find in our benchmark experiments that this kernel significantly  out-performs a variety of other kernels, including several previously described  kernels.
nat biotechnol,  19(3):248-52, mar 2001.
this study proposes a computational method to mine a feature set of informative physicochemical properties from mhc class i binding peptides to design a support vector machine (svm) based system (named popi) for the prediction of peptide immunogenicity.
[ bib |  doi | http | .pdf ] purpose: up to half of uveal melanoma patients die of metastatic  disease.
our analysis of the proposed  algorithm shows that its time complexity grows linearly with the number of  classes and size of the data set.
machine classifiers may augment the global indices of statpac.
evaluation of methods for  predicting the topology of beta-barrel outer membrane proteins and a consensus  prediction method.
keywords: algorithms, amino acid sequence, antigens, artificial  intelligence, automated, binding sites, chemical, computational biology,  computer simulation, crystallog, crystallography, electrostatics, genes,  genetic, hla antigens, histocompatibility antigens class i, humans, hydrogen  bonding, ligands, mhc class i, major histocompatibility complex, models,  molecular, molecular conformation, molecular sequence data, pattern  recognition, peptides, protein, protein binding, protein conformation,  proteomics, quantitative structure-activity relationship, sequence alignment,  sequence analysis, software, structural homology, structure-activity  relationship, thermodynamics, water, x-ray, x-rays, raphy, 16447245 [bhavani2006substructure-based]  s. bhavani,  a. nagargadde, a. thawani, v. sridhar, and n. chandra.
herein, we described average relative binding (arb) matrix methods that  directly predict ic(50) values allowing combination of searches involving  different peptide sizes and alleles into a single global prediction.
keywords: 80 and over, aged, algorithms, amino acids, animals,  area under curve, automated, brain chemistry, brain neoplasms, comparative  study, computer-assisted, cross-sectional studies, decision trees, diagnosis,  diagnostic imaging, diagnostic techniques, discriminant analysis, evolution,  face, genetic, glaucoma, humans, lasers, least-squares analysis, magnetic  resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, middle aged, models,  molecular, nerve fibers, non-u.s. gov't, numerical analysis, ophthalmological,  optic nerve diseases, p.h.s., pattern recognition, photic stimulation, protein,  roc curve, regression analysis, research support, retinal ganglion cells,  sensitivity and specificity, sequence analysis, statistics, u.s. gov't,  beta-lactamases, 15779160 [peters2005generating]  bjoern  peters and alessandro sette.
numerous studies have dealt with modeling the immunogenic  pathway but not the intractable problem of immunogenicity prediction due to  complex effects of many intrinsic and extrinsic factors.
compared to earlier studies, a simpler dataset, a simpler structural  alignment procedure, and an additional energy criterion are used.
with  conformational free energies, the overall prediction success is 83% using a  1.00 angstroms crystal rmsd criterion for main-chain atoms, and 76% using a  1.50 angstroms rmsd criterion for heavy atoms.
we used the model nephrotoxicants mercuric chloride, 2-bromoethylamine hydrobromide, hexachlorobutadiene, mitomycin, amphotericin, and puromycin to elucidate time- and dose-dependent global gene expression changes associated with proximal tubular toxicity.
here we report, using the budding yeast saccharomyces  cerevisiae as a test case, an example of this approach, which we term  high-throughput mass spectrometric protein complex identification (hms-pci).
our comparison method is used to find a surface  region in one cavity of a protein that is geometrically similar to a surface  region in the cavity of another protein.
we also show that this approach works better for  enzymes than for nonenzyme proteins.
because in  most (but not all) cases, high affinity peptides seem to be immunogenic, our  data also suggest that holes in the functional t cell repertoire, if they  exist, may be relatively rare.
keywords: affinity, affinity labels, amino acid sequence, animals, cell cycle proteins, cells, chromatography, cloning, comparative study, cullin proteins, cultured, cytoplasm, dna, dna damage, dna repair, electrospray ionization, fungal, fungal proteins, gene targeting, genetic, glucose, holoenzymes, humans, macromolecular substances, mass, matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization, mitosis, molecular, molecular sequence data, non-p.h.s., non-u.s. gov't, p.h.s., phosphoric monoester hydrolases, protein binding, protein interaction mapping, protein kinases, proteome, proteomics, proton-translocating atpases, recombinant fusion proteins, research support, ribonucleoproteins, ribosomes, s-phase kinase-associated proteins, saccharomyces cerevisiae, saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, sensitivity and specificity, sequence alignment, signal transduction, species specificity, spectrometry, spectrum analysis, transcription, u.s. gov't, vacuolar proton-translocating atpases, 11283612 we study the typical learning properties of the recently introduced soft margin classifiers (smcs), learning realizable and unrealizable tasks, with the tools of statistical mechanics.
a graph theory clustering algorithm based on heavy atom root-mean-square deviation (rmsd) values is applied to the sampled conformers.
we employ a support vector machine (svm) classifier to map from a given class of structures to their corresponding structural (scop) or functional (gene ontology) annotation.
[ bib |  doi | http ] the gene-silencing effect of short interfering rna (sirna) is  known to vary strongly with the targeted position of the mrna.
we exemplify this methodology using the well-studied tricarboxylic acid cycle.
we observe that feature sets so  obtained have certain redundancy and study methods to minimize it.
[ bib | doi | http | .pdf ] recent advances in microarray technology have opened new ways  for functional annotation of previously uncharacterised genes on a genomic  scale.
in this paper we report (i) the details of our customized implementation of the method and its modification to systematically measure 4-point pharmacophores relative to a "special" substructure of interest present in the molecules under study; (ii) comparisons of 3- and 4-point pharmacophore methods, highlighting the much increased resolution of the 4-point method; (iii) applications of the 4-point potential pharmacophore descriptors as a new measure of molecular similarity and diversity and for the design of focused/biased combinatorial libraries.
the resulting classifier must be  interpreted in terms of shape differences between the two groups back in the  image domain.
an analysis based on support-vector machines quantifies the odor specificity of the attractors and the optimal time needed for odor discrimination.
keywords: algorithms; artificial intelligence; binding sites; computational biology, methods; computer simulation; crystallization; crystallography, x-ray; databases, protein; ligands; models, molecular; molecular structure; programming languages; protein binding; proteins, chemistry; proteomics, methods; reproducibility of results; software prediction of which peptides can bind major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules is commonly used to assist in the identification of t cell epitopes.
the method uses a combination of descriptors, encoding both the type of toxicophore as well as the position of the toxicophore in the drug molecule, thus considering both the pharmacophore and the three-dimensional shape information of the molecule.
proteins,  26(1):81-94, sep 1996.
using a particular query cavity a series of related cavities of decreasing similarity is detected based on a clique detection algorithm.
in this paper, we provide a  step toward the comprehension of svm classifiers in these situations.
for both mean-field  algorithms and support vector machines, simulation results for three small  benchmark data sets are presented.
significance analysis of qualitative mammographic  features, using linear classifiers, neural networks and support vector machines.
a novel finding was that the previously characterized luminal epithelial/estrogen receptor-positive group could be divided into at least two subgroups, each with a distinctive expression profile.
full session logging is supported, which produces a vmd command  script for later playback.
the obtained enrichment factors are in line with those reported in recent studies.
mog had significantly greater roc area than psd and cpsd.
[ bib ] the theory of artificial neural networks is briefly reviewed  focusing on supervised and unsupervised techniques which have great impact on  current chemical applications.
this number is reduced  to 7% when using the integrated method.
the binding of known peptide epitopes or naturally processed peptides correlates well with hla restriction or origin, underscoring the immunologic relevance of these assays.
statistical hypothesis testing is required to ensure that differences in pose-prediction success rates and enrichment rates are significant.
gait features extracted from individual mfc histogram-plot and poincaré-plot images were used to train the svm.
preprocessing and feature extraction methods were devised so that emotion-specific characteristics could be extracted from short-segment signals.
results from the automated evaluation of tool efficiency are presented.
starting with a systematic comparison of the underlying  theories behind clustering approaches, we have devised a technique that  combines tree-structured vector quantization and partitive k-means clustering  (btsvq).
based on this approach, we present a system for statistical shape analysis  using distance transforms for shape representation and the support vector  machines learning algorithm for the optimal classifier estimation and  demonstrate it on artificially generated data sets, as well as real medical  studies.
the two methods are complementary, and both are superior to sequence motifs.
human experts were not better at classifying visual fields  than the machine classifiers or the global indices.
we observe that feature sets so obtained have certain redundancy and study methods to minimize it.
bmc bioinformatics, 6:132, 2005.
for fair comparison, programs must be given search problems of  equal complexity (e.g. binding-site regions of the same size) and approximately  equal time in which to solve them.
using a particular query cavity  a series of related cavities of decreasing similarity is detected based on a  clique detection algorithm.
introduction to medical data mining.
in this way the network grows very  quickly when new data is presented, but stops growing once the network has  matched the data.
it also shows that our hmm and  the k-nn algorithm outperform other models, such as back-off hmm, linear  interpolated hmm, support vector machines, c4.5, c4.5 rules and ripper, by  effectively capturing the local context dependency and resolving the data  sparseness problem.
treatment of the primary eye tumor does not improve survival in  high-risk patients due to occult micrometastatic disease, which is present at  the time of eye tumor diagnosis but is not detected and treated until months to  years later.
we  used the model nephrotoxicants mercuric chloride, 2-bromoethylamine  hydrobromide, hexachlorobutadiene, mitomycin, amphotericin, and puromycin to  elucidate time- and dose-dependent global gene expression changes associated  with proximal tubular toxicity.
most current feature extraction techniques transform the original pattern vector into a new vector with increased discrimination capability but lower dimensionality.
forward-selection and backward-elimination methodology further improved the classification rate and also has the potential to reduce testing time by diminishing the number of visual-field location measurements.