before then, the atmospheric concentrations of ozone-depleting substances were increasing faster than those of carbon dioxide; the increases slowed by the early 1990s, and the concentration appears to have stabilized in recent years.56
in a coupled system that decides how resources are allocated, some conflicts over policies and their administration are highly likely.
a closer look reveals that this prediction is true for developed countries, where the volume of catch has steadily declined since 1979.
others include irrigation systems, groundwater basins, pastures and grazing systems, lakes, oceans, and the earth’s atmosphere.11 chapter 10 of the brundtland report primarily discusses the problematic condition of common-pool resources in the late 1980s; thus this update will focus on common-pool resources.
thus, policies to reduce deforestation by communities and small-scale owners may not directly affect the extent of damage in this and many other regions affected by large-scale clearing of private land driven largely by commodity markets.
t. yandle, “understanding the consequences of property rights mismatches: a case study of new zealand’s marine resources,”ecology and society 12, no. 2 (2007), http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol12/iss2/art27 (accessed 8 april 2008).
for an explanation of the requirements for adaptive governance, see nrc, note 11, chapter 13; and dietz, ostrom, and stern, note 45.
table 1 below presents world fish catch data in major regional fisheries from 1979 through 2005.16
the  iceland itq system appears to have averted the collapse of many valuable  species for the iceland fishery but has been less successful in restoring the  icelandic cod stocks.
change is omnipresent.
while the harvesting volume has doubled, the population of many species  harvested for food has declined or disappeared.18 a basic problem leading to  massive overfishing in the oceans is the lack ofany property rights  for the many commercially valuable species in the open ocean.
m. janssen, j. m. anderies, and e. ostrom, “robustness of  social-ecological systems to spatial and temporal variability,” society and natural resources 20, no. 4 (2007): 307–22; and ostrom,  note 13.
providing infrastructure.
the mea noted that the global area  containing forested land has been cut in half over the past three centuries: forests have effectively disappeared in 25 countries, and another 29  have lost more than 90% of their forest cover.
iucn, the durban accord and action plan: vth iucn world parks congress, durban, south africa (gland, switzerland: iucn, 2003); and fao,global forest resources assessment 2000: main report (rome: fao, 2001).
in 1986, new zealand became one of the first countries to adopt a market-based fishery regulation when it adopted a quota management system and allocated itqs to a subset of domestic fisheries.
c. j. walters, adaptive management of renewable resources (new york: macmillan, 1986); and j. wilson, “scientific uncertainty, complex systems, and the design of common-pool institutions,” in nrc, note 11, 327–60.
source: e. ostrom, governing the commons: the evolution of institutions for collective action (new york: cambridge university press, 1990), 90.
university of michigan press, 2005).
epp-a-00-04-00013-00 to the office of international research and development (oired) at virginia polytechnic institute and state university.
while many policy  analysts think that extending private ownership of a common-pool resource is an  assured method for long-term sustainability, private ownership of forests does  not guarantee long-term protection.
no blueprints exist for achieving these requirements.
like other policies that are good in theory, working out arrangements that actually achieve both protection and increased income to the world’s poor residents has been difficult.
• graduated sanctions.
the most pressing commons problem at a global level is the need to reduce greenhouse gas concentrations substantially.
the lobster fishery also has evolved toward a  monoculture that leaves it exposed to the threat of diverse ecological  problems, including an epidemic among the lobster.
the specific designs of long-enduring governance regimes related to common-pool resources vary substantially from one another because of resource system diversity, as well as the social and economic settings of these resources.
in british columbia, early governmental  policies trying to control overfishing of the trawl fishery for groundfish  included restricting the number of fishing vehicles and the equipment that  could be used, as well as assigning total allowable catch (tac) and fishing  trip quotas.
without an active dialogue, the world would simply continue on the path toward an unsustainable future instead of searching for ways to avert the disaster that may ensue if we do not confront the massive overharvesting of fisheries and forests around the world, as well as the challenge of substantially reducing carbon emissions.
if the global community can apply these lessons, invest in  adaptive governance, treasure institutional diversity as much as it treasures  biodiversity, and see all policies as experiments that need to be evaluated  over time based on new information, we may move toward a more sustainable path.
as can be seen in figure 2 of their article, 31 the percentage of eggs conserved steadily rose from the commencement of the  pawikan program in the mid-1980s through the 1990s without any major conflict  among participants.
she is a member of the national academy  of sciences, the american academy of arts and sciences, and the american  philosophical society.
see the special feature, “going beyond  panaceas,” in theproceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15176–223.
inducing cooperation for the production  of ecosystem services,”ecological economics 64, no. 2 (2007):  333–43.
since the wced report, a  considerable number of common-pool resources are comanaged by communities  working with governments.12
in fact, findings from multiple studies of government- or  community-managed forests illustrate the crucial role monitoring played in  impacting the cohesiveness of institutions, as well as the success of diverse  forest management initiatives.50 when harvesting rules are effectively  monitored and enforced, they prevent the spread of freeriding behavior, thereby  instilling a sense of trust in the community.
as of 2005, just 20 percent of the total catch is now harvested in developed-country fisheries.
the system is still evolving and faces problems related to mismatches among the temporary and spatial dimensions of the property rights assigned to diverse groups.36 in 1990, iceland also introduced an itq system after multiple crises in icelandic fishery
in british columbia, early governmental policies trying to control overfishing of the trawl fishery for groundfish included restricting the number of fishing vehicles and the equipment that could be used, as well as assigning total allowable catch (tac) and fishing trip quotas.
these problems, unless  addressed, will substantially diminish the benefits that future generations  obtain from ecosystems.8 thus, the most recent worldwide  review of our common future warned that major changes threatened our future.
t. dietz, e. ostrom, and p. stern, “the struggle to govern the commons,”science 302, no. 5652 (12 december 2003), supporting online material, http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/302/5652/1907/dc1 (accessed 8 april 2008).
t. dietz, e. ostrom, and p. stern, “the  struggle to govern the commons,”science 302, no. 5652 (12  december 2003), supporting online material,  http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/302/5652/1907/dc1 (accessed 8 april  2008).
by comparison, itq systems that lack an effective monitoring system have suffered from considerable underreporting of catch levels.
this publication was made possible by the united states  agency for international development for the sustainable agriculture and  natural resources management collaborative research support program under terms  of grant no.
seeing the forest and the trees: human-environment interactions in forest  ecosystems (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2005).
institutional arrangements that are intended to be sustainable cannot be fixed  for the “long term,” because they need to change to address past  errors and cope with new developments.
wced, note 1, page 261.
in 1992, however, they reversed earlier policies and declared a moratorium on all fishing for northern cod in canadian waters.24
r. a. myers and b. worm, “rapid worldwide depletion of predatory fish communities,”nature 423 (15 may 2003): 280–83; j. b. c. jackson et al., “historical overfishing and the recent collapse of coastal ecosystems,”science 293, no. 5530 (27 july 2001): 629–38; and d. pauly et al., “towards sustainability in world fisheries,”nature 418 (8 august 2002): 689–95.
the fund would then invest in technological development to avert further carbon emissions and would also return some of the revenues to the peoples of the earth.59 while this idea may not be accepted, many imaginative concepts need to be seriously discussed in the immediate future or dreams of sustainable development will be defeated by overlooking the threat of carbon emissions.
design principles for governing sustainable resources the following principles are frequently observed in sustainable institutional regimes: •
s. zbinden and d. r. lee, “paying for  environmental services: an analysis of participation in costa rica’s psa  program,”world development 33, no. 2 (2004): 255–72.
state legislature passed formal conservation laws as a first set of rules in response to substantial lobbying from fishers and their associations.
we should not act as if we know for certain how to achieve sustainable development.
community forests of mexico:
stand: protected areas and the defense of tropical biodiversity (new york: oxford university press, 1997).
the only major increases in forested  areas have occurred in east asia, where china has, taken aggressive steps to  reduce deforestation, and in the caribbean, where substantial urban migration  has led to reforestation of the highland areas of puerto rico and the dominican  republic.40
a new  assessment of conservation and investment trends (washington, dc: forest  trends, 2004).
she is author or coauthor of governing the  commons; rules, games, and common-pool resources (with roy gardner and james  walker); local commons and global interdependence (with robert keohane); the  commons in the new millennium (with nives dolšak); the samaritan’s  dilemma: the political economy of development aid (with clark gibson, krister  andersson, and sujai shivakumar); and understanding institutional diversity.
the  international regime to reduce the human impact on stratospheric ozone is  widely considered a successful effort to protect a global commons.
the  imposition of an external, but unenforceable, rule destroyed the preexisting  local rules.
nested  enterprises (for resources that are parts of larger systems).
m. janssen, j. m. anderies, and e. ostrom, “robustness of social-ecological systems to spatial and temporal variability,” society and natural resources 20, no. 4 (2007): 307–22; and ostrom, note 13.
commons refer to systems, such as knowledge and the digital world, in which it is difficult to limit access, but one person’s use does not subtract a finite quantity from another’s use.9
but compared with 20, 10, or even 5 years ago, the extent to which notions of sustainability have entered mainstream development thinking is astounding.6 a few years later, from 2001–2005, the millennium ecosystem assessment (mea) conducted a massive review of the state of the world’s ecosystems and their services.7 their first major finding was that the change to ecosystems during the past half-century has been more rapid than any comparable period in human history.
the specific rules that facilitate low-cost and effective monitoring vary from setting to setting depending on ecological as well as social variables.
state legislature passed formal conservation laws as a first set of rules in  response to substantial lobbying from fishers and their associations.
become a subscriber
f. berkes et al., “globalization, roving bandits,  and marine resources,” science 311, no. 5767 (17 march  2006): 1557–58.
l. pritchett and m. woolcock, “solutions when the solution is the problem: arraying the disarray in  development,”world development 35, no. 3 (2003): 435–61;  e. ostrom, m. a. janssen, and j. m. anderies, “going beyond  panaceas,”proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104,  no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15176–78; and t. p. hughes, d. r. bellwood,  c. folke, r. s. steneck, and j. e. wilson, “new paradigms for supporting  the resilience of marine ecosystems,”trends in ecology and evolution 20, no. 7 (2005): 380–86.
the mea also advised that policymakers search for solutions for specific niches  rather than generalized problems and avoid standardized solutions.
a. white and a. martin,who owns the world’s forests?
in a coupled system that decides how resources are  allocated, some conflicts over policies and their administration are highly  likely.
further, policies also have to fit with the local culture and institutional  environments of those who depend on ecosystems for their livelihood.
nowhere is this more true than in shared  ecosystems in ‘the global commons.’”3
epp-a-00-04-00013-00 to the office of international research and  development (oired) at virginia polytechnic institute and state university.
t. sterner et al., “quick fixes for the environment—part of the solution or part of the problem?”environment 48, no. 10 (december 2006): 20–27.
g. p. shivakoti et al., eds.,asian
the rights of users to devise their own  institutions are not challenged by external governmental authorities, and users  have long-term tenure rights to the resource.
in an analysis of data from 76 government-owned forests that were legally designated as protected forests and 87 public, private, and community-owned forested lands that were not protected and were used for diverse purposes, no statistical difference existed between vegetation densities of officially designated, government-owned protected areas and all other property regimes.48
c. j. walters, adaptive management of renewable resources (new york: macmillan, 1986); and j. wilson, “scientific  uncertainty, complex systems, and the design of common-pool  institutions,” in nrc, note 11, 327–60.
this resurgence is due to favorable environmental  conditions combined with the evolution of effective rules of diverse origins.
instead, many governments subsidized an  expansion of their own national fleets, leading to increased rather than  decreased fishing in coastal regions.
34 new zealand authorities found that the biological models underlying the initial allocation of permanent allocation of fixed quotas needed to be adjusted over time in light of further evidence.
world commission on environment and  development (wced),our common future (new york: oxford university  press, 1987), 8.
peter barnes of the tomales bay institute and colleagues have proposed an “earth atmospheric trust” where a global cap-and-trade system is created for all greenhouse gas emissions and the funds obtained from auctioning off the permits are deposited in a “trust fund.”
much of the deforestation across the world has occurred as farmers have cleared their private land for agricultural purposes.
many government officials and policy analysts’ advocacy of a  single idealized solution for all of these resources has been a key part of the  problem instead of the solution.2 further, many of the most pressing problems  future generations will face are on a global scale.
t. yandle and c. dewees, “privatizing  the commons . . .
main report  (rome: fao, 2001).
fishery after fishery has been subject to massive overfishing, including the tuna and whale fisheries in the pacific, the cod fishery in the atlantic, and the lobster and conch fisheries in the caribbean.19 in 1982, the united nations conference on the law of the sea did remove around one-third of the oceans from the international realm by establishing exclusive economic zones (eezs) that extend 200 nautical miles along the oceanic borders of coastal states.
rather, the users of a commons, who are frequently widely dispersed, need to take some responsibility for monitoring.
the itq system has collected more valid data, decreased fleet overcapacity, recorded catch levels close to allocated quotas, and reduced discard of unwanted species.
as of 2005, just 20  percent of the total catch is now harvested in developed-country fisheries.
we can, however, recognize our growing capabilities and those of the individuals we study to experiment with rules, learn from the experiments, and, if the broader institutional and cultural milieu facilitates, gradually improve outcomes so they are sustainable over time.
the mea also advised that policymakers search for solutions for specific niches rather than generalized problems and avoid standardized solutions.
become a subscriber books of note - july/august 2008
e. ostrom, “design principles for sustainable institutions related to forests, irrigation systems, and pastoral systems,” paper presented at the lincoln institute conference, land policies and property rights, boston, ma, 2 june 2008.
this resurgence is due to favorable environmental conditions combined with the evolution of effective rules of diverse origins.
millennium ecosystem assessment (mea), ecosystems  and human well-being: synthesis report (washington, dc: island press,  2005), http://www.milleniumassessment.org/en/index.aspx (accessed 8 april 2008).
physical, technological, and institutional infrastructure is an essential investment to increase the effectiveness of internal operations within a commons as well as link any particular resource and its users to larger regimes.
see finlayson and mccay, note 19; and a. c. finlayson,fishing for truth:
designing multiple tiers of arenas that can engage in rapid discovery of conflicts and effective conflict resolution is essential.
international regimes for sustainable development major international  problems—such as cross-state rivers and lake pollution, transmission of  air pollutants across long distances, and pressures to use outer space and the  north and south poles for imperial and commercial purposes—have  challenged scholars and public officials to create international regimes for  sustainable uses of these diverse commons.55 some large-scale resources have  been protected successfully through appropriate international governance  regimes such as the montreal protocol on stratospheric ozone, which was signed  in 1987—the same year the brundtland report was released.
scholars have learned that ecosystems are diverse, complex, and uncertain, and sustainable management requires substantial investment in acquiring accurate data to learn more about patterns of interaction and adapt policies over time that are better fitted to particular systems.
about 4.6 billion people  depend for all or some of their water on supplies from forest systems.
due to developments in the technology of fishing, large, high-powered boats can zoom into a local fishery, massively harvest it for a valuable species in the international market, and then move to another location before local authorities respond.
another  recommendation related to both reducing deforestation and decreasing global  warming is payment for environmental services (pes) for protecting biodiversity  and forests.52 pes programs charge residents of the developed world for  protecting ecologically diverse sites in the developing world.
james  wilson of the university of maine and colleagues have developed a detailed set  of simulations showing that if fishers had not taken substantial responsibility  for monitoring each other’s harvesting behavior, the successful fishery  would have been overharvested—and potentially may have collapsed like  many others around the world.28
j. sibert, j. hampton, p. kleiber, and m. maunder,  “biomass, size, and trophic status of top predators in the pacific  ocean,”science 314, no. 5806 (15 december 2006): 1773–76;  a. c. finlayson and b. j. mccay, “crossing the threshold of ecosystem  resilience: the commercial extinction of northern cod,” in f. berkes and  j. colding, eds.,linking social and ecological systems: management  practices and social mechanisms for building resilience (cambridge, uk:  cambridge university press, 1998), 311–37; c. s. baker and p. j. clapham,  “modeling the past and future of whales and whaling,”trends in  ecology and evolution 19, no. 7 (2004): 365–71; and m. huitric,  “lobster and conch fisheries of belize: a history of sequential  exploitation,”ecology and society 10, no. 1 (2005),  http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol10/iss1/art21 (accessed 8 april 2008).
“creating an earth atmospheric trust,”science 319, no. 5864 (8 february 2008): 724.
another urgent need  is building more extensive networks of greenhouse gas observation sites across  the world.
monitors, who actively audit biophysical conditions and user behavior, are at least partially accountable to users and/or are users themselves.
g. hardin, “the tragedy of the  commons,”science 162, no. 3859 (13 december 1968): 1243–48.
governance systems that ignore the possibility of conflict over diverse  issues may increase the likelihood of these conflicts, which could eventually  erupt into major problems.
proponents stress that pes policies are strongly related to sustainable development since payments could be allocated to poorer residents of tropical forests who have a financial, as well as a lifestyle, motivation to protect forests.
data derived from  prodes-inpe (monitoramento da floresta amazônica brasileira por  satélite) deforestation mapping for 2003 for the states of acre,  pará, and rondônia, http://www.obt.inpe.br/prodes/index.html  (accessed 8 april 2008).
see finlayson  and mccay, note 19; and a. c. finlayson,fishing for truth:
agricultural expansion,  poverty reduction, and environment in tropical forests (washington, dc:  world bank, 2006).
the pictures  they provide are, of course, mixed, with their own share of environmental  horrors, economic greed, and program failures.
thus, policies to reduce  deforestation by communities and small-scale owners may not directly affect the  extent of damage in this and many other regions affected by large-scale  clearing of private land driven largely by commodity markets.
,role of institutions in rural policies and agricultural models (amsterdam: elsevier, 2004), 43–59; see also t. eggertsson, imperfect  institutions: possibilities and limits of reform (ann arbor, mi:  university of michigan press, 2005).
34 new zealand authorities found that the biological models underlying the  initial allocation of permanent allocation of fixed quotas needed to be  adjusted over time in light of further evidence.
users and their  officials have rapid access to low-cost, local arenas to resolve conflict among  users or between users and officials.
source: e. ostrom, governing the commons: the evolution of  institutions for collective action (new york: cambridge university press,  1990), 90.
many  scholars now recognize that simple “ideal” solutions imposed from  the outside can make things worse rather than better.
see e. s. brondizio et al., “smallholders and  deforestation,” in m. keller, j. gash, and p. s. dias, eds.,amazonia  and global change: a synthesis of lba research (world scientific  publishing, forthcoming).
she has received the frank e. seidman prize in political economy, johan skytte prize in political science, william h. riker prize, and james madison award from the american political science association, and the sustainability science award (with thomas dietz and paul stern) from the ecological society of america.
e. parson, protecting the ozone layer: science and strategy (oxford: oxford university press, 2003); world resources institute,world resources: earth trends data (washington, dc: world resources institute, 2003); and g. j. m. velders, s. o. andersen, j. s. daniel, d. w. fahey, and m. mcfarland, “the importance of the montreal protocol in protecting climate,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 12 (20 march 2007): 4814–19.
clearly defined boundaries.
the ecological  services of these developing countries serve the entire world, while the costs  of preservation are borne by residents of the developed world.
these problems, unless addressed, will substantially diminish the benefits that future generations obtain from ecosystems.8 thus, the most recent worldwide review of our common future warned that major changes threatened our future.
l. harris, i ndependent review of the state of the northern cod stock, prepared for the honorable thomas siddon, minister of fisheries (ottawa, on: communications directorate, department of fisheries and oceans, 1990).
continued overharvesting of forest resources forest resources were not a focus of chapter 10 of the wced’s report, but  they have become major news of recent times, especially given the impact of  deforestation on global climate change.
the national research council has convened a series of meetings to assess what the global community has learned since the brundtland report,64 garrett hardin’s classic article,65 and the extensive research undertaken by scholars from multiple disciplines related to the study of common-pool resources on multiple scales.66
building respectful collaborations between local users, public officials, and scientific experts is a vital requisite of adaptive governance.
further, each person’s use of such resources subtracts benefits that others might enjoy.10 fisheries and forests are two common-pool resources that are of great concern in this era of major ecological challenges.
but compared with 20, 10, or  even 5 years ago, the extent to which notions of sustainability have entered  mainstream development thinking is astounding.6 a few  years later, from 2001–2005, the millennium ecosystem assessment (mea)  conducted a massive review of the state of the world’s ecosystems and  their services.7 their first major finding was that the change to ecosystems  during the past half-century has been more rapid than any comparable period in  human history.
the urban challenge revisited november 2007 (full) water and sustainability: a reappraisal march/april 2008 (full) about  uscontact us current issue subscribe archives editorialsbytes  of noteeditors' picksfor advertisersdegreesauthor guidelines terms & conditions
this generates a measure of forest condition that is comparable across different ecological regions.
rather, a general set of design principles has  repeatedly been found to characterize small- to medium-sized institutional  regimes that were sustainable over a long period of time.69 as shown below, the  design principles do not specify any particular rule.
see e. s. brondizio et al., “smallholders and deforestation,” in m. keller, j. gash, and p. s. dias, eds.,amazonia and global change: a synthesis of lba research (world scientific publishing, forthcoming).
designing a system in a top-down fashion and imposing it on the harvesters is not as successful as working with the users of a common-pool resource over time to develop a system that is well-matched to the ecological system as well as to the practices, norms, and long-term economic welfare of the participants, as was accomplished in new zealand.
thus, the forester or ecologist who supervises the collection of forest data at a set of international forestry resources and institutions sites is asked after completing these measurements to rate the forest on a five-point scale from very sparse to very abundant.
in light of extensive research on the applicability of the design principles, an updated analysis is in process.70 the future of the commons the global community has taken a long journey since 1987 in its efforts to understand how individuals cope with managing common resources, as well as other diverse economic and ecological situations as they try to improve their lives, the lives of their children, and lives of their children’s children.
• proportional equivalence between benefits and costs .
g. a. sánchez-azofeifa, a. pfaff, j. a. robalino, and j. p. boomhower, “costa rica’s payment for environmental services program: intention, implementation, and impact,”conservation biology 21, no. 5 (2007): 1165–73.
• minimal recognition of rights to organize.
passing formal rules should not be confused with more informal  rules that decisionmakers use day-to-day to manage a common-pool resource.
t. yandle,  “understanding the consequences of property rights mismatches: a case  study of new zealand’s marine resources,”ecology and society 12, no. 2 (2007), http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol12/iss2/art27  (accessed 8 april 2008).
managing for sustainable landscapes (austin, tx: university of texas  press, 2005); and m. teng et al., “taboos and forest governance:  informal protection of hot spot dry forest in southern madagascar,” ambio 36, no. 8 (2007): 683–91.
the wced conceived  “environment” as where people live, and “development”  as how people try to improve their lives.
c. hess and e. ostrom, eds.,
elinor ostrom is the arthur f. bentley professor of political science and  codirector of the workshop in political theory and policy analysis at indiana  university and founding director of the center for the study of institutional  diversity at arizona state university.
five basic requirements, however, have been identified from extensive  multidisciplinary studies of failed and successful regimes for governing  diverse commons.67 these include • achieving accurate and  relevant information.
since the ecological, technological, economic, and social factors affecting the performance of any commons regime change over time, information about the conditions of the resource and its users also needs to be updated regularly.
the dfo reopened the fishery several years later with new regulations, including an annual itq system.33 further, they established a rigorous monitoring program in which onboard observers record all catches.
while the news related to ocean fisheries and many coastal fisheries is bleak, it is not entirely grim for fishery stocks on all coasts.
many government officials and policy analysts’ advocacy of a single idealized solution for all of these resources has been a key part of the problem instead of the solution.2
in 1987, the world commission on environment and development (wced) released its seminal report,our common future, which created a serious discussion about how we should engage in sustainable development of the world’s future, including how to address global resource systems, or “commons.
without an  active dialogue, the world would simply continue on the path toward an  unsustainable future instead of searching for ways to avert the disaster that  may ensue if we do not confront the massive overharvesting of fisheries and  forests around the world, as well as the challenge of substantially reducing  carbon emissions.
enhancing rule compliance.
the specific rules that facilitate low-cost  and effective monitoring vary from setting to setting depending on ecological  as well as social variables.
43. a. molnar,  s. j. scherr, and a. khare,who conserves the world’s forests?
these views cannot be found in any one spot. . . .
very soon after the law was passed, “turtle egg conservation in the turtle island system ceased altogether, and depletion of turtle eggs proceeded at an alarming rate.
j. h.  annala, “new zealand’s itq system: have the first eight years been  a success or a failure?”reviews in fish biology and fisheries 6,  no. 1 (1996): 44–62. 35.
nested enterprises (for resources that are parts of larger systems).
the mea noted that the global area containing forested land has been cut in half over the past three centuries: forests have effectively disappeared in 25 countries, and another 29 have lost more than 90% of their forest cover.
in his  classic article, “the tragedy of the commons,” leading ecologist  garrett hardin confused open-access commons with commons that are the joint  property of a community.14 while hardin correctly pointed out that valuable  open-access common-pool resources would be overharvested, his conclusion of an  inevitable tragedy was too sweeping.
a  closer look reveals that this prediction is true for developed countries, where  the volume of catch has steadily declined since 1979.
we should not act as if we know for certain how to  achieve sustainable development.
r. morgenstern and w. pizer, reality  check: the nature and performance of voluntary environmental programs in the  united states, europe, and japan (washington, dc: resources for the  future, 2007).
thus, the authority to act and the willingness to make decisions that involve short-term costs for the fishing industry (even when it is in their long-term interest) are not equivalent.
passing formal rules should not be confused with more informal rules that decisionmakers use day-to-day to manage a common-pool resource.
the system is still evolving and faces problems related to  mismatches among the temporary and spatial dimensions of the property rights  assigned to diverse groups.36 in 1990, iceland also introduced an itq  system after multiple crises in icelandic fishery
s. zbinden and d. r. lee, “paying for environmental services: an analysis of participation in costa rica’s psa program,”world development 33, no. 2 (2004): 255–72.
the real tragedy here is that the local fishers, who had established  local rules for managing the fishery before the government’s intervention  and were the backbone of local economies, paid the cost of the collapse rather  than the officials who had not listened to them.
see national research council (nrc), the drama of the commons (washington, dc: national academies press, 2002); and nrc,proceedings of the conference on common property resource management (washington, dc: national academies press, 1986).
r. arnason, “the icelandic individual  transferable quota system: a descriptive account,”marine resource  economics 8, no. 3 (1993): 201–18.
l. pritchett and m. woolcock, “solutions when the solution is the problem: arraying the disarray in development,”world development 35, no. 3 (2003): 435–61; e. ostrom, m. a. janssen, and j. m. anderies, “going beyond panaceas,”proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15176–78; and t. p. hughes, d. r. bellwood, c. folke, r. s. steneck, and j. e. wilson, “new paradigms for supporting the resilience of marine ecosystems,”trends in ecology and evolution 20, no. 7 (2005): 380–86.
for the past decade, colleagues from a dozen countries  have been conducting studies of forests as part of the international forestry  resources and institutions research program.47 at each site, an  interdisciplinary team measures trees, shrubs, and groundcover for a random  sample of forest plots.
while no international regime that  includes all countries has been implemented yet, a variety of approaches at  multiple levels are under way.57 one of the largest regimes in geographic scope
see, for example, t. e. lovejoy, “protected  areas: a prism for a changing world,”trends in ecology and evolution 21, no. 6 (2006): 329–33; j. terborgh, requiem for nature (washington, dc: island press, 1999); and r. a. kramer, c. p. van schaik, and  j. johnson, eds.,last
the proportion of the world’s total catch that is derived from aquaculture—again largely in the developing world—has also steadily risen.17
further, many of the most pressing problems future generations will face are on a global scale.
instead, many governments subsidized an expansion of their own national fleets, leading to increased rather than decreased fishing in coastal regions.
see articles cited in note 46; and c. gibson, j. t. williams, and e. ostrom, “local enforcement and better forests,”world development 33, no. 2 (2005): 273–84.
tragically, national officials did not recognize local rules when they passed the wildlife resources conservation and protection act in 2001, which prohibted hunting of threatened wildlife and banned the collection of marine turtle eggs.
the author thanks gwen arnold and frank van laerhoven for their help in preparing basic statistical materials for this article; james acheson, krister andersson, xavier basurto, eduardo brondizio, michael cox, tom evans, burnell fischer, helen ingram, prakash kashwan, raul p. lejano, ruth meinzen-dick, ryan peck, and vicky meretsky for their helpful comments to improve the article; sarah beam for her active encouragement and comments; and patty lezotte for her excellent editing.
a new assessment of conservation and investment trends (washington, dc: forest trends, 2004).
thus, the authority  to act and the willingness to make decisions that involve short-term costs for  the fishing industry (even when it is in their long-term interest) are not  equivalent.
as a result, in 1990, the commercial fishers received a revised itq based on a proportion of the total catch assigned annually.35 over time, the original itq system has evolved into a comanagement system in which the fishers participate in gathering data and making policies.
r. p. lejano and h. ingram, “place-based conservation: lessons from  the turtle islands,”environment 49, no. 9 (november 2007):  18–26.
scholars have learned that ecosystems are diverse, complex,  and uncertain, and sustainable management requires substantial investment in  acquiring accurate data to learn more about patterns of interaction and adapt  policies over time that are better fitted to particular systems.
these  findings are supported by a recent meta-analysis of 69 case studies of  community-managed forests by a. pagdee, y. s. kim, and p. j. daugherty,  “what makes community forest management successful: a meta-study from  community forests throughout the world,”society and natural resources 19, no. 1 (2006): 33–52.
see a. burton, “what future  for fish,”frontiers in ecology and the environment 4, no. 10  (2006): 508.
while the harvesting volume has doubled, the population of many species harvested for food has declined or disappeared.18 a basic problem leading to massive overfishing in the oceans is the lack ofany property rights for the many commercially valuable species in the open ocean.
in addition, many voluntary programs have been established on multiple scales and generated diverse results.58 considerable learning can be achieved from comparative study of their performances.
an overemphasis on engineered works such as highways, railways, electricity networks, and modern irrigation systems, however, especially if these works are designed without much awareness of the relevant institutional arrangements of a particular regime, may be counterproductive.
these roving bandits have depleted the sea  urchin fisheries in japan, korea, mexico, chile, russia, alaska, the eastern  coast of canada, and the northwestern and northeastern coasts of the united  states.
with the establishment of eezs, some coastal fisheries in canada, new zealand, and iceland have been able to develop individual transferable quota (itq) systems that have reduced the level of harvesting in key coastal fisheries.
new technologies, including remote sensing and gis, provide more accurate information to localities that can be used for better decisionmaking.
lejano and ingram’s article provides a counterargument to the notion that only government ownership or management solves the problem of the commons, detailing how top-down rulemaking without an awareness of local norms, rules, and evolved institutions can lead to disaster.
she is author or coauthor of governing the commons; rules, games, and common-pool resources (with roy gardner and james walker); local commons and global interdependence (with robert keohane); the commons in the new millennium (with nives dolšak); the samaritan’s dilemma:
the lobster fishery also has evolved toward a monoculture that leaves it exposed to the threat of diverse ecological problems, including an epidemic among the lobster.
their second major finding was that while these changes have led  to substantial net gains in economic development and human well-being, the gains have been achieved at growing costs in the form of the degradation  of many ecosystem services, increased risks of nonlinear changes, and the  exacerbation of poverty for some groups of people.
iucn, the durban accord and action plan: vth iucn  world parks congress, durban, south africa (gland, switzerland: iucn,  2003); and fao,global forest resources assessment 2000:
the specific designs of long-enduring governance  regimes related to common-pool resources vary substantially from one another  because of resource system diversity, as well as the social and economic  settings of these resources.
she may be reached at ostrom@indiana.edu.
j. wilson, l. yan, and c. wilson, “the precursors of governance in the maine lobster fishery,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15212–17.
stand: protected areas and the defense of tropical  biodiversity (new york: oxford university press, 1997).
j. m. acheson, capturing the commons:  devising institutions to manage the maine lobster industry (new haven, ct:  university press of new england, 2003); and j. m. acheson, j. a. wilson, and r.  s. steneck, “managing chaotic fisheries,” in f. berkes and c.  folke, eds.,linking social and ecological systems: management practices and  social mechanisms for building resilience (cambridge, uk: cambridge  university press, 1998), 390–413.
”4 william clark of the harvard kennedy school of government evaluated  the impact of the brundtland commission’s work forenvironment a  decade after its release.5 clark reflected that many disappointments,  resignations, and increased cynicism were expressed at the international  meetings held to evaluate progress toward sustainable development.
however, in some  specific niches, such as the maine lobster fishery, the commons are in better  condition today than they were a decade or two ago.
further, we need to recognize the thrust of massive damage to forests from uncontrolled insect infestations.
proponents  stress that pes policies are strongly related to sustainable development since  payments could be allocated to poorer residents of tropical forests who have a  financial, as well as a lifestyle, motivation to protect forests.
k. chomitz, p. buys, g. de luca, t. s.  thomas, and s. wertz-kanounnikoff,at loggerheads?
another urgent need is building more extensive networks of greenhouse gas observation sites across the world.
the fishery underwent a major shock around 1930 when the stocks fell sharply for unknown reasons.
many of the individuals affected by harvesting and protection rules are included in the group who can modify these rules.
designing  multiple tiers of arenas that can engage in rapid discovery of conflicts and  effective conflict resolution is essential.
james wilson of the university of maine and colleagues have developed a detailed set of simulations showing that if fishers had not taken substantial responsibility for monitoring each other’s harvesting behavior, the successful fishery would have been overharvested—and potentially may have collapsed like many others around the world.28
since  that time, stocks have risen substantially and are now higher than they were in  the nineteenth century.
(washington, dc: forest trends, 2002); and a. agrawal, “forests,  governance, and sustainability: common property theory and its  contributions,”international journal of the commons 1, no. 1  (2007): 111–36.42.
j. m. acheson, capturing the commons: devising institutions to manage the maine lobster industry (new haven, ct: university press of new england, 2003); and j. m. acheson, j. a. wilson, and r. s. steneck, “managing chaotic fisheries,” in f. berkes and c. folke, eds.,linking social and ecological systems: management practices and social mechanisms for building resilience (cambridge, uk: cambridge university press, 1998), 390–413.
the fishery underwent a  major shock around 1930 when the stocks fell sharply for unknown reasons.
o. young, global governance: drawing insights from the environmental experience (cambridge, ma: mit press, 1997); r. o. keohane and e. ostrom, eds.,local commons and global interdependence: heterogeneity and cooperation in two domains (london: sage, 1995); and p. m. haas, r. o. keohane, and m. a. levy, eds., institutions for the earth: sources of effective international environmental protection (cambridge, ma: mit press, 1993).
by comparison, itq systems that lack an effective monitoring system  have suffered from considerable underreporting of catch levels.
new  technologies, including remote sensing and gis, provide more accurate  information to localities that can be used for better decisionmaking.
j. wilson, l. yan, and c.  wilson, “the precursors of governance in the maine lobster fishery,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25  september 2007): 15212–17.
this generates a measure of forest condition that  is comparable across different ecological regions.
see a. burton, “what future for fish,”frontiers in ecology and the environment 4, no. 10 (2006): 508.
how successful have efforts been to sustain the world’s oceans and forests since the publication of the brundtland report?
these rules enable lobster fishers to monitor  each other’s harvesting with substantial effectiveness.27 the  evolved maine lobster system strikes a relatively delicate balance.
external arrangements are rarely sufficient in and of themselves to effectively monitor a commons.
in addition to the major disappointments of the decade, clark found some more optimistic developments.
the cod fishery has not yet recovered: the cod fishers have had to leave local villages, find jobs elsewhere, or go on welfare.
in the state of maine, for example, local fishers and state officials have  successfully evolved ways to manage lobster stocks.
establishing effective  governance arrangements on this scale has proved to be more difficult than on a  local scale.
the task of designing  sustainable, complex, coupled human-resource systems is indeed always a  struggle.
thus,  specific institutional arrangements that work best in a particular location  need to take into account the appropriate spatial and temporal scales as well  as the type of interactions that occur on the ground.
for example, some modern irrigation systems are constructed without information on farmers’ property rights and cause considerable disruption.68 the diverse types of infrastructure need to work and change together over time.
a team led by fikret berkes of the university of manitoba’s natural resources institute documents another harvesting process practiced by “roving bandits” that is sequentially devastating coastal fisheries even within eezs: “roving banditry is different from most commons dilemmas in that a new dynamic has arisen in the globalized world: new markets can develop so rapidly that the speed of resource exploitation often overwhelms the ability of local institutions to respond.
in the november 2007 issue ofenvironment, raul p. lejano and helen ingram of the university of california, irvine, document a very successful local system that evolved over a decade in the turtle islands of the philippines.30 while outsiders were deeply involved in the effort to find mechanisms that would control overfishing of turtle eggs, they worked very closely with local fishers and officials to develop a system, the pawikan conservation project, which was well-matched to the local economy.
w. c. clark, “brundtland +10, rio + 5,” environment 39, no. 7 (september 1997): editorial.
”4 william clark of the harvard kennedy school of government evaluated the impact of the brundtland commission’s work forenvironment a decade after its release.5 clark reflected that many disappointments, resignations, and increased cynicism were expressed at the international meetings held to evaluate progress toward sustainable development.
setting up strict hierarchical systems may increase the speed of decisions but ignore the interests of some participants who eventually erupt and potentially destroy an operational system.
with the  establishment of eezs, some coastal fisheries in canada, new zealand, and  iceland have been able to develop individual transferable quota (itq) systems  that have reduced the level of harvesting in key coastal fisheries.
while no international regime that includes all countries has been implemented yet, a variety of approaches at multiple levels are under way.57 one of the largest regimes in geographic scope is the european union emission trading scheme, which is a cap-and-trade program that sets an initial upper limit on emissions levels while assigning tradable property rights to a firm for this limit.
t. tietenberg, emissions trading: principles and practice (washington, dc: resources for the future, 2006); and s. barrett,environment and statecraft: the strategy of environmental treaty making (oxford: oxford university press, 2003).
irrigation in transition: responding to  challenges (new delhi, india: sage, 2005).
in addition, many voluntary programs  have been established on multiple scales and generated diverse results.58  considerable learning can be achieved from comparative study of their  performances.
the total volume of fish caught in major fisheries around the world has doubled in size from 70 million tons in 1979 to 141 million tons in 2005.
r. a. myers and b. worm, “rapid worldwide depletion of  predatory fish communities,”nature 423 (15 may 2003):  280–83; j. b. c. jackson et al., “historical overfishing and the  recent collapse of coastal ecosystems,”science 293, no. 5530 (27  july 2001): 629–38; and d. pauly et al., “towards sustainability in  world fisheries,”nature 418 (8 august 2002): 689–95.
see, for example, t. e. lovejoy, “protected areas: a prism for a changing world,”trends in ecology and evolution 21, no. 6 (2006): 329–33; j. terborgh, requiem for nature (washington, dc: island press, 1999); and r. a. kramer, c. p. van schaik, and j. johnson, eds.,last
agricultural expansion, poverty reduction, and environment in tropical forests (washington, dc: world bank, 2006).
appropriation, provision, monitoring, enforcement, conflict resolution, and governance activities are organized in multiple layers of nested enterprises.
no blueprints exist for  achieving these requirements.
effective monitoring by officials and users is an essential ingredient of sustainable common-pool resource institutions.
governmental units own most forested land, while private owners and, to a lesser extent, communities own the remaining forested land.41 some policy analysts call for massive increases in the extent of government-owned protected areas as the only way to protect biodiversity and reduce deforestation.42 others have called into question whether officially designated protected areas are the best strategy for conserving the world’s forests, arguing that many such “paper parks” are counterproductive.43 the international union for conservation of nature (iucn) estimates that about 10–12 percent of the world’s forested lands are already in protected areas, and the food and agriculture organization (fao) of the united nations’ global forest assessment estimates that 479 million hectares are inside protected areas.44
to see these, he argued, requires a shift in  perspective from the current short-term, global view of international  environmental diplomacy to longer term and more local views of sustainable  development.
• minimal recognition  of rights to organize.
in  canada, for example, the department of fisheries and oceans (dfo) used a model  of stock regeneration for northern cod that scientists later determined was  flawed.23 further, highly aggregated and incomplete data was used in deciding  on quotas.
about 4.6 billion people depend for all or some of their water on supplies from forest systems.
in the state of maine, for example, local fishers and state officials have successfully evolved ways to manage lobster stocks.
a study of the distribution of pes payments in  costa rica, for example, found that payments tended to be allocated to large  landowners with high incomes.53
wced, note 1, page 273.
the  author thanks gwen arnold and frank van laerhoven for their help in preparing  basic statistical materials for this article; james acheson, krister andersson,  xavier basurto, eduardo brondizio, michael cox, tom evans, burnell fischer,  helen ingram, prakash kashwan, raul p. lejano, ruth meinzen-dick, ryan peck,  and vicky meretsky for their helpful comments to improve the article; sarah  beam for her active encouragement and comments; and patty lezotte for her  excellent editing.
in an analysis of data from 76 government-owned forests  that were legally designated as protected forests and 87 public, private, and  community-owned forested lands that were not protected and were used for  diverse purposes, no statistical difference existed between vegetation  densities of officially designated, government-owned protected areas and all  other property regimes.48
part of the reason for the mixed results is that most common-pool resources differ vastly from one another.
the wced conceived “environment” as where people live, and “development” as how people try to improve their lives.
g. p.  shivakoti et al., eds.,asian
e. ostrom, governing the commons: the evolution of institutions for collective action (new york: cambridge university press, 1990).
inour common future, the  commission wrote, “humanity has the ability to make development  sustainable—to ensure it meets the needs of the present without  compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
irrigation in transition: responding to challenges (new delhi, india: sage, 2005).
w. c. clark, “brundtland +10, rio +  5,” environment 39, no. 7 (september 1997): editorial.
resize text: original large xlarge the challenge of common-pool resources by elinor ostrom
monitoring by officials or users of a forest makes a consistent difference in the forest conditions found in government and community forests.49
as the wced noted in its report, “the traditional  forms of national sovereignty are increasingly challenged by the realities of  ecological and economic dependence.
in addition  to the major disappointments of the decade, clark found some more optimistic  developments.
let us hope that the next two decades are more congruent with  sustainable  development than the two decades since the brundtland report.
see articles cited in note 46; and c.  gibson, j. t. williams, and e. ostrom, “local enforcement and better  forests,”world development 33, no. 2 (2005): 273–84.
how successful have efforts been to sustain the  world’s oceans and forests since the publication of the brundtland  report?
in his analysis of the long and conflict-ridden road to  the icelandic itq system, new york university professor of politics  thráinn eggertsson38 reflects that introducing major institutional  changes is a “subtle art” compared to using a simpler  “one-size-fits-all” formula.
t. eggertsson, “the  subtle art of major institutional change: introducing property rights in the  iceland fisheries,” in g. van huyleborook, w. verkeke, and l. lauwers,  eds.
one preliminary assessment estimates that egg conservation rates dropped from about 80 percent to 40 percent in about one year.
o. young, global governance:  drawing insights from the environmental experience (cambridge, ma: mit  press, 1997); r. o. keohane and e. ostrom, eds.,local commons and global  interdependence: heterogeneity and cooperation in two domains (london:  sage, 1995); and p. m. haas, r. o. keohane, and m. a. levy, eds., institutions for the earth: sources of effective international environmental  protection (cambridge, ma: mit press, 1993).
in his analysis of the long and conflict-ridden road to the icelandic itq system, new york university professor of politics thráinn eggertsson38 reflects that introducing major institutional changes is a “subtle art” compared to using a simpler “one-size-fits-all” formula.
international regimes for sustainable development major international problems—such as cross-state rivers and lake pollution, transmission of air pollutants across long distances, and pressures to use outer space and the north and south poles for imperial and commercial purposes—have challenged scholars and public officials to create international regimes for sustainable uses of these diverse commons.55 some large-scale resources have been protected successfully through appropriate international governance regimes such as the montreal protocol on stratospheric ozone, which was signed in 1987—the same year the brundtland report was released.
continued overharvesting of ocean  fisheries chapter 10 of the brundtland report presents a grim picture  of ocean fisheries’ management.
r. l. goldman, b. h. thompson, and g. c. daily, “institutional incentives for managing the landscape:
in the two decades that followed, humans have failed to  halt the tragedy of massive overfishing of the oceans, major deforestation, and  excessive dumping of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
their second major finding was that while these changes have led to substantial net gains in economic development and human well-being, the gains have been achieved at growing costs in the form of the degradation of many ecosystem services, increased risks of nonlinear changes, and the exacerbation of poverty for some groups of people.
setting up strict hierarchical systems may increase  the speed of decisions but ignore the interests of some participants who  eventually erupt and potentially destroy an operational system.
r. l. goldman, b. h. thompson, and g. c. daily, “institutional  incentives for managing the landscape:
that future is severely threatened, however, if we do not focus on how to protect our common heritage while endeavoring to achieve greater economic returns for the peoples of the world.
new  zealand declared its 200-mile eez in 1983.
l. harris, i ndependent review of the state of the northern cod stock, prepared for the  honorable thomas siddon, minister of fisheries (ottawa, on: communications  directorate, department of fisheries and oceans, 1990).
eezs assign sovereign powers to coastal states to manage these resources and assure they are not endangered by overexploitation.20 that agreement was heralded by the wced, which stated “not only do governments now have the legal power and the self-interest to apply sound principles of resource management within this area, but they have an obligation to do so.
many scholars now recognize that simple “ideal” solutions imposed from the outside can make things worse rather than better.
like  other policies that are good in theory, working out arrangements that actually  achieve both protection and increased income to the world’s poor  residents has been difficult.
effective  monitoring by officials and users is an essential ingredient of sustainable  common-pool resource institutions.
while many  environmental and social problems are worse today than two decades ago, the  authors of the wced report should be congratulated for stimulating an essential  dialogue among scholars, public officials, nongovernmental organizations, and  citizens about strategies for achieving sustainable development.
a sociological  analysis of northern cod stock assessments from 1977–1990 (st.  john’s, newfoundland: institute of social and economic research, memorial  university of new foundland, 1994).
these  rules give effective protection to juvenile lobsters and proven breeding stock  as well as limit the number of lobster traps.
the role of repeated interactions in decentralized forest governance,”world development 32, no. 2 (2004): 233–49; and k. andersson and e. ostrom, “analyzing decentralized resource regimes from a polycentric perspective,”policy sciences 41, no. 1 (2008): 71–93.
a sociological analysis of northern cod stock assessments from 1977–1990 (st. john’s, newfoundland: institute of social and economic research, memorial university of new foundland, 1994).
see m. marquis and p. tans, “carbon crucible,”science 320, no. 5875 (25 april 2008): 460–61.
these rules give effective protection to juvenile lobsters and proven breeding stock as well as limit the number of lobster traps.
before then,  the atmospheric concentrations of ozone-depleting substances were increasing  faster than those of carbon dioxide; the increases slowed by the early 1990s,  and the concentration appears to have stabilized in recent years.56
is the european union emission trading scheme, which is a cap-and-trade program  that sets an initial upper limit on emissions levels while assigning tradable  property rights to a firm for this limit.
from 1990 to 2000, the global area of temperate forest increased by almost 3 million hectares per year, while deforestation in the tropics occurred at an average rate exceeding 2 million hectares per year over the past two decades.39 as table 2 shows below, total hectares of forested land have steadily declined between 1990 and 2005.
university of michigan press, 1994).
the rights of users to devise their own institutions are not challenged by external governmental authorities, and users have long-term tenure rights to the resource.
this publication was made possible by the united states agency for international development for the sustainable agriculture and natural resources management collaborative research support program under terms of grant no.
new zealand declared its 200-mile eez in 1983.
the imposition of an external, but unenforceable, rule destroyed the preexisting local rules.
see the special feature, “going beyond panaceas,” in theproceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15176–223.
e. ostrom, “a diagnostic approach for going beyond  panaceas,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15181–87; r. meinzen-dick, “beyond  panaceas in water institutions,” proceedings of the national academy  of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15200–205; and h.  nagendra, “drivers of reforestation in human-dominated forests,” p roceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25  september 2007): 15218–23.
as a result, in 1990, the  commercial fishers received a revised itq based on a proportion of the total  catch assigned annually.35 over time, the original itq system has evolved into  a comanagement system in which the fishers participate in gathering data and  making policies.
the 2007 fishing quota established by the european union for eastern  baltic cod, for example, ignored the warning of the international council for  the exploitation of the sea (ices), the scientific body advising the european  union on catch sizes, which strongly advised skipping at least one year in  authorizing any catch.25 even the reduced catch levels set for western baltic  cod remained 30 percent over the level recommended by ices.
inour common future, the commission wrote, “humanity has the ability to make development sustainable—to ensure it meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
for the past decade, colleagues from a dozen countries have been conducting studies of forests as part of the international forestry resources and institutions research program.47 at each site, an interdisciplinary team measures trees, shrubs, and groundcover for a random sample of forest plots.
as the wced noted in its report, “the traditional forms of national sovereignty are increasingly challenged by the realities of ecological and economic dependence.
f. berkes, “community-based  conservation in a globalized world,”proceedings of the national  academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15188–93; and  c. kumar, “whither ‘community-based’ conservation,” economic and political weekly 41, no. 52 (30 december 2006): 5313–20. 13.
if the global community can apply these lessons, invest in adaptive governance, treasure institutional diversity as much as it treasures biodiversity, and see all policies as experiments that need to be evaluated over time based on new information, we may move toward a more sustainable path.
in 1979, according to data cited in this  chapter, the total volume of fish captured (from wild fisheries and  aquaculture—cultivating fish, especially for food) was more than 70  million tons, and overexploitation threatened many fishery stocks.
design principles for governing sustainable resources the  following principles are frequently observed in sustainable institutional  regimes: •
on the other hand, harvesting from fisheries of developing countries, but not necessarily by local fishers, has continued to grow and is now 80 percent of the vastly increased overall total.
fishery after fishery has been subject to  massive overfishing, including the tuna and whale fisheries in the pacific, the  cod fishery in the atlantic, and the lobster and conch fisheries in the  caribbean.19 in 1982, the united nations conference on the law of the  sea did remove around one-third of the oceans from the international realm by  establishing exclusive economic zones (eezs) that extend 200 nautical miles  along the oceanic borders of coastal states.
the commons and common-pool resources scholars are  still in the process of developing a shared language for the broad set of  things called “the commons.”
the fund would then invest in technological development to avert  further carbon emissions and would also return some of the revenues to the  peoples of the earth.59 while this idea may not be accepted, many imaginative  concepts need to be seriously discussed in the immediate future or dreams of  sustainable development will be defeated by overlooking the threat of carbon  emissions.
rules specifying the amount of resource products that a user is  allocated are related to local conditions and rules requiring labor, materials,  and/or money inputs.
no question exists that some protected areas are very successful in protecting local forests, such as the tikal national park in guatemala or the machadinho d’oeste reserves in rondônia, brazil.45 on the other hand, deforestation threatens many areas around the world that are designated as protected but are not sufficiently budgeted or staffed to actually protect the forest.46
a second set of territorial rules developed by fishers allocate fishing locations to fishers living near and fishing from a particular harbor.
the real tragedy here is that the local fishers, who had established local rules for managing the fishery before the government’s intervention and were the backbone of local economies, paid the cost of the collapse rather than the officials who had not listened to them.
for example,  some modern irrigation systems are constructed without information on  farmers’ property rights and cause considerable disruption.68 the diverse  types of infrastructure need to work and change together over time.
wced, note 1, page  273.
in 1987, the world commission on environment and development (wced)  released its seminal report,our common future, which created a serious  discussion about how we should engage in sustainable development of the  world’s future, including how to address global resource systems, or  “commons.
in contrast, while international groups, state-level public officials, and the fishers tried to regulate the lobster fisheries in the caribbean, none of these groups’ efforts have been able to stem the overharvesting of lobster in this region.29
for  an alternative view stressing some successes among the many failures, see r.  hilborn, “reinterpreting the state of fisheries and their  management,”ecosystems 10, no. 8 (2007): 1362–69; and for  a recent spatial analysis of the condition of fisheries across the world, see  b. j. halpern et al., “a global map of human impact on marine  ecosystems,”science 319, no. 5865 (15 february 2008):  948–52.
governance systems that ignore the possibility of conflict over diverse issues may increase the likelihood of these conflicts, which could eventually erupt into major problems.
t. yandle and c. dewees, “privatizing the commons . .
table 1 below  presents world fish catch data in major regional fisheries from 1979 through  2005.16
see w. a. kurz et al., “mountain pine beetle and forest carbon feedback to climate change,”nature 452, no. 7190 (24 april 2008): 987–90.
the 2007 fishing quota established by the european union for eastern baltic cod, for example, ignored the warning of the international council for the exploitation of the sea (ices), the scientific body advising the european union on catch sizes, which strongly advised skipping at least one year in authorizing any catch.25 even the reduced catch levels set for western baltic cod remained 30 percent over the level recommended by ices.
e. ostrom, “design  principles for sustainable institutions related to forests, irrigation systems,  and pastoral systems,” paper presented at the lincoln institute  conference, land policies and property rights, boston, ma, 2 june 2008.
the task of designing sustainable, complex, coupled human-resource systems is indeed always a struggle.
since that time, stocks have risen substantially and are now higher than they were in the nineteenth century.
that future is severely threatened, however, if we do not focus on how to  protect our common heritage while endeavoring to achieve greater economic  returns for the peoples of the world.
in this issue on this topic about uscontact us current issue subscribe archives editorialsbytes of noteeditors' picksfor advertisersdegreesauthor guidelines terms & conditions © 2009 taylor & francis group · 325 chestnut street, suite 800, philadelphia, pa · 19106 ·heldref@taylorandfrancis.com
m. hockings, “systems for assessing the effectiveness of management in protected areas,”bioscience 53, no. 9 (2006): 823–32; d. nepstad et al., “inhibition of amazon deforestation and fire by parks and indigenous lands,”conservation biology 20, no. 1 (2006): 65–73; e. ostrom and h. nagendra, “insights on linking forests, trees, and people from the air, on the ground, and in the laboratory,”proceedings of the national academy of sciences 103, no. 51 (19 december 2006): 19224–31; and e. moran and e. ostrom, eds.,
united nations,final act of the third conference on the law of the sea (montego bay, jamaica: united nations, 1982).
in light of   extensive research on the applicability of the design principles, an updated  analysis is in process.70 the future of the commons the  global community has taken a long journey since 1987 in its efforts to  understand how individuals cope with managing common resources, as well as  other diverse economic and ecological situations as they try to improve their  lives, the lives of their children, and lives of their children’s  children.
v. ostrom and e. ostrom, “public goods and  public choices,” in m. mcginnis, ed.,polycentricity and local public  economies (ann arbor, mi: university of michigan press, 1999),  75–106; and e. ostrom, r. gardner, and j. walker,rules, games, and  common-pool resources (ann arbor, mi:
rules specifying the amount of resource products that a user is allocated are related to local conditions and rules requiring labor, materials, and/or money inputs.
t. hayes and e. ostrom, “conserving the world’s forests: are protected areas the only way?”indiana law review 38, no. 3 (2005): 595–617; andt. hayes, “parks, people, and forest protection: an institutional assessment of the effectiveness of protected areas,”world development 34, no. 12 (2006): 2064–75.
the ecological services of these developing countries serve the entire world, while the costs of preservation are borne by residents of the developed world.
the political economy of development aid (with clark gibson, krister andersson, and sujai shivakumar); and understanding institutional diversity.
from  1990 to 2000, the global area of temperate forest increased by almost 3 million  hectares per year, while deforestation in the tropics occurred at an average  rate exceeding 2 million hectares per year over the past two decades.39 as table 2 shows below, total hectares of forested land have  steadily declined between 1990 and 2005.
no question exists that some protected areas are very successful in  protecting local forests, such as the tikal national park in guatemala or the  machadinho d’oeste reserves in rondônia, brazil.45 on the other  hand, deforestation threatens many areas around the world that are designated  as protected but are not sufficiently budgeted or staffed to actually protect  the forest.46
common-pool resources may be governed and managed by a wide  variety of institutional arrangements that can be roughly grouped as  governmental, private, or community ownership.
wced, note 1, page 8.
as can be seen in figure 2 of their article, 31 the percentage of eggs conserved steadily rose from the commencement of the pawikan program in the mid-1980s through the 1990s without any major conflict among participants.
a team led by fikret berkes of the university of  manitoba’s natural resources institute documents another harvesting  process practiced by “roving bandits” that is sequentially  devastating coastal fisheries even within eezs: “roving banditry is  different from most commons dilemmas in that a new dynamic has arisen in the  globalized world: new markets can develop so rapidly that the speed of resource  exploitation often overwhelms the ability of local institutions to  respond.
d.  cole,pollution and property (cambridge, ma: cambridge university  press, 2002).
• collective-choice arrangements.
yet the wced, headed by then–norwegian prime minister gro harlem brundtland, challenged scholars, public officials, and citizens to recognize that we all share a common future.
the commons and common-pool resources scholars are still in the process of developing a shared language for the broad set of things called “the commons.”
twelve years later,” in n. dolsak and e. ostrom, eds.
e. ostrom, “a diagnostic approach for going beyond panaceas,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15181–87; r. meinzen-dick, “beyond panaceas in water institutions,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15200–205; and h. nagendra, “drivers of reforestation in human-dominated forests,” p roceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15218–23.
new  challenges arising from the increased speed and spread of human impacts require  adaptations using a combination of scientific and local knowledge.
d. cole,pollution and property (cambridge, ma: cambridge university press, 2002).
one preliminary assessment estimates that egg conservation rates  dropped from about 80 percent to 40 percent in about one year.
users and their officials have rapid access to low-cost, local arenas to resolve conflict among users or between users and officials.
for an alternative view stressing some successes among the many failures, see r. hilborn, “reinterpreting the state of fisheries and their management,”ecosystems 10, no. 8 (2007): 1362–69; and for a recent spatial analysis of the condition of fisheries across the world, see b. j. halpern et al., “a global map of human impact on marine ecosystems,”science 319, no. 5865 (15 february 2008): 948–52.
the national research council  has convened a series of meetings to assess what the global community has  learned since the brundtland report,64 garrett hardin’s classic article,65  and the extensive research undertaken by scholars from multiple disciplines  related to the study of common-pool resources on multiple scales.66
to see these, he argued, requires a shift in perspective from the current short-term, global view of international environmental diplomacy to longer term and more local views of sustainable development.
while the news related to ocean fisheries and many coastal  fisheries is bleak, it is not entirely grim for fishery stocks on all coasts.
however, in some specific niches, such as the maine lobster fishery, the commons are in better condition today than they were a decade or two ago.
five basic requirements, however, have been identified from extensive multidisciplinary studies of failed and successful regimes for governing diverse commons.67 these include • achieving accurate and relevant information.
appropriation, provision, monitoring, enforcement, conflict resolution, and  governance activities are organized in multiple layers of nested enterprises.
c. gibson, m. mckean,  and e. ostrom, eds., people and forests: communities, institutions, and  governance (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2000); c. tucker and e. ostrom,  “multidisciplinary research relating institutions and forest  transformations,” in moran and ostrom, ibid., 81–103; k. andersson,  “who talks with whom?
scholars knowledgeable about the local culture and  history conduct participatory, in-depth studies of the activities, norms, and  rules of local users.
national governments also tended to use relatively crude models of fishery dynamics in the early years of their responsibilities and had insufficient data to assess stocks.22 in canada, for example, the department of fisheries and oceans (dfo) used a model of stock regeneration for northern cod that scientists later determined was flawed.23 further, highly aggregated and incomplete data was used in deciding on quotas.
governments assign itqs, official harvesting quotas, to a fisher that then may use them to harvest his or her assigned quantity or sell them to another fisher (hence the term “transferable”).
r. p. lejano and h. ingram, “place-based conservation: lessons from the turtle islands,”environment 49, no. 9 (november 2007): 18–26.
t.  a. aide and h. r. grau, “globalization, migration, and latin american  ecosystems,”science 305, no. 5692 (2004): 1915–16.
without active monitoring, however, the incentive to freeride on the cooperation of others can generate a tragedy of the commons.
even though local fishers in newfoundland feared a collapse was near, the canadian dfo assured everyone that the cod fishery was recuperating from earlier excessive harvests.
the challenge is combining accurate scientific understanding of coupled human-environmental systems and expected changes in these variables over time with information available to the users about their own future and the changes they can make in governance as well as use.
v. ostrom and e. ostrom, “public goods and public choices,” in m. mcginnis, ed.,polycentricity and local public economies (ann arbor, mi: university of michigan press, 1999), 75–106; and e. ostrom, r. gardner, and j. walker,rules, games, and common-pool resources (ann arbor, mi: university of michigan press, 1994).
in contrast, common-pool resources are sufficiently large that it is  difficult, but not impossible, to define recognized users and exclude other  users altogether.
what role do international regimes play in a sustainable future?
the law was largely based on international  conventions that stress the importance of protecting endangered species.
looking ahead toward long-term effective management of resource systems on a  global scale, several important questions require examination: what are  “the commons?”
•encourage adaptation and change.
r. arnason, “the icelandic individual transferable quota system: a descriptive account,”marine resource economics 8, no. 3 (1993): 201–18.
the  most pressing commons problem at a global level is the need to reduce  greenhouse gas concentrations substantially.
bytes of note - climate policy’s quiet giants climate change and u.s. agriculture: examining the connections coping with climate change: a national summit editorial - catchment care for sustainability editors' picks - july/august 2008 reversing the race to the bottom: urban groundwater use in developing  countries small size, big potential: check dams for sustainable development the challenge of common-pool resources on this topic an uncommon peace: environment, development, and the global security agenda  may/june 2008 (full) energy choices toward a sustainable future december 2007 (full) food security: achieving the potential september/october 2008
food and agriculture organization (fao) of the united nations, fisheries and aquaculture information and statistics service,global aquaculture production, 1950–2005 (rome: fao, 2007), http://www.fao.org/fishery/topic/16073 (accessed 8 april 2008).
rather, the users of a commons, who are frequently widely dispersed, need to  take some responsibility for monitoring.
data derived from prodes-inpe (monitoramento da floresta amazônica brasileira por satélite) deforestation mapping for 2003 for the states of acre, pará, and rondônia, http://www.obt.inpe.br/prodes/index.html (accessed 8 april 2008).
setting scientifically recommended  fishing quotas for large coastal fisheries—even when official authority  exists—frequently has been difficult and conflict-laden for public  officials.
(abstract) our common inaction: meeting the call for institutional change  november/december 2008 (abstract) population, human resources, health, and the environment: getting the  balance right january/february 2008 (full) the challenge of common-pool resources july/august 2008 (full)
many of the individuals affected by harvesting and protection rules are  included in the group who can modify these rules.
enhancing rule  compliance.
“creating an earth atmospheric
twelve years later,” in n. dolsak and e. ostrom,  eds.
institutional arrangements that are intended to be sustainable cannot be fixed for the “long term,” because they need to change to address past errors and cope with new developments.
since the ecological, technological, economic, and  social factors affecting the performance of any commons regime change over  time, information about the conditions of the resource and its users also needs  to be updated regularly.
“with conventional management practices, the growth era of fisheries is over,” the report predicted.15 the situation has not improved in the 20 years since the report was issued, although at first glance, the data might seem to indicate the wced’s prediction wasincorrect.
scholars knowledgeable about the local culture and history conduct participatory, in-depth studies of the activities, norms, and rules of local users.
food and agriculture  organization (fao) of the united nations, fisheries and aquaculture information  and statistics service,global aquaculture production, 1950–2005  (rome: fao, 2007), http://www.fao.org/fishery/topic/16073 (accessed 8 april  2008).
what  lessons have scholars learned about adaptive governance of common-pool  resources over the past 20 years that can be applied to the next 20 years and  beyond?
most of the ocean fisheries are truly open access.
we are fallible humans  studying fallible human behavior within institutional structures constructed by  other fallible humans.
in fact, findings from multiple studies of government- or community-managed forests illustrate the crucial role monitoring played in impacting the cohesiveness of institutions, as well as the success of diverse forest management initiatives.50 when harvesting rules are effectively monitored and enforced, they prevent the spread of freeriding behavior, thereby instilling a sense of trust in the community.
physical, technological, and institutional infrastructure  is an essential investment to increase the effectiveness of internal operations  within a commons as well as link any particular resource and its users to  larger regimes.
peter barnes of the tomales bay institute and colleagues  have proposed an “earth atmospheric trust” where a global  cap-and-trade system is created for all greenhouse gas emissions and the funds  obtained from auctioning off the permits are deposited in a “trust  fund.”
new challenges arising from the increased speed and spread of human impacts require adaptations using a combination of scientific and local knowledge.
trust,”science 319, no. 5864 (8 february 2008): 724.
in his classic article, “the tragedy of the commons,” leading ecologist garrett hardin confused open-access commons with commons that are the joint property of a community.14 while hardin correctly pointed out that valuable open-access common-pool resources would be overharvested, his conclusion of an inevitable tragedy was too sweeping.
without active monitoring, however, the incentive  to freeride on the cooperation of others can generate a tragedy of the commons.
the pictures they provide are, of course, mixed, with their own share of environmental horrors, economic greed, and program failures.
in contrast, while international groups,  state-level public officials, and the fishers tried to regulate the lobster  fisheries in the caribbean, none of these groups’ efforts have been able  to stem the overharvesting of lobster in this region.29 in the  november 2007 issue ofenvironment, raul p. lejano and helen ingram of  the university of california, irvine, document a very successful local system  that evolved over a decade in the turtle islands of the philippines.30 while  outsiders were deeply involved in the effort to find mechanisms that would  control overfishing of turtle eggs, they worked very closely with local fishers  and officials to develop a system, the pawikan conservation project, which was  well-matched to the local economy.
for an explanation of the requirements for adaptive governance, see  nrc, note 11, chapter 13; and dietz, ostrom, and stern, note 45.
“with  conventional management practices, the growth era of fisheries is over,”  the report predicted.15 the situation has not improved in the 20 years  since the report was issued, although at first glance, the data might seem to  indicate the wced’s prediction wasincorrect.
g. a. sánchez-azofeifa, a. pfaff, j. a. robalino, and j. p.  boomhower, “costa rica’s payment for environmental services  program: intention, implementation, and impact,”conservation biology 21, no. 5 (2007): 1165–73.
millennium ecosystem assessment (mea), ecosystems and human well-being: synthesis report (washington, dc: island press, 2005), http://www.milleniumassessment.org/en/index.aspx (accessed 8 april 2008).
in 1995, the fishery was closed, however, due to a major collapse.
43. a. molnar, s. j. scherr, and a. khare,who conserves the world’s forests?
building  respectful collaborations between local users, public officials, and scientific  experts is a vital requisite of adaptive governance.
eezs assign sovereign powers to  coastal states to manage these resources and assure they are not endangered by  overexploitation.20 that agreement was heralded by the wced, which stated  “not only do governments now have the legal power and the self-interest  to apply sound principles of resource management within this area, but they  have an obligation to do so.
forest systems are associated  with the regulation of 57% of total water runoff.
governmental units own most forested land, while private owners and, to a  lesser extent, communities own the remaining forested land.41 some policy  analysts call for massive increases in the extent of government-owned protected  areas as the only way to protect biodiversity and reduce deforestation.42  others have called into question whether officially designated protected areas  are the best strategy for conserving the world’s forests, arguing that  many such “paper parks” are counterproductive.43 the international  union for conservation of nature (iucn) estimates that about 10–12  percent of the world’s forested lands are already in protected areas, and  the food and agriculture organization (fao) of the united nations’ global  forest assessment estimates that 479 million hectares are inside protected  areas.44
we can, however, recognize our growing  capabilities and those of the individuals we study to experiment with rules,  learn from the experiments, and, if the broader institutional and cultural  milieu facilitates, gradually improve outcomes so they are sustainable over  time.
achieving adaptive governance
the role of repeated interactions in decentralized  forest governance,”world development 32, no. 2 (2004):  233–49; and k. andersson and e. ostrom, “analyzing decentralized  resource regimes from a polycentric perspective,”policy sciences 41, no. 1 (2008): 71–93.
these roving bandits have depleted the sea urchin fisheries in japan, korea, mexico, chile, russia, alaska, the eastern coast of canada, and the northwestern and northeastern coasts of the united states.
what lessons have scholars learned about adaptive governance of common-pool resources over the past 20 years that can be applied to the next 20 years and beyond?
j. sibert, j. hampton, p. kleiber, and m. maunder, “biomass, size, and trophic status of top predators in the pacific ocean,”science 314, no. 5806 (15 december 2006): 1773–76; a. c. finlayson and b. j. mccay, “crossing the threshold of ecosystem resilience: the commercial extinction of northern cod,” in f. berkes and j. colding, eds.,linking social and ecological systems: management practices and social mechanisms for building resilience (cambridge, uk: cambridge university press, 1998), 311–37; c. s. baker and p. j. clapham, “modeling the past and future of whales and whaling,”trends in ecology and evolution 19, no. 7 (2004): 365–71; and m. huitric, “lobster and conch fisheries of belize: a history of sequential exploitation,”ecology and society 10, no. 1 (2005), http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol10/iss1/art21 (accessed 8 april 2008).
as a result of extensive studies, however, we are learning some key lessons that, if applied, may enable the humans living on earth to improve on their past performance.60 no cure-alls the most important lesson that needs wide dissemination is that simple panaceas offered for solving problems related to the commons—whether they are for government, private, or community ownership—may work in some settings but fail in others.61 as examples have shown, quick fixes may cause more harm than good.62 instead, officials and citizens need to craft institutions at multiple levels built on accurate data gathered at appropriate scales given the type of resource involved.
rather, a general set of design principles has repeatedly been found to characterize small- to medium-sized institutional regimes that were sustainable over a long period of time.69 as shown below, the design principles do not specify any particular rule.
e. parson, protecting the ozone layer: science and strategy (oxford: oxford  university press, 2003); world resources institute,world resources: earth  trends data (washington, dc: world resources institute, 2003); and g. j.  m. velders, s. o. andersen, j. s. daniel, d. w. fahey, and m. mcfarland,  “the importance of the montreal protocol in protecting climate,” proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 12 (20 march  2007): 4814–19.
very  soon after the law was passed, “turtle egg conservation in the turtle  island system ceased altogether, and depletion of turtle eggs proceeded at an  alarming rate.
these findings are supported by a recent meta-analysis of 69 case studies of community-managed forests by a. pagdee, y. s. kim, and p. j. daugherty, “what makes community forest management successful: a meta-study from community forests throughout the world,”society and natural resources 19, no. 1 (2006): 33–52.
national governments also tended to use  relatively crude models of fishery dynamics in the early years of their  responsibilities and had insufficient data to assess stocks.22
,role of institutions in rural policies and agricultural models (amsterdam: elsevier, 2004), 43–59; see also t. eggertsson, imperfect institutions: possibilities and limits of reform (ann arbor, mi:
see w. a. kurz et al., “mountain pine beetle and forest  carbon feedback to climate change,”nature 452, no. 7190 (24  april 2008): 987–90.
formal rules may become effective when participants consider them legitimate, fair, enforced, and likely to achieve intended purposes.
in contrast, common-pool resources are sufficiently large that it is difficult, but not impossible, to define recognized users and exclude other users altogether.
formal rules may become effective when participants consider them legitimate,  fair, enforced, and likely to achieve intended purposes.
c. gibson, m. mckean, and e. ostrom, eds., people and forests: communities, institutions, and governance (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2000); c. tucker and e. ostrom, “multidisciplinary research relating institutions and forest transformations,” in moran and ostrom, ibid., 81–103; k. andersson, “who talks with whom?
it is better to induce  cooperation with institutional arrangements fitted to local ecosystems than to  try to command it from afar.63 users need to perceive and understand the rules  as legitimate, or they will invest heavily in illegal harvesting.
part of the reason  for the mixed results is that most common-pool resources differ vastly from one  another.
the international regime to reduce the human impact on stratospheric ozone is widely considered a successful effort to protect a global commons.
the total volume of fish caught in major fisheries around the world has  doubled in size from 70 million tons in 1979 to 141 million tons in 2005.
we are now developing better tools for analyzing how changes in  rules, biophysical structures, and community attributes affect resources over  time.71 we must, however, be modest in our claims to understand these complex  systems and our attemps to derive the best answers.
in a study of three amazonian states in brazil (acre, pará,  and rondônia), indiana university professor eduardo brondizio and  colleagues used official deforestation data from the brazilian-based national  institute for space research (instituto nacional de pesquisas espaciais) to  study the relative contribution of deforested patches of different sizes to  total deforestation in each state.51 they found that clearings associated with  smaller-sized holdings dominate the number of clearings, but the percent of  land cleared in areas that are equal to or larger than 2,000 hectares exceeded  85 percent of total deforested area in all three states (85.9 in acre, 91.2 in  pará, and 94.5 in rondônia).
comparing forest measures such as the  average diameter at breast height or basal area across ecological zones is  misleading since these measures are strongly affected by precipitation, soils,  elevation, and other factors that dramatically vary across zones.
whereas open access to oceans, compounded by roving bandits and ineffective  governance in eezs, is a major cause of overfishing, one cannot blame the  problem of overharvested timber and deforestation on lack of ownership.
monitors, who actively audit biophysical conditions and user behavior,  are at least partially accountable to users and/or are users themselves.
the only major increases in forested areas have occurred in east asia, where china has, taken aggressive steps to reduce deforestation, and in the caribbean, where substantial urban migration has led to reforestation of the highland areas of puerto rico and the dominican republic.40 whereas open access to oceans, compounded by roving bandits and ineffective governance in eezs, is a major cause of overfishing, one cannot blame the problem of overharvested timber and deforestation on lack of ownership.
it is better to induce cooperation with institutional arrangements fitted to local ecosystems than to try to command it from afar.63 users need to perceive and understand the rules as legitimate, or they will invest heavily in illegal harvesting.
nagendra, note 13; r. ghate and h. nagendra, “role of monitoring in institutional performance: forest management in maharashtra, india,”conservation and society 3, no. 2 (2005): 509–32; n. t. tran,from legal acts to village institutions and forest use practices: effects of devolution in the central highlands of vietnam (aachen, germany: shaker verlag, 2005); d. b. bray, l. merino-pérez, and d. barry, eds.,the
(washington, dc: forest trends, 2002); and a. agrawal, “forests, governance, and sustainability: common property theory and its contributions,”international journal of the commons 1, no. 1 (2007): 111–36.42.
designing a system in a top-down  fashion and imposing it on the harvesters is not as successful as working with  the users of a common-pool resource over time to develop a system that is  well-matched to the ecological system as well as to the practices, norms, and  long-term economic welfare of the participants, as was accomplished in new  zealand.
since the wced report, a considerable number of common-pool resources are comanaged by communities working with governments.12
in a study of three amazonian states in brazil (acre, pará, and rondônia), indiana university professor eduardo brondizio and colleagues used official deforestation data from the brazilian-based national institute for space research (instituto nacional de pesquisas espaciais) to study the relative contribution of deforested patches of different sizes to total deforestation in each state.51 they found that clearings associated with smaller-sized holdings dominate the number of clearings, but the percent of land cleared in areas that are equal to or larger than 2,000 hectares exceeded 85 percent of total deforested area in all three states (85.9 in acre, 91.2 in pará, and 94.5 in rondônia).
c. clark, the worldwide crisis in fisheries: economic models and human behavior (cambridge, uk: cambridge university press, 2006), 238–40.
we are fallible humans studying fallible human behavior within institutional structures constructed by other fallible humans.
let us hope that the next two decades are more congruent with sustainable development than the two decades since the brundtland report.
another recommendation related to both reducing deforestation and decreasing global warming is payment for environmental services (pes) for protecting biodiversity and forests.52 pes programs charge residents of the developed world for protecting ecologically diverse sites in the developing world.
yet the wced, headed by  then–norwegian prime minister gro harlem brundtland, challenged scholars,  public officials, and citizens to recognize that we all share a common future.
inducing cooperation for the production of ecosystem services,”ecological economics 64, no. 2 (2007): 333–43.
the cod fishery has not yet  recovered: the cod fishers have had to leave local villages, find jobs  elsewhere, or go on welfare.
providing  infrastructure.
understanding knowledge as a commons: from theory to practice (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2007).
f. berkes et al., “globalization, roving bandits, and marine resources,” science 311, no. 5767 (17 march 2006): 1557–58.
t. hayes and e. ostrom,  “conserving the world’s forests: are protected areas the only  way?”indiana law review 38, no. 3 (2005): 595–617; andt.  hayes, “parks, people, and forest protection: an institutional assessment  of the effectiveness of protected areas,”world development 34,  no. 12 (2006): 2064–75.
while many environmental and social problems are worse today than two decades ago, the authors of the wced report should be congratulated for stimulating an essential dialogue among scholars, public officials, nongovernmental organizations, and citizens about strategies for achieving sustainable development.
the proportion of the world’s total  catch that is derived from aquaculture—again largely in the developing  world—has also steadily risen.17
much of the deforestation across the world  has occurred as farmers have cleared their private land for agricultural  purposes.
nagendra, note 13; r. ghate and h.  nagendra, “role of monitoring in institutional performance: forest  management in maharashtra, india,”conservation and society 3,  no. 2 (2005): 509–32; n. t. tran,from legal acts to village  institutions and forest use practices: effects of devolution in the central  highlands of vietnam (aachen, germany: shaker verlag, 2005); d. b. bray,  l. merino-pérez, and d. barry, eds.,the
t. sterner et al.,  “quick fixes for the environment—part of the solution or part of  the problem?”environment 48, no. 10 (december 2006): 20–27.
tragically, national officials did not recognize  local rules when they passed the wildlife resources conservation and protection  act in 2001, which prohibted hunting of threatened wildlife and banned the  collection of marine turtle eggs.
users who violate rules-in-use are  likely to receive graduated sanctions (depending on the seriousness and context  of the offense) from other users, officials accountable to these users, or both.
what have we learned since 1987?
elinor ostrom is the arthur f. bentley professor of political science and codirector of the workshop in political theory and policy analysis at indiana university and founding director of the center for the study of institutional diversity at arizona state university.
the itq  system has collected more valid data, decreased fleet overcapacity, recorded  catch levels close to allocated quotas, and reduced discard of unwanted  species.
she is a member of the national academy of sciences, the american academy of arts and sciences, and the american philosophical society.
t. a. aide and h. r. grau, “globalization, migration, and latin american ecosystems,”science 305, no. 5692 (2004): 1915–16.
we are now developing better tools for analyzing how changes in rules, biophysical structures, and community attributes affect resources over time.71 we must, however, be modest in our claims to understand these complex systems and our attemps to derive the best answers.
in 1986, new zealand became one of  the first countries to adopt a market-based fishery regulation when it adopted  a quota management system and allocated itqs to a subset of domestic fisheries.
users who violate rules-in-use are likely to receive graduated sanctions (depending on the seriousness and context of the offense) from other users, officials accountable to these users, or both.
further, we need to  recognize the thrust of massive damage to forests from uncontrolled insect  infestations.
commons refer to systems, such as  knowledge and the digital world, in which it is difficult to limit access, but  one person’s use does not subtract a finite quantity from another’s
common-pool resources may be governed and managed by a wide variety of institutional arrangements that can be roughly grouped as governmental, private, or community ownership.
the boundaries of  the resource system, such as irrigation systems or fisheries, and the  individuals or households with rights to harvest resource units are clearly  defined.
m. hockings, “systems for assessing the effectiveness of  management in protected areas,”bioscience 53, no. 9 (2006):  823–32; d. nepstad et al., “inhibition of amazon deforestation and  fire by parks and indigenous lands,”conservation biology 20, no.  1 (2006): 65–73; e. ostrom and h. nagendra, “insights on linking  forests, trees, and people from the air, on the ground, and in the  laboratory,”proceedings of the national academy of sciences 103,  no. 51 (19 december 2006): 19224–31; and e. moran and e. ostrom, eds.,
t. tietenberg, emissions trading:  principles and practice (washington, dc: resources for the future, 2006);  and s. barrett,environment and statecraft: the strategy of environmental  treaty making (oxford: oxford university press, 2003).
continued overharvesting of ocean fisheries chapter 10 of the brundtland report presents a grim picture of ocean fisheries’ management.
most of the ocean  fisheries are truly open access.
even though local fishers in newfoundland feared a collapse was  near, the canadian dfo assured everyone that the cod fishery was recuperating  from earlier excessive harvests.
these rules enable lobster fishers to monitor each other’s harvesting with substantial effectiveness.27 the evolved maine lobster system strikes a relatively delicate balance.
others include irrigation systems, groundwater basins, pastures and grazing  systems, lakes, oceans, and the earth’s atmosphere.11 chapter 10 of the  brundtland report primarily discusses the problematic condition of common-pool  resources in the late 1980s; thus this update will focus on common-pool  resources.
an overemphasis on engineered works such as highways, railways,  electricity networks, and modern irrigation systems, however, especially if  these works are designed without much awareness of the relevant institutional  arrangements of a particular regime, may be counterproductive.
further, policies also have to fit with the local culture and institutional environments of those who depend on ecosystems for their livelihood.
the dfo reopened the fishery several years later with new regulations,  including an annual itq system.33 further, they established a rigorous  monitoring program in which onboard observers record all catches.
in 1992, however, they reversed earlier  policies and declared a moratorium on all fishing for northern cod in canadian  waters.24
see national research council (nrc), the drama of the commons (washington, dc: national academies press, 2002); and nrc,proceedings of  the conference on common property resource management (washington, dc:  national academies press, 1986).
stocks.37 similar to the evolved new zealand itq system, quotas do not assign fixed quantities but rather a share of the annual authorized catch level set by the government.
looking ahead toward long-term effective management of resource systems on a global scale, several important questions require examination: what are “the commons?”
further, each person’s use of such resources subtracts  benefits that others might enjoy.10 fisheries and forests are two common-pool  resources that are of great concern in this era of major ecological challenges.
on  the other hand, harvesting from fisheries of developing countries, but not  necessarily by local fishers, has continued to grow and is now 80 percent of  the vastly increased overall total.
k. chomitz, p. buys, g. de luca, t. s. thomas, and s. wertz-kanounnikoff,at loggerheads?
community forests of mexico: managing for sustainable landscapes (austin, tx: university of texas press, 2005); and m. teng et al., “taboos and forest governance: informal protection of hot spot dry forest in southern madagascar,” ambio 36, no. 8 (2007): 683–91.
• conflict-resolution mechanisms.
r. morgenstern and w. pizer, reality check: the nature and performance of voluntary environmental programs in the united states, europe, and japan (washington, dc: resources for the future, 2007).
continued overharvesting of forest resources forest resources were not a focus of chapter 10 of the wced’s report, but they have become major news of recent times, especially given the impact of deforestation on global climate change.
thus, specific institutional arrangements that work best in a particular location need to take into account the appropriate spatial and temporal scales as well as the type of interactions that occur on the ground.
world commission on environment and development (wced),our common future (new york: oxford university press, 1987), 8.
nowhere is this more true than in shared ecosystems in ‘the global commons.’”3
dealing with conflict.
the law was largely based on international conventions that stress the importance of protecting endangered species.
commons in the new millennium: challenges and adaptations (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2003), 101–27.
mea, note 7, page 63.
depending on the setting, government ownership,  private property, community property, and comanagement may succeed or fail in  sustaining resources and providing good economic returns.13 open-access  resources—common-pool resources that anyone can enter and/or  harvest—are likely to be overharvested and potentially destroyed.
as a result of extensive studies, however, we are learning  some key lessons that, if applied, may enable the humans living on earth to  improve on their past performance.60 no cure-alls the most  important lesson that needs wide dissemination is that simple panaceas offered  for solving problems related to the commons—whether they are for  government, private, or community ownership—may work in some settings but  fail in others.61 as examples have shown, quick fixes may cause more harm than  good.62 instead, officials and citizens need to craft institutions at multiple  levels built on accurate data gathered at appropriate scales given the type of  resource involved.
governments  assign itqs, official harvesting quotas, to a fisher that then may use them to  harvest his or her assigned quantity or sell them to another fisher (hence the  term “transferable”).
thus, the  forester or ecologist who supervises the collection of forest data at a set of  international forestry resources and institutions sites is asked after  completing these measurements to rate the forest on a five-point scale from  very sparse to very abundant.
a second study of the costa rica pes experiment  based on remote sensing and geographic information systems (gis) found that  deforestation was not significantly less in regions where large allocations of  pes payments had been invested.54 hopefully, some of the initial experiments  will provide some insight on how to achieve these complex goals.
she has received the frank e. seidman prize in political  economy, johan skytte prize in political science, william h. riker prize, and  james madison award from the american political science association, and the  sustainability science award (with thomas dietz and paul stern) from the  ecological society of america.
due to developments in the technology of fishing, large,  high-powered boats can zoom into a local fishery, massively harvest it for a  valuable species in the international market, and then move to another location  before local authorities respond.
the boundaries of the resource system, such as irrigation systems or fisheries, and the individuals or households with rights to harvest resource units are clearly defined.
monitoring by officials or users of a forest  makes a consistent difference in the forest conditions found in government and  community forests.49
in 1979, according to data cited in this chapter, the total volume of fish captured (from wild fisheries and aquaculture—cultivating fish, especially for food) was more than 70 million tons, and overexploitation threatened many fishery stocks.
comparing forest measures such as the average diameter at breast height or basal area across ecological zones is misleading since these measures are strongly affected by precipitation, soils, elevation, and other factors that dramatically vary across zones.
forest systems are associated with the regulation of 57% of total water runoff.
the challenge is combining accurate scientific  understanding of coupled human-environmental systems and expected changes in  these variables over time with information available to the users about their  own future and the changes they can make in governance as well as use.
f. berkes, “community-based conservation in a globalized world,”proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104, no. 39 (25 september 2007): 15188–93; and c. kumar, “whither ‘community-based’ conservation,” economic and political weekly 41, no. 52 (30 december 2006): 5313–20. 13.
in the two decades that followed, humans have failed to halt the tragedy of massive overfishing of the oceans, major deforestation, and excessive dumping of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
while many policy analysts think that extending private ownership of a common-pool resource is an assured method for long-term sustainability, private ownership of forests does not guarantee long-term protection.
external arrangements  are rarely sufficient in and of themselves to effectively monitor a commons.
wced, note 1, page 266.
a second set of territorial rules  developed by fishers allocate fishing locations to fishers living near and  fishing from a particular harbor.
lejano and ingram’s article provides a counterargument to  the notion that only government ownership or management solves the problem of  the commons, detailing how top-down rulemaking without an awareness of local  norms, rules, and evolved institutions can lead to disaster.
depending on the setting, government ownership, private property, community property, and comanagement may succeed or fail in sustaining resources and providing good economic returns.13 open-access resources—common-pool resources that anyone can enter and/or harvest—are likely to be overharvested and potentially destroyed.
a study of the distribution of pes payments in costa rica, for example, found that payments tended to be allocated to large landowners with high incomes.53 a second study of the costa rica pes experiment based on remote sensing and geographic information systems (gis) found that deforestation was not significantly less in regions where large allocations of pes payments had been invested.54 hopefully, some of the initial experiments will provide some insight on how to achieve these complex goals.
t. eggertsson, “the subtle art of major institutional change: introducing property rights in the iceland fisheries,” in g. van huyleborook, w. verkeke, and l. lauwers, eds.
g. hardin, “the tragedy of the commons,”science 162, no. 3859 (13 december 1968): 1243–48.
the iceland itq system appears to have averted the collapse of many valuable species for the iceland fishery but has been less successful in restoring the icelandic cod stocks.
seeing the forest and the trees: human-environment interactions in forest ecosystems (cambridge, ma: mit press, 2005).
establishing effective governance arrangements on this scale has proved to be more difficult than on a local scale.
setting scientifically recommended fishing quotas for large coastal fisheries—even when official authority exists—frequently has been difficult and conflict-laden for public officials.
understanding knowledge as a commons: from theory to practice (cambridge,  ma: mit press, 2007).
stocks.37 similar to the  evolved new zealand itq system, quotas do not assign fixed quantities but  rather a share of the annual authorized catch level set by the government.
j. h. annala, “new zealand’s itq system: have the first eight years been a success or a failure?”reviews in fish biology and fisheries 6, no. 1 (1996): 44–62.