we assessed quality of the new method at the individual level using  chance-corrected concordance and at the population level using cause-specific  mortality fraction (csmf) accuracy as well as linear regression.
developing and refining ml methods is a vibrant area of research in computer science, and numerous new methods have been introduced over the past 50 years.
machine learning (ml) methods are computer algorithms that infer patterns  from examples[2].
thus, the gold standard cause of death is paired with the responses from a verbal autopsy.
the funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, interpretation of data, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
note that the neonate vas  results presented in the tables for pcva are for a shorter cause list that only  includes six causes, where all the preterm delivery causes are grouped  together.
format: xlsx size: 22kb download file murray et al. have shown that many traditional metrics of performance, such  as specificity or relative and absolute error in csmfs, are sensitive to the  csmf composition of the test dataset[13] and recommend that robust assessment  of performance be undertaken on a range of test datasets with widely varying  csmf compositions.
competing interests the authors declare that they have no competing interests.
corresponding author: abraham d flaxman abie@uw.edu author affiliations 1 institute for health metrics and evaluation, university of washington,  2301 fifth ave., suite 600, seattle, wa 98121, usa 2 bill & melinda gates foundation, seattle, usa for all author emails, please log on.
for child va, the value is small, where it yields an increase of 0.016, and for neonate, the hce value is not significant (increase of 0.006).
chance-corrected concordances for encephalitis, sepsis, and meningitis in  children are in the 15% to 25% range.
future research should also focus on  assessing va's performance in different settings.
while it may take days for a team of physicians to complete a va survey analysis, a computer approach requires only seconds of processing on hardware that is currently affordably available.
it is also preferable to pcva in  terms of time and cost.
the dirichlet distribution specifies random fractions  that sum to 1.
rf does benefit substantially from hce variables for certain important causes, however.
acknowledgements this research was conducted as part of the population health  metrics research consortium:christopher jl murray, alan d lopez,  robert black, ramesh ahuja, said mohd ali, abdullah baqui, lalit dandona, emily  dantzer, vinita das, usha dhingra, arup dutta, wafaie fawzi, abraham d flaxman,  sara gomez, bernardo hernandez, rohina joshi, henry kalter, aarti kumar,  vishwajeet kumar, rafael lozano, marilla lucero, saurabh mehta, bruce neal,  summer lockett ohno, rajendra prasad, devarsetty praveen, zul premji, dolores  ramírez-villalobos, hazel remolador, ian riley, minerva romero, mwanaidi  said, diozele sanvictores, sunil sazawal, veronica tallo.
the annals of statistics 1998, 26: 1651-1686.
the corresponding author had full access to all data analyzed and had final  responsibility for the decision to submit this original research paper for  publication.
for each split, we used the training data to generate random forests for each pair of causes and then we applied these forests to the test dataset.
they found, for example, that a considerable component of pcva performance was related to the household recall of hospital experience or availability of a death certificate or other records from the hospital.
for neonatal vas without hce the median average chance-corrected concordance was 33.5% (33%, 33.9%), and for neonatal vas with hce it was 34.9% (34.5%, 35.4%).
while the phmrc study design collected va interviews distributed among a wide array of causes from a variety of settings, certain causes were so rare that too few cases occurred to train any ml classifier to recognize them.
in each, the decision between two possibilities is made by starting from the top level, and progressing to the next level following the branch to the right if the symptom at the current level was endorsed and to the left otherwise.
however, in many applications, it is the  population-level estimates that are most important, and the linear regression  of true versus estimated cause fraction shows that for these causes, rf has a  rmse of at most 0.009 for the adult causes and 0.02 for the child causes.
research random forests for verbal autopsy analysis: multisite validation study  using clinical diagnostic gold standards abraham d flaxman1*, alireza vahdatpour1, sean green2, spencer l james1, christopher jl murray1 and the population health metrics  research consortium (phmrc)
this approach was deemed potentially useful, pending further evaluation.
av and cjlm edited the manuscript.
pcva concordances vary significantly with absence of hce variables (e.g., for 22 causes of adult deaths, without hce, concordance decreased by more than 10 percentage points).
for this study, we developed an application of the  rf method to va analysis and compared the performance of rf to pcva.
including hce responses yields a significant relative  increase of 10.3% in median chance-corrected concordance for adult va.
plos med 2007, 4:e327.
on the other hand, rf concordance only decreases substantially in 15 adult  causes.
format: xlsx size: 31kb download file additional file 3.
in a classification task like va analysis, an ml method processes a set of examples ("training data") that has gold standard classifications, and develops a model to classify additional data.
[ui]: 37.6%, 38%), and for adult vas with hce it was 48%  (47.8%, 48.2%); for child vas without hce it was 46.5% (46.1%, 47%), and for  child vas with hce it was 51.1% (50.7%, 51.6%).
we also assessed the variation in performance with and without household recall of health care experience (hce).
scatter of median chance-corrected  concordance of rf versus pcva, for child module.
partial-cause assignment increases  partial chance-corrected concordance for adult, child, and neonate vas with and  without hce.
each test split is resampled with replacement to meet the cause  fractions specified by a dirichlet draw.
slope, intercept, and rmse for  linear regression of true versus estimated csmf.
wadsworth and brooks, monterey, ca; 1984.
examples of using ml techniques in  various domains include gene selection and classification of microarray data[6 ], modeling structural activity of pharmaceutical molecules[7], and protein  interaction prediction[8].
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text murray cjl, lopez ad, feehan dm, peter st, yang g: validation of the symptom pattern method for analyzing verbal autopsy data.
then, interviewers visited the households of the deceased to conduct full verbal autopsies.
this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
popul health metr 2011, 9:27.
pac symp biocomput 2005, 531-542.
scatter of median chance-corrected concordance of rf versus pcva, for child module.
at each node, the algorithm selects a random  subset of signs and symptoms to consider branching on, and then branches on the  one that best distinguishes between the labels for examples relevant to that  node, halting when all relevant examples have the same label.
we found that our rf method outperformed the pcva method in terms of chance-corrected concordance and csmf accuracy for adult and child va with and without hce and for neonatal va without hce.
edited by roli f, kittler j, windeatt t. lecture notes in computer science, berlin: springer; 2004:334-343.
for va to provide useful information to individuals or to society, it is essential that the results of these interviews be mapped to the underlying cause of death accurately and quickly.
in all of these settings except for neonates with hce, the median csmf accuracy was significantly higher for rf than for pcva.
this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative  commons attribution license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which  permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium,  provided the original work is properly cited.
population health metrics 2011, 9:29 doi:10.1186/1478-7954-9-29 the electronic version of this article is the complete one and can be found online at:http://www.pophealthmetrics.com/content/9/1/29 © 2011 flaxman et al; licensee biomed central ltd.
in multiple classier systems, fifth international  workshop, mcs 2004, 9-11 june 2004, proceedings, cagliari, italy.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text murray cjl, lopez ad, feehan dm, peter st, yang g: validation of  the symptom pattern method for analyzing verbal autopsy data.
adf, av, and sg performed analyses.
to avoid  overfitting the data when selecting between the model variants, we conducted  our sensitivity analysis using splits 1 to 100 and repeated the analysis using  splits 101 to 200 and a random subset of 50 splits.
keywords: verbal autopsy; cause of death certification; validation;  machine learning; random forests introduction verbal autopsy (va) is a technique for measuring the cause-specific  mortality burden for deaths that occur outside of hospitals.
this is an important advantage over pcva, which can produce results of widely varying quality among different physicians, according to their training and experience[14].
for example, test a, cause 3 has score 20, which is the second-highest score when compared with the cause 3 column of the train score matrix, so it has a rank of 2 in the test rank matrix.
figures 5, 6, and 7 show the chance-corrected concordance of rf on a  cause-by-cause basis for adult, child, and neonatal vas with and without hce  (also see additional file5).
further, metrics of individual concordance need to be corrected for chance to adequately capture how well a method does over random or equal assignment across causes.
top 40 items based on tariff method for neonate causes (items that are extracted from open text field are marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
as part of the phmrc study, all variables including  free-text were converted into a series of dichotomous items.
this research was conducted as part of the population health metrics research consortium:christopher jl murray, alan d lopez, robert black, ramesh ahuja, said mohd ali, abdullah baqui, lalit dandona, emily dantzer, vinita das, usha dhingra, arup dutta, wafaie fawzi, abraham d flaxman, sara gomez, bernardo hernandez, rohina joshi, henry kalter, aarti kumar, vishwajeet kumar, rafael lozano, marilla lucero, saurabh mehta, bruce neal, summer lockett ohno, rajendra prasad, devarsetty praveen, zul premji, dolores ramírez-villalobos, hazel remolador, ian riley, minerva romero, mwanaidi said, diozele sanvictores, sunil sazawal, veronica tallo.
one influential ml method, the artificial neural network (ann), was applied to va 10 years ago[3].
verbal autopsy (va) is a technique for measuring the cause-specific mortality burden for deaths that occur outside of hospitals.
hastie t, tibshirani r: classification by pairwise coupling.
the complete process of mapping from scores through ranks to  predictions is demonstrated in figure3, where, for example, test c is predicted  to be caused by cause 1, which is not the highest scored cause for this  example, but is the highestranked cause.
even in this single scenario, the difference in csmf accuracy is  not statistically significant, and furthermore, the pcva analysis for neonates  was limited to a six cause list, while the rf analysis was done on the full 11  cause list.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for child va, with and without hce.
the rf has been used extensively in many domains for classification tasks, and is consistently one of the top approaches[5].
in pcva, however, including hce responses produces a large increase in median chance-corrected concordance for all modules.
in addition, using machine learning leads to reliability, since the same interview responses will lead to the same cause assignment every time.
the full process is as  follows: the test score matrix is converted to a test rank matrix on an  entry-by-entry basis, by finding the rank of each entry among the corresponding  column in the train score matrix.
for the neonates with hce, the difference was not statistically  significant, and the comparison was done for a six cause list for pcva and a  more challenging 11 cause list for rf.
unlike expert algorithms, however, the decision trees in breiman's random forest are generated automatically from labeled examples (the training dataset), without guidance from human experts.
schematic representation of rf.
the optimization steps taken to improve the accuracy of rf classifiers in va application were presented.
our rf method for va analysis seems complicated at first, but is actually a combination of several simple ideas.
the decision trees in breiman's random forest method  are generated by a randomized algorithm from bootstrap-resampled training data,  but the resulting trees are somewhat analogous to the expert algorithms used in  early approaches to automatic va analysis.
slope, intercept, and rmse for linear regression of true versus estimated csmf.
the results shown in the next section are all for the one-versus-one model, with dichotomized variables, with training data reweighted to have equal class sizes, using the 40 most important tariff-based symptoms per cause,m =
the corresponding author had full access to all data analyzed and had final responsibility for the decision to submit this original research paper for publication.
in addition, using machine learning leads to reliability, since the  same interview responses will lead to the same cause assignment every time.
ann statist 1998, 26:451-471.
for aids and ihd, rf tends to overestimate the cause fraction when the true  csmf is small and underestimate otherwise.
qi y, klein-seetharaman j, bar-joseph z: random forest similarity  for protein-protein interaction prediction from multiple sources.
format: xls size: 44kb download file this file can be viewed with: microsoft excel viewer results individual cause assignment compared to pcva table 2 shows that, for rf over 500 splits, the median value of average  chance-corrected concordance for adult vas without hce was 37.7% (95%  uncertainty interval
the csmf accuracy was 0.097  higher for adults, 0.097 higher for children, and 0.007 lower for neonates.
expert algorithm and rf decision trees .
the first of these is the "decision tree," a structure for representing a complex logical function concisely as branching decisions[9].
while it may take days for a  team of physicians to complete a va survey analysis, a computer approach  requires only seconds of processing on hardware that is currently affordably  available.
we conducted an extensive sensitivity analysis to understand the importance of decisions between levels of tariff-based item reduction, the choice of number of signs and symptoms at every decision node (m), the choice of number of trees (n) in each one-versus-one cause classification, and the difference between max-score and max-rank cause assignment.
median chance-corrected concordance (%)  for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for adult va, with and without hce.
consequently, each test split has a different distribution of cause fractions, and the cause composition of the training data and test data are always different.
this population-level metric of analysis quality gave results qualitatively similar to the individual-level metric on a cause-specific basis.
estimated versus true csmfs for 500 dirichlet splits, showing that for selected causes of adult mortality (aids, colorectal cancer, maternal, and ihd), the performance of rf varies.
we also  compared the quality of rf to pcva for all of these metrics.
this article is part of the series verbal autopsy: innovations, applications, opportunities - improving cause of death measurement.
thus, the gold standard cause of death is paired with  the responses from a verbal autopsy.
for each split, we used the training data to generate random forests for  each pair of causes and then we applied these forests to the test dataset.
we also compared the quality of rf to pcva for all of these metrics.
for example, users in india may be interested specifically in how rf performs in india instead of across all of the phrmc sites, particularly if it is possible to train the model only on validation deaths from india.
the first of these is the "decision  tree," a structure for representing a complex logical function concisely  as branching decisions[9].
in figure1, panel a shows a  decision-tree representation of an expert algorithm for deciding if a child  death was due to malaria or other causes[10], while panel b depicts decision  trees generated as part of the random forest for distinguishing maternal sepsis  from hiv deaths.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text james sl, flaxman ad, murray cjl, the population health metrics research  consortium (phmrc): performance of the tariff method: validation of a  simple additive algorithm for analysis of verbal autopsies.
numbers of vas collected by site and gold  standard level additional file 1.
for assessing  the performance of rf in estimating csmfs, we calculated the median csmf  accuracy as well as slope, intercept, and root mean squared error (rmse) of a  linear regression for each cause as a summary of the relationship between  estimated csmfs for a cause and the true csmf in a particular test dataset[13].
the results of the  sensitivity analysis are included in additional file4 and show that cause  assignment by rank is superior to assignment by score but that the other  parameters do not affect chance-corrected concordance or csmf accuracy.
conclusions we presented an ml technique for assigning cause of death in va studies.
despite these strengths of rf, the method does have weaknesses in  individual-level prediction of certain causes.
the size of the forest was thus a function of the length of the cause list; for example, for the child va module, the 21 causes produced a random forest of trees.
schematic representation of "ranking" technique for cause prediction from random forest scores .
however, the possibilities are endless, and even some other variant of rf may improve on the method presented here.
numbers of vas collected by site and gold standard level additional file 1.
slope of increase is higher between one and two cause assignments.
top 40 items based on tariff  method for child causes (items that are extracted from open text field are  marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
in multiple classier systems, fifth international workshop, mcs 2004, 9-11 june 2004, proceedings, cagliari, italy.
csmf estimation compared to pcva table 3 compares the median csmf accuracy for rf and pcva.
developing  and refining ml methods is a vibrant area of research in computer science, and  numerous new methods have been introduced over the past 50 years.
the machine learning technique described in this paper will be released as  free open source software, both as stand-alone software to run on a pc and also  as an application for android phones and tablets, integrated into an electronic  version of the va instrument.
however, on a cause-by-cause basis, pcva and rf show different characteristics.
estimated versus true csmfs for 500  dirichlet splits, showing that for selected causes of adult mortality (aids,  colorectal cancer, maternal, and ihd), the performance of rf varies.
for the neonates with hce, the difference was not statistically significant, and the comparison was done for a six cause list for pcva and a more challenging 11 cause list for rf.
methods the random forest (rf) method from machine learning (ml) was adapted to  predict cause of death by training random forests to distinguish between each  pair of causes, and then combining the results through a novel ranking  technique.
we conducted an extensive sensitivity analysis to understand the importance  of decisions between levels of tariff-based item reduction, the choice of  number of signs and symptoms at every decision node (m), the choice of  number of trees (n) in each one-versus-one cause classification, and  the difference between max-score and max-rank cause assignment.
rf does benefit substantially from hce variables for  certain important causes, however.
we considered every pair of causes on the cause list, and generated  100 decision trees to distinguish between each pair.
however, on a cause-by-cause basis, pcva and rf show  different characteristics.
while the ann method used by boulle et al. 10 years ago [3] showed the  potential of using ml techniques, the rf method we have validated here has  proven that ml is ready to be put into practice as a va analysis method.
the validity of the method therefore depends critically on  the assumption that the signs and symptoms observed in the deaths that occur in  hospitals for a given cause are not substantially different than deaths from  that cause that occur in communities without access to hospitals.
the complete process of mapping from scores through ranks to predictions is demonstrated in figure3, where, for example, test c is predicted to be caused by cause 1, which is not the highest scored cause for this example, but is the highestranked cause.
one  influential ml method, the artificial neural network (ann), was applied to va  10 years ago[3].
the csmf accuracy was higher for rf by 0.102 for adults, 0.131 for children, and 0.025 for neonates.
for example, the expert algorithm in figure1a will only predict  that the cause was malaria if the respondent said that the decedent had fever  and convulsions and no stiff neck, no bulging fontanelle, and no measles.
the csmf accuracy was 0.097 higher for adults, 0.097 higher for children, and 0.007 lower for neonates.
however, this clinical diagnosis also requires that the deceased have some contact with the health system.
the  funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis,  interpretation of data, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
the decision trees in breiman's random forest method are generated by a randomized algorithm from bootstrap-resampled training data, but the resulting trees are somewhat analogous to the expert algorithms used in early approaches to automatic va analysis.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text breiman l: random forests.
physician-certified verbal autopsy (pcva) is currently  the most common approach to mapping va interviews to underlying cause of death,  but this approach is expensive and time-consuming[1].
the increasing partial-cause chance-corrected concordance as a function of the number of causes shows that rf contains additional information in the second, third, etc., most likely causes.
we assessed the performance of rf in adults, children, and neonates both with and without the free-response items and the structured questions that require contact with health care to answer (marked in additional files1, 2, and 3).
the figure shows how rf estimation quality tends to be different for different causes.
a right branch from a node represents "yes" and a left  branch represents "no." a) decision tree representation of expert  algorithm to identify malaria deaths in child vas (one-versus-all approach); b)  two random decision trees generated by rf to distinguish aids deaths from  maternal sepsis deaths (one-versus-one approach).
we presented an ml technique for assigning cause of death in va studies.
the phmrc study  identified deaths that met defined clinical diagnostic criteria for cause of  death.
specifically: • continuous and categorical variables can be included as is, or can  be dichotomized to reduce noise •
the dirichlet distribution specifies random fractions that sum to 1.
in addition, it is preferable to pcva in terms of both cost and time.
by casting va analysis as an application of general ml methods,  incremental advances in ml techniques can be directly applied to improve the  accuracy of va analysis.
breiman's original formulation of rf proposed generating hundreds or  thousands of decision trees this way, and then using them for prediction by  calculating the prediction of each tree and taking a vote between their  predictions.
for neonatal vas without hce  the median average chance-corrected concordance was 33.5% (33%, 33.9%), and for  neonatal vas with hce it was 34.9% (34.5%, 35.4%).
the  patterns for this population-level estimation quality metric are qualitatively  the same as those observed in the individual-level metric above.
this information can then be  used by policy developers, donors, governments, or decision-makers to choose  wisely in developing, requesting, and allocating health resources.
the degree of the improvement varies among metrics, among age  modules, and with the presence or absence of hce variables.
pcva has similar ranges for the three age groups.
pcva concordances vary  significantly with absence of hce variables (e.g., for 22 causes of adult  deaths, without hce, concordance decreased by more than 10 percentage points).
the numbers of records from each site are  provided in table1.
however, for colorectal cancer, estimations are noisier, and regardless of the true csmf, rf assigns similar csmfs in all 500 splits.
it may be possible to use these rmses together with the slopes and intercepts to yield an adjusted csmf with uncertainty.
for example, test a, cause 3 has score 20,  which is the second-highest score when compared with the cause 3 column of the  train score matrix, so it has a rank of 2 in the test rank matrix.
in a classification task like va analysis, an ml method  processes a set of examples ("training data") that has gold standard  classifications, and develops a model to classify additional data.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text schapire re, freund y, bartlett p, lee ws: boosting the margin: a  new explanation for the effectiveness of voting methods.
the validity of the method therefore depends critically on the assumption that the signs and symptoms observed in the deaths that occur in hospitals for a given cause are not substantially different than deaths from that cause that occur in communities without access to hospitals.
diaz-uriarte r, alvarez de andres s: gene selection and  classification of microarray data using random forest.
popul health metr 2011, 9:28.
this  could be because adults have more substantial experience with health care, and  hence more relevant information is generated that aids in va analysis, or it  could be confounded by the differences between the adult, child, and neonate  cause lists.
at each node, the algorithm selects a random subset of signs and symptoms to consider branching on, and then branches on the one that best distinguishes between the labels for examples relevant to that node, halting when all relevant examples have the same label.
all aspects of the  study are described elsewhere in more detail[12].
however, the possibilities are endless, and even some other variant of rf may  improve on the method presented here.
note that the neonate vas results presented in the tables for pcva are for a shorter cause list that only includes six causes, where all the preterm delivery causes are grouped together.
breiman's original formulation of rf proposed generating hundreds or thousands of decision trees this way, and then using them for prediction by calculating the prediction of each tree and taking a vote between their predictions.
we have investigated this assumption by conducting our analysis with and without hce items, which gives some indication of the potential differences.
figure 8 shows that on a cause-by-cause basis, rf  is better than pcva with hce by at least 10 percentage points of  chance-corrected concordance for 13 causes for adult deaths (lung cancer,  fires, renal failure, pneumonia, homicide, drowning, cirrhosis  leukemia/lymphomas, breast cancer, prostate cancer, epilepsy, cervical cancer,  and poisonings).
over 500 splits, the median value of csmf accuracy for rf for adult vas with hce was 0.772 (0.769, 0.776), and for adult vas without hce it was 0.726 (0.721, 0.730); for child vas with hce it was 0.779 (0.775, 0.785), and for child vas without hce it was 0.763 (0.755, 0.769); for neonatal vas with hce it was 0.726 (0.717, 0.734), and for neonatal vas without hce it was 0.720 (0.71, 0.732).
future research should also focus on assessing va's performance in different settings.
the authors would like to additionally thank charles atkinson for managing the phmrc verbal autopsy database and michael k freeman, benjamin campbell, and charles atkinson for intellectual contributions to the analysis.
while the phmrc study design collected va  interviews distributed among a wide array of causes from a variety of settings,  certain causes were so rare that too few cases occurred to train any ml  classifier to recognize them.
we found that our rf method outperformed pcva in  chance-corrected concordance and csmf accuracy for adult and child va with and  without hce and for neonatal va without hce.
a unique feature of the phmrc validation dataset, the clinical diagnostic criteria, ensures that the validation data are very precise about the underlying cause of death.
scatter of median chance-corrected  concordance of rf versus pcva, for adult module.
among causes of child deaths, pcva performed better in detecting  other cancers, drowning, encephalitis, violent death, diarrhea/dysentery, and  other defined causes of child deaths.
for example, nonuniformly increasing the  number of trees in the forest to have proportionately more for select causes  (in the spirit of boosting[17]) is a potential direction for future exploration.
each test split is resampled with replacement to meet the cause fractions specified by a dirichlet draw.
in pcva, however, including hce responses produces a large  increase in median chance-corrected concordance for all modules.
abbreviations ann: artificial neural network; ccva: computer-coded verbal autopsy; csmf:  cause-specific mortality fraction; va: verbal autopsy; ml: machine learning;  pcva: physician-certified verbal autopsy; phrmc:
it is also preferable to pcva in terms of time and cost.
we performed this  analysis separately for adult, child, and neonatal vas.
further, metrics of individual concordance need to be  corrected for chance to adequately capture how well a method does over random  or equal assignment across causes.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for adult va, with and without hce.
therefore, we recommend it as the  technique of choice for analyzing past and current verbal autopsies.
the rf csmf slopes range from 0.097 to 0.904 for adult vas, 0.105 to 0.912 for child vas, and 0.079 to 0.845 for neonatal vas.
without hce, the chance-corrected concordance of rf was 8.1 percentage points higher than pcva for adults, 10.2 percentage points higher for children, and 5.9 percentage points higher for neonates.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) for rf and pcva, by age group with and without hce the differential value of hce to rf in adult va is more substantial than in child or neonatal vas.
figure 4 shows that partial-cause assignment increases the partial-cause chance-corrected concordance for all age groups with and without hce.
soleman n, chandramohan d, shibuya k: verbal autopsy: current practices and challenges.
the training data can be reweighted so that all causes are  represented equally or left as is • decision trees can compare cause j to all other causes at  once, or compare causej to each other individual cause to come up with  "votes" •
with hce, the chance-corrected concordance of rf was 3.4 percentage points higher for adults, 3.2 percentage points higher for children, and 1.6 percentage points higher for neonates.
popul health metr 2011, 9:31.
the signal-to-noise ratio can be improved by removing low-information items using the tariff method[16], or all items can be used • different numbers of signs and symptoms can be used at each decision node • different numbers of trees can be used in the forest • cause assignment can be based on the highest scoring cause for each death or on ranking the scores and assigning to the cause with the highest rank
adf accepts full responsibility for the work and the conduct  of the study, had access to the data, and controlled the decision to publish.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text |  pubmed central full text svetnik v, liaw a, tong c, wang t: application of breiman's  random forest to modeling structure-activity relationships of pharmaceutical  molecules.
the training data can be reweighted so that all causes are represented equally or left as is • decision trees can compare cause j to all other causes at once, or compare causej to each other individual cause to come up with "votes" •
another advantage of rf over pcva is its relatively consistent performance  in the presence and absence of hce variables.
despite these strengths of rf, the method does have weaknesses in individual-level prediction of certain causes.
this resulted in a table of random forests, depicted schematically in figure2.
murray cjl, lopez ad, black r, ahuja r, ali sm, baqui a, dandona l, dantzer e, das v, dhingra u, dutta a, fawzi w, flaxman ad, gómez s, hernández b, joshi r, kalter h, kumar a, kumar v, lozano r, lucero m, mehta s, neal b, ohno sl, prasad r, praveen d, premji z, ramírez-villalobos d, remolador h, riley i, romero m, said m, sanvictores d, sazawal s, tallo v: population health metrics research consortium gold standard verbal autopsy validation study: design, implementation, and development of analysis datasets.
we then normalized the score for each cause using a novel ranking procedure.
research abraham d flaxman1*, alireza vahdatpour1, sean green2, spencer l james1, christopher jl murray1 and the population health metrics research consortium (phmrc)
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text | pubmed central full text svetnik v, liaw a, tong c, wang t: application of breiman's random forest to modeling structure-activity relationships of pharmaceutical molecules.
including hce responses yields a significant relative increase of 10.3% in median chance-corrected concordance for adult va.
figure 4 shows that partial-cause assignment increases the partial-cause  chance-corrected concordance for all age groups with and without hce.
however, because of the long length of the cause list in verbal autopsy, we followed the "pairwise coupling" approach developed by hastie[11].
in addition, rf shows more consistency among all causes.
this study introduces a new ccva technique and validates its performance using defined clinical diagnostic criteria as a gold standard for a multisite sample of 12,542 verbal autopsies (vas).
after test a had cause 1 and cause 2 ranked similarly, the procedure predicted that test a was caused by cause 3 because this is the cause that was highest ranked for a. this is a nonparametric form of whitening, which makes the scores for different causes directly comparable.
for assessing the performance of rf in estimating csmfs, we calculated the median csmf accuracy as well as slope, intercept, and root mean squared error (rmse) of a linear regression for each cause as a summary of the relationship between estimated csmfs for a cause and the true csmf in a particular test dataset[13].
median chance-corrected concordance (%)  for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for neonatal va, with and without hce .
median chance-corrected concordance (%)  for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for child va, with and without hce.
specifically: • continuous and categorical variables can be included as is, or can be dichotomized to reduce noise •
the optimization steps taken to improve the accuracy of rf classifiers in va  application were presented.
as discussed earlier, the accuracy of classification relies considerably on the quality of the training data (deaths with gold standard cause known to meet clinical diagnostic criteria).
slj helped prepare the data and results.
after test a  had cause 1 and cause 2 ranked similarly, the procedure predicted that test a  was caused by cause 3 because this is the cause that was highest ranked for a.  this is a nonparametric form of whitening, which makes the scores for different  causes directly comparable.
references soleman n, chandramohan d, shibuya k: verbal autopsy: current  practices and challenges.
this resulted in a table  of random forests, depicted schematically in figure2.
top 40 items based on tariff method for adult causes (items that are extracted from open text field are marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
then, interviewers visited the households of the deceased to conduct  full verbal autopsies.
top 40 items based on tariff  method for neonate causes (items that are extracted from open text field are  marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
the phmrc study identified deaths that met defined clinical diagnostic criteria for cause of death.
edited by roli f, kittler j, windeatt t. lecture notes in  computer science, berlin: springer; 2004:334-343.
consequently, each test split has a  different distribution of cause fractions, and the cause composition of the  training data and test data are always different.
this work was funded by a grant from the bill & melinda gates  foundation through the grand challenges in global health initiative.
breiman l, friedman j, olshen r, stone c: classification and  regression trees.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text murray cjl, lozano r, flaxman ad, vahdatpour a, lopez ad: robust metrics for assessing the performance of different verbal autopsy cause assignment methods in validation studies.
figure 8 shows that on a cause-by-cause basis, rf is better than pcva with hce by at least 10 percentage points of chance-corrected concordance for 13 causes for adult deaths (lung cancer, fires, renal failure, pneumonia, homicide, drowning, cirrhosis leukemia/lymphomas, breast cancer, prostate cancer, epilepsy, cervical cancer, and poisonings).
boulle a, chandramohan d, weller p: a case study of using  artificial neural networks for classifying cause of death from verbal autopsy.
in addition, it is preferable to  pcva in terms of both cost and time.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) for rf  and pcva, by age group with and without hce the differential value of hce to rf in adult va is more substantial than in  child or neonatal vas.
new york, ny: mcgraw-hill science/engineering/math; 1997.
among causes of child deaths, pcva performed better in detecting other cancers, drowning, encephalitis, violent death, diarrhea/dysentery, and other defined causes of child deaths.
median chance-corrected  concordance (%) across 500 splits, by age group and cause with and without hce .
the purpose of excluding the hce items is to assess how rf would perform on va  for communities without access to health care.
they found, for example, that a  considerable component of pcva performance was related to the household recall  of hospital experience or availability of a death certificate or other records  from the hospital.
to aggregate the predictions of all of these trees, we tallied  cause-specific scores by counting the number of trees that predicted each  cause.
this approach has a natural generalization to  predicting multiple causes for a single death, where the second-highest ranked  cause is predicted as the second most likely, etc. figure 3.
machine learning 2001, 45:5-32.
as part of the phmrc study, all variables including free-text were converted into a series of dichotomous items.
we then normalized the score for each cause using a novel ranking  procedure.
this approach was deemed potentially useful, pending further  evaluation.
additional files 1, 2, and 3  list the 40 most informative variables for each cause in the adult, child, and  neonatal modules after this data preparation phase was completed.
sensitivity analysis for 54 variants of the rf algorithm applied to 200 splits of the child va data with hce .
to aggregate the predictions of all of these trees, we tallied cause-specific scores by counting the number of trees that predicted each cause.
however, because of the long length of the cause list in verbal  autopsy, we followed the "pairwise coupling" approach developed by  hastie[11].
methods an overview of random forests our rf method for va analysis seems complicated at first, but is actually a  combination of several simple ideas.
it was 0.763 (0.755, 0.769); for neonatal vas with hce it was 0.726 (0.717,  0.734), and for neonatal vas without hce it was 0.720 (0.71, 0.732).
for any ml classifier to be successful, several requirements should be met.
median csmf accuracy for rf and pcva, by age group with and without hce figure 10 shows scatter plots of the estimated versus true csmf for four select causes of adult deaths (each of the 500 splits contributes a single point to the scatter).
in all six of these settings, the median chance-corrected concordance is significantly higher for rf than for pcva.
for colorectal cancer, rf mostly assigns the same csmf regardless of true csmf, and for maternal causes, rf is more accurate.
adf accepts full responsibility for the work and the conduct of the study, had access to the data, and controlled the decision to publish.
this is an important advantage over pcva, which can produce results of widely  varying quality among different physicians, according to their training and  experience[14].
format: xlsx size: 22kb download file murray et al. have shown that many traditional metrics of performance, such as specificity or relative and absolute error in csmfs, are sensitive to the csmf composition of the test dataset[13] and recommend that robust assessment of performance be undertaken on a range of test datasets with widely varying csmf compositions.
for child va, the value  is small, where it yields an increase of 0.016, and for neonate, the hce value  is not significant (increase of 0.006).
the authors would  like to additionally thank charles atkinson for managing the phmrc verbal  autopsy database and michael k freeman, benjamin campbell, and charles atkinson  for intellectual contributions to the analysis.
for va to  provide useful information to individuals or to society, it is essential that  the results of these interviews be mapped to the underlying cause of death  accurately and quickly.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text schapire re, freund y, bartlett p, lee ws: boosting the margin: a new explanation for the effectiveness of voting methods.
discussion we found that the rf method outperforms pcva for all metrics and settings,  with the exception of having slightly lower csmf accuracy in neonates when hce  was available.
because of the  randomness in this process, running the approach repeatedly on the same  training dataset yields different trees, and two such trees are depicted in  figure1b.
sensitivity analysis for 54  variants of the rf algorithm applied to 200 splits of the child va data with hce .
these additional data could improve the accuracy of rf and other ml  models on certain selected causes.
we performed this analysis separately for adult, child, and neonatal vas.
this is due to the fact that pcva performed very poorly on a cause list with 11 causes.
on the other hand, rf concordance only decreases substantially in 15 adult causes.
mendeley twitter this article is part of the series verbal autopsy: innovations,  applications, opportunities - improving cause of death measurement.
instead, a random resampling of the training dataset is generated by drawing examples with replacement from the training dataset, and then a decision tree is constructed sequentially from this, starting from the root.
as depicted, rf estimations for aids, maternal, and ischemic heart disease (ihd) are closely correlated with the true csmfs.
abstract background computer-coded verbal autopsy (ccva) is a promising alternative to the  standard approach of physician-certified verbal autopsy (pcva), because of its  high speed, low cost, and reliability.
this population-level metric of analysis quality gave results  qualitatively similar to the individual-level metric on a cause-specific basis.
the  rf has been used extensively in many domains for classification tasks, and is  consistently one of the top approaches[5].
table 3 compares the median csmf accuracy for rf and pcva.
this shows that rf attains higher cause-specific chance-corrected concordances as a result of better classification, not simply by assigning a higher portion of deaths to some causes.
to avoid overfitting the data when selecting between the model variants, we conducted our sensitivity analysis using splits 1 to 100 and repeated the analysis using splits 101 to 200 and a random subset of 50 splits.
new york, ny:  mcgraw-hill science/engineering/math; 1997.
proceedings of the 25th international conference on machine learning - icml '08, helsinki, finland 2008, 96-103.
in each, the decision between two possibilities is made by  starting from the top level, and progressing to the next level following the  branch to the right if the symptom at the current level was endorsed and to the  left otherwise.
there are many potential variations in implementing rf.
head-to-head comparison of the neonatal performance between pcva and rf is not possible though, as pcva utilized a shorter cause list.
these additional data could improve the accuracy of rf and other ml models on certain selected causes.
the random forest (rf) is an exciting innovation in ml technology
publisher full text caruana r, karampatziakis n, yessenalina a: an empirical evaluation of supervised learning in high dimensions.
future studies could focus on collecting  additional gold standard vas for priority diseases to complement the phmrc  dataset.
in figure1, panel a shows a decision-tree representation of an expert algorithm for deciding if a child death was due to malaria or other causes[10], while panel b depicts decision trees generated as part of the random forest for distinguishing maternal sepsis from hiv deaths.
the superior performance of rf compared to pcva with respect to all of our quality metrics is excellent because this method also reduces cost, speeds up the analysis process, and increases reliability.
it should be noted that, while in the literature it is suggested that increasing the number of trees increases the classification precision, as our overall rf method includes an ensemble of one-versus-one classifiers (e.g., for adult vas, rf has one-versus-one classifiers, each including 100 trees), the overall number of trees is high, which results in stable performance.
when the analysis  is conducted without hce variables, rf is particularly dominant.
however, as the partial-cause assignment  continues, the added value from new cause assignment decreases due to the  chance-correcting element in the partial-chance-corrected concordance formula,  as demonstrated by the decreasing slope.
for example, users in india  may be interested specifically in how rf performs in india instead of across  all of the phrmc sites, particularly if it is possible to train the model only  on validation deaths from india.
chance-corrected concordances for encephalitis, sepsis, and meningitis in children are in the 15% to 25% range.
we also assessed the  variation in performance with and without household recall of health care  experience (hce).
format: xls size: 44kb download file this file can be viewed with: microsoft excel viewer table 2 shows that, for rf over 500 splits, the median value of average chance-corrected concordance for adult vas without hce was 37.7% (95% uncertainty interval [ui]: 37.6%, 38%), and for adult vas with hce it was 48% (47.8%, 48.2%); for child vas without hce it was 46.5% (46.1%, 47%), and for child vas with hce it was 51.1% (50.7%, 51.6%).
when the analysis is conducted without hce variables, rf is particularly dominant.
the authors declare that they have no competing interests.
bull world health organ 2006, 84: 239-245.pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text mitchell tm: machine learning.
murray cjl, lopez ad, black r, ahuja r, ali sm, baqui a, dandona l,  dantzer e, das v, dhingra u, dutta a, fawzi w, flaxman ad, gómez s,  hernández b, joshi r, kalter h, kumar a, kumar v, lozano r, lucero m,  mehta s, neal b, ohno sl, prasad r, praveen d, premji z,  ramírez-villalobos d, remolador h, riley i, romero m, said m,  sanvictores d, sazawal s, tallo v: population health metrics research  consortium gold standard verbal autopsy validation study: design,  implementation, and development of analysis datasets.
without hce, the chance-corrected concordance of rf was 8.1 percentage points  higher than pcva for adults, 10.2 percentage points higher for children, and  5.9 percentage points higher for neonates.
for example, nonuniformly increasing the number of trees in the forest to have proportionately more for select causes (in the spirit of boosting[17]) is a potential direction for future exploration.
we assessed the performance of rf at assigning individual causes of death  using median chance-corrected concordance by cause across the 500 test datasets  and the median average chance-corrected concordance across causes in the 500  test datasets, following the recommendations of murray et al[13].
proceedings of the 25th international conference on machine learning -  icml '08, helsinki, finland 2008, 96-103.
results for all metrics, for all settings, rf was as good as or better than pcva,  with the exception of a nonsignificantly lower csmf accuracy for neonates with  hce information.
the csmf accuracy was higher for rf  by 0.102 for adults, 0.131 for children, and 0.025 for neonates.
for colorectal cancer, rf mostly  assigns the same csmf regardless of true csmf, and for maternal causes, rf is  more accurate.
the degree of the improvement varies among metrics, among age modules, and with the presence or absence of hce variables.
ml is an actively developing subdiscipline of computer science, so we expect that future advances in ml classification will be invented over the coming years, and va analysis techniques will continue to benefit from this innovation.
authors' contributions adf, av, and sg performed analyses.
therefore, we recommend it as the technique of choice for analyzing past and current verbal autopsies.
we benchmark rf against pcva on the same dataset using the results reported by lozano et al[14].
unlike expert algorithms, however, the decision trees in breiman's random  forest are generated automatically from labeled examples (the training  dataset), without guidance from human experts.
a right branch from a node represents "yes" and a left branch represents "no." a) decision tree representation of expert algorithm to identify malaria deaths in child vas (one-versus-all approach); b) two random decision trees generated by rf to distinguish aids deaths from maternal sepsis deaths (one-versus-one approach).
for example, its minimum median chance-corrected concordance in adult causes is 7.9% (without hce) and 10.7% (with hce), while minimum median chance-corrected concordance for pcva without hce is negative for two causes (meaning pcva did worse than chance).
format: xlsx size: 18kb download file the results of performing rf with a higher number of trees in each  one-versus-one cause classifier showed that the method is stable by only using  100 trees per classifier.
in all of these settings except for  neonates with hce, the median csmf accuracy was significantly higher for rf  than for pcva.
adf drafted the manuscript and approved  the final version.
format: xlsx size: 14kb download file figure 8.
these interviews are analyzed by experts  or by computer to estimate 1) the cause of death for each individual and 2) the  distribution of causes of death in a population.
we considered every pair of causes on the cause list, and generated 100 decision trees to distinguish between each pair.
therefore, we recommend it as the technique of choice  for analyzing past and current verbal autopsies.
for this study, we developed an application of the rf method to va analysis and compared the performance of rf to pcva.
on the other hand, pcva performed substantially better in  detecting suicide, acute myocardial infarction, stomach cancer, other  noncommunicable diseases, and aids.
slj  helped prepare the data and results.
in addition, as depicted in figure9, in  five causes of child deaths, rf concordance is at least 10 percentage points  higher with hce (falls, sepsis, fires, other cardiovascular diseases, and  measles).
the random forest (rf) method from machine learning (ml) was adapted to predict cause of death by training random forests to distinguish between each pair of causes, and then combining the results through a novel ranking technique.
all aspects of the study are described elsewhere in more detail[12].
additional files 1, 2, and 3 list the 40 most informative variables for each cause in the adult, child, and neonatal modules after this data preparation phase was completed.
murray et al. analyzed data in china two ways: including all items and excluding items that reflected the decedent's health care experience (hce)[15].
this approach has a natural generalization to predicting multiple causes for a single death, where the second-highest ranked cause is predicted as the second most likely, etc. figure 3.
the phmrc has developed a set of 500 test/train splits of the data, which we analyzed.
even in this single scenario, the difference in csmf accuracy is not statistically significant, and furthermore, the pcva analysis for neonates was limited to a six cause list, while the rf analysis was done on the full 11 cause list.
we found that our rf method outperformed pcva in chance-corrected concordance and csmf accuracy for adult and child va with and without hce and for neonatal va without hce.
it  may be possible to use these rmses together with the slopes and intercepts to  yield an adjusted csmf with uncertainty.
int j epidemiol 2001, 30:515-520.
world health organization; 1999.
the numbers of records from each site are provided in table1.
because of the randomness in this process, running the approach repeatedly on the same training dataset yields different trees, and two such trees are depicted in figure1b.
as depicted, rf estimations for aids, maternal,  and ischemic heart disease (ihd) are closely correlated with the true csmfs.
murray et al. analyzed data in china two ways: including all items and  excluding items that reflected the decedent's health care experience (hce)[15].
a unique feature of the phmrc  validation dataset, the clinical diagnostic criteria, ensures that the  validation data are very precise about the underlying cause of death.
however, as the partial-cause assignment continues, the added value from new cause assignment decreases due to the chance-correcting element in the partial-chance-corrected concordance formula, as demonstrated by the decreasing slope.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text | pubmed central full text james sl, flaxman ad, murray cjl, the population health metrics research consortium (phmrc): performance of the tariff method: validation of a simple additive algorithm for analysis of verbal autopsies.
schematic representation of  "ranking" technique for cause prediction from random forest scores .
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text lozano r, lopez ad, atkinson c, naghavi m, flaxman ad, murray cjl, the  population health metrics research consortium (phmrc): performance of  physician-certified verbal autopsies: multisite validation study using clinical  diagnostic gold standards.
boulle a, chandramohan d, weller p: a case study of using artificial neural networks for classifying cause of death from verbal autopsy.
the phmrc has developed a set of 500 test/train splits of the data, which  we analyzed.
the population health metrics research consortium (phmrc) gold standard verbal autopsy validation study provides a large multisite dataset to assess the performance of new or existing verbal autopsy methods.
for example, the expert algorithm in figure1a will only predict that the cause was malaria if the respondent said that the decedent had fever and convulsions and no stiff neck, no bulging fontanelle, and no measles.
in addition, as depicted in figure9, in five causes of child deaths, rf concordance is at least 10 percentage points higher with hce (falls, sepsis, fires, other cardiovascular diseases, and measles).
this information can then be used by policy developers, donors, governments, or decision-makers to choose wisely in developing, requesting, and allocating health resources.
in all six of  these settings, the median chance-corrected concordance is significantly higher  for rf than for pcva.
we assessed the performance of rf in adults, children, and  neonates both with and without the free-response items and the structured  questions that require contact with health care to answer (marked in additional  files1, 2, and 3).
head-to-head comparison of the neonatal  performance between pcva and rf is not possible though, as pcva utilized a  shorter cause list.
format: xlsx size: 18kb download file the results of performing rf with a higher number of trees in each one-versus-one cause classifier showed that the method is stable by only using 100 trees per classifier.
however, for colorectal cancer, estimations are noisier, and regardless of the  true csmf, rf assigns similar csmfs in all 500 splits.
by casting va analysis as an application of general ml methods, incremental advances in ml techniques can be directly applied to improve the accuracy of va analysis.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text lozano r, lopez ad, atkinson c, naghavi m, flaxman ad, murray cjl, the population health metrics research consortium (phmrc): performance of physician-certified verbal autopsies: multisite validation study using clinical diagnostic gold standards.
the size of the forest  was thus a function of the length of the cause list; for example, for the child  va module, the 21 causes produced a random forest of trees.
the splits were generated randomly, stratified by cause.
we assessed quality of the new method at the individual level using chance-corrected concordance and at the population level using cause-specific mortality fraction (csmf) accuracy as well as linear regression.
ml is  an actively developing subdiscipline of computer science, so we expect that  future advances in ml classification will be invented over the coming years,  and va analysis techniques will continue to benefit from this innovation.
for example, chance-corrected  concordances for malaria and pneumonia in adults are around 25% even with hce.
slope of increase is higher between one and two cause  assignments.
corresponding author: abraham d flaxman abie@uw.edu author affiliations 1 institute for health metrics and evaluation, university of washington, 2301 fifth ave., suite 600, seattle, wa 98121, usa 2 bill & melinda gates foundation, seattle, usa for all author emails, please log on.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) across 500 splits, by age group and cause with and without hce .
examples of using ml techniques in various domains include gene selection and classification of microarray data[6 ], modeling structural activity of pharmaceutical molecules[7], and protein interaction prediction[8].
instead, a random resampling of  the training dataset is generated by drawing examples with replacement from the  training dataset, and then a decision tree is constructed sequentially from  this, starting from the root.
partial-cause assignment increases partial chance-corrected concordance for adult, child, and neonate vas with and without hce.
qi y, klein-seetharaman j, bar-joseph z: random forest similarity for protein-protein interaction prediction from multiple sources.
the rf csmf slopes range from 0.097 to 0.904 for adult vas, 0.105 to 0.912 for  child vas, and 0.079 to 0.845 for neonatal vas.
publisher full text caruana r, karampatziakis n, yessenalina a: an empirical  evaluation of supervised learning in high dimensions.
figures 5, 6, and 7 show the chance-corrected concordance of rf on a cause-by-cause basis for adult, child, and neonatal vas with and without hce (also see additional file5).
each has a random 75% of examples of each cause in the training set and 25% in the test set.
this is due to the fact that pcva performed very poorly on a cause  list with 11 causes.
© 2012 biomed central ltd unless otherwise stated.
all va validation studies depend critically on the quality of validation  data, and this rf validation is no exception.
further, the cause composition of the test dataset is based on a random draw from an uninformative dirichlet distribution.
popul health metr 2011, 9:32.
anker m, black re, coldham c, kalter hd, quigley ma, ross d, snow rw: a standard verbal autopsy method for investigating causes of death in infants and children.
we found that the rf method outperforms pcva for all metrics and settings, with the exception of having slightly lower csmf accuracy in neonates when hce was available.
each has  a random 75% of examples of each cause in the training set and 25% in the test  set.
validation using the phmrc gold standard test/train datasets the population health metrics research consortium (phmrc) gold standard  verbal autopsy validation study provides a large multisite dataset to assess  the performance of new or existing verbal autopsy methods.
pubmed abstract | biomed central full text murray cjl, lozano r, flaxman ad, vahdatpour a, lopez ad: robust  metrics for assessing the performance of different verbal autopsy cause  assignment methods in validation studies.
population health metrics  research consortium; rf: random forest; rmse: root mean squared error; hce:  health care experience; ihd: ischemic heart disease.
scatter of median chance-corrected concordance of rf versus pcva, for adult module.
anker m, black re, coldham c, kalter hd, quigley ma, ross d, snow rw: a standard verbal autopsy method for investigating causes of death in infants  and children.
all va validation studies depend critically on the quality of validation data, and this rf validation is no exception.
during the development of our approach, we considered many variants of rf.
the patterns for this population-level estimation quality metric are qualitatively the same as those observed in the individual-level metric above.
we  never allowed contamination between the training data and the test data - they  were kept strictly separate in all steps of the analysis.
with hce, the chance-corrected concordance of rf was 3.4  percentage points higher for adults, 3.2 percentage points higher for children,  and 1.6 percentage points higher for neonates.
the machine learning technique described in this paper will be released as free open source software, both as stand-alone software to run on a pc and also as an application for android phones and tablets, integrated into an electronic version of the va instrument.
5,n = 100, and the max-rank cause assignment, which produced the highest csmf accuracy for seven of the first 200 splits of the child va data with hce and the highest chance-corrected concordance for 14.
part of springer science+business media.
5,n = 100, and the max-rank cause assignment, which produced the  highest csmf accuracy for seven of the first 200 splits of the child va data  with hce and the highest chance-corrected concordance for 14.
a comparison revealed that, for the same causes that  the methods have high chance-corrected concordance, the csmf regression slope  is higher for rf.
on the other hand, pcva performed substantially better in detecting suicide, acute myocardial infarction, stomach cancer, other noncommunicable diseases, and aids.
for example, chance-corrected concordances for malaria and pneumonia in adults are around 25% even with hce.
pcva has similar ranges for the  three age groups.
a comparison revealed that, for the same causes that the methods have high chance-corrected concordance, the csmf regression slope is higher for rf.
this shows that rf attains higher cause-specific  chance-corrected concordances as a result of better classification, not simply  by assigning a higher portion of deaths to some causes.
this study introduces a new ccva  technique and validates its performance using defined clinical diagnostic  criteria as a gold standard for a multisite sample of 12,542 verbal autopsies  (vas).
this could be because adults have more substantial experience with health care, and hence more relevant information is generated that aids in va analysis, or it could be confounded by the differences between the adult, child, and neonate cause lists.
the value of  hce information is more substantial for adult va, although it yielded a smaller  increase, changing the median csmf accuracy by 0.046.
however,  this clinical diagnosis also requires that the deceased have some contact with  the health system.
adf drafted the manuscript and approved the final version.
median chance-corrected concordance (%) for rf across 500 splits, by cause, for neonatal va, with and without hce .
the figure shows how rf estimation quality tends to be  different for different causes.
top 40 items based on tariff  method for adult causes (items that are extracted from open text field are  marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
however, in many applications, it is the population-level estimates that are most important, and the linear regression of true versus estimated cause fraction shows that for these causes, rf has a rmse of at most 0.009 for the adult causes and 0.02 for the child causes.
ann: artificial neural network; ccva: computer-coded verbal autopsy; csmf: cause-specific mortality fraction; va: verbal autopsy; ml: machine learning; pcva: physician-certified verbal autopsy; phrmc: population health metrics research consortium; rf: random forest; rmse: root mean squared error; hce: health care experience; ihd: ischemic heart disease.
conclusions we found that our rf method outperformed the pcva method in terms of  chance-corrected concordance and csmf accuracy for adult and child va with and  without hce and for neonatal va without hce.
the results of the sensitivity analysis are included in additional file4 and show that cause assignment by rank is superior to assignment by score but that the other parameters do not affect chance-corrected concordance or csmf accuracy.
to summarize the quality  of rf estimation for each cause for all age groups, additional file6 shows the  slope, intercept, and rmse from linear regression of estimated versus true  csmfs.
bull world health organ 2006, 84: 239-245.pubmed abstract | publisher full text |  pubmed central full text mitchell tm: machine learning.
another advantage of rf over pcva is its relatively consistent performance in the presence and absence of hce variables.
the value of hce information is more substantial for adult va, although it yielded a smaller increase, changing the median csmf accuracy by 0.046.
to summarize the quality of rf estimation for each cause for all age groups, additional file6 shows the slope, intercept, and rmse from linear regression of estimated versus true csmfs.
for aids and ihd, rf tends to overestimate the cause fraction when the true csmf is small and underestimate otherwise.
machine learning (ml) methods are computer algorithms that infer patterns from examples[2].
the  increasing partial-cause chance-corrected concordance as a function of the  number of causes shows that rf contains additional information in the second,  third, etc., most likely causes.
in va, a trained interviewer collects detailed information on signs and symptoms of illness from laypeople familiar with the deceased.
while the ann method used by boulle et al. 10 years ago [3] showed the potential of using ml techniques, the rf method we have validated here has proven that ml is ready to be put into practice as a va analysis method.
for all metrics, for all settings, rf was as good as or better than pcva, with the exception of a nonsignificantly lower csmf accuracy for neonates with hce information.
bmc bioinformatics 2006, 7:3.
for example,  its minimum median chance-corrected concordance in adult causes is 7.9%  (without hce) and 10.7% (with hce), while minimum median chance-corrected  concordance for pcva without hce is negative for two causes (meaning pcva did  worse than chance).
we have  investigated this assumption by conducting our analysis with and without hce  items, which gives some indication of the potential differences.
computer-coded verbal autopsy (ccva) is a promising alternative to the standard approach of physician-certified verbal autopsy (pcva), because of its high speed, low cost, and reliability.
the full process is as follows: the test score matrix is converted to a test rank matrix on an entry-by-entry basis, by finding the rank of each entry among the corresponding column in the train score matrix.
these interviews are analyzed by experts or by computer to estimate 1) the cause of death for each individual and 2) the distribution of causes of death in a population.
diaz-uriarte r, alvarez de andres s: gene selection and classification of microarray data using random forest.
the signal-to-noise ratio can be improved by removing  low-information items using the tariff method[16], or all items can be used • different numbers of signs and symptoms can be used at each decision  node • different numbers of trees can be used in the forest • cause assignment can be based on the highest scoring cause for each  death or on ranking the scores and assigning to the cause with the highest rank
for example, for adult deaths due to  tuberculosis, aids, diabetes, and asthma, chance-corrected concordance  increased by more than 20 percentage points when hce variables were included.
further, the cause  composition of the test dataset is based on a random draw from an uninformative  dirichlet distribution.
we never allowed contamination between the training data and the test data - they were kept strictly separate in all steps of the analysis.
we assessed the performance of rf at assigning individual causes of death using median chance-corrected concordance by cause across the 500 test datasets and the median average chance-corrected concordance across causes in the 500 test datasets, following the recommendations of murray et al[13].
the purpose of excluding the hce items is to assess how rf would perform on va for communities without access to health care.
the  results shown in the next section are all for the one-versus-one model, with  dichotomized variables, with training data reweighted to have equal class  sizes, using the 40 most important tariff-based symptoms per cause,m =
breiman l, friedman j, olshen r, stone c: classification and regression trees.
pubmed abstract | publisher full text breiman l: random forests.
population health metrics 2011, 9:29  doi:10.1186/1478-7954-9-29 the electronic version of this article is the complete one and can be found  online at:http://www.pophealthmetrics.com/content/9/1/29 received: 14  april 2011 published: 4 august 2011 © 2011 flaxman et al; licensee biomed central ltd.
it should be noted that, while in the literature it  is suggested that increasing the number of trees increases the classification  precision, as our overall rf method includes an ensemble of one-versus-one  classifiers (e.g., for adult vas, rf has one-versus-one classifiers, each  including 100 trees), the overall number of trees is high, which results in  stable performance.
median csmf accuracy for rf and pcva, by age  group with and without hce figure 10 shows scatter plots of the estimated versus true csmf for four  select causes of adult deaths (each of the 500 splits contributes a single  point to the scatter).
for example, for adult deaths due to tuberculosis, aids, diabetes, and asthma, chance-corrected concordance increased by more than 20 percentage points when hce variables were included.
we benchmark rf against pcva on the same dataset using the results reported by  lozano et al[14].
format: xlsx size: 56kb download file additional file 2.
in va, a trained  interviewer collects detailed information on signs and symptoms of illness from  laypeople familiar with the deceased.
over 500 splits,  the median value of csmf accuracy for rf for adult vas with hce was 0.772  (0.769, 0.776), and for adult vas without hce it was 0.726 (0.721, 0.730); for  child vas with hce it was 0.779 (0.775, 0.785), and for child vas without hce
top 40 items based on tariff method for child causes (items that are extracted from open text field are marked with *, other hce variables are marked with +).
as discussed earlier, the accuracy of classification relies considerably on the  quality of the training data (deaths with gold standard cause known to meet  clinical diagnostic criteria).
all authors have read and approved the final manuscript.
physician-certified verbal autopsy (pcva) is currently the most common approach to mapping va interviews to underlying cause of death, but this approach is expensive and time-consuming[1].
future studies could focus on collecting additional gold standard vas for priority diseases to complement the phmrc dataset.
this work was funded by a grant from the bill & melinda gates foundation through the grand challenges in global health initiative.
the superior performance of rf compared to pcva with respect to all of our  quality metrics is excellent because this method also reduces cost, speeds up  the analysis process, and increases reliability.