its shell is thicker than an egg roll, meant to survive handling at football matches.
almost all modern australian maps, including street directories, use the geocentric datum of australia (gda) as their grid reference, which is for all purposes identical to the wgs84 used by the gps.
your call will then be connected to the police.
youth challenge australia, [54].
australian teenagers celebrate the end of school for 3 weeks at the end of october and early november.
public libraries usually offer some for of internet access to travellers, either free or for a small fee.
rips can be recognised by one or more of these signs: a rippled  appearance when the surrounding water is fairly calm; foam that extends beyond  the break zone; brown, sandy coloured water; waves breaking further out on  either side of the rip.
alcohol can be purchased for consumption on premises only in licensed  venues: pubs, clubs and many restaurants.
australia has large areas that have been deforested for agricultural purposes, but many native forest areas survive in extensive national parks and other undeveloped areas.
the restaurant or bistro often serves food that is comparable  to many other up-market restaurants outside the hotel.
the full fees payable by overseas students are competitive compared to many western universities.
violence against gay people is also at a level  similar to the united states.
the fees can vary between institutions and between locations, but are usually around $2.
they certainly don't offer  the discount form of accommmodation they do in part of theunited kingdom, and  the local motel will usually be cheaper.
most people bitten by snakes were trying to pick up the snake, kill the creature, or inadvertently step on one whilst out walking.
100  points of id[44].
heat and dehydration at any time of year can kill you.
floods in outback and inland australia are rare, occurring decades apart,  so you would be unlucky to encounter them.
unless you have seen it happen, its hard to  appreciate how quickly a rip can take you 50 m out to sea and into much larger  wave breaks.
a takeaway pizza from pizza hut big enough to feed two costs around $10.
reapply sunscreen every 2-3 hours throughout the day as it wears off  quickly if you are sweating or swimming.
most hostels also have living room areas equipped with couches, dining  tables, and televisions.
as a large continent a wide variation of climates are found across australia.
some aboriginal land councils make them  available online.
asian fusion, refers generally to asian-inspired dishes.
driving between cities and towns can take longer than you think, especially if you are used to freeway or motorway driving in europe or north america.
you can apply online for a working holiday visa [47], but you must not be in australia at the time.
the wettest period for the south of the country is usually around the winter months of june, july, and august.
it is likely being called such a name is an indication that you are considered a friend and is it would be rare they are being condescending.
temporary visitors who arenot citizens of either australia or new zealand can have this money returned to them[46] when they leave australia.
temporary visitors who arenot citizens of either australia or new  zealand can have this money returned to them[46] when they leave australia.
a number of local and international chains offer motel-style accommodation: all state capitals have at least one major hotel at 5 star standard, with several available in the major capitals.
at sites where tap water is untreated, water sterilization tablets may be used as an alternative to boiling.
the red back spider (usually easily identified by a red mark on its  abdomen), is common and after a bite it is important to seek medical attention,  however it is not as urgent as with a funnel web.
catering to the vast number of young european and american backpackers traversing the country are several low-budget car rental companies which rent cars and campers of varying quality.
never try to pick up any snake, even if you believe it to be a non-poisonous species.
contract jobs generally mean employers are looking for solid  experience, so make your resume reflect that.
queensland doesn't observe daylight saving, so it is an hour behind the other eastern states during that period.
the best location is near, but not on, the main exit from the town you are in.
if you aren't up for buying a jar, any coffee shop will serve vegemite on toast at breakfast time.
cover up a little more when visiting places of worship such as churches.
penalties for possession or sale of small amounts of marijuana are  typically lower than for other drugs, and vary between states.
many parks, and  most beaches have free electric bbq's as well.
cuisines widely available in australia, often prepared by members of the relevant culture, include: eating vegetarian is quite common in australia and many restaurants offer at least one or two vegetarian dishes.
national parks often provide free camping sites, which expect you to be more self-sufficient.
for example, the local number for the broken hill tourist information is 8080 3300.
though aboriginal custom varies, it is best to avoid the  possibility of offence.
unless you are  applying for a creative arts degree, your ranking will be based solely on previous academic performance at both high school and previous university  studies.
snakes will generally try to put as much distance between themselves and you as  possible, so if you see a snake while out walking, simply go around it or walk  the other way.
it is acceptable and  normal to use first names in all situations, even to people many years your  senior.
each member of the house of representatives represents an electoral division.
check the contract conditions carefully if you are under 25 and also check that your licence class matches the vehicle you wish to rent before you book it.
some restrict access to email, promoting research use of their facilities.
while it's not uncommon to find a person who opposes gay rights, such  people are in the minority.
in south  australia, western australia, the australian capital territory and the northern  territory jail terms do not apply to first time marijuana offences.
add a mattress, pillow, portable gas cooker, cookware and a 20 lt water container and you are off.
a "stinger-suit" that is resistant to jellyfish stings costs  around $100 or can be hired for around $20 a week.
it moves three hours behind the eastern states that observe daylight saving (remaining two hours behind queensland).
if you are intending to study in australia, you may need to be on a visa  class that allows this, rather than a tourist visa.
always ensure you thoroughly check the vehicle for any damage, including all window glass and the roof panels, and document any found in detail with the renter before leaving the depot.
the taste and hardness of the tap water will vary considerably across the country.
applications for university courses (and the appropriate visa) will need to be lodged before coming to australia.
also on the ground floor  would normally be a fully equipped bar.
not joining a shout can  be awkward in some groups.
[edit]  pubs most pubs in australia offer some form of accommodation.
all tuition at university level is in english, save for courses that specifically focus on other languages.
if you don't know your  area code region, you can still dial the area code, and it will still work.
it is  perfect for the australian camping lifestyle, whether it be weekends away or an  extended trip into the great outdoors where no facilities exist.
[edit] work australian citizens, new zealand citizens and permanent residents of  australia can work in australia without any further permits, but others will  require a work visa.
[edit] serviced apartments serviced apartments are widely available, for stays as short as one night.
for example, the local number for the broken hill tourist information is  8080 3300.
australian employers will make compulsory payments out of your earnings to an australian superannuation (retirement savings) fund on your behalf.
it isn't hard to find someone who will express some form of racist views in a pub in australia.
the operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of prohibited drugs or alcohol will always result in arrest and a required court appearance many weeks from the date of arrest and it can comprehensively disrupt travel plans.
once it is  clear, a short blast of the siren will be sounded, which usually means that it  is safe to return to the water.
people bushwalking in such areas are advised not to touch  the plant for any reason.
in conversation, the abbreviations aren't used.
because australians like their beer to stay cold while they drink it, draft beer glasses come in a multitude of sizes, so that you can drink a whole glass before it warms up in the summer heat.
for this reason  travel insurance or ambulance membership is highly recommended for those  travelling to remote areas as helicopter evacuation could cost thousands.
it means you can't go back out into the sun until the sunburn fades, so getting sunburnt on the first day of your beach holiday can seriously reduce the fun of your trip.
in most cases, electronic travel authorities and evisitors are approved instantly and the visa will issued and available for use immediately.
see the destination guides for  details.
drink driving is a very serious offence in australia, punishable by  a range of mechanisms including loss of license.
camping in state forests is often preferable to national parks if you're  after a camping experience over sightseeing, as collecting of your own fire  wood is allowed (sometimes felling of trees is permissible dependent on the  area) and camping is not restricted to camp sites.
the majority of games are played over the weekend period (from friday night to monday night).
iron ore and coal are by far the largest exports, with wheat, beef and wool declining in importance.
trafficking offences are federal offences, and carry a  long jail term.
visitors who do not speak basic english will find communicating with australians difficult, and should do some advance planning.
also check with your home carrier for data roaming fees (likely quite  expensive).
one is operated by telstra (umts 850mhz, also marketed by telstra as next g) and the other by optus (a combination of umts 2100mhz and 900mhz).
as described above, 000 is the australian emergency services number and in any medical emergency you should call this number and ask for an ambulance and other emergency services as necessary, to attend.
when leaving your car alone, make sure it is locked, that the windows are  rolled up, and that there are no obvious targets for theft in the vehicle, as  thieves will often smash windows to get at a phone, gps or bag that is visible  in the car.
take common sense precautions if purchasing a car.
however, large inter city transportation ferry services are not common.
the emergency services have limited ability to trace the origin of emergency calls from mobile phones, especially outside of urban areas, so be sure to calmly and clearly provide details of your location.
alcohol is not  available at petrol stations or 24-hour convenience stores anywhere in  australia.
almost always have taps, so these are a good place to refill the water  containers each time you refuel.
there are also four umts networks, two of which are nationwide.
the universities select students from this  common applicant pool based upon their ranking and preferences.
there are some tour companies who specialise in offering package deals for australian tours complete with guides who speak particular languages.
some areas of land are sacred to aboriginal people, and require additional respect.
these are often indicated by signs and is particularly the case in parks and footpaths where public drunkenness has been a problem.
an alternative is seasonal work like fruit-picking, although much seasonal work will require that you work outside the major cities.
it is acceptable and normal to use first names in all situations, even to people many years your senior.
this can often restrict entry to parts of pubs, clubs, and casinos for children.
most rips are only a few metres wide, and once clear of the undertow,  you will be able to swim or catch a wave to return to shore.
trips and routes need careful planning to ensure the correct supplies are carried.
saltwater crocodiles in these areas can reach 25 feet in length and can attack in water without warning.
[edit] fires national parks and forested areas of southern australia, including some  parts of major cities next to national parks and forests, can be threatened by bushfires (wildfires) in summer.
within the service sector, tourism is one of the most important industries in australia, as it provides employment, contributes $73 billion to the economy each year and accounts for at least 11% of total exports.
western australia has foundation day typically the first monday in june (recognising the founding of the state since 1829) but also celebrates the queens birthday at a different date to the rest of the country, either at the end of september or early october, due to the usual june date is such close proximity to foundation day.
you may spend the night sobering up in a holding cell or be charged.
the venom of some snakes (the taipan in particular) can take effect within fifteen minutes, but if the wound is immediately immobilised and you rest it is possible to delay the onset of poisoning by one to a few hours, depending on the creature.
expect around $10 per person per night, depending on the time of year.
working for 3 months in seasonal work will allow you to apply for a second 12 month visa.
many cities and towns have water restrictions, limiting use of water in activities like washing cars, watering gardens, or public showers.
if moving around, check that your isp has an access number that can be reached via a local call from landlines nationwide (the access number starts with 019 or 13), rather than just in the isp home city.
all hotels have a restaurant (or bistro, depending on the type of hotel you  are staying in).
generally, overseas licenses are valid for driving in australia for three months after arrival.
students who have not previously earned  a qualification in an english speaking program (or passed high school english)  will have to take one of a number of english competency tests before being  allowed to enrol.
this reduced indigenous populations drastically and marginalised them to the fringes of society.
there is debate as to whether they can be fatal, but they certainly can place a victim in hospital, and cause extreme pain lasting days.
the naming of beer glasses varies widely from state to state, often in confusing ways: aschooner is 425 ml everywhere except south australia, where it's only 285 ml, a size that's known elsewhere as amiddy or pot, except in darwin where it's a handle, but in adelaide a "pot" means a 570 ml full pint, and a pint means what a schooner does elsewhere, and... you get the idea.
if you require assistance during a flood, storm, cyclone, tsunami, earthquake or other natural disaster you can contact the state emergency service in each state (except for northern territory) on 132 500.
most motels will serve a cooked or continental breakfast to your room in  the morning, for an additional charge.
do not be misled by entries on maps such as 'well' or 'spring'  or 'tank' (or any entry suggesting that there is a body of water).
the national holidays in australia are: many states observe labour day, but
melbourne caters well for vegans with a greater number of purely vegetarian restaurants per person than many other western cities, it has vegan clothing stores and even a vegan supermarket.
sometimes extra rooms in a person's home, but often a purpose built building.
in fact, it is extremely easy to go into woolworths/safeway (australia's largest grocery chain) and buy a $2 sim card over the counter (though no calls are included).
boasting about  achievements is rarely received well.
public drunkenness is an offence but you would only likely ever  be picked up by the police if you were causing a nuisance.
sometimes built on private land, sometimes in caravan parks, cabins typically  have a kitchen / lounge area, and one, two or three bedrooms.
however, if you are a family with your picnic basket and blanket out at lunchtime with a bottle of wine, you are unlikely to encounter any problems.
although licensing laws and hours vary from state to state, and individual stores have different trading hours, as a rule of thumb, alcohol is generally available in towns to take-away seven days a week, between the hours of 8am and 11pm, from bottle shops, supermarkets, licensed grocers/milk-bars and pubs.
museums generally charge around $10 per admission.
hitch hiking is illegal in victoria and queensland.
this is calleda shout, and incurs an obligation that  you will generally return the favour in a following round, and that also you  will generally maintain the same drinking pace as your associates in the round  throughout the evening.
if not a citizen or permanent resident of a reciprocal country, you can expect to pay around $60 to see a general practitioner, plus any additional costs for any pathology or radiology required.
in south australia, western australia, the australian capital territory and the northern territory jail terms do not apply to first time marijuana offences.
it is illegal either to purchase alcohol for yourself if you are under 18 years of age.
australian police are approachable and trustworthy, and you should report assaults, theft or other crime to the police as soon as possible.
public drunkenness varies in acceptability.
check theextra charges very carefully and make sure that you are not paying the same or more for a lesser quality vehicle.
if you hear a continuous siren, go off at the beach and a red and a red and white quartered flag is waved or held out of the tower as it indicates a shark sighting, so make your way to shore.
some will have an entire vegetarian menu  section.
some states can issue on-the-spot fines for small amounts of marijuana whereas others always require a court appearance.
if you need comprehensive coverage in rural and remote areas, you can use a satellite phone.
if you are at an unpatrolled surf beach, proceed with great  caution and never go out of your depth.
urban australians jaywalk, dodge cars, and anticipate the sequence of lights.
most motels will serve a cooked or continental breakfast to your room in the morning, for an additional charge.
given that cook's discoveries would lead to the first european settlement of australia, he is often popularly conceived as its european discoverer, although he had been preceded by more than 160 years.
it has basic ingredients (flour, water and perhaps salt) and usually cooked in the embers of a fire.
tourist areas within cities, such asdarling harbour in sydney has longer trading hours every night.
hearing or speech impaired people with tty equipment can dial 106.
ministers are drawn from both the house of representatives and the senate.
bikinis and swimming attire is okay on the beach, and usually at the kiosk across the road from the beach.
sometimes located in prime positions,  but also sometimes in the residential sections of cities and towns.
though aboriginal custom varies, it is best to avoid the possibility of offence.
students and academics  invited to visit australian universities will generally also need an  appropriate visa, even if their visit is of a short enough period to be covered  by a tourist electronic visa.
will give free advice if any  medication or poisons is taken inadvertently.
[edit] dangerous flora the gympie bush (dendrocnide moroides), also known as the  stinging tree, is a stinging plant, whose microscopic stinging hairs on leaves  and branches can cause severe pain for up to several weeks.
[edit] contact [edit] internet australia offers many internet access options for travellers.
most tourist attractions are closed christmas day and good friday.
the ghan and the indian pacific allow you to transport cars between sydney, melbourne, adelaide, alice springs, perth, and darwin.
[edit]  a shout buying a round of drinks is a custom in australia, as in many corners of  the world.
cycling the long distances between towns is not particularly common, and most long distance highways in australia have poorly developed facilities for cyclists.
there is usually no admission charge to beaches or city parks.
it is probably the most famous australian made spirit, mass produced inbundaberg and available everywhere.
pub accommodation is even available in the centre of sydney, making getting  back to your room after a beer a simple endeavour.
in the cities, many small business mobile  phone shops sell a large range of prepaid phone cards, including prepaid  dial-up cards.
it is normal to wear at least a shirt and footwear before venturing any further.
no other currency is accepted for transactions in australia.
until the late 1970s a bite from this spider could result in death, but anti-venom is now available.
the system of separate colonies federated to form the self-governing british dominion of australia in 1901, each colony now becoming a state of australia, with new zealand opting out of the federation.
there are laws against any form of racial vilification or discrimination with jail terms possible for breaches of some states racial vilification laws.
australia has cellular networks operated by telstra[61] , optus[62] and vodafone [63], and each of the networks have several resellers with different price plans.
will also give advice on what  treatment is necessary for things like a spider bite.
wear gloves while gardening or handling leaf litter.
the full fees payable by overseas students are competitive compared to many  western universities.
it is illegal to go into a gambling area of a pub or club when under 18.
if you are caught in a rip at a patrolled beach, conserve your energy,  float or tread water and raise one hand.
[edit]  farm stay much as the name suggests, this usually involves a cabin or homestead  accommodation on a working property.
business attire, however, is  considered to be long sleeved shirt, tie, and long trousers for men, even in  the hottest weather.
it  is probably the most famous australian made spirit, mass produced inbundaberg  and available everywhere.
driving between towns and cities comes with a risk of hitting or crashing due to swerving to avoid wildlife.
cans of beer are known  astinnies and 24 of them make up a slab, box, carton , or acase.
however, the gympie bush and other closely related species (there are about five) of stinging tree can be found in south-east queensland, and further south in eastern australia.
the hot drink melts the fudge centre and creates an experience hard to describe.
the charge to pay to visit a local hospital can be much more expensive, private hospitals even more so, up to $500 even if you are not admitted, and thousands if you are.
it has around half the alcohol of full strength beer, and is taxed at a lower rate, meaning it is also cheaper than full strength beer.
to cycle between sydney and brisbane you would have to allow 2-3 weeks with around 80-100km per day.
towns with populations of  5,000 or more will have a small hospital capable of giving emergency treatment  in serious emergencies, and larger towns will have a base hospital capable of  routine and some kinds of emergency surgery.
some accommodation providers offer wi-fi to their guests, almost always  with a charge.
the  best wine is rarely the one with the best artwork, or the most expensive price.
carrying water on hot days is a good idea in urban areas, and it is a necessity if hiking or driving out of town.
[edit] sponsored work visas
there is a substantial second hand market in cars and campers for backpackers wishing to do extended road trips around australia.
saltwater crocodiles in these areas can reach 25 feet in length and can attack  in water without warning.
in most cases the local volunteer surf lifesavers or  professional lifeguards are only available during certain hours, and at some  beaches only on weekends, and often only during summer.
try the local wines wherever you can find them, and ask for local recommendations.
public transport day passes from $10-20 per day depending on the city.
for around $50 you can get a usb modem or wifi dongle.
again, western australia is an exception with restrictions on large stores opening on sundays.
students in three-year degree programs can take an optional fourth year known ashonours if they want to proceed into a postgraduate research program, whereas students enrolled in four year programs can typically incorporate their honours thesis into their fourth year.
receipts (tax invoices) will contain the gst amount, which is one eleventh of the total value of taxable supplies.
here he formally claimed the eastern coastline he had discovered for the british crown, naming it new south wales.
if you buy items over $300 at one place at one time you can obtain a refund of the gst if you take the items out of australia within 30 days.
the political party (or coalition of parties) which has the most members in the house of representatives becomes the governing party and forms the national government.
you can buy a packet (or two) from any supermarket or convenience store.
there are four domestic airlines in australia that operate jet aircraft linking capital cities and major destinations.
in those states where you can't, bottle shops and major supermarkets are often found in very close proximity.
sometimes built on private land, sometimes in caravan parks, cabins typically have a kitchen / lounge area, and one, two or three bedrooms.
many internet cafés have 12-20 computers sharing a single broadband connection, sometimes making the internet painfully slow.
australian citizens and permanent residents who live in the country can receive health care through the taxpayer funded medicare.
it is not unusual for some coastal areas to be cut off  for a day or two while the water recedes.
the home-baked form can be found at a local saturday morning market, or you can buy one from a bakery if you are desperate.
australia is a long way from anywhere else in the world, so for most visitors, the only practical way of getting into australia is by air.
please plunge forward and help it grow!this article is an outline and needs more content.
however, tread carefully before using slang racial  descriptors yourself, to avoid the possibility of offence.
a bus trip, a little less again.
major supermarket chains in main centres are generally open at least until 9pm.
australian volunteers, [51].
there are restrictions on carrying fruit and vegetables (including honey) between states and even between regions of states that are involved in fruit growing.
australia has a sales tax known as the goods and services tax or gst that applies to all goods and services except unprocessed foods, education and medical services.
almost all large vendors such as supermarkets accept cards, as do many, but not all, small stores.
to sydney it is a 3 hour flight from new zealand, a 7-11 hour flight from countries in asia, a 14 hour flight from the west of the united states and canada, a 14 hour flight fromjohannesburg, a 13-16 hour flight from south america, and up to a 24+ hour flight from western europe.
the exact amount will be charged if paying by card.
a fifth year is compulsory in some professional undergraduate programs such as engineering, law, medicine and dentistry.
trade vans can be picked up for as little as $1,000, with a more trustworthy van setting you back no more than $3,000-$4,000.
the best advice is just to move on, and not stay around to watch.
[edit] floods in the tropical north the wet season occurs over the summer months  of december, january and february, bringing torrential rains and frequent  floods to those regions.
you can also apply for  permanent residency as the holder of a work or study visa, but your application  will not be automatically accepted.
112 works from australian purchased  phones too.
many internet cafés have 12-20 computers  sharing a single broadband connection, sometimes making the internet painfully  slow.
see winter sports in australia it has been said that if there are two flies crawling up a wall, then you just need to look around to find the aussie who will be running a book.
the note denominations are $5, $10, $20, $50 and $100.
finesse is needed to suck the whole biscuit into your mouth in the microseconds between being fully saturated and dissolving.
australian modes of address tend towards the familiar.
penalties for possession or sale of small amounts of marijuana are typically lower than for other drugs, and vary between states.
australia's low population density and large size makes for long driving times between major centres.
however, it is rude to ever agree with a self-deprecating remark.
all stamps can be purchased from post offices, and some stamps can be purchased from newsagents and hotels.
greyhound has the largest bus route network.
random breath testing is common early saturday and sunday mornings, and many people are caught the morning after.
kangaroos have a habit of being spooked by cars and then, bewilderingly, jumping in front of them.
in australia it is common to be  within an hours drive of a national park or recreation area that will permit  some form of camping, even in the capital cities.
it is generally poorly received to buy a round, and then to refuse a drink when one is purchased for you.
it is still quite unusual to have a private bathroom, even in the nicer pubs.
australia has a federal system of government, with eight state and territory governments and a national government.
australian debit cards can also be used via a system known as eftpos.
check with australian tax agents about australian tax liability and filing an australian tax return.
some of the information spread about australia's dangerous wildlife is blown out of proportion.
you can apply for it online (though, only in australia) for free at  the australian tax office website[45], though you can generally get it quicker  if you just go to one of their offices.
crime rates in australia are roughly comparable with other first world countries: few travellers will be victims of crime.
select your point of entry and exit to give you a cheaper round-trip, and possibly some interesting stopover opportunities on the way.
the service industries, including tourism, education, and financial services, account for the majority of the australian gross domestic product – about 69%.
theme parks charge around $70 per person.
over one-quarter of australians were born outside australia, and another quarter have at least one foreign-born parent.
the most multicultural cities are melbourne, brisbane and sydney.
nobody will likely respond to your call unless you can effectively  communicate to the operator that you need assistance.
bed and breakfasts tend to be a premium form of accommodation in australia, often focussed on weekend accommodation for couples.
information on and advanced warnings of severe weather is available from the  bureau of meteorology’s warning page[57] or by calling the national  telephone weather services directory on 1900 926 113.
the rainfall is more evenly distributed throughout the year in the southern parts of the east coast, while in the rest of the south beyond the great dividing range, the summers are dry with the bulk of the rainfall occuring in winter.
gst is alwaysincluded in the price of any item you purchase rather than being added at the time of payment.
terms such as yank  and pom, and to a lesser extent wog are used in casual conversation in the  presence of those respective nationalities, often between friends, and as such  are not seen as offensive.
beers are strongly  regional and every state has its own brews: coopers and west end in south  australia, carlton and vb in victoria, tooheys in nsw, xxxx in queensland,  boags and cascade in tasmania, and swan in western australia.
there is also no need to arrive in australia with cash if you have a cirrus, maestro, mastercard or visa card: international airport terminals will have multiple teller machines that can dispense australian currency with just the fees imposed by your bank plus the atm fee.
the best fares are always available on the most competitive routes.
the danger season varies by location.
some of the best experiences you may have in australia will be by taking that road on the map that looks like it heads to a beach, creek, waterfall or mountain and following it.
insects and mosquitoes go crazy with all the fresh water pooling around, and these things eat insect repellent for breakfast and are still hungry.
australian ocean beaches can sometimes have strong rips that even the strongest swimmers are unable to swim against.
the first question that the operator will ask is which service you need.
the tap water in australia is almost always safe to drink, and it will be marked on the tap if this is not the case.
in regional areas the market is usually held outside the town itself in an empty paddock or sports field, markets in capital cities are easier to reach but the prices are typically more in line with those you would find in supermarkets.
many motels have family rooms, that will usually have a double bed and two single beds in the one room.
several carriers offer prepaid 3g access with no contract from around $30 per month with various bundles and inclusions.
there are some clothing optional (nude) beaches, usually a little further removed from residential areas.
patrolled beaches will be monitoring the ocean for any shark activity.
red backs typically hide in dark places and corners.
many parks, and most beaches have free electric bbq's as well.
in most parts of australia it is illegal to sleep in your vehicle but it is  possible to get around this by simply rigging up curtains all around the  windows so no one can see in from the outside.
[edit]  terminals internet cafés abound in most centres of population that  normally cost $4-$5 per hour.
camping permits are sometimes required at popular parks, with some popular spots filling up during the holidays in summer.
the best way is to say you are driving, and you will buy your own drinks.
australian troops also made a valuable, if sometimes controversial, contribution to the wars in korea,vietnam and iraq.
calling special numbers internationally can often work - just try dialing the number prefixed with the +61 country code.
see the destination guides for details.
a train trip on the state run trains will usually cost slightly less.
you will need to be self-sufficient and carry suitable spares and a good tool kit
money changers in australia operate in a free market, and charge a range of flat commissions, percentage fees, undisclosed fees built into the exchange rate, and a combination of all three.
most people bitten by snakes were trying to pick up the  snake, kill the creature, or inadvertently step on one whilst out walking.
city centre hotel accommodation in capital cities can be obtained for around $150 upwards for a double.
please plunge forward and help it grow!
it is acceptable to pay the amount stated on the bill.
if you are caught in a rip at an unpatrolled beach stay calm to conserve  energy and swimparallel to the beach (not against the pull of the  current).
if you are caught in a rip at an unpatrolled beach stay calm to conserve energy and swimparallel to the beach (not against the pull of the current).
also check with your home carrier for data roaming fees (likely quite expensive).
prices ranging as low as $30 per day.
australia is home to many of the deadliest species of insects, reptiles and marine life on the planet.
you can't hire beach umbrellas at  australian beaches, and they are very exposed.
smaller convenience stores like 7/11 are open 24 hours in major centres.
jim beam bourbon is probably the most commonly drunk, so those fromkentucky should feel right at home.
all tuition at university level is in english, save for courses that  specifically focus on other languages.
using australian stereotypical expressions may be viewed as an attempt to  mock, rather than to communicate.
people bushwalking in such areas are advised not to touch the plant for any reason.
it takes just a few hours to process usually and it costs about $170.
caravan parks exist in most towns and cities in australia that will provide powered and unpowered sites for caravans.
the freshwater may attack to defend itself or  its eggs or if startled.
funnel webs can seek shelter indoors when there is a lot of rain, however they are usually found under rocks, especially if recent gardening has taken place.
when leaving your car alone, make sure it is locked, that the windows are rolled up, and that there are no obvious targets for theft in the vehicle, as thieves will often smash windows to get at a phone, gps or bag that is visible in the car.
you should wear sunscreen (spf 30+), clothing, and a hat to shade the sun.
bottle naming is a little easier: the standard sizes across australia are the 375 mlstubby and the 750 ml long neck.
its generally not polite to  switch between shouts during an evening.
funnel webs can seek shelter indoors when there is a lot  of rain, however they are usually found under rocks, especially if recent  gardening has taken place.
whereas others  always require a court appearance.
new zealand citizens may still be rejected entry on the basis of criminal convictions, and should seek advice before travel.
[edit][add listing] sleep accommodation is readily available in most australian cities and tourist  destinations.
service stations (petrol/gas)
the only legally acceptable proof-of-age is an australian drivers licence, state-issued proof-of-age card or a passport, and it would be wise to carry one if you want to purchase alcohol or tobacco and look under 25.
in fact, it is extremely easy to go into woolworths/safeway  (australia's largest grocery chain) and buy a $2 sim card over the counter  (though no calls are included).
amongst australian animals are a large group of marsupials (mammals with a pouch) and monotremes (mammals that lay eggs).
many  attractions often lie on a short stretch of dirt road off the main highways,  and these sections become impassable, even if the main road remains open.
some shells, coral and items made from a protected species are also prohibited to discourage the trade in items that may originate from a threatened ecosystem or species.
do not clean the  wound as hospitals can test venom residues to determine what species anti-venom  should be used.
vinegar applied immediately to adhering tentacles will lessen the amount of venom injected, but immediate medical assistance will be required.
it is generally acceptable to wear revealing clothing in australia.
anti-venom is available for most spider and snake bites.
the tim-tam, is a chocolate fudge-filled sandwich of two chocolate biscuits, all dipped in chocolate.
this number will connect you with emergency operators for the police, fire brigade, and ambulance service.
in general the jellyfish are found close to shore, as they breed in the estuaries.
light (lite) beer refers to lower alcoholic content, and not lower  calories.
there are overall small pronunciation differences in the cities but are becoming more common.
bargaining is uncommon in australian stores, though vendors are usually willing to meet or beat a quote or advertised price from a competing retailer.
permits are usually just a formality for areas which  regularly see visitors, or if you have some other business in the area you are  travelling through.
the parking inspectors can be ruthless and a $100+ fine is not uncommon.
australian banks are open monday-friday 09:00-16:00 only, often closing at 17:00 on fridays.
rips are invisible channels of  water flowing away from the beach.
the  attraction of markets is the lower prices and freshness of the produce.
drop into the lark distillery on the  scenic hobart waterfront precinct.
for example irish and new zealanders are only entitled to free treatment at a hospital, whereas the other reciprocal nationalities are entitled to subsidised treatment at general practitioners as well.
text messages can be sent from many public phones, using the keypad in much the same way as a mobile phone.
retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/australia"retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/australia" category: outline articles
the northern territory remains half an hour behind queensland, but moves an hour and half behind new south wales, victoria and tasmania.
however, it is probably wise to avoid the house wine if it comes straight from a cask (4-litre container).
when the chant of aussie, aussie, aussie - oi oi oi goes up at an international sporting event, some australians will cringe, and others will join in.
cook continued northwards, and before leaving put ashore on possession island in the torres strait off cape york on 22 aug 1770.
it is perfect for the australian camping lifestyle, whether it be weekends away or an extended trip into the great outdoors where no facilities exist.
it can be surprisingly difficult to find australian dialup isps with instant online signup, but they do exist (beagle[65] is one).
uluru holds great spiritual significance to the anangu.
if possible ask if you can check the speed of a café's connection before forking out $4-$5 for an hour.
capital cities will have medical centres where you can drop in, often open  on weekends or until late.
most caravan parks will rent camping sites by the night, where you can pitch a tent, and these are available in most towns and cities.
usually a dull sandy-beige colour
the winter is the dry season in the tropics, and the summer is the wet.
the other two networks are limited to capital cities, are on the 2100mhz band and are operated by vodafone and three[72].
walking blindly into dense bush and grassy areas is not  advisable, as they are places where snakes may hide.
cabins are an economical way for families to stay while travelling.
an example of an aboriginal request is  climbinguluru (ayers rock).
cover yourself with non-flammable (woolen) clothing or blankets, and reduce the skin directly exposed to the heat.
a strong majority  of the australian public supports legalising same-sex marriage, however a  defence of marriage-style law is in effect preventing such recognition for the  time being.
other students will generally be required to pay full  tuition on enrolment each semester.
credit card surcharges are imposed at all car rental agencies, travel agents, airlines, and at some discount retailers and service stations.
these markets mostly sell fresh fruits and vegetables, as hygiene standards in australia forbid the selling of meat directly from market stalls.
[edit] blue ring octopus found in rock pools around the coasts of australia is the tiny blue ring  octopus.
bikinis  and swimming attire is okay on the beach, and usually at the kiosk across the  road from the beach.
the market town ofkuranda or the seaside towns ofbyron bay are a vegetarian's paradise.
substantial discounts often apply for  mid-week stays at bed and breakfasts.
spirits are also available as pre-mixed bottles and cans but are subject to higher taxation in this form, so it is cheaper to mix them yourself.
some states  can issue on-the-spot fines for small amounts of marijuana
some companies allow travel on any gazetted road, while others forbid travel on a gravel/dirt road unless you hire a four wheel drive.
contrary to popular mythology, descendants from convicts are in a very small minority, and even during the years of transportation free settlers outnumbered convict migrants by at least five to one.
people observing kosher or halal will easily be able to find specialist butchers in the capital cities, and will also find a number of restaurants with appropriate menus and cooking styles.
just about all women wear a top while walking around or in the water.
still, australians are familiar enough with the differences to know what you mean, but they may still have a laugh at your expense.
you should expect a cosy, well kept room, a common area, and a cooked  breakfast.
information on locating the nearest medical  services can be obtained by calling 1800 022 222 (except for tasmania).
try the local wines wherever you can find them, and ask for local  recommendations.
a few words and euphemisms that are considered offensive elsewhere are common vernacular in australian speech.
the local beers and the local descriptions are covered in detail in the  state guides.
floods in outback and inland australia are rare, occurring decades apart, so you would be unlucky to encounter them.
if you are caught in a bushfire, most fires will pass over quickly.
foreigners should not expect more lenient treatment than locals from australian police for drug offences.
outside the capital cities, it will be  much more difficult to find food prepared in a strict religious manner.
some popular national parks charge between $10-20 per day (per car, or per person depending on the state) while more out of the way national parks are free.
you make a single application for admission to the state admissions body stating your course preferences.
the person you are dealing with may have limited authority to sell items at anything other than the marked price.
all hotels have a restaurant (or bistro, depending on the type of hotel you are staying in).
mobile phones sold in australia  recognise it as the emergency number and will use any available network to  place the call.
all prepaid cards that  can be purchased from dick smith have access from anywhere in australia for a  local call fee.
they can inflict a nasty bite but due to their small jaws and teeth this will rarely cause death in humans.
[edit]  hostels and backpackers budget hostel-style accommodation with shared bathrooms and often with  dormitories is approximately $20-$30 per person per night.
iridium, globalstar and thuraya satellite services are available in australia.
they certainly don't offer the discount form of accommmodation they do in part of theunited kingdom, and the local motel will usually be cheaper.
it is much rarer to  find someone who will openly express aggression towards any racial group.
letters can be posted in any red australia post posting box, which are found at all post offices and many other locations.
fuel/service stations are open 24 hours in major centres, but often close at 6pm and on sundays in country towns.
each of these governments has an elected parliament, with the leader of each government being the leader of the largest party represented in the lower house.
if someone in the same round as you has an empty glass,  who is ahead of you in drinks bought, you should declare that it is your shout,  and make your way to the bar.
primary industry - mining and agriculture - accounts for most of australia's exports.
in the west, western australia is two hours behind the eastern states in winter, and also doesn't observe daylight saving.
if you are visiting for a holiday of less than three months, there are three types of visas you may apply for, depending on your nationality.
the  contraction "abo" is deeply offensive and should never be used.
in  the surf out the back of the beach, treading water can be hard with waves  pounding you every few seconds.
after four years of permanent residency you are eligible to apply for australian citizenship.
tourists are far more likely to be killed or  injured as pedestrians, drivers or passengers on australian roads than all the  other causes of death and injury combined.
parcels, express post and other services are also available.
if you need to refer to race, the politically correct term is indigenous  australians.
holiday homes are homes rented by their owners, often using local real estate agents or specialised web sites.
when the chant of aussie, aussie, aussie - oi oi oi goes up at an international  sporting event, some australians will cringe, and others will join in.
bottle naming is a little easier: the standard sizes across australia are  the 375 mlstubby and the 750 ml long neck.
you should check before making plans to travel  off the beaten track.
[edit]  caravanning, campervan, motorhome and rv caravan parks exist in most towns and cities in australia that will provide  powered and unpowered sites for caravans.
it would be rare to find a motorist willing take you further afield.
sometimes located in prime positions, but also sometimes in the residential sections of cities and towns.
the majority of australia's hotels are  located in the central business districts (cbd) of the capital city.
students and academics invited to visit australian universities will generally also need an appropriate visa, even if their visit is of a short enough period to be covered by a tourist electronic visa.
contractual restrictions conditions upon the use of rental vehicles usually exist on travelling into or out ofwestern australia and the northern territory or on the car ferries to tasmania,kangaroo island and fraser island.
thong bikinis (more commonly called g-string bikinis in australia as thongs refer to flip-flop footwear) are fine on all beaches and some outdoor pools for both women and men although they are not as common as conventional beachwear.
if you do have to abandon your car (say you break down and then get a lift), call in quickly to the local police station, to avoid the embarrassment and cost of a search being started for you.
you can use the non-geographical number search on e164.org.au[68] to look up a normal number from a13 or 18 number.
you may just find paradise and not another soul in sight.
some locals at the beach can be cavalier to the risks.
to  dial the number from overseas you will need to dial your local international  access code (00 for most ofeurope or 011 in the usa and canada) and then dial  61 8 8080 3300, that is drop the leading '0' from the area code.
the two major political parties in australia are the australian labor party (alp) and the liberal party, which operates in coalition with the national party.
larger towns and cities have taxi services.
the northern territory has the rail line linking darwin to adelaide through alice springs only, and the australian capital territory has only a single railway station close to the centre of canberra.
the universities select students from this common applicant pool based upon their ranking and preferences.
australia's cleanliness standards are high.
after four years of permanent residency you  are eligible to apply for australian citizenship.
the smaller freshwater crocodile is, unlike the saltwater, timid and will avoid humans if possible.
restaurants are required to  observe strict food preparation standards andfood poisoning is no more common  than it is in other first world nations.
australia shares information on drug trafficking with other countries, even those with the death penalty.
while major highways are well serviced, anyone leaving sealed (paved) roads in inland australia is advised to take advice from local authorities, check weather and road conditions, carry sufficient spare fuel, spare parts, spare tyres, matches, food and water.
since 1970 there has been about one crocodile attack on a human each year.
found in rock pools around the coasts of australia is the tiny blue ring octopus.
queensland also has passenger services to inland centres includinglongreach (the spirit of the outback), mount isa (the inlander), charleville (the westlander) and forsayth (the savannahlander).
[edit] vegetarian eating vegetarian is quite common in australia and many restaurants offer  at least one or two vegetarian dishes.
people from countries who drive on the right will  take a while to get used to looking the correct way when crossing.
always cover the keypad with your  hand when entering your pin to prevent any skimming devices which have cameras  recording your pin.
mixed drinks are also available, particularly vodka, scotch, bourbon and  other whiskey mixers.
it is generally expected in a pub that when you arrive and make your  first trip to the bar that you will offer to buy a drink for others you are  drinking with.
internode [59] has free wi-fi hotspots, including much of adelaide city  centre.
australia shares information on drug trafficking with other  countries, even those with the death penalty.
[edit] medical care as described above, 000 is the australian emergency services number  and in any medical emergency you should call this number and ask for an  ambulance and other emergency services as necessary, to attend.
all other passengers who transit through australiamust apply for a free-of-charge transit visa (subclass 771) prior to travel.
there are relatively few attacks resulting in injury — most attacks are fatal.
in those states which observe daylight saving, it commences on the first sunday in october and ends on the first sunday in april.
often the source of dispute withnew zealand over the original source of the recipe.
these markets mostly sell fresh fruits and  vegetables, as hygiene standards in australia forbid the selling of meat  directly from market stalls.
aboriginal people is usually okay and referring to sacred sites and land as aboriginal sites, or aboriginal land is okay too.
the daytime maximum temperatures in darwin rarely drop below 30°c (86°f), even in winter, while night temperatures in winter usually hover around 15-20°c (59-68°f).
from uluru in the red centre, to the sydney harbour bridge and opera house in sydney.
foreigners should not expect more lenient  treatment than locals from australian police for drug offences.
they are available from bakeries, cafes and supermarkets, and are popular in the lead up to anzac day (25 april).
these channels take out the water which the incoming surf waves bring into shore.
uluru holds great spiritual  significance to the anangu.
it is not routinely available in bakeries and only commonly served to tourists on organised tours.
the easiest way to get a work visa is to find an australian employer who  will sponsor you.
also allow an extra 15 minutes before departure.
vodafone have announced a nationwide 3g (umts) rollout on the 900mhz band.
aboriginal people is usually okay and referring to  sacred sites and land as aboriginal sites, or aboriginal land is okay too.
because of the number sequence for emergency calls, around 60% of calls to the  emergency numbers are made in error.
[edit] working holidaymaker scheme australia has a working holidaymaker program for citizens of certain  countries between 18 and 30 years of age.
the market town ofkuranda or  the seaside towns ofbyron bay are a vegetarian's paradise.
most  youth hostels and backpacker accommodation have at least an internet terminal  at reception.
entire country towns can sometimes be evacuated when there is a bushfire threatening them.
[edit] water supply australia is a very dry country with large areas of desert.
if you have to change to a domestic flight in a gateway city, sydney, brisbane and perth all have distinct domestic terminals, requiring some time and complexity to transit, check the guides.
cover  yourself with non-flammable (woolen) clothing or blankets, and reduce the skin  directly exposed to the heat.
the taste and hardness of the tap  water will vary considerably across the country.
the torres strait islander people, who originate from a group of islands in northern queensland near papua new guinea also continue to speak their own languages.
you will need  to be self-sufficient and carry suitable spares and a good tool kit [edit]  station wagons / vans
these can often be combined with other fares to make getting to australia cheaper.
there is a choice of thesandstone universities, with their history and prestige, modern city universities with their vocational programs, and regional (country town) universities, with open space and cheaper accommodation.
there are some clothing optional (nude) beaches, usually a little  further removed from residential areas.
the gympie bush (dendrocnide moroides), also known as the stinging tree, is a stinging plant, whose microscopic stinging hairs on leaves and branches can cause severe pain for up to several weeks.
poisons information advice, which can also advise on snake, spider and insect bites, is available on 131 126.
generally, the north is hot and tropical, while the south tends to sub-tropical and temperate.
[60] has a similar service.
you should wear  sunscreen (spf 30+), clothing, and a hat to shade the sun.
butchers who set up shop at a farmer's market  would usually trade their wares from a display cabinet within their truck.
some may have a restaurant or serve an evening meal.
trade vans can be picked up for  as little as $1,000, with a more trustworthy van setting you back no more than  $3,000-$4,000.
for around $50 you can get a usb  modem or wifi dongle.
november to february is the cruising season, and there are usually about 10 ships that arrive in australia from other countries during this time.
there have been cases ofdengue fever.
permits are usually just a formality for areas which regularly see visitors, or if you have some other business in the area you are travelling through.
take extra care when driving through areas with vegetation close to the road and during dawn and dusk when wildlife is most active.
it can vary from very basic shabby rooms, to newly renovated boutique accommodation.
australians are often self-deprecating, and are rarely arrogant.
japanese, including bento takeaway shops and sushi trains.
to dial the number fromsydney or anywhere in australia outside the  area code region, you will need to dial 08 8080 3300.
you will  probably find that local swimmers or surfers will also quickly come to your  aid.
distances and speeds are specified in kilometres and fuel is sold by the litre.
it can take as little as 15 minutes to burn in australia on a fine summer's day.
if you get caught the fine could be as much as $150 each, so do it at you own risk.
beach goers should swim between the red and yellow flags which  designate patrolled areas.
it should be noted that the liberal party is (traditionally) a centre-right, conservative party - the term liberal refers to maintaining a free market economy.
driving while affected by alcohol is both stigmatized and policed by random breath testing police patrols in australia, as well as being inherently dangerous.
carrying water on hot days is a good idea in urban areas, and it is  a necessity if hiking or driving out of town.
be aware that many internet companies cap usage, finding an unlocked wi-fi connection is uncommon.
as australia has a large number of immigrants, there are a number of minority languages spoken by a sizable number of australians including (but not limited to) arabic, mandarin, cantonese, german, italian, polish and greek.
many cities and towns have water restrictions, limiting use of water in  activities like washing cars, watering gardens, or public showers.
you can go bushwalking in the many national parks and rainforests in the country.
it is common for dinner to be provided in the homestead, and a breakfast pack to be provided to your cabin.
if you're interested in a working holiday, some useful skills and experience might be: office skills to be used for temp work; or hospitality skills to be used for bar or restaurant work.
around 10-20 overseas travellers drown in australia each year.
police officers are also empowered to randomly test drivers for the recent use of prohibited drugs.
service stations (petrol/gas) almost always have taps, so these are a good place to refill the water containers each time you refuel.
if you have access to a tap gather water early, don't rely on water pressure as the fire front approaches.
daily uv forecasts are issued by the bureau of  meteorology and are available online.[58]
australian students attend high school for six years, and enter university  at seventeen or eighteen years of age.
urban australians jaywalk, dodge cars, and anticipate the sequence of  lights.
there are  relatively few attacks resulting in injury — most attacks are fatal.
because of the number sequence for emergency calls, around 60% of calls to the emergency numbers are made in error.
often this depends on their own perceived social standing, or their state of inebriation, or both.
nearly all are dry, and most inland lakes are dry salt pans.
[edit]  admission undergraduate admission to university is centralised at the state  level.
wines at the cellar door are almost invariably sold at around 20% premium to the same wine in the shops in the local town.
early dutch impressions of this extremely harsh, dry country were unfavourable, and australia remained for them something simply a road sign pointing north to the much richer (and lucrative) east indies (modern indonesia).
a basic motel in the country or in the capital city suburbs would cost around $100 for a double.
because australians like their beer to stay cold while they drink it, draft  beer glasses come in a multitude of sizes, so that you can drink a whole glass  before it warms up in the summer heat.
often there is a lounge, restaurant or bistro area in a pub or club that  permits under-age people provided they are accompanied by a responsible adult  over 18 and don't approach the bar or wander around.
australia does not have universities whose prestige competes with harvard or the other ivies in the us or oxford or cambridge in the uk.
a middy/pot (285ml) of house beer will cost you around $4, and a glass of house wine around $6 in a low end pub.
spirits are served in all pubs and bars,  but not in all restaurants.
australia has a generally well-maintained system of roads and highways, and cars are a commonly used method of transport.
most youth hostels and backpacker accommodation have at least an internet terminal at reception.
budget hostel-style accommodation with shared bathrooms and often with dormitories is approximately $20-$30 per person per night.
a chiko roll is a deep-fried snack inspired by the egg roll or the spring roll.
typically, motel-style accommodation will have a private room with a bed or number of beds, and a private shower and toilet.
most rest areas and  beaches prohibit camping and many even prohibit overnight parking to discourage  this.
drink driving is a very serious offence in australia, punishable by a range of mechanisms including loss of license.
the price is usually a good reflection of what you are in for.
they will be examined and returned to you, but still must be declared.
using 112 will use  any available network, will work even if your phone is not roaming, and will  work even if the phone does not have a sim.
however, it is probably wise to avoid the house wine if it comes straight from  a cask (4-litre container).
in the southern parts of the country, the seasonal temperature variation is greater.
[edit] stay safe [edit] emergencies the number 000 (called 'triple zero' or 'triple oh') can be dialled  from any telephone in australia free of charge.
butchers who set up shop at a farmer's market would usually trade their wares from a display cabinet within their truck.
australian aboriginal people maintained a hunter-gatherer culture for thousands of years in association with a complex artistic and cultural life - including a very rich 'story-telling' tradition.
nonetheless, australia strives to offer official 'de facto relationship' recognition to gay couples that is equal to that offered to straight couples - a special interdependency visa exists as a gay counterpart to the traditional marriage-based migration route.
[edit]  tuition fees
no  reciprocal programs cover private hospitals, and the full cost will have to be  met.
new zealand citizens may travel to and work in australia for any length of time without a pre-arranged visa.
travelling in a small group lowers the fuel bill per head, as this will likely be your biggest expense.
you make a single application for admission to the state admissions body  stating your course preferences.
it is common  to see signs in accommodation asking visitors to limit the length of their  showers.
australia has a comprehensive social security system, and a minimum wage higher than the united states or the united kingdom.
australian currency is known as the dollar, and the currency symbol is "$".
stay low and cover your mouth.
rental cars in capital cities usually have unlimited mileage.
while australia began its modern history as a british penal colony, the vast majority of people who came to australia after 1788 were free settlers, mainly from britain andireland, but also from other european countries.
its filling is boned mutton, vegetables, rice, barley, and seasonings.
spirits are served in all pubs and bars, but not in all restaurants.
you will commonly see the grey nomad  brigade on their trips around australia in motorhomes and caravans.
note that  if the emergency is life-threatening, call triple zero.
if you have a 3g/umts-enabled phone, make sure it supports the appropriate  frequencies: 850/2100 mhz for telstra, and 900/2100 mhz for optus and vodafone.
there are several backpacker hostel chains in australia.
fast food restaurant chains are commonly open 24 hours or at least very late.
[edit] food preparation australia's cleanliness standards are high.
there have  been instances of criminals tampering with atms so that cash is trapped inside  them, or so that they record card details for thieves.
bus travel in australia is cheap and convenient, although the distances involved for interstate connections are daunting.
this is also an acceptable way to drop out after one  round, when the score is even.
this article is an outline and needs more content.
if you are staying many nights in the same brand of hostel, consider their discount cards, which usually offer a loyalty bonus on accommodation, and other attraction and tour discounts negotiated by the chain.
a "stinger-suit" that is resistant to jellyfish stings costs around $100 or can be hired for around $20 a week.
the idea  is for you to take a holiday subsidised by casual or short-term jobs.
you may work during that time, but  only for 6 months at any one employer (was 3 months until july 2006).
if you need to refer to race, the politically correct term is indigenous australians.
[edit] religious diets people observing kosher or halal will easily be able to find specialist  butchers in the capital cities, and will also find a number of restaurants with  appropriate menus and cooking styles.
[edit] scams attempts to scam tourists are not prevalent in australia; take normal  precautions such as finding out a little bit about your destination.
this is calleda shout, and incurs an obligation that you will generally return the favour in a following round, and that also you will generally maintain the same drinking pace as your associates in the round throughout the evening.
some restrict access to email,  promoting research use of their facilities.
it is normal to wear at least a shirt and footwear before  venturing any further.
outside of the major centres, the pub is called a hotel.
you can also apply for permanent residency as the holder of a work or study visa, but your application will not be automatically accepted.
applications for  university courses (and the appropriate visa) will need to be lodged before  coming to australia.
served on special occasions, or after a lunchtime barbecue.
don't waste your  time applying for permanent jobs in the hope of sponsorship for a different  visa class.
the initial  bite can go unnoticed.
always cover the keypad with your hand when entering your pin to prevent any skimming devices which have cameras recording your pin.
if you are dialing internationally, there is no leading '0'.
looking lost, holding a map, looking like a backpacker or getting to the point quickly will probably help.
nobody will likely respond to your call unless you can effectively communicate to the operator that you need assistance.
suited for a stay of two or more days, this accommodation usually allows you to get a little involved in the running of the farm if you wish.
some aboriginal land requires permission or a permit, and some areas are protected and illegal to enter.
all have administrative departments and sections on their  websites which describe the courses available to overseas students, and they  will help you to apply and obtain accommodation and transport.
you can try your luck sleeping on a beach or pitching a tent overnight in a highway rest area, or out in the bush for a free bed.
a wide range of imported european and american bottled beers are available in all but the most basic pub.
with any job, you will need to have the right to work in australia prior  to applying.
minimum rental periods of at least 2 days usually apply, rising to a week during periods when they are busy.
make sure to cover all parts of your body.
several carriers offer prepaid 3g access with no contract from around $30  per month with various bundles and inclusions.
world famous for its natural wonders and wide open spaces, its beaches, deserts, "the bush", and "theoutback", australia is actually one of the world's most highly urbanised countries.
don't wait until you are so tired you can't swim any more.
you may be fined $220 on-the-spot if you fail to declare, or even prosecuted in very serious cases.
you will probably find that local swimmers or surfers will also quickly come to your aid.
camping permits are sometimes required at popular parks, with some popular  spots filling up during the holidays in summer.
if you are driving long distances or interstate, or flying between states, don't stock up on fruits and vegetables.
almost all taps in australia are drinking  water, the ones that aren't will be marked.
the smaller freshwater crocodile is, unlike the saltwater, timid and  will avoid humans if possible.
police will not automatically start looking for you if you don't report in.
beers are strongly regional and every state has its own brews: coopers and west end in south australia, carlton and vb in victoria, tooheys in nsw, xxxx in queensland, boags and cascade in tasmania, and swan in western australia.
the very cheapest cars you can hire can be manual (stick-shift).
alcohol can be purchased for consumption on premises only in licensed venues: pubs, clubs and many restaurants.
expect blank stares from most if you start talking aboutcentral summer time.
if you travel as a single, and want a private room, pubs usually have  single rooms at a discount over a double room.
world wildlife fund (au), [52].
some outdoor pools have a "top  required" policy for women.
it is comparable in size to the 48 contiguousunited states.
tipping is never compulsory and is usually not expected in australia.
also, be aware of parking restrictions in certain parts of the cities and town, including overnight parking restrictions.
this requires biting off both ends of the tim-tam, then using it as a straw to drink your favourite hot beverage, typically coffee.
also on the ground floor would normally be a fully equipped bar.
[edit]  bed and breakfasts bed and breakfasts tend to be a premium form of accommodation in australia,  often focussed on weekend accommodation for couples.
it is generally poorly received to buy a round, and then to refuse a  drink when one is purchased for you.
at a minimum will have bedrooms, a lounge, bathroom.
expect to pay around $100 to hire for a week, or $700 to buy one.
it is a good idea to advise a person you know and trust of your route and advise them to alert authorities if you do not contact them within a reasonable amount of time after your scheduled arrival at your destination.
seek local advice for the best route, and how much time to allow.
australian police are approachable and trustworthy, and you should report  assaults, theft or other crime to the police as soon as possible.
camping is a popular pastime.
if you are visiting australia for employment, study or for medical treatment you will need to obtain the appropriate visa.
usually the  cost is the same for one or two adults, with any extra people charged an  additional fee.
sometimes there is a coin jar by the cashier labelled 'tips', but more often than not, diners do not leave one.
in particular, it is safe to receive blood transfusions in australia, as donors are screened for hiv, hepatitis and many other blood borne illnesses.
don't be surprised if someone who bought you a drink  earlier in the night, later says that it is your shout.
although fosters  is promoted as an australian beer overseas, it is rarely consumed by  australians in australia, and is almost impossible to find.
discover is never accepted.
unless you have seen it happen, its hard to appreciate how quickly a rip can take you 50 m out to sea and into much larger wave breaks.
some may have a restaurant or serve an  evening meal.
in smaller country towns shops are closed on sundays and often also on saturday afternoons.
[77] runs australia's postal service.
while inner sydney is one of the most  gay-friendly places in the world, caution is advisable in rural areas, as well  as in queensland and the northern territory, the most conservative areas of the  nation.
the  attraction for the traveller will be the cheap and excellent fruits on offer -  depending on the region and season.
less known is the alice is wonderland festival - a popular gay and lesbian pride festival around central alice springs in late april/early may.
fanny, as in the uk, means vagina and is not used widely.
cans of beer are known astinnies and 24 of them make up a slab, box, carton , or acase.
in country towns you may have to make an appointment, and may have no alternative other than the closest hospital after hours and weekends.
sydney is australia's gay capital, and hosts one of the world's most famous  gay pride parades - the sydney mardi gras.
people tend to saysydney time, brisbane time, or perth time.
all of the capital cities and many regional towns in australia host a "farmer's market", which is generally held each week in a designated area on a saturday or sunday.
the restaurant or bistro often serves food that is comparable to many other up-market restaurants outside the hotel.
often toilets are provided and sometimes cold showers.
amenities typically include kitchen, washer and dryer, and separate bedrooms.
in large cities you will find a number of vegetarian and vegan restaurants, as well as in the coastal backpacker-friendly towns along the east coast.
the australian financial year runs from  july 1 to june 30, and tax returns for each financial year are due on october  30, four months after the accounting period concludes.
jim beam bourbon is probably the most commonly drunk, so  those fromkentucky should feel right at home.
if further enquiries are needed you may be asked to return to the application system later to see if you've been approved.
it's named after lord lamington, who served as governor of queensland from 1896 to 1901.
daily uv forecasts are issued by the bureau of meteorology and are available online.[58]
it has around half the alcohol of full strength beer, and is taxed at  a lower rate, meaning it is also cheaper than full strength beer.
there are also direct international services into adelaide, cairns, darwin, the gold coast and christmas island though these are largely restricted to flights from new zealand, oceania, or southeast asia.
[edit] gay and lesbian travellers australia has an equal age of consent set at 16 for all states except  tasmania and south australia where the age is 17.
there is no refund available for services.
pick up a bottle of 151 east vodka in wollongong or after a few days in kununurra you are definitely going to need an  ord river rum.
often the drink will just be bought for  you without even asking.
while it's not uncommon to find a person who opposes gay rights, such people are in the minority.
many worldwide  organisations offer extended travel for those wanting to volunteer their time  to work with locals on projects such as habitat restoration, wildlife sanctuary  maintenance & development, scientific research, & education programs.
these craft must only be  used outside of the blue 'surfcraft permitted' flags.
they are also very hard to see, and can be dangerous, although bites are rare.
in parts of australia that are racially fractured, aussie  and australian can both be used as a divisive terms to identify racial  heritage.
it is not unusual for some coastal areas to be cut off for a day or two while the water recedes.
if you are staying  many nights in the same brand of hostel, consider their discount cards, which  usually offer a loyalty bonus on accommodation, and other attraction and tour  discounts negotiated by the chain.
the idea is for you to take a holiday subsidised by casual or short-term jobs.
hotel services and hospitality are often excellent such as room cleaning services, free morning newspapers, meals to your door and a high-speed internet connection up to 24mb/s (often with a premium fee).
problems arise when the swimmer tries to swim back into shore against the outgoing current or rip, tire quickly, and end up drowning.
travellers from new zealand, ireland, united kingdom, sweden, the  netherlands, finland, italy, malta and norway are entitled to free reciprocal  medicare treatment for medical problems that occur during their visit, but  should familiarise themselves with the conditions of the reciprocal  arrangement.
most of  these drownings occur at ocean beaches, where statistics put visitors at  significantly higher risk than locals.
scholarships are rarely awarded for undergraduate or postgraduate coursework degrees.
don't  put your fingers under rocks, into tree holes, where spiders might be.
public libraries usually offer some for of internet access to  travellers, either free or for a small fee.
overseas visitors who are used to driving on the right should take care when they first drive, and again when they are driving on country roads with little traffic.
check or shake out  clothing, shoes, etc that have been left outside before putting them on.
if you are intending to study in australia, you may need to be on a visa class that allows this, rather than a tourist visa.
these are often indicated by signs and is particularly the  case in parks and footpaths where public drunkenness has been a problem.
you must declare all such material and baggage is frequently scanned and may be examined by dogs.
if you're  interested in a working holiday, some useful skills and experience might be:  office skills to be used for temp work; or hospitality skills to be used for  bar or restaurant work.
it is a pie inverted in a bowl of thick mushy pea soup.
tim-tams are required to perform the tim-tam slam manoeuvre.
no law prohibits people from climbing the rock  (except in heat, rain or strong winds), however, local indigenous communities  (the anangu) request that you do not climb.
it is not offensive to use aussie (ozzie) to describe australian people, but it isn't a term australians generally use to self-identify.
very good red and white wine can be bought very cheaply in australia, often at  less than $10 a bottle, and even the smallest shop could be expected to have 50  or more varieties to choose from.
in the east, tasmania, new south wales and victoria always have the same time.
the country code for international calls to australia is +61.
if the total of a transaction is not a multiple of 5 cents the amount will be rounded to the nearest five cents if you are paying in cash.
melbourne  caters well for vegans with a greater number of purely vegetarian restaurants  per person than many other western cities, it has vegan clothing stores and  even a vegan supermarket.
it is generally expected in a pub that when you arrive and make your first trip to the bar that you will offer to buy a drink for others you are drinking with.
australian employers will make compulsory payments out of your earnings to  an australian superannuation (retirement savings) fund on your behalf.
if you are transiting through australia, remain airside for a maximum of 8 hours, have a confirmed onward booking, have the correct entry documentation for the onward destination and are a citizen of new zealand, theeuropean union, andorra, argentina, brunei, canada, cyprus, the federated states of micronesia, fiji, iceland, indonesia, japan, kiribati, liechtenstein, malaysia, mexico, monaco, nauru, norway, palau, papua new guinea, philippines, south africa, the republic of marshall islands, samoa, san marino, singapore, slovakia ,slovenia, solomon islands, south korea (rok), switzerland, taiwan, thailand, tonga, tuvalu, united arab emirates, united kingdom (regardless of nationality status), theunited states, the vanuatu or vatican city, you do not need to apply for any advance visa.
adelaide is known for being a centre for festivals as well as german cultural influences, while perth is known for its food and wine culture, pearls, gems and precious metals as well as the international fringe arts festival.
in a suburban or country restaurant where table service is offered, they will certainly take a tip of 5%-10% should you decide to leave one, but it is almost always not expected, and locals usually do not leave any.
it has a powerful  paralysing toxin which can result in death unless artificial respiration is  provided.
the east coast from sydney to cairns is especially abundant with happy, hungover youths travelling around in these vehicles.
accommodation is readily available in most australian cities and tourist destinations.
for example call charges can rise from 60c to $1.20 per minute on a $29 cap that includes $150 value.
some accommodation providers offer wi-fi to their guests, almost always with a charge.
some language used for ethnic groups that you may find offensive may not be considered offensive by the standards of some australians.
virginmobile offers currently the cheapest prepaid card  with 1 gb data for 19 dollar (your caps option).[64] there are no restrictions on overseas residents getting an australian  prepaid sim card.
the parking inspectors can  be ruthless and a $100+ fine is not uncommon.
research degrees are at the masters and doctoral level.
they are more likely to apply it to things (aussie rules, etc) than to themselves.
follow the instructions on the phone display.
nearly all  are dry, and most inland lakes are dry salt pans.
you can locate most things on an australian map or street directory if you just have the "gps coordinates".
it is  illegal either to purchase alcohol for yourself if you are under 18 years of  age.
retail trading is now almost universal in larger cities on weekends, although with slightly reduced hours.
there are also local microbrew choices, which can be harder to find, but are often worth seeking out.
[edit]  cabins cabins are an economical way for families to stay while travelling.
dorm accommodation in a capital city is around $30, but can run as low as $15 in cairns or cheaper backpacker centres.
the attraction for the traveller will be the cheap and excellent fruits on offer - depending on the region and season.
[edit] wine australia produces quality wine on a truly industrial scale, with large  multinational brands supplying australian bottleshops and exporting around the  world.
the number 000 (called 'triple zero' or 'triple oh') can be dialled from any telephone in australia free of charge.
the capital cities are rarely, if ever, significantly  affected by floods.
however, tread carefully before using slang racial descriptors yourself, to avoid the possibility of offence.
if stranded, stay with your vehicle and do what you can to improve your visibility from the air.
for extremely short term or part time courses, check with your australian consulate or embassy.
you can apply for it online (though, only in australia) for free at the australian tax office website[45], though you can generally get it quicker if you just go to one of their offices.
[edit] vaccinations australia does not have endemic communicable diseases that will require  non-standard vaccinations.
the acceptable maximum blood  alcohol concentration is 0.05% in all states, often lower or not allowed for  operators of heavy vehicles and young or novice drivers.
similarly this will likely be done to you when someone else joins the group.
the legal drinking age throughout australia is 18 years.
a motel that does have a bar attached is called a hotel/motel.
in the cities, many small business mobile phone shops sell a large range of prepaid phone cards, including prepaid dial-up cards.
for the most part, snakes fear humans and will be long gone before you ever get the chance to see them.
there are 100 cents in every dollar.
prices for additional children can range from free to $20 per child.
in australia's chinatowns in sydney, melbourne, brisbane and perth, cantonese is the dominant language.
a comparatively large number of scholarships are available  for postgraduate research usually covering both tuition, where required, and  living costs.
a pie floater is a south australian dish available around adelaide.
a house is best, then a car, then a clearing, a cave, or on the beach is the best location.
parts of tasmania have a temperature range very similar to england.
if you want to contact these services but the situation is not an emergency, don't call 000: you can call the police assistance line on 131 444.
if you require assistance during a flood, storm, cyclone, tsunami,  earthquake or other natural disaster you can contact the state emergency  service in each state (except for northern territory) on 132 500.
generally the closer you are to civilisation or a tourist area, the  greater the chance of being hassled by the authorities.
formule 1/motel 6 style hotels (which are not common) can be around $60-$90 for a double.
some country pubs have large open areas out in the back where kids can run and play.
once it is clear, a short blast of the siren will be sounded, which usually means that it is safe to return to the water.
in general, you can take alcohol (say a bottle of wine or beer) to consume  at a park or beach.
tropical cyclones (hurricanes) occur in the tropics during summer.
as australia is in the southern hemisphere the winter is june-august while december-february is summer.
a referendum to change australia's status to a republic was defeated in 1999, but republicanism in australia remains a regularly debated topic.
australian citizens have the option of substantially  reduced fees and also have the option of deferring payment until they are  earning income.
national parks often provide free camping sites, which expect you to be  more self-sufficient.
if travelling in rural areas it would be a good idea to carry basic first  aid equipment including compression bandages and to learn what to do after a  snake or spider bite.
but you should leave early, as evacuating through a fire front is dangerous.
the coin denominations are 5c, 10c, 20c, 50c, $1 and $2.
they are not generally found out on the great barrier reef, and many people  swim on the reef without taking any precautions.
beach goers can mistakenly use these channels or areas since they can appear as calm water and look to be an easier area into which to swim.
no carriers offer service in unpopulated areas away from major roads.
major regional areas have sealed (paved) dual-lane roads, but isolated areas may have poorly maintained dirt roads or even tracks.
[edit]  universities there are 39 universities in australia that all compete vigorously for  overseas students.
if your holiday goes  no further than cities, major towns, and beaches, this won't really concern you.
travellers in northern queensland, the northern territory, or northern western australia should be aware of the risk of fatal stings from the box jellyfish if swimming in the ocean between october and may.
red backs typically hide in  dark places and corners.
if there is a fire in a park, it will usually be closed entirely.
the wordnative should also be avoided when referring to a person.
some prohibited items can be treated by quarantine at your expense and picked up at a later time.
in  general the jellyfish are found close to shore, as they breed in the estuaries.
[edit] volunteering there are several volunteer opportunities in australia.
most locals do the same.
in warm conditions casual "t-shirt and shorts" style clothing predominates except in formal situations.
[edit] beaches around 10-20 overseas travellers drown in australia each year.
racism is a sensitive subject in australia.
if you are at an unpatrolled surf beach, proceed with great caution and never go out of your depth.
vegans may have more difficulty but any restaurant with a large vegetarian menu should offer some flexibility.
dangerous swimming areas will usually have prominent warning signs.
note that if the emergency is life-threatening, call triple zero.
alcohol consumption is banned in some public places as 'street drinking'.
australian banks usually offer an exchange rate around 2.5% from the current exchange midpoint.
in most parts of australia it is illegal to sleep in your vehicle but it is possible to get around this by simply rigging up curtains all around the windows so no one can see in from the outside.
crocodiles and box jellyfish are found on tropical beaches, depending on the time of year and area.
in a cafe or more informal restaurant, even with table service, and even in tourist centres, leaving a tip is unusual.
while the 'modern impression' of australian aboriginal people is largely built around an image of the 'desert people' who have adapted to some of the harshest conditions on the planet (equivalent to the bushmen of the kalahari), australia provided a 'comfortable living' for the bulk of the aboriginal people amongst the bountiful flora and fauna on the australian coast - until the arrival of europeans.
the tasman sea lies to the southeast, separating it fromnew zealand, while the coral sea lies to the northeast.
in smaller towns car rental can be difficult to find.
the island of the whitsundays have a choice of resorts, some occupying entire islands.
there can be many ways of writing the same number, as people try to present  the number from the caller's perspective.
courses range from single year diplomas to full length undergraduate and post-graduate degrees.
it is illegal to purchase alcohol on behalf of someone who is under 18  years of age.
it is also often a cost effective way of getting to regional towns and cities, which don't have the frequent and cheap flights found between the capital cities.
often the drink will just be bought for you without even asking.
australia is home to six of the top ten deadliest snakes in the world.
there is rarely enough rain at one  time to cause flooding.
usually the flags are positioned where there are no rips, but this isn't  always the case as rips can move.
the price  is usually a good reflection of what you are in for.
australia does not have endemic communicable diseases that will require non-standard vaccinations.
unless you are applying for a creative arts degree, your ranking will be based solely on previous academic performance at both high school and previous university studies.
most australian employers pay via direct deposit to australian bank accounts.
tradesmen are extremely well-paid in australia, often more so than professionals.
if you do choose to  swim, be aware of the risks, check conditions, stay within your depth, and  don't swim alone.
often  this depends on their own perceived social standing, or their state of  inebriation, or both.
some city pubs even have  video games and playgrounds for children.
all three cities are renowned for the variety and quality of global foods available in their many restaurants, and melbourne especially promotes itself as a centre for the arts, while brisbane promotes itself through various, multicultural urban villages.
while the australian sense of egalitarianism has moderated in terms, modes of address still tend to be casual and familiar compared to some other cultures.
expect everyone to speak english.
the caravan park will provide showers and toilets, and sometimes washing and cooking facilities.
evacuation procedures are well established  and normally involve being evacuated by plane or helicopter.
they are not generally found out on the great barrier reef, and many people swim on the reef without taking any precautions.
thong bikinis (more commonly called  g-string bikinis in australia as thongs refer to flip-flop footwear) are fine  on all beaches and some outdoor pools for both women and men although they are  not as common as conventional beachwear.
just some of the animal icons of australia are the kangaroo (national symbol) and the koala.
you are  never too far from a wine trail anywhere in southern australia.
australia has a working holidaymaker program for citizens of certain countries between 18 and 30 years of age.
the anangu feel themselves responsible if someone is killed or injured on their land (as has happened many times during the climb) and request tourists not to place themselves in harm through climbing.
the fire  service operates afire ban system during periods of extreme fire danger.
most beaches are effectively top optional (topless)  while sunbathing.
tourists are far more likely to be killed or injured as pedestrians, drivers or passengers on australian roads than all the other causes of death and injury combined.
for example, it would not be unusual to get 10% off an item of jewelry that was not already reduced in price.
in some but not all states you can buy alcohol in supermarkets.
[edit]  holiday home holiday homes are homes rented by their owners, often using local real  estate agents or specialised web sites.
check with your bank as to what additional fees they apply to withdrawals in australia.
there are no tolls on roads or bridges outside of the urban areas of sydney, melbourne and brisbane.
popular beaches have fresh water showers to wash the salt water off after you swim, so for those on a tight budget (or for those that just love waking up at the beach) simply wash in the ocean (please do not pollute the ocean or waterways by using detergents or soaps) and rinse off at the showers.
like many other countries, it will require evidence ofyellow fever vaccinations on entry if you will have been in a country with a risk of infection within 6 days before your arrival in australia.
usually the flags are positioned where there are no rips, but this isn't always the case as rips can move.
art galleries and some attractions are free.
alcohol is not available at petrol stations or 24-hour convenience stores anywhere in australia.
anything larger will usually be automatic.
most of the country receives more than 3,000 hours of sunshine a year.
if you are dialing within australia the area code must begin with a '0'.
permission to photograph an aboriginal person should always be asked, but in particular in the more remote areas such as arnhem land.
the local beers and the local descriptions are covered in detail in the state guides.
many locations will give an alternative direct number for use in international dialing.
you are well advised if you wish to skip a round, to do so on your  shout.
looking lost,  holding a map, looking like a backpacker or getting to the point quickly will  probably help.
despite what their name implies, they can be found in both salt and fresh water.
the vast majority of deaths from bites and stings in australia are due to allergic reactions to bees and wasps.
others offer wi-fi as well as  terminals, with wi-fi usually being free of restrictions.
some other activities that are generally allowed in state forests that are not allowed in national parks are: bringing in dogs/pets, open fires, motorbikes and four-wheel driving.
often there can be no signs of the fire at evacuation time, but you should leave early, as evacuating through a fire front is dangerous.
in the history of australia there are only two confirmed deaths by  blue ring octopus.
avoid usingaborigine or aboriginal as a noun to describe a  person, as some people see negative connotations in these words.
try not to get taken in by the label, or the price tag.
train travel between cities is, however, more scenic, and tourists are likely to see more of australia travelling by train than they would otherwise see, as well as cutting down on their carbon footprint.
some areas carry a request from the aboriginal people not to enter, and you may choose yourself whether or not to honour or respect that request.
most caravan parks will rent camping sites by  the night, where you can pitch a tent, and these are available in most towns  and cities.
australians are quite used to the taste, and may spread the vegemite very thick; but this is not recommended for first-timers.
you will have to search much harder to find other australian distilled spirits, mostly from niche players, but there are distilleries in every state of australia if you look hard enough.
an alternative is seasonal work like fruit-picking,  although much seasonal work will require that you work outside the major  cities.
australia's proximity to asia means that heroin is a far more commonly used  illicit drug than cocaine or crack cocaine.
to dial the number fromadelaide or anywhere else inside the  same area code region you can optionally omit the area code, and just dial 8080  3300.
if possible, you should attempt to identify the creature that bit you (in the case of spiders it might be possible to trap it in a jar and take it to the hospital) so that the appropriate anti-venom can be administered swiftly.
if possible ask if you can check the speed of a café's connection  before forking out $4-$5 for an hour.
you are well advised if you wish to skip a round, to do so on your shout.
in very small towns local pubs offer the only accommodation available to travellers.
a fifth year is compulsory in some professional undergraduate  programs such as engineering, law, medicine and dentistry.
always seek medical advice after a bite has occurred.
there is an old  belief among them that the flash of a camera will steal their soul.
with rising sea levels after the last ice age, australia became largely isolated from the rest of the world and the aboriginal tribes developed a variety of cultures, based on a close spiritual relationship with the land and nature, and extended kinship.
it is also a modern variation to find afrikaan accents on the west coast modifying the local accents slightly due to the high immigration there.
australia has cellular networks operated by telstra[61] , optus[62] and vodafone [63], and each of the networks have several resellers  with different price plans.
the capital cities are rarely, if ever, significantly affected by floods.
when dialing  from overseas, omit any leading '0' in the area code.
however, if you are a family with your picnic basket and blanket out at  lunchtime with a bottle of wine, you are unlikely to encounter any problems.
these are targeted at backpackers able to take months for the trip.
boasting about achievements is rarely received well.
there is debate as to whether they can be fatal, but  they certainly can place a victim in hospital, and cause extreme pain lasting  days.
[edit] crocodiles travellers in northern queensland, the northern territory or north western  australia should be aware of the risk of fatal attacks bysaltwater crocodiles in and adjacent to northern waters (ocean, estuarine and fresh water  locations) between king sound, western australia, and rockhampton, queensland.
during quiet times its not unusual for motels to offer standby discounts.
there are no official abbreviations or names for australian time zones, and you may see a few variations used.
[edit] snakes and spiders australia is home to six of the top ten deadliest snakes in the world.
but if you are strategic in where you  stay you probably won't get caught.
nevertheless some intrepid travellers do manage to cover the longer distances by bicycle, and have a different experience of australia.
plan to return in a few weeks, and the land will still be green, the lakes and rivers will still be flowing, and the bird life will still be around.
some parts of the country are always in drought.
when dialing from overseas, omit any leading '0' in the area code.
australia is huge but sparsely populated, and you can sometimes travel many hours before finding the next trace of civilisation, especially once you leave the south-eastern coastal fringe.
there are some  areas of the large cities that are more dangerous after dark, but there  generally are no areas that the police refuse to patrol or that are dangerous  to enter if you aren't a local.
although licensing laws  and hours vary from state to state, and individual stores have different  trading hours, as a rule of thumb, alcohol is generally available in towns to  take-away seven days a week, between the hours of 8am and 11pm, from bottle  shops, supermarkets, licensed grocers/milk-bars and pubs.
some warning signs at beaches are written in several foreign languages.
australian undergraduate programs are usuallythree to four years in length.
if you have nausea or shooting pains not long after emerging from the  water seek medical treatment.
take extra care when  driving through areas with vegetation close to the road and during dawn and  dusk when wildlife is most active.
, the creature has bright blue  circles on its skin if threatened.
cash dispensing automatic teller machines (atms) are available in almost every australian town.
shops usually have a single night of late night trading, staying open until 9pm on fridays in most cities and on thursdays in sydney.
tourist-oriented towns and shops may stay open longer hours.
the best time to hitchhike is early morning.
note that getting the visa might take a couple of months from the beginning of the application process, and that you will need a medical examination by a doctor approved by the immigration officials before it can be granted (among other things, you will need a chest x-ray to show that you do not have tuberculosis).
this code  can be given to emergency services if required so they can locate you quickly.
internet cafés abound in most centres of population that normally cost $4-$5 per hour.
mosquitoes are present all year round in the tropics, and during the summer in southern areas.
some will choose a racial abuse term if involved in an argument, over a more general abusive term.
mobile phones sold in australia recognise it as the emergency number and will use any available network to place the call.
police officers are  also empowered to randomly test drivers for the recent use of prohibited drugs.
if you have access to a tap gather water early,  don't rely on water pressure as the fire front approaches.
if they buy you and the people in your round a drink, they have joined the shout.
you can try your luck sleeping on a beach or pitching a tent overnight in a  highway rest area, or out in the bush for a free bed.
if you hear a continuous siren, go off at the  beach and a red and a red and white quartered flag is waved or held out of the  tower as it indicates a shark sighting, so make your way to shore.
there are many true resorts around australia.
some language used for ethnic groups that you may find offensive may not be  considered offensive by the standards of some australians.
australia has a prosperous western-style capitalist economy, with a per capita gdp on par with the four dominant west european economies.
see those city guides articles for public transport details.
you need to find shelter that will protect you from the smoke and radiant heat.
courses range from single year diplomas to full length  undergraduate and post-graduate degrees.
ensure that you use the terms aussie and australian inclusive of  australians of all racial heritage.
it is most common to see a tourist hitching in rural areas.
a motel  won't have a public bar.
if they buy you and the people in  your round a drink, they have joined the shout.
[edit] driving keep a sense of perspective.
you can buy prepaid dialup cards for several isp's from dick smith stores, for around $20 per month unlimited.
in some areas of large cities you  will need to be careful of discarded needles: however these will generally be  found in back streets rather than in popular tourist spots.
it can  also get hot.
if the fire risk is extreme, parks may be closed, especially the backcountry areas, so you will need to have an alternative plan if you intend to camp or hike in parks during summer.
attitudes to homosexuality are similar to those found in the urban united  states.
ensure that you use the terms aussie and australian inclusive of australians of all racial heritage.
sport is an integral part of the australian culture from the capital cities to country towns.
unless you are actively trying to insult someone, a traveller is unlikely  to insult or cause offence to an australian through any kind of cultural  ignorance.
you can buy prepaid dialup cards for several isp's from dick smith stores,  for around $20 per month unlimited.
it is still quite unusual  to have a private bathroom, even in the nicer pubs.
while inner sydney is one of the most gay-friendly places in the world, caution is advisable in rural areas, as well as in queensland and the northern territory, the most conservative areas of the nation.
[edit] stay healthy [edit] skin exposure to the sun at australian latitudes frequently results in sunburn.
you may spend the  night sobering up in a holding cell or be charged.
a historical lack of cooperation between the states, combined with sheer distances and a relatively small population to service, have left australia with a national rail network that is relatively slow and used mainly for freight.
avoid placing your hand under rocks or in crevaces in rock pools or near the shore as this is where they tend to hide.
but if you are strategic in where you stay you probably won't get caught.
if you do choose to swim, be aware of the risks, check conditions, stay within your depth, and don't swim alone.
under no circumstances should you offer an australian police officer (or for that matter, any other government official such as a customs officer) a bribe or gratuity, as this is a crime and they will enforce the laws against it.
there is a choice of thesandstone universities, with their history and prestige, modern city universities  with their vocational programs, and regional (country town) universities, with  open space and cheaper accommodation.
dedicated currency exchange outlets are widely available in major cities, and banks can also exchange most non-restricted currencies.
take your passport for identification in case  it is required.
in queensland, a high speed train operates from brisbane to rockhampton and brisbane to cairns.
undergraduate admission to university is centralised at the state level.
if there is a fire in a park, it will  usually be closed entirely.
est, cst, wst along with edt, cdt are sometimes used.
some aboriginal land councils make them available online.
to take away, a case of 24 cans of beer will cost around $40, or a bottle of wine around $8.
wet everything what you can.
generally the best bet is to avoid airports and tourist centres when changing money, and use banks in major centres.
if you have nausea or shooting pains not long after emerging from the water seek medical treatment.
the best wine is rarely the one with the best artwork, or the most expensive price.
australian citizens and permanent residents who live in the country can  receive health care through the taxpayer funded medicare.
all visitors who do not hold australian permanent  residency or citizenship (including new zealand citizens who aren't also  australian permanent residents or citizens) are not allowed to access  australian social security arrangements for the unemployed, and will have  limited, or more usually, no access to the australian government's health care  payment arrangements.
considertravel insurance.
jcb is only accepted at very limited tourist destinations.
search for jobs onseek [48]  orjob
less known is the alice is  wonderland festival - a popular gay and lesbian pride festival around central  alice springs in late april/early may.
despite what their name implies, they can be found in  both salt and fresh water.
if forced to hitchhike due to an emergency you may find a motorist willing to take you to the nearest town to obtain help.
[edit] mosquitoes mosquitoes are present all year round in the tropics, and during the summer  in southern areas.
damper is a traditional soda bread that was baked by drovers and stockmen.
however, since australia's population density is low, parts of australia are a long way from medical facilities of any kind.
students in  three-year degree programs can take an optional fourth year known ashonours if they want to proceed into a postgraduate research program, whereas  students enrolled in four year programs can typically incorporate their honours  thesis into their fourth year.
many areas of aboriginal land are free to enter.
credit cards are widely accepted in australia.
attitudes to homosexuality are similar to those found in the urban united states.
when a public holiday falls on a saturday or sunday, the following monday (and tuesday if necessary) are usually declared holidays in lieu, although both the celebrations and the retail closures will occur on the day itself.
in country towns you may have to make an  appointment, and may have no alternative other than the closest hospital after  hours and weekends.
expect discounts on these airlines to be harder to come by, and for standard airfares to be above what you would pay for the same distance between major centres.
aboriginal people living in rural aboriginal communities continue to speak their respective languages.
web address for coverage maps are linked below: you can buy a cheap prepaid mobile phone in australia with a sim for around $40 in most retail outlets, supermarkets, and post offices, or a sim for your existing phone at around $2-$3.
they tend to be relaxed in their religious observance.
the land is flat, so the water can take weeks to move on, leaving the land boggy.
sometimes aest, etc, with the 'a' prefix distinguishing them from the north american time zones with the same names.
you may make reverse charge calls by using the number 1800 reverse (1800 7383773).
this number will connect you  with emergency operators for the police, fire brigade, and ambulance service.
it is likely being called such a name is an indication  that you are considered a friend and is it would be rare they are being  condescending.
although fosters is promoted as an australian beer overseas, it is rarely consumed by australians in australia, and is almost impossible to find.
state forests are generally free to stay in, although you will need to check  locally if public access is allowed.
it has a powerful paralysing toxin which can result in death unless artificial respiration is provided.
it takes just a few hours to process  usually and it costs about $170.
salaried australians have four weeks of annual leave and school children in the major population centres have january as a long break.
the most-populous states arevictoria and new south wales, but by far the largest in land area is western australia.
they are very  hard to detect and can be found in very shallow water.
are all the same number, and the same rules apply.
during daylight saving south australia remains half an hour behind new south wales, victoria and tasmania, but moves half an hour ahead of queensland.
if you are staying longer than 3 months continuously you are ineligible for an eta or evisitor, and should apply for a tourist visa (subclass 676).
postgraduate admission is managed by individual universities and you will  need to apply separately to each institution you are considering.
a cafe meal costs around $10-$15, and a main course in a restaurant goes from around $17 upwards.
consequently place names of bays, headlands and rivers around the coastline reflect a range of dutch, french, british, and aboriginal languages.
you should check your transaction records for odd transactions after using an atms and immediately contact the bank controlling the atm if a transaction seems to be successful but the machine doesn't give you any cash.
driving while affected by alcohol is both stigmatized and policed by  random breath testing police patrols in australia, as well as being inherently  dangerous.
the australian financial year runs from july 1 to june 30, and tax returns for each financial year are due on october 30, four months after the accounting period concludes.
hard surfboards and other water craft such as surf skis, kayaks etc., are not permitted between the red and yellow flags.
you will need to show the bank teller
most hostels also have living room areas equipped with couches, dining tables, and televisions.
in the tropical north the wet season occurs over the summer months of december, january and february, bringing torrential rains and frequent floods to those regions.
most rest areas and beaches prohibit camping and many even prohibit overnight parking to discourage this.
expect to pay around $20 for a tent site, and a few dollars per person.
the attraction of markets is the lower prices and freshness of the produce.
you will commonly see the grey nomad brigade on their trips around australia in motorhomes and caravans.
your passport will not be  enough id to open a bank account.
it is wise to try arranging a few interviews and  prospects before you arrive in australia in order to be in the better paid  jobs.
those with internet connectivity can use the internet relay service, via the website[55].
if you want to contact these services but the situation is not an  emergency, don't call 000: you can call the police assistance line on 131 444.
expect to pay around $5-$10  per night per person for a camping permit, and national park admission fees in  the more popular national parks (eg: wilsons promontory national park,  kosciuszko national park, etc), however entry and camping is free in the  majority of national parks further from population and tourist centres.
a simple calculation will let you know what offers the best deal for amount you wish to exchange.
many people who travel to uluru do climb, however, so you certainly won't be on  your own if you choose to do this.
all fees are payable in australian dollars, converted to your local currency at the current rate of exchange.
the  wordnative should also be avoided when referring to a person.
snakes will generally try to put as much distance between themselves and you as possible, so if you see a snake while out walking, simply go around it or walk the other way.
the camper trailer has also become very popular in australia.
always get a quote before changing money.
buying a round of drinks is a custom in australia, as in many corners of the world.
driving between towns and cities comes with a risk of hitting or crashing  due to swerving to avoid wildlife.
you can receive mail via poste restante in any city or town.
people from countries who drive on the right will take a while to get used to looking the correct way when crossing.
there are also  local microbrew choices, which can be harder to find, but are often worth  seeking out.
see some of the big things in australia.
all have administrative departments and sections on their websites which describe the courses available to overseas students, and they will help you to apply and obtain accommodation and transport.
australia is highly urbanised with most of the population heavily concentrated along the eastern and south-eastern coasts.
however, you should take warnings about jellyfish and  crocodiles seriously in the tropics, and keep your distance from snakes in the  national parks and bushland.
one way fees often apply from smaller regional outlets.
screens on windows and doors are common, and repellent is  readily available.
the freshwater may attack to defend itself or its eggs or if startled.
there is an old belief among them that the flash of a camera will steal their soul.
rips can be recognised by one or more of these signs: a rippled appearance when the surrounding water is fairly calm; foam that extends beyond the break zone; brown, sandy coloured water; waves breaking further out on either side of the rip.
most pubs in australia offer some form of accommodation.
check or shake out clothing, shoes, etc that have been left outside before putting them on.
in small towns they usually only include 100 km a day before a surcharge is applied.
it allows you to stay in australia for 12 months from the time you first enter.
attempts to scam tourists are not prevalent in australia; take normal precautions such as finding out a little bit about your destination.
port  douglas also has many resorts of a world standard.
prices for additional children can range from free to $20 per  child.
wildlife is not usually an issue in major urban areas (with the exception of canberra where a series of parks provides ample habitat for kangaroos, which often cross major roads).
however the average tourist is unlikely to encounter  any of these in an urban environment.
when travelling in remote areas, away from sealed roads, where the potential to become stranded for up to a week without seeing another vehicle is very real, it is vital that you carry your own water supply (4 gal or 7 l per person per day).
australian citizens, new zealand citizens and permanent residents of australia can work in australia without any further permits, but others will require a work visa.
the areas of the barossa valley, hunter valley, and margaret river are  particularly renowned for their wineries and opportunities for cellar door  sampling, but northern victoria andmudgee, also have a large variety.
port douglas also has many resorts of a world standard.
there have been instances of criminals tampering with atms so that cash is trapped inside them, or so that they record card details for thieves.
beach goers can mistakenly use these  channels or areas since they can appear as calm water and look to be an easier  area into which to swim.
sharks occur on many of australia's beaches.
if you pull it off well, you might raise a  smile.
most australians are happy to help out a lost traveller with directions, however many urban dwellers will assume that someone asking "excuse me", is going to be asking for money, and may brush past.
this code can be given to emergency services if required so they can locate you quickly.
it comes in a number of different styles.
the easiest way to get a work visa is to find an australian employer who will sponsor you.
some indicative travel times, not including any rest periods, are: it is almost impossible to predict your travel time just by knowing the distance.
the caravan park will provide showers and toilets, and sometimes  washing and cooking facilities.
other students will generally be required to pay full tuition on enrolment each semester.
travellers in northern queensland, the northern territory or north western australia should be aware of the risk of fatal attacks bysaltwater crocodiles in and adjacent to northern waters (ocean, estuarine and fresh water locations) between king sound, western australia, and rockhampton, queensland.
there are no restrictions on overseas residents getting a australian prepaid sim card.
generally the closer you are to civilisation or a tourist area, the greater the chance of being hassled by the authorities.
the contraction "abo" is deeply offensive and should never be used.
you can dial 000 from all mobile phones.
telstra's 850mhz 3g network provides wider coverage in smaller towns and lightly populated areas.
if you still prefer overseas wines, the marlborough region of new zealand is usually well represented on wine lists and in bottle shops in australia.
some remote roads might see one car per month or less.
emerging in power is the social democratic greens party, which maintains an environmentalist policy platform and is effectively a partner of the alp.
these are awarded by individual universities.
those with internet connectivity can use the internet relay service, via the  website[55].
if you are heading to the beach, consider buying a sun-tent (less than $20 from discount and hardware stores).
virginmobile offers currently the cheapest prepaid card with 1 gb data for 19 dollar (your caps option).[64] there are no restrictions on overseas residents getting an australian prepaid sim card.
a motel that does have a bar attached is called a  hotel/motel.
the fire service operates afire ban system during periods of extreme fire danger.
australia has an equal age of consent set at 16 for all states except tasmania and south australia where the age is 17.
the charge to pay to visit a local hospital can be much more  expensive, private hospitals even more so, up to $500 even if you are not  admitted, and thousands if you are.
australia drives on the left.
most attractions in australia remain open year-round, some operating at a reduced frequency or shorter hours during the off-peak season.
camping in state forests is often preferable to national parks if you're after a camping experience over sightseeing, as collecting of your own fire wood is allowed (sometimes felling of trees is permissible dependent on the area) and camping is not restricted to camp sites.
the islands of the barrier reef have some scheduled services, and there are a few cruises that cross the top of australia as well.
in these regions only swim in inland waters if you are specifically advised that they are safe.
terms such as yank and pom, and to a lesser extent wog are used in casual conversation in the presence of those respective nationalities, often between friends, and as such are not seen as offensive.
popular beaches have fresh water  showers to wash the salt water off after you swim, so for those on a tight  budget (or for those that just love waking up at the beach) simply wash in the  ocean (please do not pollute the ocean or waterways by using detergents or  soaps) and rinse off at the showers.
some of the information spread about australia's dangerous wildlife is  blown out of proportion.
see also grape grazing in australia.
first aid treatment for spider bites may vary in australia compared to  other areas of the world.
any card showing the cirrus or maestro logos can be used at any terminal displaying those logos.
many attractions often lie on a short stretch of dirt road off the main highways, and these sections become impassable, even if the main road remains open.
[edit] markets all of the capital cities and many regional towns in australia host a  "farmer's market", which is generally held each week in a designated  area on a saturday or sunday.
the red back spider (usually easily identified by a red mark on its abdomen), is common and after a bite it is important to seek medical attention, however it is not as urgent as with a funnel web.
getting sunburnt can make you feel feverish and unwell and may take a few days or weeks to heal depending on the severity.
they are mostly  found in north-east queensland, especially in rain forest clearings.
sydney is australia's gay capital, and hosts one of the world's most famous gay pride parades - the sydney mardi gras.
fines or even gaol terms apply for lighting fires that get out of  control, not to mention the feeling you may get at being responsible for the  property, wildlife, and person damage that you may cause.
cash is available through automatic teller machines (atm) 24 hours, and currency exchange outlets have extended hours and are open on weekends.
in severe cases, particularly any  kind of injury requiring microsurgery, you will need to be evacuated to one of  the capital cities for treatment.
sometimes for an additional fee.
following the exploration period, the first wave of british settlers came to australia in 1788, starting a process of colonisation that almost entirely displaced the aboriginal people who inhabited the land.
however, if you have a phone obtained outside australia, using the universal emergency number112 is a better idea.
when travelling in remote areas, away from sealed roads, where the  potential to become stranded for up to a week without seeing another vehicle is  very real, it is vital that you carry your own water supply (4 gal or 7 l per  person per day).
motel rooms in the cities will generally cost upwards from $80.
the refund payment can be made by either cheque, credit to an australian bank account, or payment to a credit card.
many have lagoon pools, tennis, golf, kids clubs, and other arranged activities.
most of the inland areas of the country are semi-arid.
speed limits vary by location, road and by state.
if you are in need of assistance, but cannot speak, you will be diverted to an ivr and asked to press 55 to confirm that you are in need of assistance and have not called by accident.
cellular coverage is non-existent outside of major highways and towns and you should take some precautions in case of emergency.
some regional cities and towns have local bus services, but see the destination guides for service information, as frequency can be poor and weekend and evening services non-existent.
contract jobs generally mean employers are looking for solid experience, so make your resume reflect that.
despite the name, it contains no chicken.
if in search of sponsorship, be prepared for a long wait.
you will be connected with your local unit and help can be organised from there.
there are vouchers for commission free exchange at american express available in the tourist brochure at sydney airport.
evacuation procedures are well established and normally involve being evacuated by plane or helicopter.
research  degrees are at the masters and doctoral level.
seek out reliable local information.
to dial the number fromadelaide or anywhere else inside the same area code region you can optionally omit the area code, and just dial 8080 3300.
[edit] illegal drugs opium, heroin, amphetamines (speed), cocaine, lsd, ecstasy, marijuana and  hashish among other drugs are all illegal both to possess and to sell in all  states of australia.
if someone in the same round as you has an empty glass, who is ahead of you in drinks bought, you should declare that it is your shout, and make your way to the bar.
australia can have up to five different time zones during the daylight savings period, and three at other times.
long-term australian concerns include salinity, pollution, loss of biodiversity, and management and conservation of coastal areas, especially the great barrier reef.
you can purchase alcohol for  private consumption inbottle shops, which are separate stores selling  bottled alcohol.
[edit] water the tap water in australia is almost always safe to drink, and it will be  marked on the tap if this is not the case.
it means you can't go back out into  the sun until the sunburn fades, so getting sunburnt on the first day of your  beach holiday can seriously reduce the fun of your trip.
if the flags aren't up, then there's no one patrolling - and you shouldn't swim.
mail should be addressed to your full name c/o post restante, and you simply call into the post office with id to receive your mail.
in australia it is common to be within an hours drive of a national park or recreation area that will permit some form of camping, even in the capital cities.
driving between cities and towns can take longer than you think, especially  if you are used to freeway or motorway driving in europe or north america.
however many are ranked in the top 200 in the world (times higher education supplement).
malaria is not present in australia.
like many other countries, it will require evidence  ofyellow fever vaccinations on entry if you will have been in a country with a  risk of infection within 6 days before your arrival in australia.
drop into the lark distillery on the scenic hobart waterfront precinct.
if you are in an  area that is known for having funnel web spiders and you are bitten by a spider  that you believe could be a funnel web it is important you get to hospital as  quickly as possible.
[edit] indigenous australians it is best not to mention the name of a deceased person to an indigenous  australian.
if the fire risk is extreme, parks may be closed, especially the  backcountry areas, so you will need to have an alternative plan if you intend  to camp or hike in parks during summer.
bundaberg rum (bundy) is an australian dark rum particularly popular in queensland and many queenslanders will not touch any other brand of rum.
beaches are not patrolled 24-hours a day or even during all daylight hours.
it is best not to mention the name of a deceased person to an indigenous australian.
violence against gay people is also at a level similar to the united states.
the  spider is anywhere up to 5 cm large, and is usually black.
summer tends to be the peak travel season through much of the south, with the winter (dry) season the peak travel season in the tropics.
it isn't hard to find someone who will  express some form of racist views in a pub in australia.
you should check before making plans to travel off the beaten track.
irukandji are another species of tiny (fingernail sized) jellyfish  that inhabit the waters off northern australia and the surrounding indo-pacific  islands.
however, this is just 'easier', not 'easy' as such.
working for 3 months in seasonal work will allow you to apply for a  second 12 month visa.
the new country was able to take advantage of its natural resources to rapidly develop its agricultural and manufacturing industries and made a large contribution (considering its small size of population) to the allied war effort in world wars i and ii.
there are also a multitude of boutique wineries and smaller suppliers.
averaging 100 km/h or more is possible on some relatively minor highways when they are straight and there are few towns.
if you pull it off well, you might raise a smile.
if travelling in rural areas it would be a good idea to carry basic first aid equipment including compression bandages and to learn what to do after a snake or spider bite.
business attire, however, is considered to be long sleeved shirt, tie, and long trousers for men, even in the hottest weather.
a number of local and international chains offer motel-style accommodation: [edit]  hotels all state capitals have at least one major hotel at 5 star standard, with  several available in the major capitals.
they  are more likely to apply it to things (aussie rules, etc) than to themselves.
similarly this will likely be done to you when someone else  joins the group.
these craft must only be used outside of the blue 'surfcraft permitted' flags.
it you are in a large shout, and you decline a drink, you still have to buy a drink for the round when it comes to your turn.
if you are heading to the beach, consider buying a sun-tent (less than $20  from discount and hardware stores).
if someone offers to buy you a drink, but does not offer to buy for the person who already has bought you a drink, you should say you are already in a shout, and decline.
[edit]  camping camping is a popular pastime.
expect to pay around $5-$10 per night per person for a camping permit, and national park admission fees in the more popular national parks (eg: wilsons promontory national park, kosciuszko national park, etc), however entry and camping is free in the majority of national parks further from population and tourist centres.
beach goers should swim between the red and yellow flags which designate patrolled areas.
if someone offers to buy you a drink, but does  not offer to buy for the person who already has bought you a drink, you should  say you are already in a shout, and decline.
a wide range of imported european and american bottled beers are  available in all but the most basic pub.
services along the main business travel corridor (melbourne-sydney-brisbane) are run almost like a bus service, with flights leaving every 15 minutes during the day.
there are some areas of the large cities that are more dangerous after dark, but there generally are no areas that the police refuse to patrol or that are dangerous to enter if you aren't a local.
read the fine print, and as a rule, the more "value" that is included in your "package" or "cap", the more expensive the elements of the package are.
if you have a criminal conviction, obtain advice from the australian embassy or visa processing centre.
the pavlova is a meringue cake with a cream topping usually decorated with fresh fruit.
avoid the stresses of fatigue  by not planning to drive too far in a day.
your employer will need to demonstrate that they cannot hire anyone with your skills in australia, and the approval will take several months.
if bitten you  should immobilise the wound (by wrapping the affected area tightly with strips  of clothing or bandages) and seek immediate medical help.
wildlife is not usually an issue in major  urban areas (with the exception of canberra where a series of parks provides  ample habitat for kangaroos, which often cross major roads).
there are also several isps who have a pre-paid arrangement at about $1 per hour of use.
most of these drownings occur at ocean beaches, where statistics put visitors at significantly higher risk than locals.
an airfare between neighbouring eastern capitals is around $120 each way but can get as low as $60 if you book at the right time, or around $350 to cross the country assuming that you are flexible with dates and book in advance.
do not clean the wound as hospitals can test venom residues to determine what species anti-venom should be used.
available anywhere you can buy fish and chips.
it is fairly rare to find signs in a second language, except in urban areas with a high population of asian immigrants and students, where signs and restaurant menus in vietnamese and chinese are a common sight; and also aroundcairns in tropical queensland where some signs (but not road signs) are written injapanese, due to the large number of japanese tourists.
be aware that  many internet companies cap usage, finding an unlocked wi-fi connection is  uncommon.
australia's weekend is on saturday and sunday of each week.
[edit]  dialup there are many small but reliable isps offering dialup internet the  $12–$15 per month flat rate range.
these units are only available from specialist dealers, often only in major cities (away from the remote areas you may be visiting).
the land is flat, so the water can take weeks to move on, leaving  the land boggy.
just about all women wear a top while walking around or in  the water.
it is wise to try arranging a few interviews and prospects before you arrive in australia in order to be in the better paid jobs.
in regional areas the market is usually  held outside the town itself in an empty paddock or sports field, markets in  capital cities are easier to reach but the prices are typically more in line  with those you would find in supermarkets.
some may have a toaster in the room.
for example irish and new zealanders are only entitled to free  treatment at a hospital, whereas the other reciprocal nationalities are  entitled to subsidised treatment at general practitioners as well.
most australians are happy to help out a lost traveller with directions,  however many urban dwellers will assume that someone asking "excuse  me", is going to be asking for money, and may brush past.
most of the state capitals are linked to each other by good quality highways.
the dollar is not pegged to any other currency, and is highly traded on world foreign exchange markets, particularly by currency speculators.
often there can be no signs of the fire at evacuation time,
entire country towns can sometimes be evacuated when there is a bushfire  threatening them.
some smaller roads in the regional areas still have punts to carry cars across rivers and canals.
(some major inter-city highways and freeways have telephones to request help.)
temperatures in some southern regions can drop below freezing in winter and the snowy mountains in the south east experiences metres of winter snow.
however the average tourist is unlikely to encounter any of these in an urban environment.
australia's proximity to asia means that heroin is a far more commonly used illicit drug than cocaine or crack cocaine.
outside of these hours though, it is almost impossible to buy alcohol to take home; unless you're in the middle of sydney or melbourne, so if you're planning on a party at home; it's a good idea to stock up and check on the local trading hours so you don't run out at 00:30 with no opportunity to buy more.
public drunkenness is an offence but you would only likely ever be picked up by the police if you were causing a nuisance.
enjoy, and respect the land by taking your rubbish/bottles/cigarette butts with you and disposing of them properly.
avoid the stresses of fatigue by not planning to drive too far in a day.
it is  illegal to go into a gambling area of a pub or club when under 18.
car hire will cost around $65 a day.
australia is outwardly a multicultural and racially tolerant society.
a comparatively large number of scholarships are available for postgraduate research usually covering both tuition, where required, and living costs.
you cannot remove your car at any of the intermediate stations.
after sydney, significant numbers of travellers also arrive in australia in melbourne, brisbane and perth.
seek out reliable local  information.
the  venom of some snakes (the taipan in particular) can take effect within fifteen  minutes, but if the wound is immediately immobilised and you rest it is  possible to delay the onset of poisoning by one to a few hours, depending on  the creature.
you will be  connected with your local unit and help can be organised from there.
there are approximately half a million australians who identify as being of aboriginal descent.
sometimes extra rooms in a person's home, but often a purpose built  building.
poisons information hotline 13 11 26.
most parks will advertise a ban, and it is your responsibility to check the local fire danger levels.
all cities and towns in australia have free public toilets.
note that getting the visa might take  a couple of months from the beginning of the application process, and that you  will need a medical examination by a doctor approved by the immigration  officials before it can be granted (among other things, you will need a chest  x-ray to show that you do not have tuberculosis).
seeaustralian customs for details there are a couple of expedition companies such as ozbus or exploratory overland expeditions that conduct organized trips fromlondon to sydney but the last leg of the journey involves flying to darwin fromeast timor or singapore while the bus is shipped across.
if you travel as a single, and want a private room, pubs usually have single rooms at a discount over a double room.
it is also illegal to stand on the verge or walk along freeways (often called "motorways" in new south wales) in all states (effectively making hitchhiking illegal in many practical places, in all states).
accommodation in these pubs tends to be budget-style with shared bathrooms but private rooms.
however, if you are planning to  visit the inland or the outback and the area is flooded, then you should  reconsider.
australia has strict quarantine requirements regarding importing animal and vegetable derived products (any food, wooden products, seeds, etc).[4].
[edit][add listing] drink [edit] varieties [edit] beer drinking beer is ingrained in australian culture.
permission to photograph an aboriginal person should always be asked, but  in particular in the more remote areas such as arnhem land.
bushwalking is a popular australian activity.
some areas of land are sacred to aboriginal people, and require additional  respect.
they are very hard to detect and can be found in very shallow water.
australians usually do not speak a second language fluently unless they are part of a family who immigrated recently.
some outlets advertise commission free exchange, usually accompanied by a worse rate of exchange.
licensing regulations and road rules vary slightly from state to state.
on other national highways that traverse mountain ranges and travel through small towns, even averaging 60 km/h can be a challenge.
there is no single commonly used second language.
the spider is anywhere up to 5 cm large, and is usually black.
the blue ring octopus is rare and shy.
in the history of australia there are only two confirmed deaths by blue ring octopus.
avoid usingaborigine or aboriginal as a noun to describe a person, as some people see negative connotations in these words.
[edit] spirits bundaberg rum (bundy) is an australian dark rum particularly popular  in queensland and many queenslanders will not touch any other brand of rum.
australia has an area of 7,682,300 square kilometres (2,966,152 sq mi) and the distances between cities and towns is easy to underestimate.
you will certainly find a great deal of it in close proximity to pubs and clubs at night time but much less so during the day.
serviced apartments are widely available, for stays as short as one night.
trafficking offences are federal offences, and carry a long jail term.
most australians will tend to address you by your first name and will expect that you do the same to them.
some outdoor pools have a "top required" policy for women.
national parks and forested areas of southern australia, including some parts of major cities next to national parks and forests, can be threatened by bushfires (wildfires) in summer.
you will need to have a licence written in english or an international driving permit (idp) from your home country to drive anywhere in australia.
in very small towns local pubs offer the only accommodation available to  travellers.
a  house is best, then a car, then a clearing, a cave, or on the beach is the best  location.
in those states where you can't, bottle shops and major  supermarkets are often found in very close proximity.
use them to compare, but always check the airline website before booking.
some other activities that  are generally allowed in state forests that are not allowed in national parks  are: bringing in dogs/pets, open fires, motorbikes and four-wheel driving.
poisons information advice, which can also advise on snake, spider and insect  bites, is available on 131 126.
best eaten with butter and jam or golden syrup as it is dry and bland.
the atm will display the charges and you will have the option to stop the transaction before you are charged.
at sites where tap water is  untreated, water sterilization tablets may be used as an alternative to boiling.
these can be borrowed from some local police stations, such as those in the blue mountains in new south wales.
local calls are about aud$0.25 on most fixed lines and aud$0.50 on all telstra pay phones.
australia also has a multicultural population practising almost every religion and lifestyle.
see the guides for more local information.
almost all taps in australia are drinking water, the ones that aren't will be marked.
bottled water is also widely available.
australia's base trading hours are monday-friday 9am-5pm.
if possible, you should attempt to identify the creature that bit  you (in the case of spiders it might be possible to trap it in a jar and take  it to the hospital) so that the appropriate anti-venom can be administered  swiftly.
australia is bordered to the west by the indian ocean, and to the east by the south pacific ocean.
nonetheless, australia strives to offer official 'de facto  relationship' recognition to gay couples that is equal to that offered to  straight couples - a special interdependency visa exists as a gay counterpart  to the traditional marriage-based migration route.
processed and sealed commercially prepared foods (chocolates, cookies, etc) are often permitted.
[edit] natural disasters [edit] cyclones tropical cyclones (hurricanes) occur in the tropics during summer.
australia has three nationwide cellular (mobile) phone networks based on the gsm standard (900 and 1800mhz) operated by telstra[69], optus [70] and vodafone[71].
screens on windows and doors are common, and repellent is readily available.
spirits are also available as  pre-mixed bottles and cans but are subject to higher taxation in this form, so  it is cheaper to mix them yourself.
generally the only australians who are not fluent english speakers are older people who immigrated as adults.
if you are in an isolated area send someone else for help.
do not take this advice lightly; even local people die out there when their car breaks down and they are not reported missing.
the vast majority of deaths from bites  and stings in australia are due to allergic reactions to bees and wasps.
most rips are only a few metres wide, and once clear of the undertow, you will be able to swim or catch a wave to return to shore.
australian students attend high school for six years, and enter university at seventeen or eighteen years of age.
tasmania has no passenger rail services.
coursework degrees are generally at the masters level.
it is highly unusual to see them indoors, however they can hide in sheds, around outdoor tables and chairs and under rocks or other objects sitting on the ground.
australia is the smallest continent but sixth-largest country by land area.
just be sensible and don't disturb the locals.
suited for a stay of two or more days,  this accommodation usually allows you to get a little involved in the running  of the farm if you wish.
, the creature has bright blue circles on its skin if threatened.
if you have a 3g/umts-enabled phone, make sure it supports the appropriate frequencies: 850/2100 mhz for telstra, and 900/2100 mhz for optus and vodafone.
smaller rural settlements generally still reflect a majority anglo-celtic culture often with a small aboriginal population, however virtually every large australian city and town reflects the immigration from europe, asia, the middle east and the pacific that occurred after world war ii and continued into the 1970s, in the half century after the war when australia's population boomed from roughly 7 million to just over 20 million people.
on arriving in australia ask for the working holiday visa to be "evidenced", so you can show your future employer.
they are mostly found in north-east queensland, especially in rain forest clearings.
if in search of  sponsorship, be prepared for a long wait.
you can cruise to australia, and then fly home.
in the centre, south australia and the northern territory are half an hour behind during the winter, but the northern territory doesn't observe daylight saving while south australia does.
a visit to australia would not be complete without taking the chance to see some of these animals in their natural environment.
similar pie variations are sometimes available in other regions.
you can also expect to wait a few hours if your condition  isn't urgent.
some will have an entire vegetarian menu section.
the area code is 08 as broken hill is in the central & west area code region.
the world's deadliest spider is the sydney funnel web spider, found  in and around sydney and eastern new south wales.
there is much to see in australia that you can't see easily in its natural setting anywhere else: australian flora and fauna is unique to the island continent, the result of having been isolated from the rest of the world for millions of years.
however, you should take warnings about jellyfish and crocodiles seriously in the tropics, and keep your distance from snakes in the national parks and bushland.
usually the cost is the same for one or two adults, with any extra people charged an additional fee.
the surf lifesavers will come out to you.
it is still unusual to find in-room internet access in smaller hotels and in motels.
in  warm conditions casual "t-shirt and shorts" style clothing  predominates except in formal situations.
there are several volunteer opportunities in australia.
[edit] telephone [edit] dialing codes the country code for international calls to australia is +61.
you should take normal precautions against bag snatching, pick pocketing and the like.
check with your home operator before you leave to be sure.
the majority of australia's hotels are located in the central business districts (cbd) of the capital city.
australia offers many internet access options for travellers.
(in australia, neither  "school" nor "college" are used to refer to tertiary  institutions; they are referred to only as "universities" - in fact,  some primary and secondary educational institutions are referred to as  'colleges').
the anangu feel themselves responsible if someone  is killed or injured on their land (as has happened many times during the  climb) and request tourists not to place themselves in harm through climbing.
this is also an acceptable way to drop out after one round, when the score is even.
students who have not previously earned a qualification in an english speaking program (or passed high school english) will have to take one of a number of english competency tests before being allowed to enrol.
it is also well known for the cosmopolitan attractions of its large cities such assydney, melbourne, brisbane and perth.
make sure to cover all parts of your  body.
a motel won't have a public bar.
it can take as little  as 15 minutes to burn in australia on a fine summer's day.
just be sensible and don't disturb the  locals.
its exchange value to other currencies can be quite volatile, and 1-2% changes in a day are a reasonably regular occurrences.
if your holiday goes no further than cities, major towns, and beaches, this won't really concern you.
patrolled beaches will be monitoring the  ocean for any shark activity.
if you are caught in a rip at a patrolled beach, conserve your energy, float or tread water and raise one hand.
when australians do tip, it will often be in the form of leaving the change from a cash payment (usually as a convenience so the change does not hang around loose on someone's person - not as a gratuity), rather than a fixed percentage.
emergency numbers from other countries (for example, '911' in the usa) do not work in australia.
state forests are generally free to stay in, although you will need to check locally if public access is allowed.
uv radiation in the middle of the day can be double what it is in the early morning or later afternoon, so if possible avoid the sun during the hottest part of the day.
light (lite) beer refers to lower alcoholic content, and not lower calories.
approximately half of all international travellers arrive first in australia in sydney, the largest city, (iata: syd; icao: yssy).
[edit]  motels typically, motel-style accommodation will have a private room with a bed or  number of beds, and a private shower and toilet.
no reciprocal programs cover private hospitals, and the full cost will have to be met.
if the licence is not in english an international driving permit (idp) is required in addition to your licence.
many asian and eastern european people also came to australia in the 1850s, during the gold rush that started australia's first resource boom.
the emergency services have limited ability to  trace the origin of emergency calls from mobile phones, especially outside of  urban areas, so be sure to calmly and clearly provide details of your location.
australia [1] is the only country that has a whole continent to itself.
take your passport for identification in case it is required.
facilities usually  include a fully equipped kitchen with adequate refrigeration and food storage  areas.
until the late 1970s a bite  from this spider could result in death, but anti-venom is now available.
a strong majority of the australian public supports legalising same-sex marriage, however a defence of marriage-style law is in effect preventing such recognition for the time being.
it is common to see signs in accommodation asking visitors to limit the length of their showers.
often there is a lounge, restaurant or bistro area in a pub or club that permits under-age people provided they are accompanied by a responsible adult over 18 and don't approach the bar or wander around.
if you don't know your area code region, you can still dial the area code, and it will still work.
postgraduate studies in australia fall into two classes: coursework  and research.
an example of an aboriginal request is climbinguluru (ayers rock).
reapply sunscreen every 2-3 hours throughout the day as it wears off quickly if you are sweating or swimming.
avoid at all costs the plastic wrapped varieties sold in supermarkets.
in other regional areas vegetarians are often poorly catered for, but most towns will have a chinese restaurant that will provide steamed rice and vegetables.
open a bank account as soon as you arrive.
a working holiday visa restricts you to contract type jobs.
you can apply to immigrate as a skilled person or business person, but this process will take longer than receiving a work visa.
the isps dodo[66] and planet [67] for example have prepaid internet cards available for around $10 a month from a variety of retail outlets.
[edit]  legal aspects the legal drinking age throughout australia is 18 years.
american express and diners club are accepted at major supermarket and department store chains and many tourist destinations.
all prepaid cards that can be purchased from dick smith have access from anywhere in australia for a local call fee.
also, be aware of parking restrictions in certain parts of the cities  and town, including overnight parking restrictions.
on land, crocodiles usually lie motionless, but they  have the ability to move with extraordinary speed in short bursts.
your passport will not be enough id to open a bank account.
however,  it is rude to ever agree with a self-deprecating remark.
if you still prefer overseas wines, the marlborough region of new zealand  is usually well represented on wine lists and in bottle shops in australia.
if you are in an area that is known for having funnel web spiders and you are bitten by a spider that you believe could be a funnel web it is important you get to hospital as quickly as possible.
with any job, you will need to have the right to work in australia prior to applying.
others offer wi-fi as well as terminals, with wi-fi usually being free of restrictions.
there are over a hundred aboriginal languages still known and spoken by aboriginal people.
expect to pay  around $20 for a tent site, and a few dollars per person.
bottled water is also widely  available.
in these  regions only swim in inland waters if you are specifically advised that they  are safe.
it can still be a good time to visit some of the well populated, tourist-oriented areas, and, except in unusually heavy flooding, you can still get to see the pounding waterfalls and other attractions that can make this an interesting time to visit.
you can then top it up with credit using recharge cards you can purchase at all supermarkets, newsagents, some atms, and other outlets.
anzac biscuits are a mix of coconut, oats, flour, sugar and golden syrup.
in the surf out the back of the beach, treading water can be hard with waves pounding you every few seconds.
[edit] immigration you can apply to immigrate as a skilled person or business person, but this  process will take longer than receiving a work visa.
accommodation in these pubs tends to be budget-style with shared  bathrooms but private rooms.
if you are in need of  assistance, but cannot speak, you will be diverted to an ivr and asked to press 55 to confirm that you are in need of assistance and have not called by  accident.
queensland outlaws 'sodomy' for under 18s, but is generally supportive of homosexuality.
major hotels offer internet access, usually for a fee.
very good red and white wine can be bought very cheaply in australia, often at less than $10 a bottle, and even the smallest shop could be expected to have 50 or more varieties to choose from.
queensland outlaws 'sodomy'  for under 18s, but is generally supportive of homosexuality.
supermarkets and other stores may open for limited hours on some public holidays and on holidays in lieu, but are almost always closed on christmas day (25 dec), good friday, easter sunday and anzac day morning.
mixed drinks are also available, particularly vodka, scotch, bourbon and other whiskey mixers.
it is highly unusual to see them indoors, however they  can hide in sheds, around outdoor tables and chairs and under rocks or other  objects sitting on the ground.
make sure any fires you light are legal and kept under control.
papua new guinea, east timor and indonesia are australia's northern neighbours, separated from australia by the arafura sea and the timor sea.
australia has first world medical standards.
you can even find caravan parks right on the beach, with lagoon swimming pools and playgrounds all free for guests.
australian notes are produced in plastic polymer rather than paper.
a flat commission of $5-8 can be charged on top.
exposure to the sun at australian latitudes frequently results in sunburn.
hotel  services and hospitality are often excellent such as room cleaning services,  free morning newspapers, meals to your door and a high-speed internet  connection up to 24mb/s (often with a premium fee).
there are 39 universities in australia that all compete vigorously for overseas students.
like in much of the english speaking world, a more educated, white-collar and/or conservative australian accent tends towards being more softer or general in tones, rather than the sharp tones, however it is a subtle difference overall and native speakers can typically recognise regional variations.
you will have to search much harder to find other australian distilled  spirits, mostly from niche players, but there are distilleries in every state  of australia if you look hard enough.
if you do buy a jar, the secret is it to spread it very thin, and don't forget the butter as well.
some aboriginal land requires permission or a permit, and some areas are  protected and illegal to enter.
[edit] racism racism is a sensitive subject in australia.
it is legal to hitchhike in some states in australia, so long as certain guidelines are followed.
there is rarely enough rain at one time to cause flooding.
most parks will  advertise a ban, and it is your responsibility to check the local fire danger  levels.
most motels will charge the same  price for one or two people sharing a room.
the long-distance rail services that do exist are mainly used to link regional townships with the state capital, such asbendigo to melbourne, or cairns to brisbane.
when a fire ban is in place all outdoor fires are forbidden.
some areas carry a request  from the aboriginal people not to enter, and you may choose yourself whether or  not to honour or respect that request.
it can vary from  very basic shabby rooms, to newly renovated boutique accommodation.
opening hours beyond these base hours vary by the type of store, by location, and by state.
the remaining capital cities have bus services only.
under no  circumstances should you offer an australian police officer (or for that  matter, any other government official such as a customs officer) a bribe or  gratuity, as this is a crime and they will enforce the laws against it.
check with australian  tax agents about australian tax liability and filing an australian tax return.
check the beach safety website[56].
substantial discounts often apply for mid-week stays at bed and breakfasts.
you should be able to acquire or hire these units in your home country before departure if you wish.
many aboriginal place names derive from aboriginal languages that have been lost, and their meanings remain uncertain.
all visitors who do not hold australian permanent residency or citizenship (including new zealand citizens who aren't also australian permanent residents or citizens) are not allowed to access australian social security arrangements for the unemployed, and will have limited, or more usually, no access to the australian government's health care payment arrangements.
beach signs often have a number or an alphanumeric code on them.
prepaid calls cost roughly 60c per minute plus 30c flagfall, again depending on the network.
if moving around, check that your isp has an access number that can be  reached via a local call from landlines nationwide (the access number starts  with 019 or 13), rather than just in the isp home city.
however, it is less commonly done than in neighboring new zealand.
(in australia, neither "school" nor "college" are used to refer to tertiary institutions; they are referred to only as "universities" - in fact, some primary and secondary educational institutions are referred to as 'colleges').
the continent of australia was first settled more than 40,000 years ago with successive waves of immigration of aboriginal peoples from south and south-eastasia.
it is common for dinner to be provided in the  homestead, and a breakfast pack to be provided to your cabin.
you  need to find shelter that will protect you from the smoke and radiant heat.
australian area code list: the outgoing international dialing access code (from within australia) is 0011 (note, "00" and "011", common elsewhere in the world, will not work in australia).
[edit]  wi-fi many coffee shops offer wi-fi free to their customers.
its generally not polite to switch between shouts during an evening.
however, if you have a phone obtained outside australia, using  the universal emergency number112 is a better idea.
often they are just an agreement to respect to the land you are travelling on as aboriginal land.
check with your local australian high commission, consulate or embassy and the the immigration department's website[50].
the best way is to say you are driving, and you will  buy your own drinks.
there are also inter-city train services operated by great southern railways on the routes melbourne-adelaide (the overland), sydney-adelaide-perth (indian pacific), adelaide-alice springs-darwin ( the ghan) however as noted above, these are not "high speed" services, so if you do not enjoy train travel as part of your holiday in its own right then this is probably not for you.
staff are seen to be paid an appropriate wage and will certainly not chase you down for a tip.
capital cities will have medical centres where you can drop in, often open on weekends or until late.
the only way to get the best airfare is to visit each of the airlines pages directly, and compare fares.
you should check your  transaction records for odd transactions after using an atms and immediately  contact the bank controlling the atm if a transaction seems to be successful  but the machine doesn't give you any cash.
although most drivers will stop for a red light, running the amber light is common, so ensuring the traffic has stopped before stepping from the curb is always a good idea.
keep a sense of perspective.
stings from these jellyfish are 'excruciating' and often fatal.
postgraduate studies in australia fall into two classes: coursework and research.
[edit] poisonous and dangerous creatures australia is home to many of the deadliest species of insects, reptiles and  marine life on the planet.
many people who travel to uluru do climb, however, so you certainly won't be on your own if you choose to do this.
domestic tourism is strongest during january and the easter school holidays.
international student volunteers australia, [53].
some parts are dual carriageway but many sections are one lane each way.
rips are invisible channels of water flowing away from the beach.
the lamington is a cube of sponge cake covered in chocolate icing and dipped in desiccated coconut.
the queen remains the notional head of state, and her representative in australia - the governor-general - has a ceremonial and conventionally politically powerless role.
kangaroos have a habit of being spooked by  cars and then, bewilderingly, jumping in front of them.
don't think that the right technique will get you out of every situation.
australia is a very dry country with large areas of desert.
vietnamese, although many are vietnamese chinese run and thus  provide a more chinese experience.
the initial bite can go unnoticed.
don't waste your time applying for permanent jobs in the hope of sponsorship for a different visa class.
outside of these  hours though, it is almost impossible to buy alcohol to take home; unless  you're in the middle of sydney or melbourne, so if you're planning on a party  at home; it's a good idea to stock up and check on the local trading hours so  you don't run out at 00:30 with no opportunity to buy more.
in other regional  areas vegetarians are often poorly catered for, but most towns will have a  chinese restaurant that will provide steamed rice and vegetables.
see the  section below on dangerous creatures.
expect to pay around $120 per week to hire a satellite phone, plus call costs.
it you are in a large shout, and you  decline a drink, you still have to buy a drink for the round when it comes to  your turn.
all carriers offer service in major cities, large towns, and major highways on the east coast.
roads close, often adding many hours to driving times.
although most drivers will stop for a red light, running the amber  light is common, so ensuring the traffic has stopped before stepping from the  curb is always a good idea.
do not be misled by entries on maps such as 'well' or 'spring' or 'tank' (or any entry suggesting that there is a body of water).
it is still  unusual to find in-room internet access in smaller hotels and in motels.
pub accommodation is even available in the centre of sydney, making getting back to your room after a beer a simple endeavour.
possibly private facilities.
some trains allow you to carry your car with you on special car carriages attached to the back of the train.
in severe cases, particularly any kind of injury requiring microsurgery, you will need to be evacuated to one of the capital cities for treatment.
you are never too far from a wine trail anywhere in southern australia.
you will certainly find a great  deal of it in close proximity to pubs and clubs at night time but much less so  during the day.
ross river virus is spread by mosquitoes in the tropics, and can make you sick for a few weeks.
they can inflict a nasty bite but due to their small  jaws and teeth this will rarely cause death in humans.
all is fine if you stay within the minutes allowed for the cap you choose, but it can cost a fortune very quickly if you exceed what you thought you would use.
however, if you are planning to visit the inland or the outback and the area is flooded, then you should reconsider.
visa or mastercard are commonly accepted and are both accepted everywhere credit cards are accepted.
the dollar is called 'the australian dollar' usually written as 'aud' or a$ when it is necessary to distinguish it from other currencies.
there are laws against any form  of racial vilification or discrimination with jail terms possible for breaches  of some states racial vilification laws.
wines at the cellar door are almost invariably sold  at around 20% premium to the same wine in the shops in the local town.
to dial the number from overseas you will need to dial your local international access code (00 for most ofeurope or 011 in the usa and canada) and then dial 61 8 8080 3300, that is drop the leading '0' from the area code.
enjoy, and respect the land by taking your rubbish/bottles/cigarette butts  with you and disposing of them properly.
in some areas of large cities you will need to be careful of discarded needles: however these will generally be found in back streets rather than in popular tourist spots.
unlike the box jellyfish they are found out on the reef.
tim-tams are sold in packs of 11, so be sure to agree on the sharing arrangements before buying a packet with your travel partner, or onward travel arrangements may be disrupted.
112 works from australian purchased phones too.
postgraduate admission is managed by individual universities and you will need to apply separately to each institution you are considering.
these channels take out the water which the  incoming surf waves bring into shore.
you can't hire beach umbrellas at australian beaches, and they are very exposed.
and lucky you, you've got a bed, food and water right there with you.
a basic takeaway meal - a burger, fancy sandwich, or couple of slices of pizza would cost $5-10, a big mac costs $4.50, and you can usually grab a pie for around $3, or a sausage roll for $2.50.
in large cities you will find a  number of vegetarian and vegan restaurants, as well as in the coastal  backpacker-friendly towns along the east coast.
many major australian cities have ferries as part of their public transport system.
satellite messaging units, which send your location and a help sms or email, that can be hired for around $80 per week.
calls from fixed line (landline) phones may be traced to assist the  emergency services to reach you.
australian atms are deregulated and may impose a surcharge over what is charged by your bank or card issuer.
in general, you can take alcohol (say a bottle of wine or beer) to consume at a park or beach.
problems arise when the swimmer tries to swim back  into shore against the outgoing current or rip, tire quickly, and end up  drowning.
uv radiation in the middle of the day can be double what it is in the  early morning or later afternoon, so if possible avoid the sun during the  hottest part of the day.
using 112 will use any available network, will work even if your phone is not roaming, and will work even if the phone does not have a sim.
however many are  ranked in the top 200 in the world (times higher education supplement).
australian slang should not present a problem for tourists except possibly in some isolated outback areas.
ross river virus is spread by mosquitoes in the tropics, and  can make you sick for a few weeks.
'domestic' and 'international' stamps are different, as international is tax free, therefore, so make sure you use the right stamp.
if you want to hire one, sort it out before you leave a major city, as you won't find hire places in small towns.
don't be surprised if someone who bought you a drink earlier in the night, later says that it is your shout.
although such diverse immigration diminished greatly during the xenophobic years of the white australia policy, australia welcomed a successive series of immigration from europe, the mediterranean and later asia to formulate a highly diverse and multicultural society by the late 20th century.
australian ocean beaches can sometimes have strong rips that even the  strongest swimmers are unable to swim against.
consolidator websites and travel agents almost invariably add a surcharge to direct booking.
expect fees to vary considerably between institutions.
gprs and 3g wireless internet connections are available through all cellular phone networks.
avoid  placing your hand under rocks or in crevaces in rock pools or near the shore as  this is where they tend to hide.
beaches are not patrolled 24-hours a day or even  during all daylight hours.
vegans may have more difficulty but any restaurant with a large  vegetarian menu should offer some flexibility.
getting sunburnt can make you feel feverish and unwell and may take a few days  or weeks to heal depending on the severity.
for example the word "you", which is often rolled off the tongue sharper on the south east coast, almost as "ewe" as opposed to the west coast and other regions.
australian diggers retain a reputation as some of the hardest fighting troops along with a great social spirit.
almost all aboriginal people speak english as well, although some elders may not be fluent.
you can purchase alcohol for private consumption inbottle shops, which are separate stores selling bottled alcohol.
the area code is 08 as broken hill is in the central & west area  code region.
it is common to see spiders in australia, and most will do you no harm.
restaurants are required to observe strict food preparation standards andfood poisoning is no more common than it is in other first world nations.
some other camping areas are run by government or even local landowners.
they are also very hard to see, and can be dangerous, although bites  are rare.
there are some routes into australia that are operated by discount airlines.
on account of long journey times from some destinations, some travellers from europe opt to have a stop-over, commonly in singapore, hong kong,dubai, bangkok or kuala lumpur.
most beaches are effectively top optional (topless) while sunbathing.
free state government services are available to ensure it is unencumbered by a finance arrangement and that it has not been previously written off as a result of an accident.
see the section below on dangerous creatures.
[edit] jellyfish travellers in northern queensland, the northern territory, or northern  western australia should be aware of the risk of fatal stings from the box  jellyfish if swimming in the ocean between october and may.
if you get caught the fine could be as much  as $150 each, so do it at you own risk.
although a lucrative chinese market for shells and beche de mere had encouraged indonesian fishermen to visit northern australia for centuries it was unknown to europeans until the 1600s, whendutch traders to asia began to 'bump' into the north western coast.
non-citizen permanent residents of new zealand arenot eligible for visa-free entry.
most motels will charge the same price for one or two people sharing a room.
walking blindly into dense bush and grassy areas is not advisable, as they are places where snakes may hide.
insects and mosquitoes go crazy with all the fresh water  pooling around, and these things eat insect repellent for breakfast and are  still hungry.
these exchange outlets - especially the ones at the airport - can charge 10% over the best exchange that can be obtained from shopping around.
make sure you get one with a gps built in.
many australians are fond of using and giving nicknames - even to recent acquaintances.
you should take normal  precautions against bag snatching, pick pocketing and the like.
convict settlements were along the east coast,adelaide (settled in 1836) and perth being settled by free settlers.
on arriving in australia ask for the working  holiday visa to be "evidenced", so you can show your future employer.
to dial the number fromsydney or anywhere in australia outside the area code region, you will need to dial 08 8080 3300.
australia produces quality wine on a truly industrial scale, with large multinational brands supplying australian bottleshops and exporting around the world.
most rainfall is around the coast, and much of the centre isarid and semi-arid.
pack the items in hand luggage, and present the item(s) and the receipt at the trs, after immigration and security when leaving australia.
your  employer will need to demonstrate that they cannot hire anyone with your skills  in australia, and the approval will take several months.
many australians are fond of using and giving nicknames - even to  recent acquaintances.
if not a citizen or permanent resident of a  reciprocal country, you can expect to pay around $60 to see a general  practitioner, plus any additional costs for any pathology or radiology  required.
visitors from countries with well-developed long distance rail systems such as europe and japan may be surprised by the lack of high-speed, inter-city rail services in australia.
there can be many ways of writing the same number, as people try to present the number from the caller's perspective.
many worldwide organisations offer extended travel for those wanting to volunteer their time to work with locals on projects such as habitat restoration, wildlife sanctuary maintenance & development, scientific research, & education programs.
don't put your fingers under rocks, into tree holes, where spiders might be.
travellers from new zealand, ireland, united kingdom, sweden, the netherlands, finland, italy, malta and norway are entitled to free reciprocal medicare treatment for medical problems that occur during their visit, but should familiarise themselves with the conditions of the reciprocal arrangement.
some will choose a  racial abuse term if involved in an argument, over a more general abusive term.
carrying a personal locator beacon (plb) or satellite phone should be considered when travelling in remote areas, especially where you may not be able to make contact for several days.
plan  to return in a few weeks, and the land will still be green, the lakes and  rivers will still be flowing, and the bird life will still be around.
some of the best experiences you may have in australia will be by taking  that road on the map that looks like it heads to a beach, creek, waterfall or  mountain and following it.
pick up a bottle of 151 east vodka in wollongong or after a few days in kununurra you are definitely going to need an ord river rum.
several airlines service regional destinations.
major cities around australia have multiple outlets providing a wide range of rental vehicles from major international rental companies.
since 1970 there has been about one crocodile attack on a human each  year.
for those holding foreign sim cards, international roaming is generally seamless onto australia's gsm 900/1800 and 3g (umts/w-cdma) networks, subject to agreements between operators.
crocodiles and box jellyfish are found on tropical beaches, depending on  the time of year and area.
there are many small but reliable isps offering dialup internet the $12–$15 per month flat rate range.
vegemite, a salty yeast-based spread, best spread thinly on toast.
some country pubs have large open  areas out in the back where kids can run and play.
sydney, melbourne, brisbane, perth, adelaide, wollongong and newcastle have train and bus services integrated into the city public transport, with trams also running in melbourne and adelaide, and ferries in sydney and brisbane.
search for jobs onseek [48] orjob
stings from these  jellyfish are 'excruciating' and often fatal.
it can be surprisingly difficult to find australian dialup isps  with instant online signup, but they do exist (beagle[65] is one).
if the flags aren't up,  then there's no one patrolling - and you shouldn't swim.
there is very little provincialism in australia, although accents tend to be broader and slower outside of the large cities.
a train trip on the private trains will be the most expensive way to travel.
[edit] payment and taxes most australian employers pay via direct deposit to australian bank  accounts.
however,  the gympie bush and other closely related species (there are about five) of  stinging tree can be found in south-east queensland, and further south in  eastern australia.
random breath testing is common early saturday and sunday mornings, and many  people are caught the morning after.
the isps dodo[66] and planet [67] for example have prepaid  internet cards available for around $10 a month from a variety of retail  outlets.
facilities usually include a fully equipped kitchen with adequate refrigeration and food storage areas.
first aid treatment for spider bites may vary in australia compared to other areas of the world.
it is much rarer to find someone who will openly express aggression towards any racial group.
'112' will not work from a landline phone.
the surf lifesavers will come out to  you.
the volume of teen revellers can completely change the nature of some of the cities and towns they choose to visit.
tipping is also not expected in taxis, and drivers will typically return your change to the last 5 cents, unless you indicate that they should round the fare to the nearest dollar (it is not unusual for passengers to instruct the driver to round up to the next whole dollar).
you can even find  caravan parks right on the beach, with lagoon swimming pools and playgrounds  all free for guests.
[edit] crime crime rates in australia are roughly comparable with other first world  countries: few travellers will be victims of crime.
if bitten you should immobilise the wound (by wrapping the affected area tightly with strips of clothing or bandages) and seek immediate medical help.
they were reputedly sent by wives and care organisations to world war soldiers in care packages, but the story is likely apocryphal.
you will need to show the bank teller 100 points of id[44].
you may work during that time, but only for 6 months at any one employer (was 3 months until july 2006).
scholarships are rarely awarded for undergraduate or postgraduate  coursework degrees.
in 1770, the expedition of the endeavour under the command of captain james cook navigated and charted the east coast of australia, making first landfall at botany bay on 29 april 1770.
gambling is illegal for under-18's.
as soon as you have an address it is wise to apply for a tax file number (tfn).
state/territory standard time daylight saving time all visitors - apart from citizens of new zealand - require a visa in advance of travel.
it may not even be on the menu, but the vegemite will be out the back in the jar next to the marmalade.
australian english was once known for its colour and colloquialisms but has lost a great deal of this to outside influence, although people in rural areas still tend to speak in a broader accent, using many of the slang words that have become outmoded in metropolitan areas.
no law prohibits people from climbing the rock (except in heat, rain or strong winds), however, local indigenous communities (the anangu) request that you do not climb.
you can buy a seemly infinite variety or packages, caps and bundles, with combinations of data, sms, call time, and sim cards.
the wettest period for the south of the country is usually around the  winter months of june, july, and august.
calls from fixed line (landline) phones may be traced to assist the emergency services to reach you.
deliberate exploration of the australian coast was then largely taken over by the french and the british.
using australian stereotypical expressions may be viewed as an attempt to mock, rather than to communicate.
in most cases the local volunteer surf lifesavers or professional lifeguards are only available during certain hours, and at some beaches only on weekends, and often only during summer.
australia does not have universities whose prestige competes with harvard  or the other ivies in the us or oxford or cambridge in the uk.
mcdonalds has free wi-fi in just about all their stores.
irukandji are another species of tiny (fingernail sized) jellyfish that inhabit the waters off northern australia and the surrounding indo-pacific islands.
on land, crocodiles usually lie motionless, but they have the ability to move with extraordinary speed in short bursts.
it can still be a good time to visit  some of the well populated, tourist-oriented areas, and, except in unusually  heavy flooding, you can still get to see the pounding waterfalls and other  attractions that can make this an interesting time to visit.
australian citizens have the option of substantially reduced fees and also have the option of deferring payment until they are earning income.
[edit]  3g wireless gprs and 3g wireless internet connections are available through all  cellular phone networks.
it is illegal to purchase alcohol on behalf of someone who is under 18 years of age.
in parts of australia that are racially fractured, aussie and australian can both be used as a divisive terms to identify racial heritage.
australians can be socially conservative compared to some european cultures and often have a balanced attitude defining their european origin with their growing asian influence.
many have lagoon pools,  tennis, golf, kids clubs, and other arranged activities.
it is not offensive to use aussie (ozzie) to describe australian  people, but it isn't a term australians generally use to self-identify.
add a mattress, pillow, portable gas cooker, cookware and a 20  lt water container and you are off.
sms is generally 25c.
at the federal level it consists of a senate and a house of representatives.
never try to pick up any snake, even if you believe it to be a  non-poisonous species.
in particular, it is safe to  receive blood transfusions in australia, as donors are screened for hiv,  hepatitis and many other blood borne illnesses.
the world's deadliest spider is the sydney funnel web spider, found in and around sydney and eastern new south wales.
australia and britain passed the australia act in 1986, ending any remnant power the british parliament may have had to pass laws for australia.
it has a template, but there is not enough information present.
minimum  rental periods of at least 2 days usually apply, rising to a week during  periods when they are busy.
australia has many landmarks, famous the world over.
never assume that the qantas fare will be more expensive, as their online deals are often the cheapest available on a route.
outside the capital cities, it will be much more difficult to find food prepared in a strict religious manner.
check with your local  australian high commission, consulate or embassy and the the immigration  department's website[50].
many fewer maintain elements of traditional aboriginal culture.
don't expect an immediate rescue even if you trigger a plb.
holland america line, princess cruises and royal caribbean, all offer cruises to australia across the pacific.
as a result, travel between major cities will not only be faster by air, but often cheaper as well.
for this reason travel insurance or ambulance membership is highly recommended for those travelling to remote areas as helicopter evacuation could cost thousands.
it's also worth asking for a "best price" for high-value goods or purchases involving several items.
unless you are actively trying to insult someone, a traveller is unlikely to insult or cause offence to an australian through any kind of cultural ignorance.
for all tourist visa classes you must be able to demonstrate your ability to support yourself financially for the time you intend to spend in australia.
it tastes similar to marmite or cenovis.
you may just find paradise and not another soul in  sight.
you should expect a cosy, well kept room, a common area, and a cooked breakfast.
alcohol consumption is banned in some public places as  'street drinking'.
the acceptable maximum blood alcohol concentration is 0.05% in all states, often lower or not allowed for operators of heavy vehicles and young or novice drivers.
however, since australia's population density is low, parts of australia  are a long way from medical facilities of any kind.
opium, heroin, amphetamines (speed), cocaine, lsd, ecstasy, marijuana and hashish among other drugs are all illegal both to possess and to sell in all states of australia.
queensland rail have motorail services on the sunlander and the spirit of the outback, allow cars from brisbane to cairns andlongreach.
vinegar applied immediately to  adhering tentacles will lessen the amount of venom injected, but immediate  medical assistance will be required.
many motels have family rooms,  that will usually have a double bed and two single beds in the one room.
often they are just an agreement to respect to the land you  are travelling on as aboriginal land.
the operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of prohibited drugs  or alcohol will always result in arrest and a required court appearance many  weeks from the date of arrest and it can comprehensively disrupt travel plans.
while there are no restrictions on the amount of money that can be brought in or out, australian customs also requires you to declare if you are bringing a$10,000 or more in or out of the country and you will be asked to complete some paperwork.
posting a standard letter costs $0.60 within australia (up to 250g), or $1.40 for the rest of the world (up to 20g only).
towns with populations of 5,000 or more will have a small hospital capable of giving emergency treatment in serious emergencies, and larger towns will have a base hospital capable of routine and some kinds of emergency surgery.
not joining a shout can be awkward in some groups.
these languages are all different, and you won't see an aboriginal phrasebook in the travel bookshops.
drinking beer is ingrained in australian culture.
in the worst case your application can be diverted for manual checks that can take weeks.
some city pubs even have video games and playgrounds for children.
you can also expect to wait a few hours if your condition isn't urgent.
most states have one or two additional state-wide holidays, with victoria (state andsouth australia having a day off for a horse race (the melbourne cup and the adelaide cup).
the prime minister julia gillard, is the current leader of the national government and the australian labor party holds a majority in the house of representatives (relying on the support of independents to retain power).
it allows you to stay in australia  for 12 months from the time you first enter.
the only legally acceptable proof-of-age is an australian drivers  licence, state-issued proof-of-age card or a passport, and it would be wise to  carry one if you want to purchase alcohol or tobacco and look under 25.
for the most part, snakes  fear humans and will be long gone before you ever get the chance to see them.
in australia hitchhiking is often frowned upon by locals and police, especially in metropolitan areas.
information on and advanced warnings of severe weather is available from the bureau of meteorology’s warning page[57] or by calling the national telephone weather services directory on 1900 926 113.
see: driving in australia due to the large distances involved, flying is a well-patronised form of travel in australia.
information on locating the nearest medical services can be obtained by calling 1800 022 222 (except for tasmania).
don't assume every bank will offer the same exchange.
fines or even gaol terms apply for lighting fires that get out of control, not to mention the feeling you may get at being responsible for the property, wildlife, and person damage that you may cause.
the naming of beer glasses varies widely  from state to state, often in confusing ways: aschooner is 425 ml  everywhere except south australia, where it's only 285 ml, a size that's known  elsewhere as amiddy or pot, except in darwin where it's a handle, but in adelaide a "pot" means a 570 ml full pint, and a pint means what a schooner does elsewhere, and... you get the  idea.
travelling in a small group lowers the fuel bill per head, as this will  likely be your biggest expense.
surcharges are far more common for american express and diners club (typically 2%-4%) than they are for visa and mastercard (typically 1.5%).
much as the name suggests, this usually involves a cabin or homestead accommodation on a working property.
there are also several isps who have a pre-paid arrangement at about $1 per  hour of use.
melbourne, adelaide, darwin, cairns and the gold coast have all gates in the one terminal building or within easy walking distance of each other.
for extremely short term or part time courses,  check with your australian consulate or embassy.
the national parliament is based on the british westminster system, with some elements having similar characteristics to the american congressional system.
the areas of the barossa valley, hunter valley, and margaret river are particularly renowned for their wineries and opportunities for cellar door sampling, but northern victoria andmudgee, also have a large variety.
alternatively, you may sail to australia in your own yacht, but beware of customs regulations.