i have looked at train journey lenghts from country to country in the europe rough guide book but cannot see anything about a direct link between vilnius and tallinn.
she is a bit of a rubbish presenter but last night (05/05)she was in vilnius and next week (12/05) she is in tallin - getting the train inbetween.
what is the best way to travel from tallin to stockholm - boat or plane?
thanks, ben bobkerry  october 2010 permalink hey for this you can first search  the internet and there you will find every single information too.
what is the best way to travel from tallin to stockholm - boat or  plane?
if you want to get involved, click one of  these buttons!
try also www.litrail.lt and www.ldz.lv - benno may 2005
is there a train from vilnius to tallin?
permalink haven't heard that there is a  train from vilnius to tallinn (i am estonian).
so just search the net and find out all the useful information so that you will not face any further difficulty while travelling.... - melliset december 2010
i have looked at train journey lenghts from country to country in the europe  rough guide book but cannot see anything about a direct link between vilnius  and tallinn.
if so watch bbc3 2030 on thursday nights.
if so watch  bbc3 2030 on thursday nights.
the choices i am aware: plane or bus (the previous link is correct - eurolines) - hershel february 2011 permalink newsmoo;9617: my boyfriend
permalink hey for this you can first search the internet and there you will find every single information too.
add a comment - newsmoo may 2005 permalink my boyfriend and i want to spend 2 weeks in september visiting the following places:- poland - warsaw & malbork lithuania - vilnius
so just  search the net and find out all the useful information so that you will not  face any further difficulty while travelling.... melliset  december 2010 permalink no idea..
i think you can get correct information on the internet..
newsmoo  may 2005 permalink my boyfriend and i want to spend 2  weeks in september visiting the following places:- poland - warsaw &  malbork estonia - tallin sweden - stockholm  & gothenburg
you have to go via riga and then 4-5 hour by coach to tallinn.
if you want to get involved, click one of these buttons!
permalink don't have any exact idea about it..!!
try also www.litrail.lt and
but you can google it and i am damn sure that you will find related information easily...!!
cemroon  june 2011 permalink i think traveling by bus between  vilnius to tallinn is better option as there is no train connection between  them.
i have looked at train journey lenghts from country to country in the europe rough guide book but cannot see anything about a direct link between vilnius and tallin.
in apply for membership categories
i think you can get  correct information on the internet..
www.ldz.lv benno  may 2005 permalink are you in the uk?
there is a woman doing a tour of the old eastern  bloc - most of which is on train.
there is a woman doing a tour of the old eastern bloc - most of which is on train.
if you watch it there might be some clues about what the journey is like?
in is there a train from vilnius to tallin?
thanks, ben - bobkerry october 2010
she is a bit of a rubbish presenter  but last night (05/05)she was in vilnius and next week (12/05) she is in tallin  - getting the train inbetween.
- laihis may 2005 permalink eurolines bus company operates between tallinn and vilnius.www.eurolines.ee
their  is no direct train from vilnius to tallinn.
sullivan  july 2011 permalink don't have any exact idea about it..!!
estonia - tallin sweden - stockholm & gothenburg
the choices i am aware:  plane or bus (the previous link is correct - eurolines) hershel  february 2011 permalink my boyfriend and i want to spend 2 weeks in september visiting  the following places:- poland - warsaw & malbork estonia - tallin sweden - stockholm & gothenburg
their is no direct train from vilnius to tallinn.
permalink are you in the uk?
has anyone travelled this route or any of the other routes we are planning.
- transport - destination guides - hostel reviews - forums bug.co.uk bug forums - discussions - activity - sign
has anyone travelled this route or any  of the other routes we are planning.
any information or advice would be gratefully  received.
add a comment howdy, stranger!
- cemroon june 2011 permalink i think traveling by bus between vilnius to tallinn is better option as there is no train connection between them.
- sullivan july 2011
what is the best way to travel from tallin  to stockholm - boat or plane?
it looks like you're new here.
any information or advice would be gratefully received.
if you watch it there might be some clues about  what the journey is like?
in apply for membership categories - all discussions6,324 - europe - ↳ hostels735 - ↳ transport625 - ↳ work and visas337 - ↳ travel companions1,022 - ↳ general travel1,684 - australia - ↳ hostels102 - ↳ transport106 - ↳ work and visas69 - ↳ travel companions178 - ↳ general travel291 - new zealand, hawaii & paci - ↳ hostels41 - ↳ transport30 - ↳ work and visas29 - ↳ travel companions26 - ↳ general travel80 - north america, central america - ↳ general travel114 - ↳ hostels36 - ↳ transport39 - ↳ travel companions31 - ↳ work and visas44 - africa - ↳ general travel49 - ↳ hostels10 - ↳ transport3 - ↳ travel companions16 - ↳ work and visas4 - asia - ↳ general travel169 - ↳ hostels39 - ↳ transport18 - ↳ travel companions49 - ↳ work and visas20 powered by vanilla © 1997-2011 bug travel publishing ltd the backpackers' ultimate guide
has anyone travelled this route or any of the other routes we are  planning.
i have looked at train journey lenghts from country  to country in the europe rough guide book but cannot see anything about a  direct link between vilnius and tallin.
simonsig  january 2011
laihis  may 2005 permalink eurolines bus company operates between  tallinn and vilnius.www.eurolines.ee
and i want to spend 2 weeks in september visiting the following places:- poland - warsaw & malbork lithuania - vilnius estonia - tallin sweden - stockholm & gothenburg
- simonsig january 2011 permalink haven't heard that there is a train from vilnius to tallinn (i am estonian).
but you can google it and i am damn sure that you will find related  information easily...!!