furthermore, both rail and air providers have neglected the largest portion of the market: the automobile sector.
europe’s travel sector has been evolving for some time, but the pace  has accelerated as competition has intensified among modes of travel and across  national borders.
more than 30 percent of the drivers we surveyed said they would prefer to travel by air or rail.
one of our study’s major findings is that more than 30  percent of consumers would like to switch travel modes, and in some countries  the number is as high as 65 percent.
in addition to these changes on the supply side, powerful consumer trends  are also driving competition across national borders and competitive barriers.
the results of this survey provide further evidence that there is considerable opportunity in the european travel industry.
the boston consulting group has conducted the first pan-european study  of the travel market, surveying 13,000 consumers from 13 countries on the means  of transportation they use, why and how they use them, their preferences for  one mode of travel over another, and their perceptions of the brands of 43  passenger-transportation operators, including long-distance rail carriers,  traditional airlines, and low-cost airlines.
this has created opportunities for travel operators to  become pan-european.
by 2020, passengers will be able to travel faster from point to point by high-speed rail than by plane on nearly half of europe’s densest air routes.
restructuring: cutting to fit in the airline industry
by 2020, passengers will be able to travel faster from  point to point by high-speed rail than by plane on nearly half of  europe’s densest air routes.
in germany and the united kingdom, for example, more than twice as many  long-distance trips are taken by car as by air and rail combined.
one-third to one-half of european travelers would like to switch to  another means of transportation.
this has created opportunities for travel operators to become pan-european.
there is room for only a few cross-border operators—success requires  a differentiated offering for new consumer segments along with smooth  implementation.
europe’s travel sector has been evolving for some time, but the pace has accelerated as competition has intensified among modes of travel and across national borders.
as a result, travelers will enjoy an unprecedented range of options among  operators and modes of travel.
our study, which is the first to explore these trends, found, for example, that  the travel preferences of european consumers—especially in the lucrative  segment of business travel—no longer differ significantly from one  country to another.
railways and airlines are coming face-to-face with new  challenges as deregulation and consolidation, combined with high-speed  technologies and new business models, enable both rail and air travel to be fast and low-cost.
as changes on both the supply side and the demand side take hold, railways and airlines will no longer be able to claim the captive customer base they once counted on.
the results of this survey provide  further evidence that there is considerable opportunity in the european travel  industry.
in addition to these changes on the supply side, powerful consumer trends are also driving competition across national borders and competitive barriers.
categories: transportation, travel  & tourism, consumer & retail planes, trains, and automobiles crossing paths in european travel march 25, 2009  by peter ulrich, sylvain duranton, and martin koehler send to friend this piece has been added to your saved  content.
airlines are rising to the challenge: leading companies, such as lufthansa and air france-klm, have established rail partnerships and codeshares to broaden their reach and provide better connections into their hubs.
as changes on both the supply side and the demand side take hold, railways  and airlines will no longer be able to claim the captive customer base they  once counted on.
in germany and the united kingdom, for example, more than twice as many long-distance trips are taken by car as by air and rail combined.
considering the size of the travel market, this presents a huge opportunity for the provider of the alternate mode of travel and an enormous threat to the incumbent.
done in this article
the boston consulting group has conducted the first pan-european study of the travel market, surveying 13,000 consumers from 13 countries on the means of transportation they use, why and how they use them, their preferences for one mode of travel over another, and their perceptions of the brands of 43 passenger-transportation operators, including long-distance rail carriers, traditional airlines, and low-cost airlines.
the potential for rail operators to attract airline passengers and vice versa pales when compared with the opportunity for both rail and air providers to lure passengers currently traveling by automobile.
airlines are rising to the challenge: leading companies,  such as lufthansa and air france-klm, have established rail partnerships and  codeshares to broaden their reach and provide better connections into their  hubs.
our study suggests that both airlines and railways could win far  more passengers by focusing on that untapped opportunity than by trying to  steal market share from each other.
eurostar’s continued dominance of the london-to-brussels route demonstrates how effectively rail can capture share: eurostar’s market share on the route has climbed from 44 percent in 2002 to 75 percent in 2008.
the potential for rail operators to attract airline passengers and vice  versa pales when compared with the opportunity for both rail and air providers  to lure passengers currently traveling by automobile.
both airlines and railways could win far more passengers by focusing on  automobile travelers—30 percent of whom would prefer to travel by air or  rail—than by trying to steal market share from each other.
to read more please login or  register
more than 30  percent of the drivers we surveyed said they would prefer to travel by air or  rail.
by 2020, passengers will be able to arrive at their destinations faster by  high-speed rail than by plane on nearly half of the densest european air routes.
our study, which is the first to explore these trends, found, for example, that the travel preferences of european consumers—especially in the lucrative segment of business travel—no longer differ significantly from one country to another.
considering the size of the travel market,  this presents a huge opportunity for the provider of the alternate mode of  travel and an enormous threat to the incumbent.
as a result, travelers will enjoy an unprecedented range of options among operators and modes of travel.
so far, however, only easyjet, ryanair, and, to some extent, eurostar have footprints outside their home markets, making them truly cross-border brands.
if only a small fraction of automobile travelers who would like to switch to either train or plane could find the right offering, airlines and railways could expand their markets considerably.
our study suggests that both airlines and railways could win far more passengers by focusing on that untapped opportunity than by trying to steal market share from each other.
railways and airlines are coming face-to-face with new challenges as deregulation and consolidation, combined with high-speed technologies and new business models, enable both rail and air travel to be fast and low-cost.
furthermore, both rail and air  providers have neglected the largest portion of the market: the automobile  sector.
one of our study’s major findings is that more than 30 percent of consumers would like to switch travel modes, and in some countries the number is as high as 65 percent.
so far, however, only easyjet, ryanair, and, to some  extent, eurostar have footprints outside their home markets, making them truly  cross-border brands.
if only a small fraction  of automobile travelers who would like to switch to either train or plane could  find the right offering, airlines and railways could expand their markets  considerably.
eurostar’s continued dominance of the  london-to-brussels route demonstrates how effectively rail can capture share:  eurostar’s market share on the route has climbed from 44 percent in 2002  to 75 percent in 2008.