they do that, but with 'climate', 'sceptics' usually are confusing 'weather'.
the last is particularly odd as sceptics traditionally point out how unpredictable climate patterns are.
to be honest it is of my opinion that atheism is intellectually dishonest and perhaps is even more "cowardly" as it hides behind empiricism while not acknowledging the rationalism that underpins its core assumptions...but don't get me started.
with the recent energy price rises and the extra 500 pounds perhaps the coalition will be happy when 50,000 plus old people are dying each year.
comments on this page are now closed.
20 feb 2012 girl model: watch the trailer - video  (3min 0sec) 20 feb 2012 toys protest against government in barnaul, siberia – video   (1min 41sec) 20 feb 2012 big miracle: watch the trailer - video  (3min 0sec) 20 feb 2012 israel calls for tighter nuclear sanctions on iran - video  (1min  0sec)
david mitchell says catastrophic agw is a higher priority than directly reducing poverty through efficiency.
we can see from past history there are dramatic climate changes when we were few in number and chasing mamoths about the place.
however, these precautionary principles just reinforce the desires of the person who promotes them.
what most sceptics do not believe in is 'catastrophic man-made global warming'.
15 september 2011 4:05pm @jw999
how does the dumbest comment ever receive so many recommendations?
15 september 2011 3:19pm in short, you are gambling your money today that you'll be able to influence something 50 years hence, which may or may not exist.
i'm not saying anyone should decide their position on such slight grounds.
15 september 2011 2:14pm really eliminating carbon emissions the way the greens want would bankrupt this country - causing a collapse in living standards that would make the current cuts look like tea for two at claridge's!
how is that uneconomical!
that's the complete opposite of what you've been led to believe by wuwt, or whichever denialist site you get your briefings from.
http://www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/2010-climate-records.html http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/solar_cycle 15 september 2011 3:08pm the flaw in pascal's wager is that the nature of the worship god requires is not clear.
in which case, why take the risk – and continue ruining the planet, in the meantime?
15 september 2011 4:02pm when is the last time a number 1, 2 or even a 3 floated past your empirical point pf view?
the latter was a small influence pushing me towards a more sceptical position - i thought, if the evidence was so obvious, why were they resorting to smears?
15 september 2011 2:31pm i was totally in favour of action against climate change until i found out how much not doing anything annoyed george monbiot.
sorry, i'm not a believer in the great vat.
15 september 2011 2:16pm most sceptics believe the climate is constantly changing.
there's like a one in a squillion chance that an asteroid will smash into the planet destroying all life.
i do everything i can to limit the amount of pollution i personally contribute to this messy world, but i will not be made to feel guilty for emitting carbon dioxide from my mouth and nostrils nor methane my arse!
oct 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: marathons - video  (3min 56sec)
seems a bit cowardly to be honest
think of all the jobs building this would create!
this is an interesting argument.
@aniterroist states "i don't think it is in our dna to act on a problem which may kill us in a few generations," what hideous mutation would give rise to the circumstances that allow the evolution of choice of non propagation?
15 september 2011 2:24pm most of the 'independent' scientific bodies depend on funding from governments or industry bodies which are dependent on being right - never mind that it'd be quite embarrassing to finally be proved wrong!
on average 25,000 old people die eacg year because they cannot afford to eat and keep warm.
you don't need a microscope to see the numerals, just a pair of eyes ...connected to a brain in a vat....possibly :-)
then lightning insurance would be a bloody good idea.
it will bankrupt fossil fuel companies and various dicatatorships in the middle east, but not the majority of the globe.
however i have no doubt that those experts who do believe it is happening are sincere (talk of tax raising conspiracies are pure tin foil hat drivel) and that even if the science is proven to be inaccurate there are numerous other benefits to be had from cleaning up our act.
you don't need a microscope to see the numerals, just a pair of eyes ...connected to a brain in a vat....possibly :-) 15 september 2011 4:08pm @wyattcalling right now when i read that sentence.
15 september 2011 3:53pm when i was a teen in the early 70's, there was enough evidence of the destructiveness of pollution, and i stopped worrying about a nuclear war.
and we do these things for nothing?
it is interesting as for once the scientists are actually asking to have faith in a viewpoint that does not strictly satisfy the scientific method or positivist approaches to knowledge.
come on, you're better than this.
david mitchell says puritan denial of energy usage.
15 september 2011 2:49pm batz david - i guess that means you're never getting on a plane again, or a train, or a car - because hey - why take the risk?
for example, even if the kyoto protocol had been fully implemented, it was expected only to reduce global temperatures from what they otherwise would have been by a tiny fraction of one degree.
15 september 2011 2:51pm i agree david, but i think you lack ambition.
08  sep 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: quiz answers - video  (4min 30sec) 31 aug  2011 david mitchell's soapbox: drinking culture - video  (2min 36sec) 25  aug 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: giving presents - video  (4min 1sec)
cars that are more fuel efficient?
for more detail see our faqs.
if nothing else environmentalism will make our natural resources last longer, our air more pleasant to breathe and our scenery nicer to look at.
28 sep 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: being called a 'young man' - video  (3min  28sec)
as you say, at first the denier will say 'it's not happenening,' before then changing to the 'it is happening but not by us' without ever conceding that their first assertion is invalidated by their second.
i thought i was agnostic, but having read your post i'm no longer sure...
20 feb 2012 star wars episode i:
but on the other hand, we will end up as one more stratum of poisonous material in a stratified earth crust 15 september 2011 3:56pm @parttimer atheism is not a faith position when is the last time a number 1, 2 or even a 3 floated past your empirical point pf view?
if you can see there's a problem and you don't agree with the solution then do something about it.
replies may also be deleted.
especially since the last time the project had data suggesting this it was shut down from governmental pressure after intense pressure from the green lobby...
it's literally a win win deal.
15 september 2011 4:00pm @wyattcalling "to be honest it is of my opinion that atheism is intellectually dishonest and perhaps is even more "cowardly" as it hides behind empiricism while not acknowledging the rationalism that underpins its core assumptions...but don't get me started.
pastafarians say cruel mockery of all faith-based positions.
15 september 2011 2:18pm dont get me wrong
by definition, acting before we have evidence is not evidence based.
25  aug 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: stag weekends – video  (2min 47sec)
then as evidence they claim solar activity is really the cause.
on the one hand you get on a plane knowing there's an infinitesimal chance it will go down; you know the statistics and you're prepared to take that gamble with your own life.
this comment was removed by a moderator because it didn't abide by our community standards.
i only believe in the brains.
seems a bit cowardly to be honest.
15 september 2011 2:41pm most of the 'independent' scientific bodies depend on funding from governments or industry bodies which are dependent on being right - never mind that it'd be quite embarrassing to finally be proved wrong!
@darthij: i take it that you didn't even bother to read the synopsis of the paper that you are referring to.
sep 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: weddings - video  (3min 54sec)
but i am glad to see a more polite term used in the debate and i hope it spreads.
surely it's incumbent upon you to buy lightning insurance from me - a snip at £10,000,000!
follow the current popular view or struggle to get funding.
15 september 2011 3:26pm
take, for example, cern whose cloud project recently published data that suggests that in fact the climate change we are experiencing is a lot more dependent on solar activity and not human activity!
15 september 2011 2:12pm david - i guess that means you're never getting on a plane again, or a train, or a car - because hey - why take the risk?
to what extent and consequence is where we start moving into areas whereby scientists themselves use to discredit arguments of non-scientific based beliefs or assertions of truth.
15 september 2011 3:48pm it is of my opinion that atheism is intellectually dishonest how so, bearing in mind that atheism is not a faith position, and that any atheist, faced with proof of god's existence, would change their position?
15 september 2011 3:28pm
hope that clears it up for you
then they jump to 'sun big, people small' tactic.
15 september 2011 3:14pm i don't care whether its getting hotter or colder or who or what caused it to happen.
the only person who mentioned "god" was yourself in this context.
in short, you are gambling your money today that you'll be able to influence something 50 years hence, which may or may not exist.
jun 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: lol - video  (4min 5sec) 02
15 september 2011 3:57pm lots of people make the obvious but nonetheless sensible comment that throwing trillions of dollars at a risk that may or may not materialise may not be sensible.
seems an odd coincidence that the data is being played down to avoid "the highly political arena of the climate change debate."
so-called renewables offer a bleak future of evenings sitting in the dark, knitting bulky sweaters from hemp in a futile effort to keep warm.
if we could physically see lightning clouds gathering above your head and your hair standing on end as an electric current was connecting to the lighting clouds from your noggin.
perhaps they want it this way as it’s one way of keeping the pension expenditure down.
i think what we need is the metaphorical saber tooth lion breathing down our necks before we will actually get off our arse, i genuinely believe most people will otherwise go about their daily lives.
could you help me with a definition, along the lines of the above.
when the denier sees the graphs for this they then will try to obfuscate before shifting the goal posts again.
15 september 2011 4:03pm @
on the one hand, as a nature lover, i hate seeing the stupidity of shitting in our own nest.
perhaps this is intentional?
diversity of food and energy security, why is that a ridiculous suggestion!
so, sorry david, playing the ventriloquist's dummy for the man-made global warming lobby is a waste of your brains and talent!
it's probable that man's activity is driving warming to the planet.
you know what, i have no idea if man made climate change is real or not.
15 september 2011 4:02pm but david, you've forgot the ingenious responses of the real sceptics, the real, intelligent ones, some of which can be seen commenting above on the thread.
in the end all that happens in reality is you both end up like a dog chasing it's tail.
i do however think it's dimwitted to consume finite resources as though they are infinite - and not even care about the consequences.
it's possible that the outcome of this will one day prove to be catastrophic, it's also possible that it won't.
be careful what you wish for.
and, i refuse to feel bad about the tiny amounts of power that i use when compared to the vast quantities of energy wasted by super-powerful trans-national corporations (disgusting polluters that all get tax breaks or hide their money in off-shore accounts) or be told by the media moguls that hang out on gin-palaces in the med (£1500 in deisel fuel to travel 5 miles) that carbon taxes are a good idea!
so i propose we build a giant net in space to catch any approaching rocks.
so this week he thought he'd tackle climate change doubters.
if you had, you would know that it concludes with this: even with the large enhancements in rate due to ammonia and ions, atmospheric concentrations of ammonia and sulphuric acid are insufficient to account for observed boundary-layer nucleation.
this has been going on for a long time.
the last is particularly odd as sceptics traditionally point out how unpredictable climate patterns are.'
15 september 2011 3:41pm @ wyattcalling 15 september 2011 3:35pm to be honest it is of my opinion that atheism is intellectually dishonest and perhaps is even more "cowardly" as it hides behind empiricism while not acknowledging the rationalism that underpins its core assumptions...but don't get me started.
to paraphrase.... "uuguggugugusuduugguuhhguhuhrhrhhrrrrrrrgh!!! ! !!
15 september 2011 3:27pm surely it's just common sense to preserve our resources - even if co2 doesn't contribute to global warming it's no reason to burn oil like it's going out of fashion.
i've heard so much about this solar activity issue.
or as fnusnuank demonstrates, continuously move the goalposts.
15 september 2011 2:50pm i'm still reeling from last week's revelation that you don't have a car.
15 september 2011 2:31pm climate change happens: warming, cooling, and warming and cooling again.
21 sep 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: climate change doubters - video  (3min  18sec)
15 september 2011 2:56pm it didn't take long for the astro-turfers to swamp this blog with their talking points.
15 september 2011 3:50pm government climate change targets will put £500 on the average family's fuel bill within four years, a study by dr richard wellings warns.
15 september 2011 2:07pm food security, cleaner air, living longer, healthy kids, liveable cities, energy independence.
source: channel flip series: david mitchell's soapbox more video more video 218 comments, displaying oldest firstsort comments by oldest newest 15 september 2011 2:07pm
15 september 2011 2:28pm
better to let them spin off on their own.
15 september 2011 4:19pm pushing 'green' and/or nuclear technologies won't bankrupt us.
all the new technologies we'd develop.
not quite the same risk though, is it?
which are great results in themselves.
so you worship god just in case do you?
that's his choice but listening to him won't cause his death...
the economic risks of not acting are far higher for the world as a whole than the economic risks of taking action the might not have been necessary.
by 2015 some 500 pounds will be added to the household fuel bills.
if 1998 were the year of maximum global temperatures it was closer to the solar minimum than maximum - and then with the longer term '60, no 70, no 80' year solar cycle where activity peaked in the sixties.
just the death of the poor.
there are plenty of less risky things to do to save the world.
the phantom menace 3d: watch the trailer - video  (3min 0sec) 20 feb 2012 more video
15 september 2011 3:41pm @zacsmith
politics - like the average internet forum - rarely does sensible compromise.
what makes spending those trillions of dollars definitely not sensible is that, even on the analysis of people advocating the most draconian measures, they won't work.
the only scenario in which we can get away with doing absolutely nothing, is if we can all agree that nothing negative resource or climate related will ever happen in the future.
regarding your first comment i don't think you get it.
the data doesn't support that the sun is the only driver of climate though.
15 september 2011 4:09pm i'm pleased to see the term "climate change doubters" being used rather than "climate change deniers".
" yes, well real sceptics don't believe in the existence of the world but they still generally leave by the door rather than the upstairs window.
so, david, i have the answer for you: we take the risk because the risk you are concerned about may not materialise, the cost of addressing it isn't worth it, and the measures available to us won't work anyway.
.... ," ... or somesuch.
15 september 2011 3:02pm @lightfinger 'there is no climate change, there is but it's not man made and now, there is but it's not going to be that bad.
what's certain is that it is not yet a clear and present danger - until then; you'd be as well flinging shyte at the moon.
dawkins would be foaming at the mouth...most probably from the soap he uses to wash his mouth out with.
turn off the sun we all freeze.
15 september 2011 3:40pm @fnusnuank "what most sceptics do not believe in is 'catastrophic man-made global warming'.
what if it's all a big hoax
15 september 2011 2:25pm
so why take the risk?
why take the chance? however, such an emminently sensible position won't stop the usual pointless exchange along the lines of "we're right" "no, we're right".
after all spending loads of money we don't have solving non existent problems is how humans have gone from living in caves to producing not very funny videos for the guardian.
most sceptics believe that there is probably a 'man-made' element to it.
jul 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: restaurants - video  (3min 28sec) 14
the association of "deniers" was obviously intended to be withholocaust deniers.
i’m not an expert and don’t have the time or inclination to become one.
i appreciate that climate change is happening, and i also understand we are most likely causing it, will the planet really be un-inhabitable though, or is there a chance we can adapt? 15 september 2011 2:22pm also i am a bit of a fatalist in that i believe that man has managed to cause his own demise, i don't think it is in our dna to act on a problem which may kill us in a few generations, as someone said above, there will be no clear and present danger until its too late.
" neither rationality nor irrationality can be justified using themselves as this would be a case of begging the question.
*cough* pensions *cough* 15 september 2011 3:47pm lots of people make the obvious but nonetheless sensible comment that throwing trillions of dollars at a risk that may or may not materialise may not be sensible.
also, would be good to end dependence on russian gas and libyan oil!
15 september 2011 2:46pm no country wants to be the one to sacrifice the most to help the environment to the advantage of their rivals.
these disbelievers must concede that climate change is a 'possibility'.
and how many dollars have been spent worldwide on nuclear weapons?
in the recent cold winter this figure peaked at 35,000.
love your comedy, though.
you don't need a microscope to see the numerals, just a pair of eyes.
i have microscopes, telescopes and stethoscopes...nothing.
jun 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: friendship etiquette - video  (3min 59sec)
now you're not gambling with your own life, because you'll be safely dead before the shit hits the fan, you're gambling with billions of lives of people not even born yet who might ask what kind of selfish twat would choose to ignore all the warning signs because it meant making small changes to his or her lifestyle.
we'll never all agree on that, so we should all just get over ourselves and deal with it.
having said that i prefer the rational route as - on the whole - it produces better and more predictable results.
unfortunately, the people you have to convince are american republican politicians who see anything that gets in the way of big business as a pinko plot to turn the us into a socialist flower-garden; millions of redneck numbskulls and fundamentalist christians who think there's a big guy in the sky operating the controls; and huge multinational corporations who believe it's true but pretend it isn't because their share prices will crash.
personally i believe man has had an effect on climate change.
we'll have to tackle the first two whether or not climate change is happening but as luck would have it solving the first two might also contribute significantly to mitigating climate change too.
you could fairly argue we are poisining the planet and causing alot of damage.
15 september 2011 2:40pm hey david - it's possible you could be struck by lightning tomorrow.
increasing population and dependency on dwindling fossil fuels are both happening whether climate change is or not.
15 september 2011 2:13pm pentsakor a very good point: pascal's wager, in effect.
don't say "there is no problem because i don't agree with this course of action".
if all the evidence pointed towards you getting struck by lightning and there was nearly a 100 % chance you were to be struck by lightning also all the worlds scientists were telling you you were going to get struck by lighting based on numerous supporting theories.
turn autoplay off turn autoplay on please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off last week david mitchell solved the environment - and he's a bit miffed that didn't make more of a stir.
the political climate change skeptics (eg. republican party) are nationalists not genuine skeptics.
we have government’s targets driven by ideology not rational thinking.
but i suppose you're right - better safe than sorry!
unless he's right, of course.
if you look at it logically the main source of heat light etc is the sun.
if you're lucky they'll try to quote monkton!
david mitchell's soapbox: not one - video  (3min 29sec) 06
jul  2011 david mitchell's soapbox quiz - video  (4min 6sec) 04 aug 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: being called a 'young man' - video  (3min  28sec)
15 september 2011 4:06pm @sleepiehead .
it would help diffuse american reluctance for instance if china came on-board.
hey david - it's possible you could be struck by lightning tomorrow.
15 september 2011 3:02pm if you want to reduce our use of finite resources (which you think is 'ruining the planet') nuclear power is the only sensible option.
15 september 2011 2:09pm a very good point: pascal's wager, in effect.
pascal would have said jansenist ultra-catholicism.
lets forget the whole climate change thing and address the other two - they're harder to deny.
15 september 2011 4:15pm
not such a natural selection i would argue.
more from comment is free on more comment more performances more video your ip address will be logged autoplay is on | turn autoplay off turn autoplay on | autoplay is off when autoplay is on, videos on these pages will autoplay more about our videos please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off more about our videos copy and paste the embed code below       terms and conditions of use
secondly, we have our doubts about the solutions, some of which are going to kill a lot more people than any cagw ever will.
mr mitchell, please watch the number of cold weather deaths rise as the taxes on fuel rise over the next few years and then see if you feel so smug.
i've heard sceptics claim; there is no climate change, there is but it's not man made and now, there is but it's not going to be that bad.
first they will blame the 11 year solar cycle thinking that technical sounding words will outflank the scientist (!) - which contradicts another well-trodden and inaccurate assertion that the earth has been cooling since 1998.
but as he may not be why not wait and see?
18  aug 2011 series: david mitchell's soapbox david mitchell's soapbox: drinking culture - video  (2min 36sec)
15 september 2011 2:31pm i don't particularly care about climate change.
15 september 2011 3:35pm @batz
jun 2011 more video fukushima chief dismisses rumours of overheating reactor –  video  (1min 25sec) 20 feb 2012 andrew lansley heckled by crowds outside downing street – video  (1min 16sec) 20 feb 2012 london fashion week: jonathan saunders interview - video  (7min 6sec)
all i know is that if life in the future is going to change for the worse, we should do our best to try and solve it now, before it happens.
right now when i read that sentence.
i'm ambivalent as to saving the planet.
15 sep 2011 david mitchell's soapbox: sustainability - video  (4min 33sec)
on the other hand the scientific consensus is that man is changing the climate in a way which will prove catastrophic for several billion people if it isn't checked.
nobody is arguing that people are bigger than the sun seems a too obvious response.
as solar activity has barely changed except for a gradual and slow decline over the next fifty years.
make the sun alot more active we fry.
and how many people will the coalition kill because of these stupid policies?