there's much less wiggle room when it comes to tilting the screen back and forth, however.
the matte screen surface prevents reflections from overshadowing the picture and combined with the high brightness, it makes foralways discernible screen contents, even in direct sunlight.
after an hour of the stress test (100% load on cpu and gpu), we measured 84°c for the cpu and acritical 99°c for the graphics card .
when equipped with an i7-cpu, the latitude e6420's score shoots up to 8000 points in pcmark vantage.
during our hardware stress test, we measured a gpu temperature of up to 99°c, which seems to high for the 45w version of the nvs 4200m running at its maximum clock rate (and this seems to go along with what the dell representative told us over the phone about there not being a 45w version available for the e6420).
the lenovo t420 is 12 mm less wide and the hp 8640p 14 mm.
under heavy use, the power consumption rises to 49.3w during mixed cpu and gpu use (3dmark) and all the way up to 67.3w in the stress test (cpu and gpu at 100% load).
still, the esata port isn't used for many devices and doesn't seem to have much of a future to it.
the extra 60 euro (excl.
if this level of service doesn't cut it, you can always upgrade to dell prosupport (+145 euro) which tacks on around-the-clock technical support over the phone including questions concerning software developed by third parties.
during the review, we often had to adjust the tilt in order to be able to see the screen clearly.
a few  things have changed here from the previous model.
the fastest ssds, like the ocz vertex 3 (click here for review) and the intel elmcrest 510 series cost 500 euro for a 240gb-250gb model.
although it has practically died out in the consumer notebook sector, the compact 14" format is still one of the most popular styles of business notebooks.
noise levelidle 31.9 / 31.9 / 34.2 db temperature even after several hours of light office use, the surfaces of the dell latitude e6420 remaincomfortable to the touch.
on the downside, the poor picture contrast and few vertical viewing angles can be frustrating.
what we'd like to see usb 3.0 port and a displayport.
these buttons are now arranged in a single row in which the  individual buttons are bit more bunched together than before.
the performance check wouldn't be complete without the 3dmark score.
careful though, the latitude can't quite manage tougher cad projects—the precision series is better for that.
as is typical of dell, the latitude e6420 with a wide array of options for connecting to the internet.
a single hook clasps the display shut.
depending on your needs and the amount of money you have to spend, you're the boss!
the optional usb 3.0 offered in place of the dvd drive doesn't sound like a great trade-off because one: you'd miss out on the dvd drive and two: you still have to pay more for the usb 3.0 adapter (exact price not available).
our expectations are by no means high, but after a hard day's work, can you use this laptop to unwind by building up a city, racing through the mud or playing a game of football?
the color of the keys
to top display the dell latitude e6420 comes with one of three types of 14" displays,  that is, the screen measures 36 cm diagonally.
the user meanwhile remains unaware.
the "ultra performance" profile mentioned earlier pushes the noise level still higher to a maximum of 44.0 db(a) during the stress test.
eating up only7-13w of power makes the above-mentioned battery life values possible.
primarily responsible for this is the nvidia optimus graphics-card-switching technology, which automatically activates the on-board hd graphics 3000 and shuts off the nvs 4200m gpu under low system demands.
although it has practically died out in the consumer  notebook sector, the compact 14" format is still one of the most popular  styles of business notebooks.
once more, setting the graphics settings high, like turning on directx11, will only result in choppy video.
exterior interior: magnesium-aluminum alloy our attempts to dent the surface had no effect whatsoever.
another important feature would be the choice of video  output—hdmi 1.3 (according to dell).
therefore, despite its high level of brightness, the screen only manages to reach alow contrast ratio of 127:1(max.
the particular configuration we reviewed included a 9-cell battery (97wh), bringing the grand total up to 2.620 kg.
in the cinebench r10 64bit shading test, our laptop managed 4471 points.
the multi-touch functions can be configured to your  personal preferences via pre-installed software.
the lenovo t420 is the thinnest of the three at 30mm when closed (e6420 and 8460p both 32mm - all figures based on info from the manufacturers).
cpu performance it's already well known what the intel core i3-2310m is capable of.
the results of the cinebench rendering benchmarks are as to be expected for the cpu.
a great feature is the keyboard backlight, which costs an additional 40 euro but makes for easy-to-recognize keys no matter the lighting situation around you (convenient on the train, bus, plane, etc.).
it's disappointing that no usb 3.0 port is on board.
still, the esata port isn't used for many devices and doesn't seem  to have much of a future to it.
review dell latitude e6420 notebook j. simon leitner ( translated by  daniel rechitsky), 04/13/2011 ever popular.
keystrokes are firm, requiring a fair amount of pressure before they plop down, which gives them a very easy-to-feel pressure point.
naturally, this includes a water-resistant keyboard cover.
no driver settings were found.
instead, they've gone with a longrubber strip encompassing the entire screen , which should serve to protect the screen and keyboard from dust particles  getting in when the laptop's closed.
the trackpoint on the thinkpad t420 reacted very similarly in side-by-side testing.
you can even request a fingerprint scanner (fips standard available).
every now and then, when under light use, we heard the fans start to whir as it picks up speed and drives warm air out of the case.
taking a look at the competition, lenovo's new thinkpad t420 remains loyal to itspredecessor, the t410—the design shows only minor modifications.
cpus as powerful as intel sandy bridge quad-core processors and the optional dedicated nvidia nvs 4200m graphics card allow for a broad spectrum of use.
with the appropriate module, this too can be upgraded later on down the line.
the latitude e6420 can also  be equipped with aumts/hspa module on request.
the good choice of materials used in constructing the case of the latitude e6420 are to thank for this.
speaking over the phone with a dell representative, we were told this was a mistake and that only the "35w" nvs is available for the e6420.
measuring the black level, we get an undesirably high 2.52 cd/m².
this was the version of graphics card in the laptop we reviewed, but the nvidia settings identified it nevertheless as having 512mb ddr3 video memory, which according to dell's website is only available in the "45w" version.
this would be a good way to distinguish it from the less expensive e5420.
these will be—among others—the main criteria for the following review since you can argue about which design is better until the cows come home.
speaking of docking stations: the e6420 can be hooked up to existing docking  stations including: e-legacy extender, e-port and e-port plus—if in  doubt, speak with someone at dell.
this configuration should suffice for typical office work.
our teaser article about dell's new business line-up from a few weeks ago  stirred up an unusually high level of controversy in our forums.
while browsing the web (fair screen brightness, "energy-saver" profile), the laptop huffed and puffed forabout 530 minutes on battery power.
system performance our in-review configuration consists of the intel core i3-2310m, the smallest of the available sandy bridge cpus, paired with thenvidia nvs 4200m ("35w").
with higher demands regarding 3d graphics or special software, you can definitely benefit from the power of a dedicated graphics card like the optionalnvidia nvs 4200m graphics card (optimus ).
to the likely frustration of current latitude users, the keyboard layout has changed, the keys a bit more bunched together.
although its look may be a matter of taste, the sturdiness, craftsmanship and feel of the latitude e6420's case are first-rate.
we see, however, that hp wisely chose to include two usb 3.0 ports (+esata) in its 8460p, while lenovo—like dell—has gone down the esata route for the t420.
technically speaking, all notebooks are very similar.
compared to theapple macbook pro 13 or the dell xps 15, the much narrower variety of colors that can be displayed on this screen is easy to see.
most likely the same display is in place in the e5420 as comes  standard for the e6420 series.
what surprises us the newly forged path dell is taking with the design of their business notebooks.
under heavy use, particularly using the 3dmark 2006 benchmark, we measured noise levels up to 39.6 db(a).
the  display lid takes a bit of effort to tilt back but barely bobs back and forth  after being adjusted.
so how good does the picture look on this screen?
it all comes down to your individual needs and preferences whether the latitude e6420 is right for you.
one of the big strengths of the dell latitude e6420 is its potential battery life.
soon we'll also have a review of the lower-resolution hd display version  (1366x768) of the e6420.
old-school businessmen might shake their heads at the following few paragraphs, but we still want to see how the nvidia nvs 4200m graphics card can handle some newer video games.
at the ground floor there's, of course, a gigabit ethernet port (intel 82578lm).
we scanned the surfaces, looking for plastic but found it only around the keyboard and the screen bezel.
nevertheless, because of the overall very bright screen, differences in illumination cannot be detected with the naked eye.
naturally, this includes a  water-resistant keyboard cover.
with the 9-cell battery, it's possible to get a whole day's work done without ever having to charge up the laptop—depending on the applications you're using.
and for attaching an external monitor there's only one way to go, hdmi.
the lenovo thinkpad t420 with an hd+ display shines a  bit dimmer (max.
at the right toward the front, we have a 45mm expresscard slot and underneath it the dvd drive.
the average screen brightness is somewhat lower at 277 cd/m², the drop being attributable mostly to the dimmer corners of the screen.
at the back toward the right we find an hdmi  port and a kensington lock slot.
for moving the cursor across the screen, dell provides us with two options here: trackpoint (aka pointstick) and touchpad.
along the front we also find an sd card reader.
it's true that our excitement had already come and gone by the time our forums became the scene of a heated debate about the latitude's new design.
we can even recommend the acer travelmate 8472tg, albeit reluctantly.
a single hook clasps the display  shut.
to limit access to the laptop, the latitude e6420 comes with asmart card reader (contactless reader also available).
the brightness distribution comes to an okay 79.7%.
dell calls this composition tri-metal and refers multiple times to its adherence to  various—albeit not very convincing—military standards.
the hardware within does not stay quite as cool, however.
the same is true for case depth: the front of the e6420 juts out about 10 mm when placed side-by-side with its rivals.
most likely the same display is in place in the e5420 as comes standard for the e6420 series.
scores in this range are quite popular in our database, comparable gpus being theati mobility radeon hd 5650 and the nvidia nvs 3100m (thinkpad t510 – 4563 points and t410s with 4445 points).
on dell's website, the  starter configuration with an led screen  has an hd resolution of 1366x768  pixels.
note: you must opt into such service before the act of theft and there are usually regularly scheduled payments associated with such services.
dell lists the 128gb ssd as costing 330 euro extra, while the 256gb ssd will run you an additional 650 euro on top of the starting price in dell's online store.
the wxga+ display from thepreceding model, the e6410, is just about on par with this.
hopes of using multi-monitor setups (+2x24“ fhd via dualhead2go) or high-resolution 30-inch (2560x1600) screens go down the drain, the only option being 180 euro more for the appropriate docking solution.
also, the  "page up" and "page down" buttons have made their way down  to just above the arrow keys.
at 4601 points in the 3dm 2006 test (1280x1024), the gpu here is on par with the geforce 320m and the gt 130m. interestingly enough, our database shows that even intel's on-board hd graphics 3000 sometimes approaches the 4000 point mark, depending on the hardware configuration at hand.
the sound quality of the one speaker was decent and could have made for good sound quality with the potential second speaker working when you consider the expectations of a business laptop like the dell latitude e6420.to top two factors are mainly responsible for the laptop's battery life: one is the capacity of the battery and the other is the power consumption of the system under various levels of stress.
another important feature would be the choice of video output—hdmi 1.3 (according to dell).
at the right toward the front, we have a 45mm expresscard slot and  underneath it the dvd drive.
is it a credit to the latitude series or does it bring shame to dell?
the seagate st9250410as in our test laptop has a capacity of 250gb and a rotational speed of 7200 rpm.
the 90w power supply has no problem handling this.
this was the screen in our test model and is worth the extra price in our opinion just by looking at it, you can tell that this display shines very bright.
the variety of ports on the e6420, however, still leaves some things to be desired: the combination headphone/microphone port is not compatible with most existing headsets (separate connectors), a usb 3.0 adapter can optionally be built in to replace the dvd drive (or attached via expresscard adapter).
on top of that, due to a possible error in the description of the gpu, the online shop offers 45w tdp graphics card, how will the laptop be sufficiently cooled with such powerful hardware in place?
which brings us to the configurations available for this notebook: ranging from the weakest and least expensive intel core i3-2310m cpu all the way up to the i7-2720qm quad-core cpu, dell makes the entire sandy bridge line of processors available for the latitude e6420.
our attempts to dent the surface had no effect whatsoever.
this seems to indicate that a watered-down version of the nvs 4200m was in place in the particular dell latitude e6420m model we reviewed.
particularly the placement of the ports jumps out at you when you first look at  the laptop, which are found around the back corners.
in terms of case dimensions, e6420 is the widest at 352 mm.
the lenovo thinkpad t420 with an hd+ display shines a bit dimmer (max.
newer external hard drives are usb 3.0  compatible, with esata slowly disappearing from the market.
hp, meanwhile, presents us with the complete opposite of  dell's design in the form of their new elitebooks.
to top connectivity now we get to the selection and placement of ports on the e6420.
you can  even request a fingerprint scanner (fips standard available).
at the back toward the right we find an hdmi port and a kensington lock slot.
the bright, matte screen makes using the laptop outdoors possible, even in direct sunlight.
the  fans and heat sinks, the processor, memory, pci module and the cmos battery are  all ready to be tinkered with once the cover is off.
also coming soon is a review of the less  expensive latitude e5420, also a 14" business notebook with an hd  display.
security business professionals know that security cannot be overlooked when choosing a laptop.
in terms of its performance, the 14" office notebook leaves little to be desired.
of  course, the esata port offers faster transfer rates than usb 2.0, useful for  transferring large files like when backing up data onto an external hard  drive.
hp's model with the smallest possible 3-cell battery  comes to 2.07kg, the same as the dell e6420 with a 4-cell battery.
whereas 12" and 13" laptops are normally restricted in their hardware, 14" laptops can usually be equipped with standard processors and even dedicated graphics cards.
the touchpad buttons are  just as comfortable to use, having just the right depression depth and clicking  almost silently.
while some saw this as putting a friendlier face on the notebook, others argued the notebook design has lost all semblance of professionalism.
this includes the display lid that won't budge even a millimeter under pressure.
this minimizes the amount of time the laptop has to be out of commission in case of a defect so that you won't be delayed much in your work.
of course, the esata port offers faster transfer rates than usb 2.0, useful for transferring large files like when backing up data onto an external hard drive.
the base unit is unbelievably warp-resistant thanks to the sturdy  magnesium frame that tightly cradles all the hardware inside.
bluetooth 3.0 is optional, as is a built-in 56k-modem (v.92), which might come in handy if you're traveling through rural or otherwise remote areas on a business trip, for instance.
our teaser article about dell's new business line-up from a few weeks ago stirred up an unusually high level of controversy in our forums.
with the dell latitude e9240, you have a few choices when it comes to the battery: the smallest is a 4-cell battery with a 40wh capacity, next a 6-cell battery with a 60wh capacity, a 9-cell battery with a 87wh capacity and a 3-year warranty and finally a 9-cell battery with a 97wh capacity—this was the battery in the model we reviewed.
the display in our test model was the higher-resolution hd+ version, which is useful for keeping multiple windows open on the screen at once.
the reason 14" business notebooks are so popular is probably the balance between portability and performance.
the picture remains undistorted at fairly large angles looking from the left or right.
now, the e6420 ratherresembles the new xps models.
the cpu performance really could have been better.
security business professionals know that security cannot be overlooked when  choosing a laptop.
unlike  many of its competitors, dell proudly displays a bit of this magnesium frame  peeking out of the notebook along the side edges.
the other surfaces consist of an aluminum-magnesium alloy.
in the system properties menu of the model we reviewed, the clock rates were displayed as 740/1480 mhz.
among  the subjects of clashing opinions was thecompletely new case design .
in terms of case dimensions, e6420 is the  widest at 352 mm.
the  trackpoint on the thinkpad t420 reacted very similarly in side-by-side  testing.
along the front we also find an sd card  reader.
as far as using the latitude e6420 on the go, the display remains fairly readable regardless of your surroundings.
the multi-touch pad measures a conveniently large 8x4.5 cm and has a nice,  smooth surface.
these  will be—among others—the main criteria for the following review  since you can argue about which design is better until the cows come home.
the nvidia nvs 4200m doesn't quite represent a miracle on the cad front, which is confirmed by the spec viewperf 11 benchmark.
has changed as well as the fact that the rubber circle of the pointstick is no  longer completely black.
and even though minds will continue to clash for years to come about which looks better, the new or the old, dell has crafted a fine case in terms ofworkmanship, sturdiness and feel.
nearly every resulting value placed the gpu below average, just ahead of the nvs 3100m. quadro fx or firepro graphics can run laps around the nvs 4200m.
the latitude e6420 can also be equipped with aumts/hspa module on request.
on dell's website, the starter configuration with an led screen has an hd resolution of 1366x768 pixels.
the level of system noise and temperature under light office use is acceptable.
despite the dell latitude e6420 being equipped with only one speaker (see the picture with the bottom of the case open), we were fairly satisfied with the resulting sound quality.
vat) for the 6-cell battery might be something you'd like to consider for on-the-go use.
unlike many of its competitors, dell proudly displays a bit of this magnesium frame peeking out of the notebook along the side edges.
the base plate and case surface around the keyboard are joined to this frame and fastened to it with screws: "unibody lite" if you will.
all try to impress  with their sophisticated security mechanisms, a wide range of use and, of  course, the combination of high performance and long battery life.
for users who'd like to have more windows open at once, there's also an hd+ screen available with aresolution of 1600x900 pixels (+40 euro).
taking another look at the competition (lenovo t420, hp 8460p), we see that  the other contenders for your money also weigh a similar amount.
the feel of typing on the keyboard is excellent and the multi-touch pad works flawlessly.
the display lid takes a bit of effort to tilt back but barely bobs back and forth after being adjusted.
the lenovo t420 is 12 mm less wide and the hp 8640p 14  mm.
with the basic configuration, the cpu comes with anintegrated intel hd graphics 3000 graphics card.
we first tried out anno 1404— which might be getting on in years but is still very nice—and it ran smoothly with low graphics settings, which isn't the case with the resolution and graphics settings set to high.
the same is true for the directx11-capable racer, colin mcrae dirt 2.
still, this situation won't arise during everyday office work, though.
if the software you're using requires better cpu performance, it's best to consider an i5 or i7 cpu instead: cpu-intensive software (complex calculations, virtual machines, etc.).cb10 rendering single 32bit 2760 points gpu performance we'll stick with the cinebench benchmarks, which in addition to the cpu rendering test also has an opengl performance test for checking the performance of the graphics card in place here.
keeping this in mind, the price set by dell seems exorbitant and swapping out the hard drive yourself might be the best choice.
although it might take some getting used to, the new layout doesn't bring many restrictions with it—although the keys are definitely bunched together more.
but whatever your opinion may be, one thing's for sure:  the sharp, rigid design of the previous generation is no more!
that's not all, though.
the clock rates of the gpu and cpu remain steady throughout the stress test, however, with no throttling observed.
after that come two usb 2.0 ports and a  combined usb/esata port.
hp and lenovo, however have the right idea in this regard, both the 8460p and t420 have a displayport.
hp and lenovo, however have  the right idea in this regard, both the 8460p and t420 have a displayport.
its performance in our benchmarks comes as no surprise, but its hum remained constantly audible and the read head seemed to be making some loud noises when retrieving data.
this leads us to the conclusion that the coretemp tool must have misread the temperature.
trackpoint/touchpad touchpad setup for moving the cursor across the screen, dell provides us with two options  here: trackpoint (aka pointstick) and touchpad.
the dell latitude e6420 has some big shoes to  fill in taking the reins from its successful predecessor, the e6410.
around the corner at the back, we continue with an rj45 ethernet port and the  power connector.
particularly during low-demandoffice work, the laptop has almost no toll on the electric bill.
it's also possible to install anti-theft software to track the laptop if  stolen or remotely delete sensitive data.
the base plate and case  surface around the keyboard are joined to this frame and fastened to it with  screws: "unibody lite" if you will.
the verdict is, you have to make a compromise between graphics and performance.
the average screen brightness is somewhat lower at 277 cd/m², the drop  being attributable mostly to the dimmer corners of the screen.
like hp, dell is stepping away from the approach of  sticking individual rubber pads along the display to soften closing.
according to official nvidia specifications, the nvs 4200m runs at a clock rate (speed) of up to 810 mhz, while the processor can supposedly reach as high as 1620 mhz.
around the corner at the back, we continue with an rj45 ethernet port and the power connector.
the touchpad buttons are just as comfortable to use, having just the right depression depth and clicking almost silently.
these buttons are now arranged in a single row in which the individual buttons are bit more bunched together than before.
left: power, ethernet, usb 2.0, vga, mic/headphone, smartcard
you also have your choice of a wifi card from intel (b/g/n) or from dell bzw.
the competition lenovo thinkpad t420, hp elitebook 8460p.
the multi-touch pad measures a conveniently large 8x4.5 cm and has a nice, smooth surface.
this minimizes the amount of  time the laptop has to be out of commission in case of a defect so that you  won't be delayed much in your work.
this was the screen in our test model and is worth the extra price  in our opinion just by looking at it, you can tell that this display shines very bright.
the spot for the sim card is found in the same slot as the battery, the antenna line for which was already ready-to-use when we got our review model.
the optional  usb 3.0 offered in place of the dvd drive doesn't sound like a great trade-off  because one: you'd miss out on the dvd drive and two: you still have to pay  more for the usb 3.0 adapter (exact price not available).
repairing or switching out hardware is quite easy.
we weren't really able to measure the effect very well, however, considering test results were not significantly different under the "ultra performance" profile and since the intel core i3-2310m cpu does not have the turbo boost function.
you don't have to sacrifice graphics quite as much with fifa11.
neither adobe rgb nor srgb are covered.
under heavy use, however, the gpu can't quite stay cool.
newer external hard drives are usb 3.0 compatible, with esata slowly disappearing from the market.
as far as the color space goes (spectrum of colors that can be displayed), dell isn't serving up any delicacy, rather just the usual.
to limit access to the laptop, the latitude e6420 comes with  asmart card reader (contactless reader also available).
according to measurements in previous reviews, switching from a i3-2310m cpu to a 2630qm cpu—all other hardware remaining the same—results in a jump of about 45% in the overall score in the pcmark vantage (64 bit) benchmark.
the opengl computation of the batteryeater classic test simulates heavy use: maximum screen brightness, wifi/bluetooth on and the "high performance" profile activated.
in terms of performance, there's no question that an ssd is the best way to go, but these come at a high price.
we played three games on the dell latitude e6420.
if this level of service doesn't cut it,  you can always upgrade to dell prosupport (+145 euro) which tacks on  around-the-clock technical support over the phone including questions  concerning software developed by third parties.
in the stress test, that is, with cpu und gpu at 100% load, the noise rose to 42.9 db(a).
the rest of the hardware can be accessed by removing a cover along the bottom of the base unit which is fastened with a few more screws.
the hard drive is secured by four screws, after removing which it can slide out from the case sideways.
now we get to the selection and placement of ports on the e6420.
now, the  e6420 ratherresembles the new xps models.
since we're dealing with a premium business laptop here, dell gives you your money's worth by throwing in astandard three-year on-site service warranty with next-business-day repair.
this model can be upgraded to respond to multi-touch gestures for  an extra 70 euro.
for users who'd like to have more windows open at once,  there's also an hd+ screen available with aresolution of 1600x900 pixels (+40 euro).
the case design is harmonious(magnesium-aluminum) and has a first-rate feel to it.
the case has two ram chip slots that can address a maximum of 8gb.
the competition, in the form of the lenovo thinkpad t420 and hp's elitebook 8460p, can give the latitude a run for its money and their reviews will be up shortly.
but has better picture contrast  (162:1)—review coming soon.
this coverage will run you an additional 150 euro without theft protection or 240 euro with theft protection for 3 years (excluding vat).to top keyboard with the change in case design comes a new keyboard layout to get used to.
the last thing we test for regarding the display was the range of viewing angles.
in terms of price-to-performance ratio, the i5-2410m und i5-2520m give you the most bang for your buck.
the same is true for case depth: the front of the e6420 juts  out  about 10  mm when placed side-by-side with its rivals.
particularly the placement of the ports jumps out at you when you first look at the laptop, which are found around the back corners.
this means, you can get an entire workday on battery power out of this laptop if you keep in mind the screen brightness and energy-saving settings.
latitude e6420 thinkpad t420 elitebook 8460p technically speaking, all notebooks are very similar.
brightness, center screen).
besides the 9-cell battery (about half a kilogram) contributing to the long battery life, we also have the system's low energy consumption to thank.
for a huge boost in application performance, choosing a solid state drives (ssd) could be a great decision, which should easily break the 10,000 point barrier in pcmark vantage.
even when jabbing away at the keys, the noise they make remains subtle and tolerable.
on the left side toward the front, we find the smartcard slot followed by an exhaust vent, a combination headphone/microphone jack, a vga port and a usb 2.0 port.
the standard model of lenovo's t420 weighs in at 2.24kg, that is, with a 6-cell battery included.
the multi-touch functions can be configured to your personal preferences via pre-installed software.
our dell latitude e6420 managed an overall score of 5534 points, tested in the "high performance" profile.
dell makes 'em curvy, hp keeps the corners pointy and its the same old story with lenovo.
among the subjects of clashing opinions was thecompletely new case design .
the spot for the  sim card is found in the same slot as the battery, the antenna line for which  was already ready-to-use when we got our review model.
among the changes is the box of special function buttons at the top right  corner, including the buttons "insert", "delete", and so  forth.
current consumptionoff /
speaking of docking stations: the e6420 can be hooked up to existing docking stations including: e-legacy extender, e-port and e-port plus—if in doubt, speak with someone at dell.
this is confirmed by our measurement of amaximum of 320 cd/m² at the center of the screen and is quite high for a laptop of its class.
the  brightness distribution comes to an okay 79.7%.
it's also possible to install anti-theft software to track the laptop if stolen or remotely delete sensitive data.
also, the "page up" and "page down" buttons have made their way down to just above the arrow keys.
our particular model's configuration (i3-2310m / nvs 4200m – "35w") had already reached its limit regarding the graphics card.
note: you must opt into such  service before the act of theft and there are usually regularly scheduled  payments associated with such services.
on the other hand, the placement of ports is excellent.
among the changes is the box of special function buttons at the top right corner, including the buttons "insert", "delete", and so forth.
the best example of this is the thinkpad t410s (580m/nvs 3100m), which boasted an impressive 10926 points when equipped with a solid state drive.
this  includes the display lid that won't budge even a millimeter under  pressure.
the cpu's performance is akin to older top-of-the-line penryn processors (p9600) and in some ways can even outdo some of amd's currently most powerful processors (n640, n660).
the  standard model of lenovo's t420 weighs in at 2.24kg, that is, with a 6-cell  battery included.
hp, meanwhile, presents us with the complete opposite of dell's design in the form of their new elitebooks.
the hard drive is  secured by four screws, after removing which it can slide out from the case  sideways.
the particular model of ssd is not mentioned on the website, which is cause for concern since ssds can differ quite considerably in their price-to-performance ratios.
dell calls this composition tri-metal and refers multiple times to its adherence to various—albeit not very convincing—military standards.
dell's online shop makes things a bit confusing here: the nvs 4200m supposedly comes in two version, one listed as "35w" and another at the same price listed as "512mb (45w)".
on dell's website, they advertise conventional hdds with rotational speeds of 5400 rpm and 7200 rpm as well as solid state drives (ssds) with a capacity of up to 256gb.
blacks appear not very saturated and the picture has a sort of cold color tone, that is, more of a blue tone.
is it a  credit to the latitude series or does it bring shame to dell?
it's the same story with the hd+ screen in the lenovo thinkpad t420.
speakers we were pleasantly surprised with the single speaker in this laptop.
right: expresscard, 2x usb 2.0, usb/esata, hdmi, kensington, modem  (optional) internet and bluetooth as is typical of dell, the latitude e6420 with a wide array of options for  connecting to the internet.
all try to impress with their sophisticated security mechanisms, a wide range of use and, of course, the combination of high performance and long battery life.
the placement of the ports is quite convenient, most ports relegated to the far corners of the case.
the color of the keys has changed as well as the fact that the rubber circle of the pointstick is no longer completely black.
typing on this keyboard is quite comfortable.
our model's 97wh battery was subjected to the batteryeater reader test: minimum screen brightness, deactivated wifi/bluetooth and the "energy-saver" profile activated (which is supposed to simulate the user reading a document on the screen).
a great feature is the keyboard backlight, which costs an additional 40 euro but makes for  easy-to-recognize keys no matter the lighting situation around you (convenient  on the train, bus, plane, etc.).
dell latitude e6420:: processor intel core i3 2310m 2.1 ghz laptops with the same gpu and/or screen size» review lenovo thinkpad t420s 4174-peg notebook notebooks with the same gpu» review samsung series 6 600b5b-s01de notebook laptops with same screen size and/or weight» review asus u46sv-wx036v notebook what we like
according to dell, the display lid hinges are composed of tough steel, which is however not visible on the surface—as is the case with lenovo thinkpads—but is rather covered up a by a layer of magnesium.
while some saw this as putting a friendlier face on the notebook,  others argued the notebook design has lost all semblance of  professionalism.
to top case like the design or not, this laptop is one of the sturdiest looking  latitudes of the series in recent years.
the dell latitude e6420 comes with one of three types of 14" displays, that is, the screen measures 36 cm diagonally.
internet and bluetooth
but has better picture contrast (162:1)—review coming soon.
the  lenovo t420 is the thinnest of the three at 30mm when closed (e6420 and 8460p  both 32mm - all figures based on info from the manufacturers).
the base unit is unbelievably warp-resistant thanks to the sturdy magnesium frame that tightly cradles all the hardware inside.
under light use, like when running simple office programs, the dell latitude remains subtlyin the background but still always audible.
other than that, dell mentions the option of a spare battery, likewise 97wh, as well as a second battery (30wh) in place at the same time as the first and taking the place of the dvd drive.
nevertheless, because of  the overall very bright screen, differences in illumination cannot be detected  with the naked eye.
also coming soon is a review of the less expensive latitude e5420, also a 14" business notebook with an hd display.
we see,  however, that hp wisely chose to include two usb 3.0 ports (+esata) in its  8460p, while lenovo—like dell—has gone down the esata route for the  t420.
hp's model with the smallest possible 3-cell battery comes to 2.07kg, the same as the dell e6420 with a 4-cell battery.
its top-model, thehp  elitebook 8460p, brings back the retro, "boxy" style which is  likewise sure to evoke some strong feelings one way or the other.
the screen contents remain easily readable for a while when tilting the screen down, but tilting it up past the ideal viewing angle quickly results in anoverexposed-looking picture and later like a negative of the actual picture.
the good choice of materials  used in constructing the case of the latitude e6420 are to thank for  this.
this lands the notebook an average spot in our database, placing it on par with thelenovo t410 (620m/nvs 3100m) and theacer travelmate 8472tg (350m/gt330m).
this model can be upgraded to respond to multi-touch gestures for an extra 70 euro.
instead, they've gone with a longrubber strip encompassing the entire screen , which should serve to protect the screen and keyboard from dust particles getting in when the laptop's closed.
only in the worst case scenario with both the gpu and cpu running at full blast for more than an hour does the temperature reach up to 37°c beside the keyboard and 41°c on the bottom of the case, which isn't incredibly hot.
the dell latitude e6420 has some big shoes to fill in taking the reins from its successful predecessor, the e6410.
only the shape of the trackpoint on the thinkpad is (in our  opinion) better.
trackpoint/touchpad
even when jabbing away at the keys, the  noise they make remains subtle and tolerable.
the very resource-efficient football classic can even be played in hd (1366x768) while retaining a smooth enough frame rate.
its top-model, thehp elitebook 8460p, brings back the retro, "boxy" style which is likewise sure to evoke some strong feelings one way or the other.
there's also a lot of selection when it comes to the graphics card.
taking a look at the competition, lenovo's new thinkpad t420 remains loyal  to itspredecessor, the t410—the design shows only minor  modifications.
after that come two usb 2.0 ports and a combined usb/esata port.
with the appropriate  module, this too can be upgraded later on down the line.
bluetooth 3.0 is optional, as is a built-in 56k-modem (v.92), which might come in handy  if you're traveling through rural or otherwise remote areas on a business trip,  for instance.
keystrokes are firm,  requiring a fair amount of pressure before they plop down, which gives them a  very easy-to-feel pressure point.
the rest of the hardware can be accessed by removing a cover along  the bottom of the base unit which is fastened with a few more screws.
price: having the best hardware in place can run you an extra 194 euro depending on the basic configuration you get regarding other features (e.g. display).
for the aggressive or perpetually clumsy there's additional coverage for damage inflicted by fluids spilled onto the laptop, power surges, dropping the laptop down long flights of stairs, etc.
you can find more details about the nvidia nvs 4200m in our comparison of mobile graphics cards.
* * weighted average office notebook: workmanship 13%, keyboard 13%, mouse 8%, connectivity 7%, weight 6%, battery 8%, display 10%, games performance 1%, application performance 6%, temperature 8%, noise 10%, impression 10% latest reviewsreview hp pavilion g6-1352eg notebook benchmarks and hardware external reviews
a few things have changed here from the previous model.
the gpu's cooling potential at this point also doesn't seem very high.
since we're dealing with a premium business laptop here, dell gives you  your money's worth by throwing in astandard three-year on-site service warranty with next-business-day repair.
hopes of using  multi-monitor setups (+2x24“ fhd via dualhead2go) or high-resolution  30-inch (2560x1600) screens go down the drain, the only option being 180 euro  more for the appropriate docking solution.
like hp, dell is stepping away from the approach of sticking individual rubber pads along the display to soften closing.
there's still the possibility of a electrical contact problem hiding an elusive second speaker.
even without a docking station, the latitude e6420 can be hooked up to numerous devices at once without cluttering up the surrounding workspace with cables.
each time the hard drive retrieves a piece of data, you hear this clatter, which can be irritating within an otherwise quiet environment.
consider what would happen to a model of the latitude e6420 equipped with one of the new i7 quad-core processors which have a thermal design power (tdp) of 45w—10w more than the dual-core cpus.
we scanned the surfaces, looking for plastic but found it only  around the keyboard and the screen bezel.
a small portion of the noise is attributable to the 7200 rpm hard disk, the hum of which is easy to hear.
you also have your choice of a wifi card  from intel (b/g/n) or from dell bzw.
according to dell, the display lid hinges are composed of tough  steel, which is however not visible on the surface—as is the case with  lenovo thinkpads—but is rather covered up a by a layer of magnesium.
soon we'll also have a review of the lower-resolution hd display version (1366x768) of the e6420.
the trackpoint works incredibly well.
for the aggressive or perpetually clumsy there's additional coverage for  damage inflicted by fluids spilled onto the laptop, power surges, dropping the  laptop down long flights of stairs, etc.  this coverage will run you an  additional 150 euro without theft protection or 240 euro with theft protection  for 3 years (excluding vat).
hard drive performance for a business notebook like the latitude e6420, there are naturally lots of options available regarding the hard drive.
at the ground floor there's, of course, a gigabit  ethernet port (intel 82578lm).
the fans and heat sinks, the processor, memory, pci module and the cmos battery are all ready to be tinkered with once the cover is off.
like the design or not, this laptop is one of the sturdiest looking latitudes of the series in recent years.
but whatever your opinion may be, one thing's for sure: the sharp, rigid design of the previous generation is no more!
taking another look at the competition (lenovo t420, hp 8460p), we see that the other contenders for your money also weigh a similar amount.
speaking of performance, we were curious to try out a certain new option in dell's control point software called "ultra performance", which claims to "reduce cpu throttling" while raising the fan speed.
here you can count on 165 minutes, a decent battery life.
even without a  docking station, the latitude e6420 can be hooked up to numerous devices at  once without cluttering up the surrounding workspace with cables.
to top keyboard: new layout keyboard with the change in case design comes a new keyboard layout to get used to.
the  particular configuration we reviewed included a 9-cell battery (97wh), bringing  the grand total up to 2.620 kg.
the result was a high741 minutes, that is, more than 12 hours.
although it might take some getting used  to, the new layout doesn't bring many restrictions with it—although the  keys are definitely bunched together more.
only the shape of the trackpoint on the thinkpad is (in our opinion) better.
at a base clock rate of 2100 mhz, the chip lacks the appealing turbo boos feature of its i5 and i7 cousins, but thanks to hyper-threading can still simulate two virtual cores in addition to its two real cores, thereby making multicore-optimized applications run a good deal faster.
with the resolution and graphics settings set low enough, the game runs smoothly.
on the left  side toward the front, we find the smartcard slot followed by an exhaust vent,  a combination headphone/microphone jack, a vga port and a usb 2.0 port.
battery runtimeidle (without wlan, min brightness) 12h 21min