i'll start with what is good in my experience.
so recently we were pondering what we should do with ourselves here and my wife is now considering moving to the uk.
i mean i would love to move there, but i don't want to risk it at the expense of what we have here, which is good job, nice weather and find out that it was a mistake and that it's not that great a life over there.
fri jan 14, 2011 4:25 pm i've been here (london) for two years.
i just moved back to london (from montreal).
thanks so much top re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
the thing is, if you like driving your car at cheaper gas prices, living in a detached house etc, you won't like most of europe, including the uk.
so if you want to move to the uk, do it first and foremost for the experience itself.
from what i've read, a lot of the quality of life enjoyed in north america pretty well goes out the window....
tue jan 11, 2011 9:30 am i am in your boat, the research that i have done so far says - no, don't do it.
like everyone says here, you need to make your own decisions, of course you do, no one can drag you over.
i moved here with my british husband 19 years ago and raised two children here.
replies - 1438 views - last post by acdngirleh sun sep 03, 2006 12:34
my intention when moving here was to settle here in theuk permanently.
i have known at least three people in various stages of life and career that have done theuk thing and have not been happy.
post a reply 17 posts •page 1 of 2 • 1, 2 next display posts from previous: all posts1 day7 days2 weeks1 month3 months6 months1 year
canuckabroad forums ‹ expats in europe / travel in europe discussions ‹ canadians in europe ‹ united kingdom canuckabroad community quick statistics mon feb 13, 2012 3:50 pm is the uk worth moving to or not?
since i grew up in central toronto i wasn't used to much of this north american convenience and it didn't matter to me.
but i think it's something that you want to consider...it's not easy to get into this country.
fri jan 21, 2011 12:43 pm i would have to agree that moving to the uk on a permanent basis isnt a good idea..
and now i'm worldly".
sat feb 12, 2011 9:54 am like cestmoi said it really depends on your situation and how you feel.
and there is something here for everyone.
anyway, 7 years later
sort by authorpost timesubject ascendingdescending return to united kingdom jump to:
english people come by that expression honestly
if it's any comfort that doesn't just apply to canadians coming to the uk.
top - kirstyn junior member - posts: 12 - joined: 9 mar 2008 - location: epsom, united kingdom re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
for me, i'm looking to work in the uk for many reasons: 1) i work for a multi-national company.
but would live in san diego (i know you are in san fran - one of my fave cities too!
this is what's stopping me.
now my husband and i are dying to get out...
i would like a little bit of a educated decision as i don't want to move there and regret it, and based on a lot of peoples experiences, it seems people for the most part are not happy.
i've been here long enough to have gotten over most of the adjusting and the initial questioning, homesickness, unsettled feelings.
she has never wanted to to live in the uk but we both agreed that we wanted to do something different and live somewhere outside of canada more specifically toronto.
was here for a few months in 2009 now i'm here for a few years (got in about a month ago).
something that is really hard here, in my experience anyway that's what i have to take from, is getting information.
so unless you are willing to give up a lot, i don't think there would be much point in going.
if you do want to try it, try it.
pm - - moving by bennysgirl »
perhaps there's another way of adding that element to  your lives rather than sacrificing what you've got to move to the uk?
i have been a number of times to both the uk andeurope traveling but have never had the pleasure of living there.
i've been here  long enough to have gotten over most of the adjusting and the initial  questioning, homesickness, unsettled feelings.
i mean i would love to move there, but i don't want to risk it  at the expense of what we have here, which is good job, nice weather and find  out that it was a mistake and that it's not that great a life over there.
that's just how used to an english accent
and the weather is horrible and its sooooo expensive especially with the vat up to 20%
in all honesty though, the first couple years here were great and i don't think i ever would have come to the conclusions i have about canada and the uk unless i did live here for so long.
find us on facebook © copyright 2002-2012 canuck abroad™ flights & travel, all rights reserved.
tue feb 08, 2011 9:45 am hi, i don't like swaying people from making their own decisions.
general discussions general discussion canuckabroad.com news expat social events worldwide expats in europe / travel in europe discussions canadians in europe spain italy switzerland ireland portugal france germany hungary united kingdom scotland northern ireland wales uk banking uk visas and immigration canadians in scandinavia canadians in russia & ukraine canadians in north america canadians in the usa us visas and immigration canadians in mexico canadians in bermuda canadians in canada
would you be able to take a leave of absence from your work and do some exploring around europe, then return to your home?
but i do miss the comfort and convenience of my  life in canada, and all my loved ones there.
you're most likely to get it done quicker and they will see you more "as one of your own".
would you  be able to take a leave of absence from your work and do some exploring around  europe, then return to your home?
my  intention when moving here was to settle here in theuk permanently.
the problem is, you leave your network behind when you move countries, so when you're looking for work you're effectively always making that "cold call", and if you're education and background are in another country employers feel they're taking more of a risk.
life in north america is so much better.
picking up and moving might not be worth it.
i hope this helps and doesn't  make the decision even more difficult for you.
and yes there's a ton of people in a very small space (canada compared to uk...let's be honest) it still all seems worth it because of how amazing this city is.
or have you considered somewhere of comparative quality of life, yet still a change, like perhaps vancouver?
i think if i could do this again, i would choose not to come to the uk, and would stay in canada.
for canadians living / traveling in the uk moderator: oohmercyme post a reply 17 posts •page 1 of 2 • 1 , 2 - jerms new member - topic author - posts: 1 - joined: 7 jan 2011 is the uk worth moving to or not?
some things are lacking here - lack of worldliness with the people, the stupidest healthcare system one could possibly create and fox news taken seriously are a few examples.
select a forum ------------------
and nyc - i lived there)...
and i am getting really mixed messages with the more in the negative.
this is where you come in: i was  wondering if fellow canadians (or non-canadians with similar stories) who did  move over there could share their experiences and sort of describe if it's been  a worthwhile experience.
perhaps a temporary stay in the uk would be fun, but not at the risk of losing what you currently have.
and of course london is only a 3 hour train ride away from me and it has enough culture for the rest of your life and more.
i've always been a good  saver, but here, i never have a penny to spare and pay the equivalent in rent  every month that would purchase 1 car per month in canada.
top did you enjoy this post?
i have moved to the uk from canada about six months ago to join my spouse i still havent adjusted yet.
my husband spent half a  year in his early 20s - hates and never wants to go back.
what's the worst that can happen?
just try not to stay too long if it's not the long term you're after.
it's a city that you would never be bored of or could hate.
however i understand you don't have that luxury of just popping over, but i just wanted to throw it out there because it is a huge thing.
my friend went there to be with her british bf, but  lasted about a year - came back to nyc missing everything and everyone (the bf  went back to nyc with her - and he is much happier there too - and he is a  brit!).
you might find it different.
thanks so much top - alinany
perhaps a temporary stay in the uk would be fun, but not at the risk of losing  what you currently have.
i always wanted to live in europe, not necessarily theuk but europe.
it's not a huge deal, but it seems to gradually build over time.
i have been a number of  times to both the uk andeurope traveling but have never had the pleasure of  living there.
if you're into culture, it's fantastic.
or have you considered somewhere of  comparative quality of life, yet still a change, like perhaps vancouver?
i took on a permanent job and planned to wait out my work visas until becoming eligible for indefinite leave to remain, and continue from there.
i always wanted  to live in europe, not necessarily theuk but europe.
there's a lot of fun to be had here witheurope at your doorstep (honestly you could be in rome in 4 hours)!
this is a huge pleasure.
there are advantages to theuk (and i'm speaking mostly of england here).
i think before you move somewhere for awhile.
although yes it's very expensive here
but would live in san  diego (i know you are in san fran - one of my fave cities too!
canadian expats - worldwide canadians in australia and new zealand canadians in asia china japan korea
but you would be giving  up what sounds like a good existence there, with a good quality of life and  lots of positives going for you.
is the uk worth moving to or not?
top - worldgirl new member - posts: 2 - joined: 7 apr 2009 re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
administration wise...be prepared to do alot of your own work they are not very interested (in my experience once again) to let more people into the country.
at least it has for  me.
my friend went there to be with her british bf, but lasted about a year - came back to nyc missing everything and everyone (the bf went back to nyc with her - and he is much happier there too - and he is a brit!).
but you would be giving up what sounds like a good existence there, with a good quality of life and lots of positives going for you.
the uk certainly has 1 advantage over the continent in that, its close toeurope but they speak english.
60 euro to get into a club and 13 euro for a rum & coke)
and i thought the new hst in canada was bad lol also the jobs here are not as good in canada from a administration point of view in regards to annual salary.. anyways its ok for a temp place to do some travelling thrueurope
the national health service, while it has its faults, will treat you free and unlike in canada, it also includes cheap dentistry - what about a checkup for the equivalent of 25 us dollars?
gas is expensive but wine is cheap!
when i landed here after 3 weeks home for christmas i felt bile in my stomache coming from my prestine country back to the uk.
you don't like it and go back?
the english have a way of "beating round the bush" that i am not used to.
fri jul 28, 2006 10:09 am - 1 replies - 926 views - last post by sleepy sat jul 29, 2006 2:32
places to go, people to met, things to do.
i  would like a little bit of a educated decision as i don't want to move there  and regret it, and based on a lot of peoples experiences, it seems people for  the most part are not happy.
the feeling that i had prior to this move isn't as strong.
don't get me wrong i want to move there, i'm just not in place where i can go and find out (like i could of prior to this move).
but right now is not a good time - this horrendous conservative/liberal democrat coalition is basically doing a worse version of margaret thatcher's cuts, slashing funding on everything from libraries, healthcare and children's programs to youth unemployment schemes and the bbc.
last year i went to cuba, ibiza (love!!!!)
pm - - bringing dog to uk-confused by leafssuck
anyone can find their place here.
it's silly to say but it's something that can make you feel very foreign if you aren't used to it or simply not aware.
i  have known at least three people in various stages of life and career that have  done theuk thing and have not been happy.
...... i think it depends on how you've set yourself up.
- flights & airfare - international flights - last minute flights - flights to europe - around the world flights - hotels - hotel reservations - book hostels - travel guides - travel advice - travel africa - travel asia - travel central america - travel europe - travel pacific / australia - travel south america - backpacking europe - living abroad - canadian embassies - work, study, tourst visas - immigration advice - overseas banking - overseas jobs - expat & travel services - immigration & visas - banking & forex - taxes & accounting - relocation & moving - canadian expat groups - community - chat in the forum - login / register free - latest posts - you are here:
things like grocery shopping, doing laundry, getting from point a to point b - these things are far less convenient than in north america.
i took on a  permanent job and planned to wait out my work visas until becoming eligible for  indefinite leave to remain, and continue from there.
my husband spent half a year in his early 20s - hates and never wants to go back.
i want to learn the media landscape) 3) i'm young and i've started to love travel!
but once that information is finally obtained it is alot easier to move threw the system.
but i initially came out to the uk for what was supposed to be 6 months and that was almost 7 years ago.
em top - republican canuckabroad vip - posts: 209 - topics: 1 - joined: 14 may 2003 - location: england re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
comparatively speaking, you will cut in half the quality of living when you move there from north america.
if your wife has no interest in living in the uk that could prove problematic but who knows?
in short, if you're affluent, try it, but unless you're a raving right-winger this is not a good time to live here.
and nyc - i  lived there)...
top leannesandner junior member
by the sounds of it, you've got your life all set-up.
thu feb 10, 2011 12:14 pm hi!
tue jan 11, 2011 9:30 am i am in your boat, the research that i have  done so far says - no, don't do it.
plus the whole ofeurope is right there, a short plane (or eurostar train) away.
i don't think i will ever regret the decision and in all honesty, when you make pounds the money is all relative.
the feeling that i had prior to this move  isn't as strong.
so we are here and we are good here for the most part.
i could request a transfer 2) i want to gain more work experience and on an international level which i think will help further advance my career (i'm in advertising.
but on reading your post, if it was me in your position, i would not  move here.
fri jan 23, 2004 6:09 pm - 0
i've gone back home and thought some things were really expensive there now.
first some background: i am a canadian currently living in san francisco, and i like it here for the most part.
it's hard to live here.
top - lynz super member - posts: 126 - topics: 3 - joined: 7 feb 2011 - location: london, united kingdom re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
don't get me wrong i want to move there, i'm just not  in place where i can go and find out (like i could of prior to this move).
all times are utc - 8 hours [ dst ] you are currently not logged in!
we ended up moving to san francisco as this  was one of 2 places in the us i was willing to move (new york is the other;))
new member - posts: 8 - joined: 22 nov 2010 re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
thailand india canadians in africa canadians in south america brazil argentina chile peru canadians in the middle east central america costa rica belize panama honduras - - related topics - replies - views - last post - - finding a job - is it worth going through swap?
perhaps there's another way of adding that element to your lives rather than sacrificing what you've got to move to the uk?
there is just something a little different in the way you feel when you have lived somewhere else.
so when she posed this to me i really began to research what other people's experiences are who did move there.
i wouldn't automatically reccomend or not reccomend anywhere.
i have a  partner, a home, a life, here in the uk.
you need to make your own  decision.
i think if i could do this again,  i would choose not to come to the uk, and would stay in canada.
it seems to me like you're looking for an adventure.
but i do miss the comfort and convenience of my life in canada, and all my loved ones there.
sun mar 06, 2011 4:56 am i reckon that unless you're just starting out in your career a move to another country nearly always means at least a temporary drop in salary / prospects.
for me, it's an entirely different story (helps when you are in your early 20's).
pm who is online users browsing this forum: no registered users and 0 guests - canuckabroad forums - delete all board cookies •
advertise | privacy policy
comparatively  speaking, you will cut in half the quality of living when you move there from  north america.
just normal ordinary  life is much more difficult, at least speaking from a london perspective it  certainly is.
and it's true about how expensive everything is.
which is funny cause i'm not but that's how emersed i am i suppose.
london itself (once you're in) like i said it's just out of this world.
you need to make your own decision.
replies - 1325 views - last post by bennysgirl fri jan 23, 2004 6:09 pm - - moving to the uk by court0
i've known many british people who've gone to canada and been disappointed at the apparent lack of work, prospects and decent pay on offer.
but the experience is something i  would like to have (and the travel nut in me is excited about exploring more of  europe)...
obviously if i were to move across the pond it would be to the uk  for obvious language reasons.
mon feb 07, 2011 9:16 pm omg....ibiza.....
first some background: i am a canadian currently  living in san francisco, and i like it here for the most part.
i find myself returning to canada sometimes thinking that "the people here are so unrefined" in a snobby english sort of way like i was born into some higher class.
it's always good to visit the city and get a vibe from it (not everywhere is good for everyone).
wed jun 16, 2010 10:15 am - 4 replies - 1172 views - last post by joyjoy mon nov 15, 2010 2:06 am - - confused by bcgirl101 »
the only person i knew who kind of liked it was a young ambitious woman who just had no cares in the world had a decent job in the uk and spent all her money traveling to ibiza and partying.
fri jan 07, 2011 6:15 pm hi, thanks so much for visiting my post, i really need some help from all of you canadians that are living or have lived in the uk.
i'm not sure if that's at all helpful
hope that helps a tiny bit!
she has never wanted to to live in the uk but we both  agreed that we wanted to do something different and live somewhere outside of  canada more specifically toronto.
top - leannesandner junior member - posts: 12 - joined: 16 sep 2010 re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
fri jan 07, 2011 6:15 pm hi, thanks so much for visiting  my post, i really need some help from all of you canadians that are living or  have lived in the uk.
it's  not a huge deal, but it seems to gradually build over time.
top - cestmoi new member - posts: 8 - joined: 14 jan 2011 re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
the vibe and energy is worth all the paperwork and admin crap.
the only thing i personally have trouble with is the general british attitude and ways of thinking and just being.
my wife is key to this as she was born in canada to a british father and an american mother - she has all 3 citizenships (passports).
for me, i am not impressed with the salaries offered for someone in my profession - and the level of expenses (rent, transportation, food).
how i miss it (was there last september.
i want to learn how other countries determine their ratings, how they buy, etc.
i came to teach and to enjoy something different for a while but i ended up meeting my husband and haven't left yet.
but the thing  is, i couldn't have come to that realisation unless i had moved to the uk in  the first place and had the experiences i have had.
and i've also become a winging pom as they say.
you can visit many more interesting places on weekends - castles, stately homes, enormous numbers of museums and the countryside.
but the experience is something i would like to have (and the travel nut in me is excited about exploring more of europe)...
and i am getting really mixed messages with  the more in the negative.
but the thing is, i couldn't have come to that realisation unless i had moved to the uk in the first place and had the experiences i have had.
i've always been a good saver, but here, i never have a penny to spare and pay the equivalent in rent every month that would purchase 1 car per month in canada.
it's not set up for convenient living and all-night cafes, stores etc are thin on the ground.
yes, it's a tiny place, but very picturesque and there are many footpaths with "the right to roam" - so you can walk over someone's land in the country.
i want to continue travelling and it's very much affordable from the uk 4) i've determined my approximate salary range and even on the "lower" end of the spectrum, i'd still be saving more than what i was saving when i first began my job here in canada (i determined my approximate expenses in £ and compared to what i was paying here however with the final $ converted into £)
not just "oh, look at me i've gone somewhere for a year
i don't regret coming here.
you may have an easier time because of your wife, use that for sure and make sure you register with her (have her physically there).
to login enter your credentials below... remember my logon information you need to be aregistered user to post in our forums click here to register!
the only person i knew who kind of liked it was a young  ambitious woman who just had no cares in the world had a decent job in the uk  and spent all her money traveling to ibiza and partying.
top - emdm new member - posts: 2 - joined: 10 feb 2011 - location: london re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
this is where you come in: i was wondering if fellow canadians (or non-canadians with similar stories) who did move over there could share their experiences and sort of describe if it's been a worthwhile experience.
i have a partner, a home, a life, here in the uk.
i hope this helps and doesn't make the decision even more difficult for you.
i really recommend that you read "watching the english" by kate fox before you decide.
top - themeone senior member - posts: 120 - joined: 28 may 2004 - location: london uk re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
so  when she posed this to me i really began to research what other people's  experiences are who did move there.
just normal ordinary life is much more difficult, at least speaking from a london perspective it certainly is.
but on reading your post, if it was me in your position, i would not move here.
if you have a permanent job, you often get 5 weeks of holidays, too.
so recently we were pondering what we should do with ourselves here and my wife  is now considering moving to the uk.
thu jan 27, 2011 4:49 am jerms, it depends on what you want.
obviously if i were to move across the pond it would be to the uk for obvious language reasons.
and the people are another thing to adjust to - not always a positive thing, at least not in london.
at least it has for me.
and the  people are another thing to adjust to - not always a positive thing, at least  not in london.
by the time they're done, much of the advantages here will be gone and they will have create huge social problems.
top cestmoi new member re: is the uk worth moving to or not?
unless of course you get an internal transfer or something like that.
mon mar 31, 2008 10:53 am - 4 replies - 1503 views - last post by linzlou mon may 19, 2008 8:26
that's why i think some people "don't like it here" because canadians especially are just not used to "the english way".
mon jun 12, 2006 10:17 pm - 4
but i plan on moving back to toronto by the time my visa expires...
by the way - very easy to spend all your money there.
even with the current cuts (more of that later) they subsidise far more theatre, art, concerts, museums than canada or the us.
my wife is key to this as she was born  in canada to a british father and an american mother - she has all 3  citizenships (passports).
traveling to europe is certainly easier as well.
for me, i am  not impressed with the salaries offered for someone in my profession - and the  level of expenses (rent, transportation, food).
some things are lacking  here - lack of worldliness with the people, the stupidest healthcare system one  could possibly create and fox news taken seriously are a few examples.
we ended up moving to san francisco as this was one of 2 places in the us i was willing to move (new york is the other;))
things like grocery shopping, doing laundry, getting from point a  to point b - these things are far less convenient than in north america.