some will argue that due to mass production and so forth,  desktops, which have previously been more in demand are better value.
good typists can type at >60words per minute... with good ones typing at 90wpm... which is not, in my opinion possible if writing with reasonably neat cursive.
the movement between using a mouse to draw and a keyboard to type slows entry of information in this scenario.
the downsides of a hybrid scenario are: 1.
learn faster today the way everyone will learn tomorrow with recallplus study software..." static education software discussion static help for recallplus study software and study technique.
using a pen  on a tablet is like using paper.
so... where will you be using the computer, and for  what? discussion group home recallplus resources support  discussion board affiliates contact us copyright 2007 recallplus recallplus
you would hold the book open, then somehow fix it open at the page you are reading, and then move to put both hands on to the keyboard again, type what you want etc.
study software - copyright andpatents evolutioncode pty ltd  1999-2004 "stop wasting your time studying!
taking notes from a book - if you are working with a textbook, and  taking notes about the things that you know you are going to forget from it,  then usually when one makes paper notes, you have the advantage where one hand  holds the book and the other writes the notes.
which is not, in my opinion possible if writing with reasonably neat cursive.
creating diagrams is a known premier way to improve learning and study efficiency - seemindmaps and concept maps - like in lecture theatres, the switching between adding graphical elements and adding text is very messy with movement of the hand between a mouse and a keyboard.
you would hold the book  open, then somehow fix it open at the page you are reading, and then move to  put both hands on to the keyboard again, type what you want etc.
there is none of this when using a tablet.
recallplus recallplus study software - copyright andpatents evolutioncode pty ltd 1999-2004 "stop wasting your time studying!
you can either  purchase a hybrid at the outset or you can purchase a pure tabletpc design  without the keyboard, and add a keyboard,mouse and a stand to hold the tablet  upright later.
is the hybrid the perfect alternative to one or the other?
also, since the other major consumer of battery power is screen  brightness, the tablet may often be set by default to a lower brightness to  conserve battery life.
some will argue that due to mass production and so forth, desktops, which have previously been more in demand are better value.
chat with our customer care executives : available 5 days a week tablet pc vs the rest pro's and con's of tablet pcs pro's of using a pen to write on a tabletpc screen 1.
the keyboard similarly if it is a 12 inch screen  that it attaches to, is more limited in size, and not quite as easy to use as a  dedicated standard laptop keyboard.
this may be overcome by attaching an external keyboard whether you purchase a hybrid to start with or create one.
the  ideal screen size may be considered somewhat larger for a keyboard based laptop  than a tablet... i.e. a tablet ideal size is considered to be about the size of  piece of paper... specifically large enough to be creative on, but small enough  to carry easily.
con's of using a tablet pc screen to write on the major problem  scenario this author has found when using a pen with a tablet pc, is that  authoring a document such as this webpage ... i.e. larger documents, is faster  and more accurate using a keyboard, assuming you can type, than if you were  going to try to write the equivalent with ink and especially if you are trying
con's of using a tablet pc screen to write on the major problem scenario this author has found when using a pen with a tablet pc, is that authoring a document such as this webpage ... i.e. larger documents, is faster and more accurate using a keyboard, assuming you can type, than if you were going to try to write the equivalent with ink and especially if you are trying add a handwriting recognition step in addition to the simple entry.
study software screenshots testimonials the story behind recallplus
taking notes from a book - if you are working with a textbook, and taking notes about the things that you know you are going to forget from it, then usually when one makes paper notes, you have the advantage where one hand holds the book and the other writes the notes.
text on its own is very forgettable.
so... where will you be using the computer, and for what? discussion group home recallplus resources support discussion board affiliates contact us copyright 2007
generally  a hybrid will allow you the advantages of a keyboard for typing larger items  and the notetaking practicality of using a pen.
freely flipping back and forth with your free hand is not an option.
also, since the other major consumer of battery power is screen brightness, the tablet may often be set by default to a lower brightness to conserve battery life.
picture walking around at work, picture being in a cramped  lecture theatre (where often keyboard use due to it's noise generation is now  banned), picture being on any mode of transport be it car, train, bus or plane.
you can write when you are literally anywhere!
generally a hybrid will allow you the advantages of a keyboard for typing larger items and the notetaking practicality of using a pen.
compare this to the many situations when it is  simply impossible to find the space to put down the computer to type on a  regular keyboard.
freely  flipping back and forth with your free hand is not an option.
creating diagrams is a known  premier way to improve learning and study efficiency - seemindmaps and concept  maps - like in lecture theatres, the switching between adding graphical  elements and adding text is very messy with movement of the hand between a  mouse and a keyboard.
drawing with a mouse is literally impossible.
in a lecture also you are interested in being able to switch  quickly between drawing and diagrams and entering text.
screen brightness is an issue with tabletpc's not only because you might be trying to save power but also, even if you are not, the extra thickness due to the protective layers added and the sensing apparatus, make the brightness, viewability somewhat less than a simple view only screen.
picture walking around at work, picture being in a cramped lecture theatre (where often keyboard use due to it's noise generation is now banned), picture being on any mode of transport be it car, train, bus or plane.
make sure if you purchase one, that you make sure that in your typical use  environment, that this is not an issue.
the keyboard similarly if it is a 12 inch screen that it attaches to, is more limited in size, and not quite as easy to use as a dedicated standard laptop keyboard.
screen brightness is an issue with tabletpc's not only  because you might be trying to save power but also, even if you are not, the  extra thickness due to the protective layers added and the sensing apparatus,  make the brightness, viewability somewhat less than a simple view only screen.
with the limitations in battery technology in  2005, long life is dependant on lower operating power use, which means that the  tablets are often somewhat slower than an equivalently priced keyboard only  laptop.
these 2 issues are being overcome through the provision  of multiple power schemes on the latest tablets and hybrids...
available 5  days a week tablet pc vs the rest pro's and con's of tablet pcs pro's of using a pen to write on a tabletpc screen 1.
laptop or tablet pc or hybrid vs desktop these 3 computer types are  designed for portability - especially the tablets are specifically focussing on  that customer requirement.
the counter arguements to this are that recently for the first time in history, portable sales have been outstripping desktops and so prices are dropping sharply and secondly, it is no use buying something, no matter how cheap, if it does not meet your needs...
you can write  when you are literally anywhere!
remember that visually stimulating notes are not created through text  alone and neither are good memories.
in a lecture also you are interested in being able to switch quickly between drawing and diagrams and entering text.
you can either purchase a hybrid at the outset or you can purchase a pure tabletpc design without the keyboard, and add a keyboard,mouse and a stand to hold the tablet upright later.
free version runs on usb/memory stick; discussion boards :
you can  choose from different power settings depending on how long you wish to use the  tablet away from a power source, vs how fast you want it to run.
using a pen on a tablet is like using paper.
this may be overcome by attaching an  external keyboard whether you purchase a hybrid to start with or create one.
compare this to the many situations when it is simply impossible to find the space to put down the computer to type on a regular keyboard.
you can choose from different power settings depending on how long you wish to use the tablet away from a power source, vs how fast you want it to run.
with the limitations in battery technology in 2005, long life is dependant on lower operating power use, which means that the tablets are often somewhat slower than an equivalently priced keyboard only laptop.
how does recallplus help study?
taking notes from a book  and typing with a keyboard is extremely difficult.
home recallplus resources support affiliates contact links study skills and study software specific memory skills memory toolbox mindmaps flashcards problem based learning taking breaks from your study looking after your body introductory 'flash' presentation what is recallplus?
drawing with a pen is both more  accurate and how we are used to doing it.
taking notes from a book and typing with a keyboard is extremely difficult.
remember that visually stimulating notes are not created through text alone and neither are good memories.
laptop or tablet pc or hybrid vs desktop these 3 computer types are designed for portability - especially the tablets are specifically focussing on that customer requirement.
pure tablet pc's overcome this by allowing the attachment of a  keyboard and mouse to the slate, so that it becomes effectively a hybrid  computer.
drawing with a pen is both more accurate and how we are used to doing it.
the ideal screen size may be considered somewhat larger for a keyboard based laptop than a tablet... i.e. a tablet ideal size is considered to be about the size of piece of paper... specifically large enough to be creative on, but small enough to carry easily.
add a handwriting recognition step in addition to the simple entry.
make sure if you purchase one, that you make sure that in your typical use environment, that this is not an issue.
learn faster today the way  everyone will learn tomorrow with recallplus study software..." static  education software discussion static help for recallplus study software and  study technique.
good  typists can type at >60words per minute... with good ones typing at 90wpm...
predicting study time needs tablet pc corner info for parents info for educators download purchase this study software glossary help using program help activating program bug reporting discussion board search site contact us history of upgrades retrieve missing password news version 4.159 out!
: chat with our customer care executives :
the  counter arguements to this are that recently for the first time in history,  portable sales have been outstripping desktops and so prices are dropping  sharply and secondly, it is no use buying something, no matter how cheap, if it  does not meet your needs...
these 2 issues are being overcome through the provision of multiple power schemes on the latest tablets and hybrids...
discuss your problems : give suggestions affiliates : secure affiliate logon : affiliate system diagram live chat :
the movement between  using a mouse to draw and a keyboard to type slows entry of information in this  scenario.
pure tablet pc's overcome this by allowing the attachment of a keyboard and mouse to the slate, so that it becomes effectively a hybrid computer.