whither even basic risk assessment?
within a global carbon trading system, create a “condoms for carbon” program that rewards nations with carbon credits for effective family planning programs.
the smaller the particles, the greater the threat when breathed, as these particles pass through the nose and throat and lodge inside our lungs, and may work their way into our bloodstream.
because we need a higher short term return?
there are many of the greatest technologies; intelligence and intents distributed among the various project(s) and equipment providers.
we will define the conditions desired and the policies needed , keeping in mind that our sector, based on renewable and recyclable materials, is part of the solution for a low carbon 2050share: the media and politicians clamor for simple solutions to complex problems.
furthermore, energy  demand globally is driven by non-oecd countries, as their energy consumption  passed oecd energy consumption back in 2006.
more than half of us already dwell in urban areas; this concerns us individually as well as collectively.
then, to grow as much of that plant as possible in order to in effect, recover those chemicals via the route of biological uptake coupled with chemical and mechanical extraction.
what about the risks?
you may recognize elements of what i have suggested as the heart of the so-called fast action agenda.
by growing plants on automated hydroponic racks from rooting to harvest along a dedicated path.
a range of stoves, for example, those sold by  worldstove, are available, from small “nomad” or  “backpacking” units, to family sized, to the large, community-sized  pyrolysis units that also produce syngas and bio-oil.
municipalities affect the lives of city residents in ways that the national  authorities cannot.
all of our existing energy production methods require vast amounts of non-renewable resources – from steel and rare earths to fossil fuels.
it is a most important relationship to find/make/initiate between scipio biofuels & high level epa officials as soon as possible.
we cannot expect fundamentalist legacy power generators and operators, or green technology advocates to see what is invisible to their consciousness.
and a recent inventory of seattle’s emissions found that 62 percent of the city’s ghg emissions are transportation related, with two-thirds of that coming from cars and trucks.
the problem is rather that fossil based fuels still provide cheaper energy than different renewable resources.
the quantity of co2 released may reach several hundred megatons, not of co2, but of carbon, offsetting and perhaps cancelling all the carbon management measures i mentioned in the beginning.
finding new ways of generating and distributing electric power with minimal ghg emissions •
sa is situated at the interface between science, society and  policy.
sharing opportunities, good life, new exciting societal changes, saving money, new consumption behavior, green growth, new jobs.
opinion polls consistently show that this is the kind of world most of us would like to be living in, and the particularly galling thing is that we already have the technologies and strategies with which to deliver it.
all of the above presented arguments and suggestions reflect my personal views, not a consensus based view of any organisation.
contribute to a better understanding of the actual interpretation of what  sustainability and a ‘carbon-neutral society’ mean, and iii.
these are very basic and few simple measures every nation must implement only then we can accelarte the reduction of carbon foot print and speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society.
in the winter that’s handy as it adds to heating the space (unless of course you open and close your refrigerator a lot).
however, the sense of urgency for environmental problems is lower than these for functional problems and consequently socio-technical transitions to a carbon neutral society do not come about easily and need to be motivated by gradually developing integrative factors capable of maximizing utility.
a few of the billions presently being squandered on eor “sequestration” projects of benefit only to the oil companies should be plenty for a good start.
eleven years later, the 2010 unfccc summit in copenhagen (cop15) produced essentially nothing.
one way of using this lack of power and control to speed up transitions is to create visions, provide leadership, and seed pockets of change.
plus in the midwest much of this wind production has been and is being installed in areas with limited power transmission and distribution systems as they are sparsely populated.
this price should apply to all countries, including developing ones.
new users can register with comment:visions, and begin to leave comments once approved.
the big change is to shift to citizen obligation from consumer desire.
does this mean we should give up on the unfccc process, abandon the succession of mega-conferences in exciting cities and resorts and await the inevitable in the comfort of our homes and offices?
as figure 14, from the energy information administration (eia) depicts  above, all energy sources will be required as world economies expand and energy  demand increases a forecasted 30% from today to 2030.
copyright © 2012 comment:visions
first of all, should the goal really be to have our society neutral on the carbon level?
yet we  almost certainly will fail, unless we act to keep the huge amount of carbon  stored in these dead forests from escaping.
anyway, i assume, a moment for recovery from crisis is the right moment for structural reforms in the best sense of the word.
the  question becomes “how fast is temperature rising?” and “can  we decrease carbon emissions in time to effect this change before mother nature  takes over and it’s too late?”
as i write these lines, delegates around the world are packing their  suitcases to attend the cop16 meeting in cancun.
2 all concepts in  quotation marks are part of negotiation theory.
therefore, he set out on a journey, using his own money, to build an industry around solving the problem.
for example, automotive manufacturer nissan is soon to release its nissan leaf electric car in the 2011 model year, and is receiving orders from consumers sight-unseen, with current demand much greater than manufacturing capacity.
new policy  should focus on actual emissions reductions, which should be rewarded with a  per-documented-ton bounty on the captured and converted co2.
it would push us, the public, towards electing courageous leaders who are willing to act on the sustainability principle against vested corporate interests.
after the first 2 or 3 years, water as dirty as lake elsinore in california could be drinkable year-round.
rotational grass crops (e.g. every fifth year) which are not required for use as animal fodder forms a special case.
over 50% of the world now lives in cities and that pace of urbanization is accelerating.
another important point is that organic feedstock usually has a high moisture content.
since nobody can determine a transition towards a carbon neutral society, nobody can stop transitions.
cities and regions around the world have become major players in the battle  against climate change.
share: print this comment leave a comment dr. rona fried sustainablebusiness.com said:
personal reductions pale into insignificance when compared to global emissions from carbon heavy industries such as power generation, transport and agriculture.
if these targets are indeed to be met, we need currency, courage, choices and creativity.
prop 23 was  voted down, but prop 26 passed – it requires a two-thirds vote to pass  any new taxes on business, which will make it difficult to fund the climate  change law.
things have to be done in reasonable and thoughtful ways with strategic visions for a better energy and environment future, rather than wanting everything to change quickly.
converging catalysts create opportunity there are multiple and converging catalysts at work that are enabling this energy revolution to power global economies more efficiently.
yes, carbon is a major issue but with a world population of 6 billion or so already blighting our planet and the expectation of there being 9 plus billion in just 40 years from now, we must show equal concern to other major issues.
with all research done the last decades, the growing technological evolution and blooming awareness, it is above all important to aim at a realistic view, rather than at a goal that is dreamy but hard to attain.
as the radiant heating and cooling system provides temperature control, the air handling systems can be greatly downsized.
this need not play a role in the actual financing, particularly if we are to move towards a subsidy free energy market in the coming decades.
many types of hardware  today are intentionally designed to have a limited useful life, telephones  being the prime example.
the “road map” adopted by the 2007 cop13 conference in bali.(1) raised hope and expectations, but in copenhagen’s snowy environs, 194 nations with widely divergent interests wrangled about all three cardinal issues on the unfccc agenda: the who, how and when of mitigation, the funding of adaptation, and redd, the absorption of ghg emissions by encouraging and funding reforestation in transition countries.
air-conditioners in cars were not introduced into old clangers and innovative technologies should not be demonstrated in social housing projects.
what is needed is a stronger diffusion of best practice applications of sa, and  a continued awareness raising amongst decision-makers in the public and private  sector on the added value of ‘sustainability informed’  decision-making.
there are also “willing developing  countries” prepared to learn and cooperate; there may just not be enough  time for these budding partnerships to evolve into effective global climate  change protection.
- second is the human acceptance, or resistance to change.
to avoid distortions of the regime affecting the choice of vehicles, regional support might be best handled via a differentiated income tax system.
unfortunately, policy makers, businesses, and citizens are too often caught up in short-term concerns with little attention devoted to the future.
if  the eu society is really serious in meeting these targets, we need to ask  ourselves some serious questions.
the transition would be accelerated by international agreements and a direct internalizing of carbon costs via carbon taxes or cap and trade programs—but none of this is necessary, at least in the near and medium term future.
such a hybrid power system would get wind and solar widely deployed by making co2 into a resource.
it is also not very clear, or specific, on internal assumptions.
yet coal india’s  prospectus, crafted with the help of a clutch of big-name investment banks, did  not mention climate change once in 510 pages of exhortation to invest.
the installation of an efficient, cost effective, clean fuels infrastructure will provide a significant boost to the biofuels industry and make america a cleaner, safer and better place to live.
energy–aware scheduling is a software based power saving approach which has great potential due to its inherent adaptability, cost–effectiveness and applicability.
there are efforts  worldwide to design more efficient resource allocation protocols for cloud  systems.
it is not enough to simply minimize the total energy usage in the  cloud; instead one needs to simultaneously minimize energy usage between all  the different providers in the clouds.
unfortunately such a change is only possibly through international cooperation and new legislation, again leaving us reliant on governments.
in all nations, rich or poor, developing or developed, it is the combination of the individual rate of consumption and the population size that contributes to that damage.
politicians are needed to manage the process – unfortunately.
science always support for carbon neutrality and present  ecosystem, let’s make use of it.
there is no reason that we should let individuals or companies do something that we know is harmful without having them pay for the damage we collectively incur.
energy pricing regimes, monopolies over energy distribution, preferences for domestic producers, and many other factors end up discouraging investors.
the developing world wants to live just like we do in america, which means more consumption (by all 7 billion inhabitants).
many types of hardware today are intentionally designed to have a limited useful life, telephones being the prime example.
the question is, however, if we have the time to be neutral and wait.
all of which that are extensively debated here.
wind farms are being installed in areas with high enough winds to have about a 30% capacity factor or higher.
these problems affect our elderly and children the most.
provided we do, we need to understand that with the exception of drying our clothes in the sunlight, we do not possess any way of harnessing carbon free power.
we ask the architects to design the building to be as energy efficient as possible before seeking to produce additional energy through on-site renewable sources.
no, it won’t, especially not with the current economic climate that remains the perfect excuse for preventive freezing.
the key is the development of a commercially attractive solution.
however, it also provides policy makers, businesses, and society with a great opportunity.
current climate research suggests that we have likely breached the safe limit for the concentration of carbon in the atmosphere.
http://www.usatoday.com/money/industries/energy/environment/2009-01-12-solar-panels-glut_n.htm retrieved june 30, 2009.
but in the real world, today, such a vision can be glimpsed only in oases.
share: the original 2007 eu climate change and energy package was titled “towards a new industrial revolution”.
first, while a comprehensive, ambitious and binding agreement appears out of reach, there are many areas of international climate cooperation that are moving forward and others that are close to a breakthrough – redd +, agriculture, climate finance, mrv and others appear within reach or are already underway in a fairly satisfactory manner.
mere guidelines need to become a more stringent and financially impacting reality, combined with an increased r&d support.
europe could also raise its greeenhouse gas reduction target from 20% to 30% now, rather than linking it to international climate negotiations.
the uk has a real opportunity to become a world-leader on ccs and enjoy all the related benefits for the nation’s economy in terms of expertise, the adoption of british technology and the creation of uk-wide manufacturing jobs.
the offering was oversubscribed 15 fold, and the stock soared on the first day of trading, 4 november, valuing coal india at $49bn.
pockets of change can provide the examples required to change people’s mindset and overcome their initial resistance to all things new.
developing countries should find it much easier to grow down a low-carbon path, since they don’t have the installed high-carbon legacy infrastructure that developed countries do.
this is especially true in the utilisation of coal since whether we like it or not, this industry will continue to expand over the next several decades.
the actions in germany and spain cutting back on subsidies for pv are a prime example of these business driven interests making claims of how fast costs will come down – which to date has not happened at the claimed rate.
there is no free lunch.
it is defined as a contextually adaptable process that aims to: i. integrate  sustainability issues into decision-making by identifying and assessing  sustainability impacts (in particular impacts on carbon emissions); ii.
this would be very hard for the eu, the us and the rest of the oecd.
as figure 14, from the energy information administration (eia) depicts above, all energy sources will be required as world economies expand and energy demand increases a forecasted 30% from today to 2030.
one of the primary drivers for investments in the upstream and downstream energy sector has been direct (e.g. preferential land rents) and indirect subsidies (e.g. government backing for projects considered too risky for the private sector).
issuing a tax on alcohol or tobacco was not a choreographed effort to stop people from drinking or smoking (although it inevitably discouraged it).in america, if a person wants to enjoy a drink or a cigarette, they are free to do so.
every project and every human consumption should be measured in terms of  carbon foot print.
i have been a professional in the energy sector for over 30 years and i have watched with great interest and investment in the ebb and flow of the public discourse on energy.
this includes light and heavy duty trucks and buses, many of which burn diesel fuel.
so far, this lengthy course of action, already set in motion in copenhagen, has met with little success.
still, germany’s climate policies are considered “pioneering”, and justifiably so.
the western climate initiative linking several us states and canadian provinces in a shared climate action programme is just one example.
space heating should be tied to domestic hot water heating and using reject heat from refrigerators, for example.
a carbon tax is fair and it allocates cost across the whole range of carbon-producing entities from industry and energy production to the final consumer.
share: now it’s well known and confirmed that the carbon emission is the main responsible for the phenomena called global warming, really it’s the major challenge to the whole scientists, governments army and people around the world.
this in essence is the default licence that  governments and regulators have handed to the financial-services sector.
could we not use that money better for transforming our energy and industry system and creating our future society that we aim for?
this attitude has transfigured into an overwhelming consensus that we do, and the political establishment and even the corporate world now share this position with scientists, social activists, the media and the public.
such a scheme cannot, of course, be introduced over night, but the sooner the better.
yes, the world needs an effective global climate regime, if not the kyoto  framework then something else as acceptable.
efficiency has to be greatly improved and  industries’ strengths combined, etc.
ethics is fundamental to driving success in changing consumers.
looking at actual co2 savings it is doubtful if there is everywhere a proper balance between e.g. incentives for electric vehicles and gas fuelled vehicles.
the cracks only grew over time.
as per china’s renewable energy law, which will be put in effect in 2011, grid operators will be required to purchase electricity from renewable energy producers, and developers of alternative energy technologies will be awarded with incentives.
in comparison,  mankind had about a century to adapt to steam engines.
i recently read a report stating that buildings, both commercial and residential, account for 30% of all energy use in the us.
in addition, this fully portable unit combines modular, above-ground storage and is equipped to dispense multiple fluids, including diesel emission fluids (def), ethanol blends, gasoline, petroleum diesel, motor oil, engine coolant and windshield wiper fluids.
the reality is that many leed certified buildings have few true energy efficiency elements integrated into their designs and their energy consumption is not much different than a non-leed certified building.
forthis we need to have global governance system.
• developing countries should be compensated via a recycling of some of the carbon revenues.
creating an unknown number of jobs locally and globally isn’t a bad thing either.
currently, the carbon market is experiencing a great deal of price volatility due to uncertainty in some jurisdictions regarding what counts toward future emission caps.
more than 200 billion metric tons of co2-equivalent reductions of  fluorocarbon emissions (hfcs, hcfcs) have already taken place under the  montreal protocol, an accomplishment greater than the entire (unachieved) first  commitment period under the kyoto protocol.
the issue is very complex and far too many people who actively discuss it are far too uninformed or ill informed.
the transition would be accelerated by  international agreements and a direct internalizing of carbon costs via carbon  taxes or cap and trade programs—but none of this is necessary, at least  in the near and medium term future.
share: as a matter of fact, commissioner connie heidegaard in a way gave the answer: “we need to change the narrative and develop a bottom up strategy”.
the us and china may have been reluctant to sign up to ghg reduction targets at copenhagen but they can teach europe a lesson or two when it comes to investment.
it appears that we are doing little to confront this quandary, instead watching idly while it intensifies to ominous proportions.
for de-acidification it is this added fresh water rain onto the ocean’s surface that is the true agent of change.
good national climate governance also requires institutional, financial and human resources and capacities to implement policy, and presupposes transparency and public participation throughout decision-making and implementation.
this underlies the unsexy truth that carbon neutrality requires us to first and foremost, conserve.
foster  sustainability objectives to be achieved in order to realize this aspirational  carbon neutrality.
when  carefully applied, sa helps to think out of the box and can be a significant  step to help to steer the chain of actions towards a much-needed transition.
i’m responding from the following perspectives… first and foremost, we must consider the population of our planet, coupled with human consumption.
reuters world environment news, june 12, 2009.
re climate change – to have a global agreement with firm targets.
as we begin to implement efficient low carbon electricity on a large scale, we start to reduce the carbon emissions from other key sectors such as transport, including cars, trains and hgv’s.
this overall increase in ambient humidity by the inclusion of this “wet air” will eventually result in increased rainfall somewhere.
unless we explore ways to use hydro power, tidal power and other means, we cannot address this topic in a fair way.
the fact sea water was 300 feet lower  10,000 years ago and the sahara desert was mostly a savannah indicates the  effect of how climate change can change quickly over a relatively short period  of time.
but five minutes of political bravura and years of consequent behavior on the active, adaptive and reactive level can make an import difference: taking a clear position, setting up the framework to do so, and acting in accordance.
other comments: what is the right balance of government legislation/initiatives and change in behaviors?
for sectors like ours, 2050 is two  paper machine investments away.
finally, we need sound urban planning and related infrastructure.
sustainable development was defined by the seminal brundtland report as ‘development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs’.
as any price on carbon would need to be legislated and enforced by the government, it would function similarly to a tax.
the poorest developing countries would experience a massive uplift in incomes, and even the already wealthy countries would get wealthier.
nobody wants to  admit a mistake and change direction, especially when the funding apparatus is  supervised by those invested in the mistake.
while i believe that the world should be moving to a sustainable energy  base, i think we need to worry about the technical and economic realities of  this conversion and not to act in a frenzied way to get there.
nitrogen oxide, commonly known as laughing gas, (used today as a dental anesthetic), is a major cause of greenhouse gas and air pollutants.
renewable energy will eventually become fully competitive with fossil fuels anyway; it’s just not happening fast enough.
– thomas edison pricing carbon the only way the us can become carbon neutral quickly is to price carbon.
the design should cut the carbon emissions by 76 percent through energy efficiency, with minor additional first costs compared to a conventional office building.
these include the steps region in eastern europe, the  great plains of north america, and the southeast asia rice bowl.
this is an essential complimentary function, as realizing the  transition will require the implementation of tangible initiatives – say  projects.
many live in fear of losing a technology or strategic advantage.
we need a way to build large-scale, low-carbon energy infrastructure, like wind farms, nuclear power stations and carbon capture & storage plants, without endless protests, inquiries and permitting procedures – of course, while keeping them safe, environmentally friendly and acceptable to the local community •
alberta,  the canadian province i call home, is virtually paved with pipelines.
“minimizing energy consumption for precedence–constrained applications using dynamic voltage scaling,” in the proceedings of the 9th ieee/acm international symposium on cluster computing and the grid, may 18–21, pp.
furthermore, they are all looking to each other to take the first step.
share: i would like to take the question to a wider platform because i have concerns that if we get too fixated on the issue of carbon we might miss needing to respond to other major challenges.
relatively small plants producing biomethane which is either fed into an existing nearby gas grid, or liquefied for efficient long distance transportation, in this respect have an edge over large biorefineries.
we need to avoid ideological and/or nimby hostility to some kinds of low-carbon energy, notably nuclear power and carbon capture & storage (and, in some locations, offshore wind) •
even though this is how we assure enough clean potable water for everyone, not just americans.
all together, one should thus stay realistic on the final goal – to much dreaming can only lead to diluting debates – and on realism on the ‘speed’ dimension.
when looking at ghg avoidance one must also consider the effect of indirect land use changes (iluc).
we need a bottom-up groundswell that overwhelms (and shames) our recalcitrant governments into action and an effort focused on this level might pay more dividends than lobbying our government representatives in copenhagen, cancún or durban.
institutional shareholders were particularly unsupportive.
this cycle and the application of organic methods will actually help take carbon from the atmosphere and sequester it in the soil in large quantities for very long periods.
the latter forces, whether we like it or not, are already culling populations.
the same is true for the future.
to one extent or another, these  countries’ climate policies consist of the following: a long-term and  consistent climate policy with clear and measurable ghg reduction targets,  based on scientific data (“evidence-based policy”), employing  diverse policy tools aimed at generating more efficient energy markets and  increasing the share of renewable energy resources, and periodic review and  reassessment.
nuclear is deeply unpopular and highly costly, it will only ever make a small contribution towards reducing our emissions.
building public acceptance is a process, it is a long process, but it needs to be done and can be done.
mr. baer’s vision was born out of a passionate desire to be part of the solution to the problems set forth herein.
the in-ability to feed the  world’s population will cause economic and political conflict, disease,  and famine.
they build on the idea of sustainable development, but they need to be translated into operational tools and processes, that have the power to make sustainability work.
first, government policy needs to be realigned in that direction, meaning  incentives for fossil fuels need to be shifted to low-carbon alternatives and  procurement policies need to reshaped and religiously implemented.
we all have refrigerators in our homes.
this means comparing not only the costs of making the fuel or energy carrier available, but also new infrastructure and vehicle costs.
can the economic framework be more helpful for technology and innovation?
share: dear avi, you have made very good comments.
the larger framework needs to be present and put into reality.
serious market development of new low carbon products and energy generation systems is not going to happen until all this is in place and these activities would make more sense than excessive government sponsored research and development.
tomorrow might perhaps be different and better, given the growth rates of renewables industries, notwithstanding the languishing share prices of many renewables companies.
in the next few lines i will  summarize some of the issues related to my field of research, which is high  performance computing.
national ambient air quality standards have been established and original equipment manufacturers (oem’s) have totally redesigned the diesel engines of the 70’s to significantly reduce carbon emissions.
individual responsibility is at the heart of a sustainable energy future" loading ...
the may 2010 interim conference in bonn yielded a negotiation text that  had swelled from 17 to 34 pages, even greater disparities among national  delegations about everything, and some undiplomatically pessimistic public  statements, such as un secretary-general ban ki- moon’s
we must now accept a path which previously would have seemed unimaginable if we are to reach a sustainable future.
in fact, many seemingly complicated “problems” have found themselves over time radically simple solutions.
in addition, we have low prices in some jurisdictions where emission are not valued, and accordingly emission reductions have little value.
share: print this comment  leave a comment nam raj khatri environmental  health, who nepal said: on 01/12/2010 we want to keep present ecosystem or ecosystem of some time back in which  we are feeling comfortable.
there is a  broad recognition that governments are huge consumers of goods and services in  their own right and sound procurement policies can build markets for low-carbon  goods and services much as they did in the case of recycling and recycled  content.
and more importantly at what cost?
speak about the devil and the beelzebub!
press-cake and overproduction go back into the coal mine =
governments cannot simply subsidise energy production and consumption without any due regard for the negative externalities.
by working together, across sectors, and bringing the visionary level people together to see past this quarter into next year and beyond, there is a very real possibility of getting clean and green power to the eu from africa at prices comparable to 1990 us electricity prices.
what was at stake was essentially a $35bn (£21bn) bankrolling of  enhanced global warming by the capital markets.
we need to make deep cuts in carbon emissions and help drive investment in low-carbon solutions.
but in the panic over global warming, post-combustion chemical co2 capture  and underground co2 dumping (“sequestration”), biofuels, windmills,  and solar — none of which are workable at utility scale for providing the  baseload power the world needs — were rushed forward and absorbed all of  the available money.
so long as there are so many ignorant, self-absorbed, greedy, and basically malevolent people, then there will always be these bizarre and wasteful “institutions.”
the rules and context are changing daily.
so what can we do to speed up the transition to a carbon neutral future?
concisely then, if we are to increase the rate of transition to a more resource-friendly society, policies should promote individual technologies where their supply chain could be improved by the removal of market-based barriers.
however, tailpipe exhaust fumes from older model diesel engine trucks and buses remain a threat to human health.
share: print this comment leave a comment bruce s. klafter applied  materials, inc. said: on 01/12/2010 i would point to at least three things that would speed the transition.
this means the end of cap and trade policies that shuffle money and blame around by shifting energy intensive manufacturing processes to other parts of the world.
in managing the essex global environmental opportunities strategy (geos), we take a thematic approach to environmental investing, and have developed nine themes that we believe capture the opportunities stemming from global climate change mitigation and adaptation.
nothing could be further from the truth.
but those people are mostly allowed no say in where their pension funds, insurance premiums, and banking deposits are invested.
there is a need for more concerted efforts for all of us, each in his/her own discipline, in trying to create greener and cleaner alternatives to many of the existing technologies that can leave smaller carbon footprints.
like my country – latvia.
tax to apply when used, i.e. also when burning fuels in a chp plant.
mining canadian oil sands in particular requires multibillion-dollar capital investments that are typically paid back over long periods, which means mines currently up and running – and there are many – will not be switched off overnight.
once individuals, businesses and politicians see it as in their best interest, we’ll be on the road.
these are all regressive taxes, and we accept them.
pricing carbon, however, would have broader-reaching financial incentives for reducing carbon emissions.
for the latter, the most concerned sectors are heavy primary industries, construction and food.
the reason a 100% effect on incoming air was required of the system on just two components (co2 and particulates) was to assure the two competing dynamics within climate change remain in their present balance but become less intense.
and how can it be used in a key sector to achieve carbon neutrality, such as the energy sector?
producing less carbon means after all exactly a slowing down of economic industrial growth.
the political mechanisms are already moving into place.
a highway replacement may not increase emissions, but it does seem to lock them in for the long term at a time when local, regional, and state governments are supposed to be doing everything they can to encourage use and investment in transit and reducing vehicle miles traveled.
we can  contribute at four levels: individual, community, national and global.
yes, we need to clean up and  sequester carbon from fossil-fuel-fired electrical generation facilities, and  to revisit the desirability of both large and small nuclear plants.
another way to approach the issue is through initiating feed-in tariffs (fits).
it is essential to very carefully household with renewable resources which could be used to provide transportation fuels for mentioned applications.
in colorado, we have a mandate for distributed pv which is totally out of whack with central power generation costs.
simultaneously, however, they are committed to a rate of economic growth that even they recognize will cause climate-disrupting emissions to rise into the foreseeable future.
the rise of a ‘green economy’ is  supposed to make the ‘carbon-neutral society’ happen, as it takes  the links between economy, society and the environment into account and aims to  boost and diversify our society, create employment opportunities, improve  equity and foster sustainability.
by observing which specific chemicals it is possible to economically extract from a given plant species, it is reasonable to anticipate that the ability to invert the dynamics of the bioremediation system mentioned in cornerstone #2 above would be a potential source of chemicals for industry.
lee, y.–c. and zomaya, a. y. “scheduling in grid environments”, handbook of parallel computing.
this subject deserves special attention.
the truth is if you do a little you achieve a little.
with luck, the liberated co2 will find its way to cornerstone #5 below.
nox emissions from diesel engine trucks and buses react chemically in the presence of sunlight and play a major role in the formation of ground-level ozone (smog).
this fuel dispensing unit gathers information designed to help government agencies and private companies collect data required to track fuel credits in an audible manner, measure fuel economy, and calculate annual fuel and operation cost savings.
although the frolicking billionaires of wall street hoped for a new junk bubble in bogus offset trading schemes such as cap-and-trade, that is not going to happen either.
solar conversion of co2 to liquid fuel is being pioneered in the us by sandia national laboratories.
these are the “6 cornerstones” for a framework of what is today economically feasible yet still accomplishes what is necessary to potentially blunt the tip of climate change while simultaneously helping clean our world in other ways.
i suspect the hidden carbon costs of our lifestyles are far greater than those obvious to us and, until we become aware of these underlying effects, we will struggle to achieve any significant improvement in them, prefering instead to delegate that responsibility to others such as governments, corporations and markets.
the european pulp and paper industry is reflecting on the questions above  and is developing the sector’s 2050 roadmap.
automotive efficiency – use available technology to create cars and trucks that achieve a fleet average of 60 miles per gallon (mpg) of gas by 2030 through hybrid and electric plug-in technology; create energy efficient public transport systems, such as high speed rail within and between cities.
to determine the right combination of energy-efficient glazing and insulated wall panels, the team modelled the day lighting savings offset by the energy penalty of increased floor-to-floor and glass area.
the united states is in worse shape.
the infrastructure that underpins our use – and abuse  – of carbon-intensive fuels took hundreds of years to evolve.
most are competitive and cost-efficient, some are still immature (e.g. smart electricity grids) or controversial (carbon sequestration).
for example, the number of transistors integrated into today’s intel itanium 2 processor reaches to nearly 1 billion.
refrigerators remove heat from food and reject it to the living space.
the answer to that question  involves the human race’s ability to grow food for the masses.
in that process, we revitalize the american economy by using one problem to fix another.
everyday, more people and businesses are becoming aware of the impact of the carbon emissions caused by their everyday activities on the environment.
a carbon tax is fair and it allocates cost across  the whole range of carbon-producing entities from industry and energy  production to the final consumer.
the desertec activity in north africa is very intriguing for the european electric grid.
a key issue however is the systemic nature of the problem and the systematic nature of the education, analytical and behavioural aspects of individuals who live and consume in most developed markets.
a carbon tax should be coupled with a carbon tariff to  account for emissions generated elsewhere.
these protocols normally govern how an application or a set of applications are mapped onto the existing resources in a cloud environment.
cornerstone #3 a method for wide-scale recovery of chemicals, now environmental contaminants like fertilizers.
hence, the “origin” (as used above) positioned at a natural equilibrium between humans and earth (or nature in general, which is to mean beyond simply earth), a systemic state whereby carbon production and consumption is at equilibrium, is hard to conceive inside the discipline of economics.
share: a charge on greenhouse gas (ghgs) emissions would speed the transition; long-term regulatory certainty would help too.
and how can it be used in a key sector to achieve carbon neutrality,  such as the energy sector?
this approach is specifically not aimed at a renewable energy solution as this is fundamentally not capable of meeting the base-load requirements for the next 50 years or so.
imagine the northern sahara looking like the imperial valley in california, (without californians.
whither fiduciary responsibility?
this is followed by deliberative feedback on  storylines and by an assessment of the storylines’ sustainability.
in the western world, we presently consume or over-consume all kinds of products, including electronics, newspapers, magazines, food and beverages and so on.
far from being an avoidable expense, the ccs sector has the potential to create thousands of uk jobs and contribute billions of pounds to our economy while helping to ensure a carbon neutral society.
whilst the financial gain of developing the new technologies that will underpin these sectors is undoubtable, all new innovations carry a development period.
our team came up with interesting insight how the ofice and factory planning can reduce the carbon print.
when pure h2o, contacts carbonic acid h2co3, the co2 molecule is broken off from the carbonic acid leaving water and co2 separate again, thus raising the ph and liberating a molecule of co2 from the seawater as it is raining at the surface.
it also means the end of policies that promote energy production based on its type and not on its actual resource footprint.
funding is also crucial for improving energy efficiency in buildings, which account for around 40% of eu carbon emissions.
“minimizing energy consumption for  precedence–constrained applications using dynamic voltage scaling,”  in the proceedings of the 9th ieee/acm international symposium on cluster  computing and the grid, may 18–21, pp.
consider how much further from a carbon-neutral global economy we would be now without montreal, and there are more reductions where those came from: at the recent bangkok montreal protocol summit, ninety one parties agreed to support the phase out of hfcs, which could potentially eliminate up to 100 billion metric tons more of co2-equivalent by 2050.
the us did not ratify the kyoto protocol; most annex 1 countries have increased rather than reduced their emissions since 1989; china, india, brazil and other non-annex 1 countries have embarked on an unprecedented course of economic growth.
right now we need a truly scalable solution that works across the board with various industries, built with the fundamental economics of clean power production in mind.
the list over renewable alternatives requiring government funding includes production units for renewable electric power, required improvements of electric grid system, infrastructure for powering of electric vehicles, production units for renewable fuels or energy carriers, required improvements of gas grid system, gas liquefaction facilities, distribution systems for liquefied gas, infrastructure for refuelling of gas powered vehicles, and modifications of chemical industry plants.
for aircraft there might also be a need to substitute oil based jet fuel with another synthetic liquid fuel produced from renewable resources.
recent data disclose the astonishing likelihood that, far from serving as an invaluable carbon sink, these decaying trees and deadfall will cause massive carbon-positive releases exactly coinciding with the decades during which we hope to best the climate-forcing challenge.
but in the meantime, i think the world would do well to add coal and natural gas to liquid to the mix of transportation fuels.
indeed, de-carbonizing the world will be a gradual, long-term movement.
“national interests”(2) are too different and not always transparent to the observer, the prospects of a “win-win outcome” are virtually nonexistent, and the accumulating scientific data does not accelerate the “ripening” of discrepancies between the parties into a negotiated settlement.
appropriate choices need to impact us directly.
although sa is a generic term covering a wide range of approaches, it  is most often a stepwise approach consisting of a screening phase, a context  analysis and scoping phase, the actual impact prediction and assessment phase,  a series of recommendations on possible trade offs, a follow-up and a quality  control phase.
koomey, j. g. “estimating total power consumption by servers in the u.s.  and the world.
money keeps on going to the same silly projects, like enhanced oil recovery (eor) in depleted reservoirs in the guise of “sequestration” to store co2 emissions.
located inside of a detroit icon known as focus hope, is a man, a company and an invention that presents a critical link to the carbon-neutral future of michigan and america.
yes, we  need climate bellwethers such as the enlightened companies and defense  ministries that are pursuing a carbon-neutral agenda (and thereto i must praise  the extraordinary commitment that the us department of defense has recently  made to reduce ghg emissions and green its equipment and installations).
first, sa can be used as a foresight tool; as a  guide to energy transitions.
although diesel trucks and buses account for only a small amount of hydrocarbon emissions and carbon monoxide emissions, they do contribute large amounts of nox and particulates.
our science-based approach challenged the veracity of several long-held architectural beliefs: the following myths must be avoided at all costs: myth #1: all glass buildings are the future of low-energy and low-emissions design.
environmental regulations are now more stringent in the developed markets,  particularly in high environmental impact industries such as utilities and  transport.
to begin, we need the desire to actually transit to a carbon neutral society.
reaching carbon neutrality at some point certain in the future while spending billions on large scale highway projects doesn’t pass the limus test.
these two objections point to the blindness about the extremity of our situation.
faulty decisions or not, germany and other “pioneering states” confirm that good climate governance at the national level is possible and successful.
first, factors influencing the energy system are identified.
although distributed systems (clusters, supercomputers, grids, data centres and clouds) provide an unparalleled level of computational horsepower for solving challenging problems across a wide spectrum of fields—from scientific inquiry, engineering design, and financial analysis to national defence and disaster prediction—such horsepower usually equals enormous power consumption, not only to run the distributed system but also to cool it.
from the begning of industrial growth in early 1900, we have been depended on fossil fuels to feed our industries, to generate electricity, to fuel our vehicles and so on.
the energy consumption issue in cloud computing systems raises various monetary, environmental and system performance concerns.
“pioneering states” do indeed exist(4).
as with stopping anything that speeds and accelerates out-of-control, we seem to need a three stages process.
this underlies the unsexy truth that carbon neutrality requires us to  first and foremost, conserve.
the project planning team has come up with the detailed cost estimates, with the construction cost is $223 per sq.
if we had to pay — either directly through charges to obtain allowances or taxes on emissions or indirectly via price signals on carbon intensive products — we would be motivated by our wallets to make more climate-friendly, carbon-neutral decisions.
many us college and university presidents have signed onto the climate commitment to make their campuses carbon neutral.
worldwide harmonized minimum tax for all fossil fuels.
nations are not the only players in the global climate game.
if you’ll accept my substitution of the words, then, here’s my response.
this will never will be possible without the intevention of both government and coorporate.
innovations that work towards lowering consumption on the individual or local scale have their place but they are simply not large enough to cause the fundamental shift required.
share: as detroit gears up for the 2011 north american international auto show at cobo center, i found myself wondering: “what will it take to accelerate the transition of america to a carbon neutral society?”
in the western world, we presently  consume or over-consume all kinds of products, including electronics,  newspapers, magazines, food and beverages and so on.
the co2 within the rising bubbles reacts with the limewater causing a precipitate of calcium carbonate to settle on the bottom permanently sequestering the co2.
instead they  plan to prevent regulation of greenhouse gas emissions while increasing  offshore oil drilling.
for example, the number of transistors  integrated into today’s intel itanium 2 processor reaches to nearly 1  billion.
interestingly, the literature on governance for  sustainability and the search for “best sustainable practices” that  can be adopted by other nations also highlight these factors.
a classic example of a distortion resulting from this type of approach is of north american woodchips being burned in europe to generate “carbon-neutral” electricity.
with such a de-centralized system producing tens of thousands (to millions) of tons of press-cake annually at or near each point of use, combined with centralized sites producing tens of millions of tons annually, it is conceivable that there will not be enough consumers of press-cake products.
the protocol’s only noteworthy long-term accomplishment is the establishment of emissions trading, an instrument adopted in kyoto to help reduce global ghg emissions.
the real question is now can we hope that nine billion plus people will be able to live in dry, warm environments and have enough food to eat?
solar, wind and geothermal technology – for carbon-free, renewable energy sources.
share: print this comment leave a comment sol shapiro sol shapiro consulting said: on 01/12/2010
but of course this is not going to be popular.
reduction of carbon intensity is among real structural reforms needed for countries to have a prospect for development, and not reduction of pensions, child care allowances, education budget.
in the past however, governments have generally provided assistance in the form of complimentary infrastructure provision (e.g. the vast swathes of highways built after the u.s’ 1956 federal aid highway act helped truly embed motor vehicles as the private transport technology of choice).
and finally, what about the politics?
factors  are e.g. energy price dynamics, ecological constraints, international energy  policy etc.
these are the technologies of the future; they will drive the second industrial revolution toward ecological modernization.
furthermore, the holistic approach of sa ensures that key sustainability topics (ranging from biodiversity conservation to poverty eradication) are not ‘lost’ in an overly narrow focus on carbon emissions alone.
by using several different methods combined, wholly or in part during a portion of the year determined by photoperiod & solar cycle, the existing nutrients in and around a lake can be drawn from their source.
each of these  steps is devised to maximize the objective function.
although in this particular case the ends will most probably justify the means.
pure biomethane for use in vehicles has to compete with natural gas, and the income from sales of biomethane at the price of natural gas is often lower than the income from almost raw biogas used for electric power generation.
it has been my intention to manufacture and deploy these technologies privately and at my own expense as profits from the algae based biofuels would allow.
the team’s mantra was, “model, measure, and manage.”
these include the steps region in eastern europe, the great plains of north america, and the southeast asia rice bowl.
where individual actions fall short legislation comes into play.
on the same day coal india shares started trading so too did enel green  power’s.
during this time we have to see a responsible utilisation of fossil fuels; eliminating energy penalties for carbon capture and storage (ccs) and seeking new technologies that efficiently enable a large scale roll out of low carbon generating technology.
this, in my view, should be our highest priority.
the current policy plans almost “plan” innovations.
again, this spectacle involved fund managers investing and trading for  people who, given a say, might well have chosen to factor climate change into  the decisions taken.
sa also embodies the  democratic values of sustainability, as it needs to be conducted in a  participatory way.
also essential is a real behavioural shift with regard to wasting energy, akin to the shift that has taken place in relation to drink-driving and smoking in public places.
yes, we need for the us congress to legislate on industrial greenhouse gas  emissions, and for the obama administration and our courts to step up while  congress’s foolish regression on climate change spirals out of control.
because cruise lines use such enticements to get people to leave home (so they can experience all the comforts of home).
the fuel tax income should be primarily earmarked fuel and energy infrastructure developments, also for required modifications of chemical industry production facilities.
sightline’s previous research has found that building more roads produces more carbon emissions (though ghg modeling for this project does not show a significant increase in regional emissions).
the state was confronted with a massive problem and has chosen to deal with it head-on.
share: achieving a carbon neutral society is a big challenge but one we must find a way of meeting and soon.
the volumes we can generate of any microalgae allow us to not need to commit much production capacity to this endeavor to assure a handsome profit without flooding the markets.
here in tormacon we have initiated a process that all projects undertaken must aim at being carbon neutral as far as possible.
broad opportunities given the diversity of the challenges to address  climate change while meeting increased energy demands due to the economic  transitions of the emerging markets, we take a broad, thematic approach to  environmental investing.
forty percent of energy consumed is for building comfort.
smog-causing ozone and soot emissions are already stringently regulated, but emissions can be reduced further (with enormous co-benefits for health, food crops and property) with broader, stricter controls.
an electrical engineer by trade, mr. baer created a liquid fuel dispensing system that serves as a benchmark in the alternative fuels market sector.
we know we will generate at least x. from the very beginning of the design stages we have been consumed with the ideas of under promising & over delivering in every way imaginable.
nine geos themes the geos investment process leverages climate change mitigation and  adaptation opportunities across nine environmental themes: -agricultural productivity and clean fuels: improve agricultural yields;  non-carbon fuel sources -clean technology and efficiency: environmental  conservation methods; limit waste during power generation -efficient  transport: enable greater efficiencies for transport -environmental  finance: carbon trading infrastructure and financing -power merchants and  generation: power sources and services with low greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions -power technology: improve the efficiency of power production,  distribution and storage -renewable energy: power generation using natural  resources that are naturally replenished -low carbon commerce: businesses  which lower ghg emissions for global commerce and consumption -water:  water treatment, purification, desalination and distribution share: print this comment leave a comment wilmot mccutchen vorsana said: on 01/12/2010 abraham lincoln said: “if i had eight hours to cut down a tree,  i’d spend six hours sharpening my axe.”
the algae, is continuously circulated, harvested & processed into fuels under the parking lot or another suitable location within or adjacent to the facility site.
share: most of us could be persuaded that a carbon neutral society is a good thing, as much for the conservation of raw materials for future use as in mitigation of climate change.
in other areas the slowness of progress boils down to a lack of capacity and prioritisation.
many different techniques are initiated and discontinued in a very specific order, sequence, phase and period after which the area is then re-tested, plant species possibly adjusted then repeated annually for up to 40 years or more for heavily contaminated areas.
that means finding a balance between putting a price on carbon and leaving industry the funds to finance the future.
over 50% of the world now lives in  cities and that pace of urbanization is accelerating.
the core process for change is a shift in belief systems, ideologies and public opinion.
because the planetary population is well beyond sustainable levels, even a small increase causes much more than just a proportional increase in damage to our life support systems (4) – carbon storage systems such as forests and peatbogs, watersheds, and the atmosphere.
the opposite is  often the case in many u.s. metropolitan areas.
then there is india with its coal based economy, but also its biomass based economies in many of its villages.
yet, we have an alcohol tax, a tobacco tax, a lottery and gambling tax.
substituting wind and  solar for coal and natural gas in providing baseload power is not going to  happen because they are intermittent and isolated from the grid.
the assurances of the environmentalists and the cap-and-trade advocates that “we have all the technology we need” have now proven to be false.
here, it’s clearly impossible for the forces advocating carbon neutrality to stand a chance in the national debate when big coal, big oil, and their shills have virtually limitless resources to flood the airwaves with self-serving propaganda.
his patent-pending technology allows for precise blending of petroleum-based fuels with biofuels and pumping directly into the end user’s vehicle.
putting water in the air, by putting air in the water in this way can only serve us all very well.
developing and implementing technologies which reduce the cost of producing low carbon electricity, coupled with long term guaranteed government subsidies funded by a small levy on electricity users, should naturally accelerate the introduction of these solutions.
price is the only thing that drives consumers.
we need to offer hopes and be ‘fun’; 3.
the viable technologies that can assist with climate change mitigation and adaptation rest across most economic sectors, yet point to discrete solutions.
but we will not truly cross the bridge to a carbon neutral society until we can put in place a policy framework that favours it.
providing an adequate refuelling infrastructure for methane thus has a higher priority than setting up a similar infrastructure for hydrogen.
although setting inspiring goals, these all-encompassing strategies are still perceived as being overly abstract.
(i led the writing of this paper as a consultant to the united nations division of sustainable development, but the ideas largely came from other people, inside and outside the un system.)
to get there, the different aspects should be tackled, each with a specific approach.
the courage, the ambition to really  drive the 2050 targets and the industrial revolution needed to get there.
the current crisis does not help, and carbon leakage effects make the situation even worse.
install photovoltaic roof systems on all available roofs, build solar thermal plants in sunny areas, create wind farms throughout the main wind corridor of the central u.s. and off coasts, and build geothermal plants wherever feasible.
a recent study on  power consumption by servers (the type used in cloud computing systems) shows  that electricity use for servers worldwide—including their associated  cooling and auxiliary equipment—in 2005 cost 7.2 billion us dollars.
during the november 2010 elections, the oil industry funded two referendums  in california (proposition 23 and proposition 26) to de-rail the state’s  prescient climate change law.
all these are aspects that pave the way for a successful societal transition towards carbon neutrality.
second, the conditions that govern international investment often discourage investment in clean energy.
electric vehicles offer considerable potential for electricity storage when demand is low at night, as well as holding the key to decarbonising transport, which currently accounts for a quarter of all carbon emissions.
the grid needs to be equipped with “smart” technology to optimise the balancing of supply and demand, and progress achieved on the issue of energy storage.
these, coupled with the development of advanced clean energy technologies, have converged and signify that vehicles like the chevrolet volt, 2011 car of the year, are here to stay.
yet the huge soot and co2 emissions from open fires of all sorts globally go almost unaddressed.
edison first brought in the light-bulb to the upper-class of lower manhattan by using a system of lines, substations and transformers, etc (johnson & suskewicz, 2009).
in the energy sector, sa can be used to assess the sustainability impacts of a wide range of initiatives, such as developing new power plants, assessing wind parks, assessing projects under the kyoto protocol’s flexible mechanisms, as our team did for clean development mechanism-projects in vietnam.
so too is the case of the 25 major corporations that signed a letter asking to us president to take more resolute action to lower global carbon emissions.
that bears astaxanthin, which sells for between $6,000 and $15,000 per kilogram.
share: your question, “what would it take to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society?”has two different aspects to it - first are all the technical aspects of the question : what energy, how to reduce carbon footprint, etc.
this revolves around individual whole-system policies for each technology, taking into account their supply chains and how they are used by each sector of society.
a constant daily public education about continuing climate change via mainstream media would help create and sustain the sense of urgency needed to develop and maintain a fast transition towards a carbon neutral society.(5)
what it means is that you are not a net contributor to global co2 emissions.
finally, i think a lot of this comes down to educating the public about energy – the pros and cons of different sources, the trade-offs that policymakers must make, the scale and inertia of the system, and the fact that cost matters.
however, such transition is difficult to orchestrate centrally, since it requires many components of our system to transform in ways that support each other in creating a carbon neutral society.
this means finding a method that stops fossil fuels releasing co2, which can happen through the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) power plants.
choices also involves the courage to support large pilot projects,  jumping the valley of death of r&d.
networks of cities, national and international, are aiding their members with consultation, expertise and funding.
it requires a changes in a broad array of behaviors, by industry,  government, consumers, and voters.
key is acting, and continuing support.
first what i have in mind is a close relation of this idea of carbon neutrality with overall consumption pattern of society.
if we want to abate co2 and become a carbon neutral society, then the world needs a 9-11 wake-up call involving global food production.
if technologies for reducing carbon emissions are a profit opportunity rather than a cost burden a constructive tension will naturally speed up the transition.
although sa is a generic term covering a wide range of approaches, it is most often a stepwise approach consisting of a screening phase, a context analysis and scoping phase, the actual impact prediction and assessment phase, a series of recommendations on possible trade offs, a follow-up and a quality control phase.
but as of now we are short of good climate governance, and of the political will to put the available technological and policy tools into practice.
their case is  instructive insofar as their climate policies exemplify the meaning and  importance of “good governance”–to my mind the main stepping  stone on the road to a carbon-neutral society.
the indulgences issued by the catholic church did not stop  sin, and “carbon offsets” will not reduce co2 emissions.
all over the world, municipalities, companies, states or provinces are showing willing to go well beyond what their own governments are prepared to do.
the viable technologies that can assist with climate  change mitigation and adaptation rest across most economic sectors, yet point  to discrete solutions.
and claims are made that there is a  cost saving in transmission – true; but when you put numbers to it, the  added cost of distributed pv paid for by the ratepayers far exceeds the cost of  added transmission.
several eu countries are putting in place upfront “pay as you save” funding mechanisms, be it through utilities, government schemes or commercial banks, but there is still no requirement on member states to make such funding mechanisms available.
imagine if major media avenues carried public service announcements daily on how homeowners or communities could cut their energy consumption, or transition to clean energy.
this separates the issue of “carbon equity” from that of getting a clear economic signal everywhere to reduce emissions, and avoiding “leakage” of emissions to unregulated jurisdictions.
the size of the particles is directly linked to their potential to cause health problems.
federal emissions mandates and alternative liquid fuel blending requirements have been established.
for some mobile applications – aircraft, ships, and long distance road traffic we, however, still have the challenge of developing sufficiently efficient energy carriers.
on that cruise ship were 4500 other human beings, all being fed with food requiring refrigeration, powered by petroleum.
it requires a changes in a broad array of behaviors, by industry, government, consumers, and voters.
shifting energy subsidies from fossil fuels to clean energy, energy efficiency, electric grid expansion and mass transit; • regulating energy efficiency of vehicles, appliances, and industry; •
it is not an overstatement to say that we have a  “throwaway” society.
this option also has the benefit of providing inexpensive fertiliser for a small lot of land.
and the paybacks, once again, are enormous: improved incomes, better quality of life, and reduced climate risk, all around the world.
this is intended to ensure that we shall not allow the next time around a repeat of the “out-of-control acceleration away from origin” we have been inducing/experiencing since/with the industrial revolution.
a shift in taxation would drive behavioral change.
the philosopher françois-rené de chateaubriand once said, “forests precede civilizations and deserts follow them.”
if this pearl in indian ocean can achieve this goal, then others can – provided given initiative and drive.
share: preamble this is at first sight a very complicated question.
it must be noted that there is no easy answer to such a broad question, and there is no easy solution.
there is some conscious in this line but every one seems trying to achieve global neutrality from others.
until international climate negotiations target bulk shipments of fossil fuels – for instance, the growth in liquefied natural gas – a carbon-neutral world will remain elusive.
chapter 9: numbers matter.
first, the dollar figures probably look scary.
share: becoming a carbon neutral society will require a significant change in global culture.
projects 2-4 should be dedicated to exploring new approaches.
choices also involves the courage to support large pilot projects, jumping the valley of death of r&d.
we end up with energy, jobs, food and water, all at pre 2000 prices, and the ability to maintain those prices at less than eu100/mwh escalated at cost of living for the foreseeable future.
the bottom-up initiatives taken by many all around the world are worthy and they should be replicated and scaled up to the extent possible.
first, decelerating the current acceleration, reducing the movement towards constant speed.
going back to the oil embargo of the early 1970’s through three mile island and the exxon valdez.
for example; assume an area is contaminated with a given chemical that is economically recoverable from a specific type of plant.
the technologies and the market opportunities generated by this cooperation would attract other nations to enter into similar pacts to remain competitive, which in turn would facilitate the emergence and expansion of coalitions in future climate negotiations.
however, a real job that wind and solar might do is the conversion task, in electrolytic dissociation of co2 to make liquid fuel or elemental carbon, recycling the oxygen back into the plant for oxyfuel combustion or oxygen-blown gasification.
with now only forty years to go to 2050 this is indeed true.
it is challenging to achieve that globally.
the “big push” of initial subsidies would result in renewable energy becoming the default investment option (without any subsidy) in just 10-20 years, at a price affordable to all.
apart from the multitude of ownerships  of the different sites, a cloud differs from traditional high performance  computing systems in the heterogeneity of the computing nodes as well as the  communication links that connect the different nodes together.
julian robertson, chairman of tiger management llc, has famously stated that the simplest way to eliminate diabetes and control the obesity epidemic in the us – in addition to improving the gdp by as much as a trillion dollars – is to institute a sugar and fat tax.
ever since, a multitude of initiatives have been undertaken to popularize and  to implement sustainable development.
the uppermost deck had a 40-foot by 20-foot big screen tv.
we  absolutely must undertake the faster, more effective reduction of  co2-equivalents by controlling these emissions, to buy time to get far less  tractable co2 emissions reduced.
it is also essential for the nearby farmers who supply them to adopt organic methods that build the soil.
the oil industry and other interests are  undermining efforts to move forward and are misinforming the public.
redesigning the existing buildings to reduce wastage of electricity.
community level policies to implement the components include having community leaders: • create and implement plans to significantly decrease energy use in their communities; • demand that their utilities use renewable, carbon-free energy sources for an ever increasing percentage of community energy needs; • encourage household clean energy generation through longterm loans, lending homeowners the financing up front needed to establish renewable carbon free energy sources (solar or wind) on their roofs.
the exact same equipment can be used to grow on the same scale the algae that produce omega-3 & omega-6 fatty acids.
there is a broad recognition that governments are huge consumers of goods and services in their own right and sound procurement policies can build markets for low-carbon goods and services much as they did in the case of recycling and recycled content.
the need for legislation is not just to be limited but to be systemic in all that governments do lack of costing of externalities.
that may sound a little dramatic, but that’s what it comes down to.
unless the industrial  policy for a globalised era, the innovation union and the raw material  initiative of the eu deliver real support to industry, it will not be enough.
this could even be accomplished with a net zero carbon footprint within 10-15 years.
there is some conscious in this line but every one seems trying to achieve  global neutrality from others.
maybe money is still cheap.
carbon neutrality means not making the co2 problem worse as we satisfy the  need for more power.
while critics believe global warming is a hoax, anyone with their eyes open  can see the polar caps shrinking, glaciers melting on a world wide basis, and  droughts being reported across the globe, including the amazon basin.
these stoves consume most of their carbon-containing gaseous emissions and generate stable; carbon-rich biochar that can be used to supplement the productivity of agricultural lands.
share: dear cecilia, you have rightly three key things to do for carbon neutral society.
this is made even more difficult by the reality of what has worked so well for so long.
but, much positive effect on geopolitics, ocean acidification & cleanliness and climate change causing “contamination”.
these are the technologies of the future; they will drive  the second industrial revolution toward ecological modernization.
but we certainly can and should be far more energy conscious.
register with comment:visions to use this site fully you need to be a member.
there is no single solution to combat climate change, yet, collectively, cross-economy solutions from many industries will drive the new energy economy.
the actions in germany and spain cutting back on subsidies for pv are a  prime example of these business driven interests making claims of how fast  costs will come down – which to date has not happened at the claimed rate.
the challenge exists to develop alternatives to recognized contributors to climate change such as coal, at a time when china’s demand for coal surpassed the rest of the world in 2005.
however, this support should be (a) competitively based, e.g. through competitions/auctions (b) time-limited, or (as with solar subsidies) declining with time on a set schedule, until the technology is competitive (c) targeted towards results/performance rather than a prescribed technical approach.
currently, the ‘carbon-neutral society’ ranks amongst the most popular ‘big ideas’, backed by world leaders, the united nations and businesses alike.
current targets within the uk, whilst sounding impressive, only follow the level recommended to give a 50% chance of avoiding disaster.
i’ll address your question by asking you to accept my usage of the following, interchangeably, with your question: “what would it take to really speed up the transition to a sustainable planet?”.
thus far, the epa has been less than motivated to return our calls let alone actually help us with this.
i spend most of my professional day working to clear lawsuits,  regulatory red tape and policy barriers out of the way and to obtain the myriad  of financial incentives federal and state governments offer green technologies.
second, we must begin paying the full price for energy we do consume.
in the transportation sector, in a place like the united states with long distances, we have no viable solution in which we can have faith for success; though we should be funding r&d and first order deployment for electrics, cellulosic ethanol, algae and my own hope – some form of artificial photosynthesis which converts air, water and solar energy to a liquid fuel.
today the coal cars can be empty for putting the “green coal” (algae press cake) back into the ground.
the world’s leading scientists continue to stress the evidence supporting climate change grows stronger with new research.
most likely in every industry sector we need to change  government r&d support from focusing on many small projects towards  shifting to a limited number of very large projects with large support.
the increased realization of the  consequences of global climate change has shifted the emphasis of the  sustainability debate towards human-induced carbon emissions since the late  1990s.
what about the capacity issues in these countries?
“green supercomputing comes of age”, it professional, 10(1): pp.
• countries which do not participate in this carbon pricing should pay a tax on the carbon content of their exports to those countries who do participate.
http://www.awea.org/newsroom/releases/awea_reports_small_wind_market_growth_052809.html retrieved june 30, 2009.
the energy consumption issue in cloud computing systems raises various  monetary, environmental and system performance concerns.
what is needed is a stronger diffusion of best practice applications of sa, and a continued awareness raising amongst decision-makers in the public and private sector on the added value of ‘sustainability informed’ decision-making.
and to fund the r&d and demo programs for these activities.
our approach to environmental investing is the recognition that companies enabling this new energy revolution will deliver greater shareholder returns over time.
fundaments of consumption evolving mechanisms are staying intact.
as luck would have it, we have multiple solutions for that as well.
we need not worry about covering every square mile of the seas with these machines.
stimmel, r. and seldon, s. 2009.
keep burning coal at anything like the rate we  do today, and such events will compound until they destroy wealth faster than  it can be created.
other sectors and companies are changing out refrigerants to lower gwp versions as well, as announced in cancun this week.
economic modeling demonstrated that a “big push” strategy, while it looked expensive relative to the levels of aid and investment on offer in the global negotiating process, paid enormous dividends.
like any human endeavor of this size and magnitude, there are challenges related to carbon pricing, in addition to the difficulty of its implementation.
at the same time, investment bankers will be back in their casinos with barely a light slap on their wrists after nearly plunging the world into depression in 2008.
with the architecture greatly reducing the hvac loads, the teams have designed an ultra-efficient, in-slab, radiant heating and cooling system that is integrated with an under floor air distribution system.
instead, it offers a strong incentive to move the other way.
it requires a portfolio of policies that target the many market failures and market conditions impeding innovation and investments in low carbon technologies.
furthermore, industries must be allowed to collapse if they cannot stand on their own two feet.
the challenge is therefore how to get our co2 emissions down at the lowest cost – not how to reduce emissions in the way most acceptable to greenpeace or the coal lobby or china or us farmers or any other special interest group.
however, the problem is completely different in the case of cloud computing systems.
in addition to system homogeneity, tasks are often homogeneous or independent.
we are just too tied into hydrocarbons in our energy systems, agricultural systems and more.
efforts are afoot in the g-20, in apec and elsewhere to phase out at least the most egregious of these subsidies but this effort is slow to take off.
share: in my view, achieving a carbon neutral society will require the uptake of emerging technologies within the power generating sector.
india and china, for example, have recently become big polluters, but when you take into consideration that the west has been polluting the air for hundreds of years, it becomes clear that we cannot now impose identical regulations on them.
we will have to wait and see whether these local initiatives will have a  substantial impact on global ghg emissions, and whether they will spread to the  national and international policy spheres.
yes, it can create new export-oriented industries.
chefs are equally careful  about sharpening their knives.
our book shows that our nation can realize huge savings and create new employment through transitioning to a carbon neutral society.
before a decision is taken, a –policy- proposal is adapted or modified in order to respect pre-defined, sustainability principles (including carbon-neutrality principles).
the development of low carbon technologies that are commercially preferable would lead to wide scale adoption without a reliance on the environmental argument.
we need general consensus amongst politicians to end up with more consistent long term policies.
they involve things like zero-carbon homes, electric cars used as mobile energy storage plants, smart grids to optimise power use, and green bonds for financing the whole thing.
through feed-in tariffs, developers of renewable energy technologies are given incentives, and utilities are given a mandate to use these renewable energy sources.
usa today, january 23, 2009.
we absolutely must undertake the faster, more effective reduction of co2-equivalents by controlling these emissions, to buy time to get far less tractable co2 emissions reduced.
faulty decisions or not, germany and other “pioneering states”
concerns of power (or energy) consumption have become increasingly significant in the context of the design as well as the use of high–performance computing systems.
there is a need for more  concerted efforts for all of us, each in his/her own discipline, in trying to  create greener and cleaner alternatives to many of the existing technologies  that can leave smaller carbon footprints.
we end up paying very heavily for things like solar power and offshore wind, while neglecting quick, low-cost options like industrial heat & power, improved energy efficiency, and switching from coal to gas.
an electric car, for example, engineered to be lightweight, strong and recyclable, provides a technological solution to a low carbon lifestyle when powered by clean electricity.
energy independence and access are  major drivers for the implementation of clean technology practices, with energy  source diversification a key, long-term indicator of sustainable economic  growth.
politicians will do whatever it takes to get elected and stay in power.
indeed, in this case it is not so much a gamble as a known outcome, if you believe the vast majority of climate scientists.
my personal suggestions: increase the minimum tax on fossil fuels based on ghg emissions expressed in co2 equivalents per unit of energy consumed.
not if you already know that non-co2  emissions, primarily methane, hydrofluorocarbons, smog-causing ozone and dark  soot particles, cause just under half of all climate-forcing, which means that  the strategies we discuss the most address only about half the problem.
whether we like it or not we live in a world where the market dictates what will survive and what will fail.
awea reports 78% growth in 2008.
we should demand that transit, housing and other essentials are planned in such a way as to reduce travel, fuel consumption and generation of carbon emissions.
the only practical way for cities to do this is once again to rely on the areas surrounding them for their food.
a possible refinement would be to apply a higher rate for coal than for oil, and a lower rate for natural gas than for oil, in order to accelerate the transition to low carbon fuels.
companies now recognize sustainability as a competitive advantage, and are moving to capitalize on the demographic trend of increased environmental awareness.
a few of the billions presently being squandered on eor  “sequestration” projects of benefit only to the oil companies  should be plenty for a good start.
the impact of these individual choices, especially when such actions become popularised and widespread, will no doubt play an important role as we move towards a lower carbon way of life, but a quick transition to a carbon neutral society will require a much more coordinated response.
dynamic labelling of energy-using products produces substantial energy savings but the current eco-design directive is behind schedule and lacks ambition.
bringing our populations to sustainable levels is a concept every nation can understand, and it’s time that we start talking openly about this, devoid of emotional rhetoric.
while the epa in the u.s. finalizes  plans for ghg regulations in high emission industries, china has made energy  efficiency and lower emissions per unit of gdp a national priority.
however, as soon as visions are being shared, leadership becomes a motor for change, and local practitioners start to implement, transitions can easily become historic turning points.
but isn’t it illusionary to think that this is possible in a world that incites countries to reach a minimum level of development, industrialization and civilization.
still, germany’s  climate policies are considered “pioneering”, and justifiably so.
emissions -power technology: improve the efficiency of power production, distribution and storage -renewable energy: power generation using natural resources that are naturally replenished -low carbon commerce: businesses which lower ghg emissions for global commerce and consumption -water: water treatment, purification, desalination and distribution abraham lincoln said: “if i had eight hours to cut down a tree, i’d spend six hours sharpening my axe.”
while a lofty goal, striving towards carbon neutrality will further enable the great energy revolution, of which we are in the early stages.
saving energy is the most cost-efficient way of cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
reality is taking decisions.
battery banks would provide back-up storage for when neither wind nor solar energy is available.
the transition must start locally, and indeed that is already happening.
both countries have invested billions into green energy whereas the eu has not even started discussing how to fund its strategic energy technology plan, the initiative designed to accelerate development, demonstration and deployment of low carbon technologies.
the system also uses limewater for reasons of low expense, near zero toxicity, and simplicity.
factors are e.g. energy price dynamics, ecological constraints, international energy policy etc.
for example, automotive manufacturer nissan  is soon to release its nissan leaf electric car in the 2011 model year, and is  receiving orders from consumers sight-unseen, with current demand much greater  than manufacturing capacity.
nevertheless some forces which are able to make a noise in the world exist.
it is very difficult to answer in few lines, but here is the outline of how to do it : first, one has to survey, in order to know what the public desires.
naturally, emissions from industry, vehicles and households must be brought close to zero to accomplish this, and there are many widely discussed ideas for doing this.
another emerging adjunct to this process is the use of biochar, organic materials carbonized outside the presence of oxygen (resulting in a charcoal-like product).
it is indeed not a technocratic set of fabulous four alone that will scale the exhaust down.
but  in the meantime, i think the world would do well to add coal and natural gas to  liquid to the mix of transportation fuels.
the transition to a carbon neutral society will cost money.
what i have suggested here would not be necessary, were it not for the huge but underappreciated carbon and carbon-equivalent releases that must be averted if any of the other measures the world adopts to turn back climate-forcing are to be effective.
it requires a portfolio of policies that  target the many market failures and market conditions impeding innovation and  investments in low carbon technologies.
climate change is a global phenomenon; it is only natural to respond  internationally.
hope that new technologies will be adopted simply because they are cleaner relies too strongly on public, business and government desire for green options.
our approach to environmental investing is the  recognition that companies enabling this new energy revolution will deliver  greater shareholder returns over time.
share: given the current trajectory of world energy demand with non-oecd economic growth and associated demographic trends, a carbon neutral society will be an extreme challenge for the public and private sectors to meet.
but we have a number of ways to accommodate different technical issues relating to coal, diesel, biomass, ethanol and natural gas fired power generation all with the same end result, green power generation for all.
most of us are all three.
accepting that there are a large number of counteracting forces at play, and also that politicians will generally act to remain in power, there still is an onus on current policy-makers to begin pricing fuel and power at prices that will entail some compromise on those that provide and those that use the services of heat, electricity and transportation.
in this approach, given a set of  tasks and a set of resources (e.g., processors and disks)—typically  energy consumption/savings associated with each element in both sets is  identified—these preprocessed tasks are then prioritized, matched with  resources, and scheduled while complying with constraints if any.
share: i was asked to provide some reflexions upon this topic, and i offer the following comments: challenges: •
country by country, feed-in tariff mechanisms are already law (well over 50 countries already have it), or in the process of becoming law, in countries as diverse as kenya, egypt, serbia, and byelorussia.
in practice, this is all likely to prove highly politically difficult, for a number of reasons: countries differ in their carbon intensity and how hard they will be hit by climate change; domestic lobby groups oppose carbon pricing or agitate for subsidies for pet projects; border carbon taxation threatens the global system of free trade and wto rules; etc.
it is defined as a contextually adaptable process that aims to: i. integrate sustainability issues into decision-making by identifying and assessing sustainability impacts (in particular impacts on carbon emissions); ii.
those ending up owning stock include 484 foreign funds, 195 mutual funds,  44 insurance companies, and many banks.
this kind of governance not only brings carbon at neutral also contribute to world democracy indirectly.
before a decision is taken, a –policy- proposal  is adapted or modified in order to respect pre-defined, sustainability  principles (including carbon-neutrality principles).
in a civilisation intent on ensuring its own  survival, much less prosperity, we would be using home-made sources of  renewable energy, with great efficiency and fairness, and investing our own  money to roll out ever more green infrastructure with which to build resilient  local and national economies, so creating worthwhile jobs for our children.
addressing overpopulation by asserting the reproductive rights of all women through developing a global program that provides contraceptive education and choices for all women.
apart from the multitude of ownerships of the different sites, a cloud differs from traditional high performance computing systems in the heterogeneity of the computing nodes as well as the communication links that connect the different nodes together.
knowing we have little time, we should still  find a system that leaves the door open for solutions that might look crazy  today, but might make a lot of sense tomorrow.
there is no single solution to combat climate change, yet,  collectively, cross-economy solutions from many industries will drive the new  energy economy.
opinion polls consistently show that this is the kind of world most of us  would like to be living in, and the particularly galling thing is that we  already have the technologies and strategies with which to deliver it.
as recent events once again demonstrate, the german public does not particularly like nuclear energy, especially the shipping of nuclear waste.
another suggestion is to form coalitions between “pioneering states” and “willing developing countries”, which would entail technological, capacity-building and financial assistance, joint clean-tech ventures and more.
to eliminate stratification & passively oxygenate the volume of the lake’s water, a device equating to a smaller version of cornerstone #3 was originally created to be part of this bioremediation system.
particulate matter (soot) is a mixture of microscopic solids and liquid droplets emitted from the tailpipes and suspended in the air.
the existing power entity is only generating power at approximately 5% of original capacity and in effect becomes a “licensed co2 producer” in support of the downstream processes.
the technologies and the market opportunities  generated by this cooperation would attract other nations to enter into similar  pacts to remain competitive, which in turn would facilitate the emergence and  expansion of coalitions in future climate negotiations.
finally, bringing the climate challenge back to north america, we have yet  to give serious attention to the enormous releases of co2 from the dead and now  decaying us and canadian forests devastated by the pine bark beetle.
in order  to turn these challenges into opportunities, sustainable development is  proposed as the answer.
this diversification of value streams gives greater stability to the alternative fuels industry and by extension, the economy as a whole.
they are also permitted –  as the coal india ipo shows – to gamble with the global climate in the  course of their routine advisory business, bringing coal to the markets by the  gigatonne, without the requirement for a single item of liability accounting on  the global balance sheet.
our interest for development without considering carbon factor is the  main cause of the problem.
the design of such protocols for cloud systems is further complicated by the fact that the different sites in a cloud system are likely to have different capabilities.
as the earth warms,  droughts will return to our breadbasket areas.
we should stop rating countries based on physical and economic development  for example “nepal is one of the poor countries…” rather we  should start saying “nepal is one of the environmentally rich  countries…” we need to develop some kind of world governance that will be able to tax  for more carbon emission and reward for less.
the logic here also builds on historical examples, such as the rapid drop in computer chip prices that was engineered by the u.s. government through its purchasing policy in the 1960s.
policy changes supporting low-carbon and low-energy initiatives, including additional federal and state incentives for renewable energy, could bring zero emissions buildings much closer to our grasp.
i believe the us automobile fleet accounts for nearly the same amount of energy use.
characteristics like the building massing, orientation, floor-to-floor height, window sizes, and quality of glass and landscaping all are optimized to ensure that the building can be illuminated without electricity during daylight hours.
despite industry improvements, this continues to pose a significant problem for air quality.
governments don’t have the strongest influence as they tend to be driven by short term cycles and fear of re-election.
therefore in the meantime, we have to work with what we have – fossil fuels.
we are paying the fine for our intensive energy generation from the ground fuel, and to speed the international society against the carbon emission we have to show real encouragements for first; to go back to the hydrogen basic atom which needs research, action and investment, second; we have to shift immediately to the alternative energy sources like wind, solar and water waves, third enables the people to offset their emissions from travel and lifestyle choices by allowing them to contribute money towards projects that reduce or remove greenhouse gas i.e. co2 ones., while from my side i did a number of useful researches to the carbon precipitation: 1-jamel, m. a. m: ‘effect of electric field on fine charged particles precipitation’, gas cleaning at high temperature symposium, university of surry, september 27-29 uk (1993).
accordingly, the high performance computing research community started exploring green distributed computing as a way to achieve autonomic energy and power savings with little to no impact on performance.
in conclusion, sustainability assessment can be a powerful process that  allows decision-makers to structure complex ‘hot societal topics’
such schemes should not be distorted via annual vehicle taxes, road user fees, vehicle sales tax, vehicle registration fees, or vehicle procurement schemes which differentiate applicable rates dependent upon choice of fuel or energy carrier.
while demand for energy surges, driven by economic transition, all fuel types will be in demand, from liquid fuel, to coal, natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy.
53 comments from our contributors « previous page founder and chairman of solarcentury solarcentury said: on 01/12/2010
for more see this op-ed piece in the  new york times and this more technical article published in the proceedings of  the us national academy of sciences.
as one can see, this is totally a non technical part of what would it take to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society.
politicians, businesses and individuals all need to  be aligned toward making a carbon neutral society as the engine of our economic  future.
what the bottom cleaner does is gather and deposit for collection all of the calcium carbonate.
it is not an overstatement to say that we have a “throwaway” society.
the us did not ratify the kyoto protocol;  most annex 1 countries have increased rather than reduced their emissions since  1989; china, india, brazil and other non-annex 1 countries have embarked on an  unprecedented course of economic growth.
this will not cost much.
consider, right along with lost carbon sequestration from global deforestation,  the huge related contribution to atmospheric co2 each day from slash-and-burn  land clearing and the woody-mass-fueled cook fires used by three billion people  in the developing world.
the gwp of hfc-134a is 1,430, while the gwp of hfc-1234yf is only  four (4).
and these are the very first steps to changing habits and culture.
instead of allowing such price hikes to reach the electorate, governments have repeatedly given out subsidies, typically in the form of huge grants for both land and minerals.
as for your question “what would it take to really speed up the  transition to a carbon neutral society?”
myth #2: we can’t go wrong by planting trees.
this same type of timing model is used with terrestrial plants around the shoreline and as far out as contamination, access and funding allow.
we need to stop mixing up climate policy with all kinds of other campaigns – for wealth redistribution, population control, anti-capitalism or anti-big business, a less “consumerist” society etc – that just alienate large parts of society, the business community and major developing countries.
in 2006, he realized that the federal government created emissions mandates to take effect in 2010, for which it had no set standards and no infrastructure with which to implement and track compliance.
notwithstanding politics, misunderstandings and a few other minor, (sic), details, i could pencil out a plan that could be developed using the principles of essential sustainability today.
a second important characteristic of transitions is that its form is inherently uncertain.
is that a sustainable approach?
finally, we must embrace a properly structured carbon tax as a painful but necessary policy mechanism.
the final output may be fine, so do some of the intermediaries.
no differentiation depending upon fuel user (industries, homes, agriculture, or transportation sector).
another place of potentially great benefit would be the great barrier reef in australia.
the only invention required is how to get along with each other long enough for all of us to win.
we will have to wait and see whether these local initiatives will have a substantial impact on global ghg emissions, and whether they will spread to the national and international policy spheres.
currently green consumption choices are largely down to the individual and almost always more costly.
this process was designed to consume the maximum amount of co2 from industrial sources and produce the maximum amount of algae for fuels.
carbon neutral society helps to do so.
as of this writing algae based biofuels can easily be produced at or very near the point of use with our equipment.
the call for greater energy efficiency, reduced oil imports, and more livable cities is already significantly reducing carbon emissions per unit of gdp.
the cost of this ambition is likely to be significantly less than the cost of inaction.
the rate at which it functions is directly dependent on wind speed.
no national economy can remain competitive and viable without developing them, producing or purchasing them and using them–in short, breaking the path to a carbon-neutral society.
what’s lacking, then?
we need a system that draws  investments towards europe, urgently.
energy independence and access are major drivers for the implementation of clean technology practices, with energy source diversification a key, long-term indicator of sustainable economic growth.
if we really want to speed the transition to a carbon neutral society, we would be foolish to pin our hopes on the unfccc process.
firstly, a price on carbon emissions would create a revenue stream for the country.
the public policy goal of lowered ghg emissions is not likely to be relevant to the case.
hence, to the developing world this means yet another unethical barrier that the north and west (as it were) put on the rights the south and east have to develop.
that was just one of the many ships sailing that part of the earth’s waters, in that period of time.
carbon abatement is the only method  we can employ today to control carbon emissions.
thousands of regions,  cities, towns and communities worldwide have developed or are developing  blueprints for the reduction of ghg emissions, and many are implementing them.
a recent study on power consumption by servers (the type used in cloud computing systems) shows that electricity use for servers worldwide—including their associated cooling and auxiliary equipment—in 2005 cost 7.2 billion us dollars.
many argue that pricing carbon would have similar consequences to a regressive tax.
developing transitional energy policies, such as a temporary shift from coal to natural gas usage while we develop clean renewable energy infrastructure, and retraining fossil fuel workers to work in the carbon-free energy industry.
have we got a competent government?
pragmatic problem solving interdisciplinary scientific approaches may be required beyond our (societal) internal readiness or ability to “engineer” (or simply allow) them.
the analogy to carbon neutrality plans should be clear: careful preparation should not be omitted.
a systematic policy based treatment of energy efficient technologies.
we need a system that draws investments towards europe, urgently.
such shifts not only influence consumer preferences and values but also create credibility pressure on and legitimacy for policy makers to introduce regulations, motivating development of new goals and subsequently use science and technology to adjust the economic sub-system, and address market failures with policy instruments such as environmental taxes, subsidies and tradable permits; however, it is necessary to focus on rational resource allocation decisions under the existing conditions of scarcity.
there are over 500 lakes in the southwest u.s. on epa clean-up lists with funding waiting in vane, until now.
the european pulp and paper industry is reflecting on the questions above and is developing the sector’s 2050 roadmap.
is this the goal we should be focusing on when hundreds of millions of children wake up and sleep hungry every day?
in the next few lines i will summarize some of the issues related to my field of research, which is high performance computing.
the uk government is currently having useful discussions with the electricity generators and penalties for under-achieving renewable power generation and minimum carbon emission prices seem likely.
as to transportation, where there is high population density, public transit makes a lot of sense; but for much of the world, we need to bridge current resources of liquid fuel (including ctl/gtl) while we continue to work on “inventions” in the areas of electric, biofuels and artificial photosynthesis.
lawrence berkeley national laboratory, stanford university, 2007.
increase population density in all new urban development, lessening the burden on rural and forested areas • end all subsidies and tax breaks for chemically-intensive and irresponsible food and livestock production • end all subsidies and tax breaks for uncontrolled and irresponsible (non-sustainable) land development • reduce military spending by 50% immediately, and, phase down from there, thereby ending our costly protection of (other countries’) natural resources and fossil fuels the us needs to satisfy our rampant consumption •
learn from marketing and advertising industries, as they have fantastic success in making people change their behaviors.
there will likely not be a meeting of the minds or a fully functioning and agreed upon global treaty with any real effect on this issue because the world is a place of great variety in energy use, economic development, educational development, and just plain views of the world and its problems.
look for natural gas-fired power plants to gradually  replace coal as the electricity-generating mainstay in western countries.
furthermore, energy demand globally is driven by non-oecd countries, as their energy consumption passed oecd energy consumption back in 2006.
energy is the fuel for  economic growth, and the transition to supplementing carbon-based fuel sources  such as coal and oil with cleaner energy will be a very long-term, secular  growth trend.
it got a lot worse with the recent supreme court decision that repealed contribution limits for corporations and unions.
during the november 2010 elections, the oil industry funded two referendums in california (proposition 23 and proposition 26) to de-rail the state’s prescient climate change law.
the machine built in the near future will still be  there in 2050.
what that will mean is a realistic plan for capturing co2 from flue gas and then converting it to something else.
this has led some to take more responsibility, changing their behaviour towards more ‘environmentally friendly’ activities.
depending on the stove, replacing a cook fire with a  clean-burning stove can eliminate one to four tons of co2 emissions a year.
it is not enough to turn the tanker around, but it is enough to keep hope alive and make continuing negotiations worthwhile.
the oil industry and other interests are undermining efforts to move forward and are misinforming the public.
ignoring regions with few days of sun no one will debate the fact that the sun does not shine at night.
designing new buliding meeting conformities as green buildings, which smartly use energy, cutting down on even the most minute wastage.
there is no charge for any information we provide.
and have you noticed what the world’s major auto manufacturers just  announced that they intend to do?
the consequential benefits from doing this go way beyond the energy sector.
the system then adjusts through changes in goal attainment and adaptation-functions and settles down in a new equilibrium.
life was simpler then, and we had less “stuff”.
in effect, the country does not emit more co2 than it absorbs.
as has been seen throughout history, need will drive new innovation and i have every belief that development is already underway on the new technologies that will drive our low carbon future.
while the cost incurred by the utilities would initially be passed down to their customersonce carbon is priced in the marketplace, renewable energy sources will be incorporated on a mass scale, bringing their coststo grid parity, and energy prices will go down.
the transition must start locally, and  indeed that is already happening.
the simple solution is, of course, the worldwide introduction of a tax regime which makes renewable energy commercially more attractive than fossil fuels.
this way, the transition of employees from one skill set to another isn’t a huge problem down the road.
energy is the fuel for economic growth, and the transition to supplementing carbon-based fuel sources such as coal and oil with cleaner energy will be a very long-term, secular growth trend.
policy in brussels always wants to be technology neutral.
a prize for good plans should also be awarded, to stimulate innovation.
its national leaders, including many engineers, recognize how climate change is already damaging their society, and will do so catastrophically as it continues.
:)) and the eu selling a 100s of billions of dollars of new equipment that can be paid for out of the energy savings we can generate.
today, the earth barely supports over 6 billion people from crops grown on only 10% of the earth’s surface.
who is going to take the first step?
many of these investors were using  ordinary citizens’ money, and this would have included the nest eggs of  people worried about global warming and its dire impact on the world by the  time they retire.
share: i’m becoming more and more convinced that the first thing that must be done, in the u.s. at any rate, is to get money out of politics somehow.
how much more than x will be cultivated?
a pivotal moment: population, justice, and the environmental challenge, earth island books, washington dc.
because technology will never be implemented in the public farther than the public acceptance of it.
yet despite the logic of starting with energy efficiency, it is the (non-binding) 20% energy efficiency target which is the 2020 goal most likely to be missed.
this calls for the development of various software energy–saving techniques including scheduling and virtualization.
renewables will one day be the answer but won’t be ready, at least on the scale we need it, for a good few decades.
but for now the coal india ipo illustrates the enormity of the mountain we have to climb in order to arrive there.
if we want to abate co2 and become a carbon neutral society, then  the world needs a 9-11 wake-up call involving global food production.
sustainability assessment (sa) is an ex ante assessment decision-supporting process that can contribute to the transition towards a carbon-neutral society.
networks of cities, national and international, are aiding their members with  consultation, expertise and funding.
indeed one of the barriers to use of district heating in some countries is its interpretation as a form of ‘poor man’s heat’.
this is true, and it means that those of us who have hitherto not grown any food will be called upon to grow at least some of our diet–in kitchen gardens, community plots and small farms.
but how does a sustainability assessment ‘look like’ in  practice?
they  build on the idea of sustainable development, but they need to be translated  into operational tools and processes, that have the power to make  sustainability work.
to get there we’re going to need to completely change the way we operate, particularly when it comes to producing energy.
partisan politics and special interests are still intervening against society’s best interests.
the best part for all is that nobody has to look for a new job.
how hard is to roll out a feed-in tariff program globally?
my favorite electric grid generation approach – csp, solar thermal has built in storage and is probably less expensive to build than pv per kwh.
accordingly, the high performance computing research community started  exploring green distributed computing as a way to achieve autonomic energy and  power savings with little to no impact on performance.
myth #3: photovoltaic panels are effective only in bright, sunny, warm climates like california’s.
co-author: mary ellen harte ______________________________________________________
the subsidy should be higher for fuels directly fit for grid injection or for use in vehicles (or as a blend stock in transportation fuels) than for fuels only fit for heating purposes or for power generation.
this, in turn, results  in extremely large electricity bills and reduced system reliability [1].
let’s not look in the old places, at the old solutions, let’s look forward and be brave.
share: how to move to a carbon neutral society is much-debated in europe and globally.
biochar can be helpful, but is not a substitute for the broad conversion of industrial farming to smaller scale organic farming.
urban planning, the replacement of antiquated urban  infrastructures and the development of institutional capacities can produce  significant ghg reductions and lead to relatively rapid changes in  residents’ energy consumption and behaviors.
unless the industrial policy for a globalised era, the innovation union and the raw material initiative of the eu deliver real support to industry, it will not be enough.
get sustainability into the headlines of the daily mails.
then look at africa, which is mostly biomass based.
confirm that good climate governance at the national level is possible and  successful.
ground-level ozone is a respiratory irritant that is the most problematic in the summer months.
the in-ability to feed the world’s population will cause economic and political conflict, disease, and famine.
the answer is that we are short of good climate governance.
the northern reaches of the province are also home to the world’s second-largest proven reserves of oil after saudi arabia, and international firms from exxonmobil to total sa are busy pouring money into clawing the sticky black goo called bitumen from underneath vast tracts of boreal forest.
one of the keys to achieving a carbon neutral society is to move towards 100% renewable energy.
the  question is, however, if we have the time to be neutral and wait.
shares duly fell on the first day of  trading.
we need to develop new  indicator for our activity, community and country for rating our society and  development status in terms of carbon emission.
thus, reaching  global carbon-neutrality also involves replacing open cook fires with the  simple, efficient biomass-burning cook stoves available today.
so long as you are targeting high profits in the very short-term, you can feel free to fry our childrens’ future and to use our citizens’ money to bankroll the cooking fat.
it requires policies and social marketing that target behavioral changes in industry and business and also consumers, since in the end it is us as consumers, citizens, and shareholders who will direct the trsansition.
i’m here to help bioremediate co2 and other chemicals from the environment and show how we can easily use wind-power to restore life to the oceans.
so why is this idea not on the table now?
the proportion of direct and indirect urban ghg  emissions in the global greenhouse gas household exceeds sixty percent.
perhaps what is ultimately required to speed up the transmission to a carbon neutral society is a bit less self-satisfaction on the european side.
presently there is lot of thinking in this line but with the intention to make done from others.
this calls for the development of  various software energy–saving techniques including scheduling and  virtualization.
other economies that are strongly committed to this transition, such as germany, are much healthier than the us economy.
other types of energy, like solar and wind power, do not contribute to climate change.
share: for the past 34 years i have had the opportunity to work in the petroleum industry as a reservoir engineer.
most likely in every industry sector we need to change government r&d support from focusing on many small projects towards shifting to a limited number of very large projects with large support.
the eu emissions trading system will not deliver on its own.
concerns of power (or energy) consumption have become increasingly  significant in the context of the design as well as the use of  high–performance computing systems.
first, government policy needs to be realigned in that direction, meaning incentives for fossil fuels need to be shifted to low-carbon alternatives and procurement policies need to reshaped and religiously implemented.
despite the national trend toward electric cars and other alternative fuel vehicles, there are over 250 million gasoline powered vehicles on american roads today.
yet we almost certainly will fail, unless we act to keep the huge amount of carbon stored in these dead forests from escaping.
while the epa in the u.s. finalizes plans for ghg regulations in high emission industries, china has made energy efficiency and lower emissions per unit of gdp a national priority.
there are efforts worldwide to design more efficient resource allocation protocols for cloud systems.
share: print this comment leave a  comment jean hugé biology department,  vrije universiteit brussel said: on 02/12/2010 new challenges such as global environmental and climatic change, the  dwindling availability of ecosystem services, the increased demand for natural  resources and geo-political power shifts demand innovative solutions.
share: rather than coming up with magical technology x or subsidy mechanism y, getting to an answer on this question requires preliminary reflection on the appropriateness and deeper dimensions of its three constituents: carbon neutral, speeding up, and really speeding up.
cornerstone #5 method for the removal of both particulates and co2 100%, directly from the atmosphere in one pass.
share: print this comment  leave a comment albert zomaya chair of high performance computing and  networking school of information technologies, sydney university said: on 01/12/2010 i strongly believe that there are many opportunities for more sustainable  technologies across many fields and disciplines.
the other source we must rely, though not limit ourselves, is the solar energy.
what that will mean is a realistic plan for capturing co2  from flue gas and then converting it to something else.
for many developing countries i would, however, at the same time support the use of domestic scale waste based biogas production to allow smoke free cooking and heating, and avoiding the daily challenge of finding suitable fuels.
the payback would be less than 10 years today in the many other areas where electricity is more expensive.
upgrading the grid is therefore a priority, in order to ensure adequate transmission and distribution systems.
the answer is, it’s already happening.
the two target groups that come immediately to mind are energy, and industry/production.
we’re primarily producing fuel and supplementing any shortfall of profit by producing higher value algae in relatively small quantities.
the last carbon neutral society may have been the hunter gathers.
share: print this comment leave  a comment avi gottlieb professor of sociology and adjunct professor of  environmental studies tel aviv university said: on 01/12/2010 let me start on a positive note; i will end the same way, everything else i  have to say in this essay is less gratifying.
a major ongoing project of the wbcsd is its vision 2050 programme which identifies where we need to be by 2050 to be a sustainable population of nine billion, and explores the pathway to get there.
the core reason has to deal with the implicit assumption an economist is most likely trained with that growth is always good, and that we need to seek and sustain it at all cost.
during the past 10,000 years the human race has stripped a good  portion of indigenous forests across most of the land masses around the world  exposing more soil to heating, erosion, and temperature rises.
why don’t we design living spaces from an integrated energy approach.
other social science jargon is  marked similarly.
the second factor is the detailing of how efficient technologies can be brought in to replace the embedded systems.
each cabin, of which there were possibly 200 on each of 6 of the 13 decks, had a tv hanging on the wall.
and have you noticed what the world’s major auto manufacturers just announced that they intend to do?
however, frankness is a lot to hope for.
the study also indicates that this electricity consumption in that year had doubled compared with consumption in 2000
however there is, i believe, a way in which market decisions can lead us to a low carbon approach, without a reliance on the strength of environmental conscience or strict legislation that is unlikely to come.
in late 2009, the united nations quietly published a strategy paper describing what may be the most powerful single intervention in the global endgame on carbon.
potential solutions:
excessive consumption is cultivated in all society and induced by mechanisms of free market for a long time.
two objections may be raised to this path.
when all is installed and running, only the co2 necessary to grow the algae needed to power the secondary generation system is newly produced.
consumer patters have to change, value chains redesigned, renewable materials used for production and in balance with their use for energy.
as to transportation, where there is high population density, public  transit makes a lot of sense; but for much of the world, we need to bridge  current resources of liquid fuel (including ctl/gtl) while we continue to work  on “inventions” in the areas of electric, biofuels and artificial  photosynthesis.
finally, we need sound  urban planning and related infrastructure.
but we will never achieve a carbon-neutral society unless we push very hard on other strategies that have nothing to do with electrical generation, industrial ghg emissions quotas or, for that matter, even co2 emissions themselves.
these distortions have become embedded in our market exchange systems over time and well-organised lobbying groups have appeared in their aftermath.
to prevent bundled activities, e.g. retail incentives, distorting the outcome, i believe we should follow the german example which prohibits sale of items at below cost.
in the largest ever initial public offering on the indian stock exchange,  coal india, a huge government-owned coal company, recently offered 10% of its  shares to investors at home and abroad.
the ship, i was told, weighed 130,000 tons, and measured 1004 feet in length.
the machine built in the near future will still be there in 2050.
share: this is a very intresting question, given the fact that all the countries are participating in a mad race to meet their growing energy needs, while sustaining the carbon emissions.
this is  an important and but computationally intractable problem [3].
as the air bubble reaches the surface it will contain more water vapor by volume than the ambient air.
this scheme emerged from careful studies in which the architects worked closely with the energy and day lighting analysts and conducted extensive climate studies to establish strict performance parameters.
the last statement above offers a solution to the problem that several national governments since many years apply an incentive scheme offering a guaranteed feed in tariff for electricity generated via only partially cleaned biogas (sulphur, siloxanes and moisture removed from raw biogas), whereas pure biomethane, upgraded at a significant cost, and fit for grid injection (or for direct use in vehicles) is not provided with any additional support.
one  proposal calls for the separate assessment, for each country, of the costs of  climate change under a business-as-usual scenario and the of residual costs of  climate change after mitigation and adaptation.
if this rate continues, the heat (per square centimetre) produced by  future intel processors would exceed that of the surface of the sun; this  implies the possibility of worsening system reliability, eventually resulting  in poor system performance.
instead of designing whimsical structures with high-tech sustainable features tacked on, we need to create simpler, more humanistic buildings that fit into their neighbourhoods while performing in a way our society so desperately needs.
copenhagen put paid to that hope.
this would presumably enable  each nation to make rational-choice decisions about their positions in upcoming  cop negotiations.
some easy and very cost effective ways to utilise this abundantly available clean source can be as follows: 1.
there the big push strategy looks to the successful example of the green revolution, with its army of technical experts, extension workers, trainers, and support mechanisms of other kinds, which helped whole countries retool their agricultural systems with amazing speed.
this would speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society.
“national interests”(2) are too different and not  always transparent to the observer, the prospects of a “win-win  outcome” are virtually nonexistent, and the accumulating scientific data  does not accelerate the “ripening” of discrepancies between the  parties into a negotiated settlement.
cornerstone #1 commercial scale production of algae based drop-in petroleum replacements: using the continuous cultivation system for microalgae designed by scipio biofuels in a de-centralized model the system can, due to the ability of the system to consume xx,xxx+ tons annually of co2.
• governments should simplify the whole policy framework for moving to low-carbon energy.
methane, a valuable fuel and main constituent of natural gas, has a gwp of 25 and is released from landfills, livestock, coal mines, rice paddies and leaky gas pipelines.
leed certified new buildings are built with a sustainability eye.
a monumental stumbling block towards creating that urgency is the largely unquestioned assumption by such leaders that the health of an economy/population is measured by its growth rather than sustainability.
chefs are equally careful about sharpening their knives.
the 1989 kyoto protocol was such an international reaction,  like other international environmental accords a compromise, yet from the start  full of holes like a swiss cheese.
i can’t see that the economies, engineering, technological and other systems we have can be pushed to carbon neutrality without some serious problems if this is done too quickly.
courage is needed next to currency.
lee, y.–c. and zomaya, a. y. “scheduling in grid  environments”, handbook of parallel computing.
how then do we account for the inaction that characterizes our collective response to the looming predicament of global climate change?
when considering the relative attractiveness of the three main alternatives – methane, hydrogen, and electric power – cost efficiency for avoided ghg emissions on a well-to-wheels basis, should be expressed per tonne of co2 avoided.
the business council for sustainable development – united kingdom, is a not-for-profit business network and the only branch in the uk of the world business council for sustainable development.
algae can produce feed stocks for many industries including plastics, cosmetics and many more.
every time we travel or turn on our computers, every time we travel or turn on our computers, we add greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.
they are permitted to gamble once again with the global economy in the course of their routine investment business, this time knowing that the citizenry will be there to bail them out again.
to get all the way to zero emissions, the designs usually rely on of photovoltaic panels spread across the roofs of the office bars and parking garage, as well as integrated into the south-facing shading devices.
the strong brand equity nissan has experienced  since the leaf announcement has led to increased general dealership volumes and  plans at nissan to expand electric vehicle offerings.
besides the general opinion of carbon capture and storage or ccs, the idea to have 15 large scale pilot projects needs to be followed up.
share: print this comment leave a  comment william page global  environmental opportunities strategy (geos), essex investment management, llc said: on 01/12/2010 given the current trajectory of world energy demand with non-oecd economic  growth and associated demographic trends, a carbon neutral society will be an  extreme challenge for the public and private sectors to meet.
given that a consensual but implausible agreement is the only way to  establish an international climate regime, political scientists and economists  are exploring alternative, not necessarily multilateral arrangements.
new policy should focus on actual emissions reductions, which should be rewarded with a per-documented-ton bounty on the captured and converted co2.
a quick and simple example.
by using a floating, wind driven apparatus to inject pressurized ambient air at a given ocean depth, the dynamic we are manufacturing artificially is that of crashing waves, or artificial wave action.
by having a plentiful supply of food, it’s  the one common thread that keeps the human race civilized without becoming a  pack of animals reverting back to our primal primitive instincts.
i personally would prefer to promote change through education, well argued persuasion and development of an enlightened public.
note that the emphasis here, as detailed in the first bullet, is to make clean energy cheap, not dirty energy more expensive.
i spend most of my professional day working to clear lawsuits, regulatory red tape and policy barriers out of the way and to obtain the myriad of financial incentives federal and state governments offer green technologies.
when carefully applied, sa helps to think out of the box and can be a significant step to help to steer the chain of actions towards a much-needed transition.
many  urban regions are increasingly vulnerable to climate change, especially in  coastal zones.
i think we can all agree that global climate change is an import issue, even with the uncertainty associated with possible future effects and results.
and this other side is overconsumption, in our case – untempered consumption of fossil fuels.
another suggestion is to form coalitions between “pioneering  states” and “willing developing countries”, which would  entail technological, capacity-building and financial assistance, joint  clean-tech ventures and more.
my directors come from arup, conoco phillips, ch2mhill, corus/tata europe, e.on, lafarge, ondeo, shell, and wsp.
burning biomass to provide heat and electricity is clearly not the right way to go in the long term.
taxing the private yachts, g6s, bmw 7 series, etc., would mean that the wealthy would have to pay for using big carbon emitters, and this would help decrease the gap between them and those less privileged.
scheduling and resource allocation in distributed systems play a major role in finding the best task–resource matches in time and space based on a given objective function without violating a given set of constraints.
back in may the newly formed coalition government announced a clear commitment to investing in ccs technology for four coal-fired power stations as well as a focus on the importance of promoting ‘the green industries that are so essential for our future’.
depending on the stove, replacing a cook fire with a clean-burning stove can eliminate one to four tons of co2 emissions a year.
the current policy plans almost  “plan” innovations.
ergo, it is in another way potentially possible to turn a profit by cleaning up our environment and recycling chemicals once thought, “consumed”.
in managing the essex global  environmental opportunities strategy (geos), we take a thematic approach to  environmental investing, and have developed nine themes that we believe capture  the opportunities stemming from global climate change mitigation and  adaptation.
to completely divorce financial viability from petroleum pricing, we grow nutriceuticals of a much greater value.
appropriate measures to mitigate climate change and to adapt to  changing environmental conditions are unmistakably in order.
the fact the human race is causing an increase should be of no great  surprise.
and invest the fund managers did, unfettered by risk regulation or any meaningful requirement to place a value on the climate consequences of their scramble for short-term profit.
neither can one change only the industry.
enormous quantities of refrigerant escape to the atmosphere from leaks and junking wrecks and retired vehicles.
cornerstone #6 emissions free (almost) electrical power generation that preserves current upstream contracts.
a clean technology that performs the same function at a lower cost will be rapidly adopted, not because of its environmental credentials but simply because it is cheaper.
during this time frame, i have evaluated reservoirs all over the world from cambrian through tertiary geologic time frames and all have the same types of transgressive and regressive cycles associated with sea water rise and fall.
post-combustion technology may play an important role as it provides an abatement solution to the existing power stations that are emitting tonnes of co2 every day.
chief among these is both the absolute scale and the depth of our  dependence on fossil fuels.
and how likely is that?
solar conversion of co2 to liquid fuel is being pioneered  in the us by sandia national laboratories.
sadly, i think time is too short and we need to be steered by our baser motives.
yet, we take an optimistic stance, assuming that a simple solution to this complicated problem does exist, and that we are able to look for it and find it.
so far, the  will to move forward has been lacking because of a lack of this vision.
finally, bringing the climate challenge back to north america, we have yet to give serious attention to the enormous releases of co2 from the dead and now decaying us and canadian forests devastated by the pine bark beetle.
they are going to start using hfc-1234yf instead of hfc-134a in vehicle air conditioning systems.
instead they plan to prevent regulation of greenhouse gas emissions while increasing offshore oil drilling.
most of the technologies for the transition to a carbon-neutral  society already exist, among others renewable energy resources, energy  efficiency in housing and transportation, heat exchange systems and  climate-friendly infrastructures.
without it, we can’t survive.
our interest for development without considering carbon factor is the main cause of the problem.
during this time frame, i have evaluated  reservoirs all over the world from cambrian through tertiary geologic time  frames and all have the same types of transgressive and regressive cycles  associated with sea water rise and fall.
while cop15 was generally seen as a failure, the uk government has acted unilaterally in implementing the climate change act with binding carbon emission reduction targets.
the option which in the short term would have the greatest potential to limit co2 emissions, and reduce the dependence upon oil, is methane – initially mainly natural gas, but successively with an increasing share of renewable biomethane.
another refinement would be to marginally adjust the fuel tax with regard to presence of pollutants (e.g. sulphur).
other useful actions would be to set clear renewable energy targets for 2030, and to ban carbon from new power plants from 2020.
nonetheless, when it all boils down to stating “but we have the right to emit co2”, aside from all the other errors with any such reasoning, to what extent are we committing a grand fallacy of composition?
as a matter of fact, the solar panels are more efficient in cooler climates—heat is their enemy.
see my article on prop 23 and prop 26.
it is possible to generate, algae oil (or green crude) for algae based biofuels in the tens, to tens of thousands of tons per day depending on the number of pbr’s at a given facility and other factors.
share: print this comment leave a comment david anthony
even the fourth assessment report issued in 2007 by the ippc, the very scientific body founded by the unfccc to support international climate policy by producing (increasingly disturbing) data for cop negotiators, fails to sufficiently impress policymakers in the international community.
we need to consider the feedback systems and recursive systems involved.
a raised floor offers flexibility for a multi-tenant layout.
the answer to this is that such a shrinkage is inevitable.
maybe money is still  cheap.
in cancún, later this year, the world’s governments will  return to their annual climate summit completely stymied on even the smallest  cuts in greenhouse emissions.
in fact, the iea says, natural gas is the only fossil fuel for which demand is higher in 2035 than it was in 2008.
does that astonish you?
it’s widely acknowledged that with a republican majority, there’s no chance for energy and climate change legislation.
removal of the mats occurs just before photoperiod decreases sharply at summer’s end.
and if you have public consent, real acceptance, then there is room for new research budgets, new volunteering, and better solutions can even be discovered.
in the transportation sector, in a place like the united states with long  distances, we have no viable solution in which we can have faith for success;  though we should be funding r&d and first order deployment for electrics,  cellulosic ethanol, algae and my own hope – some form of artificial  photosynthesis which converts air, water and solar energy to a liquid fuel.
hopefully, the us will not need to reach those crisis levels before going into action.
if you’re not invited, don’t despair.
video: http://planetark.org/wen/53375 retrieved june 30, 2009.
i think the energy future includes many new approaches but before we can really say we are on the right path people have to completely redesign how we use energy and how we design and how we live.
share: print this comment leave a comment marco mensink cepi
more than half of us already dwell  in urban areas; this concerns us individually as well as collectively.
but yes, a strategy is  available – converting this biomass to syngas, bio-oil and biochar via  pyrolysis – an extraordinary public works project, but necessary,
they are therefore left to conscience and the ability to afford them.
we must find a way to help people see the promise of a clean energy-based  society based on green jobs.
that means finding a balance between putting a price on  carbon and leaving industry the funds to finance the future.
environmental regulations are now more stringent in the developed markets, particularly in high environmental impact industries such as utilities and transport.
share: my personal opinion on this question is that not much will really happen unless governments use quite heavy-handed carrot and stick approaches on ordinary businesses and consumers.
indeed, at the 1992 rio world conference on environment and development, world leaders formally endorsed the idea of sustainable development as a guiding concept to solve complex issues linking environment and development.
the answer for me to speed up transition to a more energy conscious society is to start educating our children from the very beginning how they use energy and how they can use less.
the government has not engaged its citizens in a dialogue, i.e. has fallen short of adhering to the tenets of transparency and public participation.
back-up power is again necessary.
myriad  hurdles threaten to trip up the advance of a carbon-neutral world.
some cited long-term fears for the  viability of renewables generally.
i’m in this not to get rich.
hardly any politician will invest in a project not backed up by some acceptance.
in comparison, mankind had about a century to adapt to steam engines.
it would obviously be nice, healthy and green.
the  northern reaches of the province are also home to the world’s  second-largest proven reserves of oil after saudi arabia, and international  firms from exxonmobil to total sa are busy pouring money into clawing the  sticky black goo called bitumen from underneath vast tracts of boreal forest.
short-term economic considerations and narrow national  interests continue to call the shots in unfccc negotiations.
about 30% of the projected 2030 total u.s. energy demand could be met by converting 2% of the land in nevada, new mexico and arizona to solar thermal farms.
the fact sea water was 300 feet lower 10,000 years ago and the sahara desert was mostly a savannah indicates the effect of how climate change can change quickly over a relatively short period of time.
the increased oxygen levels from the simulated wave action will both attract sealife and reduce algae concentrations.
in addition, the lifestyle changes we would have to make as individuals in the western world are so great they are unlikely to arise from personal choice alone; i expect there are few who would willingly opt for a lower quality of life.
there should be two, and only two, major lines of policy: o a carbon price (via a tax or cap) as mentioned above o targeted government support for certain early-stage technologies which are too large for the private sector to develop to commerciality, such as carbon capture & storage (see my recent article: http://www.thenational.ae/business/energy/gcc-must-unite-to-capture-advantage-on-carbon-storage) .
in this approach, given a set of tasks and a set of resources (e.g., processors and disks)—typically energy consumption/savings associated with each element in both sets is identified—these preprocessed tasks are then prioritized, matched with resources, and scheduled while complying with constraints if any.
a similar advantage applies for the residuals from the biofuel production which will usually find use as fertiliser or fodder.
municipalities affect the lives of city residents in ways that the national authorities cannot.
good national climate governance also requires institutional,  financial and human resources and capacities to implement policy, and  presupposes transparency and public participation throughout decision-making  and implementation.
given that a consensual but implausible agreement is the only way to establish an international climate regime, political scientists and economists are exploring alternative, not necessarily multilateral arrangements.
share: let me start on a positive note; i will end the same way, everything else i have to say in this essay is less gratifying.
companies now recognize sustainability as a  competitive advantage, and are moving to capitalize on the demographic trend of  increased environmental awareness.
until international climate negotiations target bulk shipments of fossil  fuels – for instance, the growth in liquefied natural gas – a  carbon-neutral world will remain elusive.
this is currently happening within the renewable sector in many developed countries.
and there are literally hundreds of towns and villages all over the world who have taken a pledge to address their own contribution to climate action.
zero emissions aren’t possible for a conventional project budget.
keep burning coal at anything like the rate we do today, and such events will compound until they destroy wealth faster than it can be created.
preferably with disporportionate benefits for those most in need.
ever since, a multitude of initiatives have been undertaken to popularize and to implement sustainable development.
secondly, sa can also be a practical tool to assess concrete projects (e.g. energy projects).
others, such as ngos, do their best but obviously  have little direct influence on the emission of ghg.
share: the 6 cornerstones of a viable method for cleaning up climate change a list of cornerstone technologies capable of and available today to remediate carbon dioxide & particulates globally while also eliminating the dead zones from the oceans while producing biofuels and green electrical power.
they could buy enough credits to offset campus carbon emissions but is that carbon neutral?
only a decade ago, many political  leaders would have posed a different question: who needs a carbon-neutral  society in the first place?
for biofuels produced on the basis of specially grown crops (including grass and fast growing wood) one must instead for each option determine ghg avoidance per hectare of land used.
cars and boats with petrol and diesel engines would be gradually replaced by electric versions.
choices will have to be made as well.
you are now starting to hear the issue discussed – as a separate entity from generation.
and this shouldnot be the case.
moving away from creation to reuse.
yes, we need climate bellwethers such as the enlightened companies and defense ministries that are pursuing a carbon-neutral agenda (and thereto i must praise the extraordinary commitment that the us department of defense has recently made to reduce ghg emissions and green its equipment and installations).
those who convert their hybrids to plug-in hybrids (via the nonprofit calcars) are achieving 100 or more mpg.
share: print this comment leave a comment patrycja romanowska natural resource economist and energy  editor alberta oil magazine said: on 01/12/2010 to begin, we need the desire to actually transit to a carbon neutral  society.
the technology is there.
we are trained to identify and address specific issues rather than trace their causes back to underlying issues.
yes, we must push hard to incentivize and create new energy-efficient, low-carbon sustainable technologies.
seldom are these twin facets of everyday life  translated in a meaningful way by commentators and, sadly, by daily news  outlets.
as we become more technologically-advanced, introducing more and more new gadgets, we increase our dependence on, and, our degradation of, our planet’s resources.
finding political solutions which would support the solution of all of the above indicated targets generally speaking energy supply is not really a problem.
in  sum, the inept conduct of the international community certainly does not  constitute “good [global] climate governance”, however one defines  the term.
per capita incomes would rise much faster than a business-as-usual scenrio — in every region of the world.
on02/12/2010 get everyone on board!
so, we must differentiate between all behaviours and activities that generate carbon cost and those that do not and apply direct costs to undesirable activities.
for an economist, it is rare to conceive of equilibrium processes outside the notion of economic general equilibrium (which is in its essence market equilibrium).
with coal increasingly targeted by environmental regulations given its high  ghg emissions, nations are beginning to determine how to supplement traditional  fossil fuels with clean energy technologies.
american wind energy association.
energy–aware resource management has emerged as a promising approach  for sustainable/green computing.
consumers will start making impactful choices very quickly, organisations will rapidly develop alternatives to avoid being left behind and market subsidies will quickly disappear as subsidy funding, carbon costly activities die out and beneficial activities achieve cost efficiencies to replace diminishing subsidies.
how do investment and risk frameworks work?
raise all feed livestock responsibly, humanely and organically • retrofit all existing buildings with energy-efficient technologies •
the success of many cities  in reducing ghg emissions demonstrates that effective climate change policy is  possible at the urban level as well.
europe can increase the amount of electricity produced by wind power by * creating a single european market in electricity; * extending, upgrading and better inter-connecting europe’s national grids; * speeding up permitting procedures for wind farms and electricity grids.
only a shared vision that we really can pull together, and push hard on a big problem.
near/mid term substitution of crude oil as a source for transportation fuels and chemical industry feedstock • long term substitution of natural gas as a source for transportation fuels and chemical industry
we can contribute at four levels: individual, community, national and global.
each of these steps is devised to maximize the objective function.
so it is mandatory to build public acceptance that will create agreements that will make possible new technologies, new paradigm to arise.
yes, the world needs an effective global climate regime, if not the kyoto framework then something else as acceptable.
to make it happen “fast enough” requires placing orders for about a thousand extra gigawatts of solar energy (over what the market would generate on its own), and 100-200 extra gw of wind energy, as soon as possible, at an investment cost of usd 1 to 1.5 trillion, spread over ten years or so.
now consider china, which is a coal based economy mostly that needs to grow to produce what hu jin tao called the thing that keeps him up at night: 25 million jobs per year.
one method of unlocking this mental trap is through educating children to think in more critical and systemic ways.
without  it, we can’t survive.
invisible hand will turn right controls in right moment.
then only some technological solutions can be presented and can be accepted.
in it, we propose a national plan for the united states, the easy plan, which meets three essential criteria: it is affordable, politically acceptable to most of the public, and technologically available now.
finally feedstock grown in a marine environment also forms a special case where iluc considerations are irrelevant.
tens of millions of low-heat fires are notorious soot  and co2 generation “pinpoint” sources, which when aggregated likely  contribute many hundreds of megatons of co2 to the atmosphere.
nobody is perfect, and even pioneers sometimes make faulty decisions.
what was at stake was essentially a $35bn (£21bn) bankrolling of enhanced global warming by the capital markets.
one cannot change the energy system alone.
most transmission and distribution lines in use today were built many decades ago, in the age of big coal and nuclear power plants, and are simply not designed to cope with the increasing amount of renewable energy fed into the grid from dispersed sources, including micro-generation.
the better news comes from the growing efforts being made at the local, regional or enterprise level to cut emissions and to favour low-carbon development.
also, the shift to better renewable energy practices would help cut the negative financial effects of carbon emissions, such as healthcare costs.
if you want to learn more about mr. oliver baer, his company and his fueling stations, contact this writer through ccarswell@naturalalternativefuels.com.
promote use of solar panels on each and every home.
our efforts should first focus on the industries that make the largest contribution to carbon emissions – energy generators.
it will also finance the development of cleaner technologies.
join this discussion printer friendly page subscribe to this discussion « previous page
again, there’s little green hi-tech has to offer
it causes a wide range of health problems including chest pain, coughing and shortness of breath.
we might end up with the technology  available, the policy in place, but without the investments to get there.
but how can we do that?
contribute to a better understanding of the actual interpretation of what sustainability and a ‘carbon-neutral society’ mean, and iii.
scheduling and resource allocation in distributed systems play a major role  in finding the best task–resource matches in time and space based on a  given objective function without violating a given set of constraints.
the challenge exists  to develop alternatives to recognized contributors to climate change such as  coal, at a time when china’s demand for coal surpassed the rest of the  world in 2005.
i am not intended to answer the question precisely, and exhaustive answer probably even isn’t possible.
these subsidies were brought in for a variety of reasons (largely political though), and range from populist subsidies on highly visible fuel and power products (such as those on gasoline in libya and venezuela) to the more covert subsidies which are often in the form of import tariffs (e.g. on imported bio-fuel to the u.s.).
only a decade ago, many political leaders would have posed a different question: who needs a carbon-neutral society in the first place?
the determining factor is the mandatory push to application.
in sum, the inept conduct of the international community certainly does not constitute “good [global] climate governance”, however one defines the term.
some, such as energy corporations,  are not particularly helpful.
with coal increasingly targeted by environmental regulations given its high ghg emissions, nations are beginning to determine how to supplement traditional fossil fuels with clean energy technologies.
so now there are no resources to fund anything.
but we can’t get caught up in just growing high value strains.
we have adapted the concepts developed by a firm net zero.
in the us, we just finished grueling elections that brought back some pretty extreme views, including denial that climate change is a factual reality.
best regards nam raj you cannot pick up a paper or listen to the radio or watch tv without experiencing a story about carbon emissions, or sustainability.
the co2 is consumed to cultivate algae in a pump-less flowing circuit, which will produce more than xxx,xxx gallons of algae oil per acre per year for biofuels.
the distance that the feedstock must be transported has a high impact on net ghg emission avoidance.
the government  has not engaged its citizens in a dialogue, i.e. has fallen short of adhering  to the tenets of transparency and public participation.
vision can provide others with the conviction that their actions and ideas are not in vain, but that individual actions contributes to changes on a larger scale.
second, we need to rethink how we consume goods and services and change the designs and delivery accordingly.
this applies not only for commercial enterprises, but also for research institutes dependant upon contracts or grants.
to manage the environmental sting out of electrical power generation without massive disruptions of service or political and/or social upheaval the current paradigms and local fiefdoms must be included as a part of the solution.
what i have suggested here would not be necessary, were it not for the huge  but underappreciated carbon and carbon-equivalent releases that must be averted  if any of the other measures the world adopts to turn back climate-forcing are  to be effective.
the gradual removal of favoured treatment would help form a more balanced system; one that relays the actual prices of energy to the consumer.
others, such as ngos, do their best but obviously have little direct influence on the emission of ghg.
the actual increase in rainfall in any one localized area near deployment of these machines will indicate increased rainfall eventually everywhere.
i’ve always intended this for implementation for the benefit of a cleaner environment for all, especially for those who come after us.
as the “wet” air mass in the atmosphere increases, eventually this extra fresh water vapor in the atmosphere will logically increase rainfall globally, including back onto the ocean itself.
in cancún, later this year, the world’s governments will return to their annual climate summit completely stymied on even the smallest cuts in greenhouse emissions.
this unprecended growth in burning of fossil fuels has resulted in many ecological and eviornmental complications.
as floods and wildfires have shown pakistanis and russians this summer, a few extreme events can visit ruinous setbacks on economies.
why is our financial sector, our pension-funds investing in china?
just as it is equally hard to conceive inside any sub-discipline of business or of engineering.
if the eu society is really serious in meeting these targets, we need to ask ourselves some serious questions.
what is actually in the cistern is limewater, an automated method for sensing & replenishment of the lime and water, a drain and a bottom-cleaning device similar to that used in a swimming pool.
but, another spot on the sun of the market is frequently puffing and bursting bubbles… of course, market economy apologists have an answer – these are only some imperfections of the market (market failures); let’s apply adjustments (co2 taxes, emission trading schemes, etc.) to the market mechanisms, and all things will rearrange in good order.
until the population is able to vote for the right kind of politician, it just won’t get done.
three examples will suffice: first, subsidies to fossil fuels run at over $500 billion per year – a sum that, if directed at the low-carbon transition, might take us a long way towards a carbon-neutral society.
share: there is a misguided assumption held by many that reducing the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere as a byproduct of industrial and consumer behavior will be easy.
for point of use production at an existing larger facility just install our solar collector portion of the system in a circuit immediately within the perimeter fence of airports, logistics depots, military bases & the like.
even if could design a carbon neutral society from scratch now, there will be future technological and social surprises that will affect its functioning.
see mel’s climate change report, 90-second audio newcasts, which do just that on a weekly basis online, at: http://cooltheearth.us/climate-report.php i think the answer is conceptually very simple, and politically difficult.
this would mean taking carbon out of the power sector by replacing fossil fuels with renewable energies such as wind.
then, using that, one can properly communicate, and understand better the public concern.
each different species of plant will then consume contaminants (trace nutrients) directly from the environment.
california passed a law in 2006 (ab32) which  requires the state to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.
globally, most current and planned climate change regulations target  high-emitting “point sources”, with coal fired, base-load power  generation as the starting point.
the term ‘gas’ in the previous sentence should be interpreted as encompassing hydrogen as well as methane.
substituting wind and solar for coal and natural gas in providing baseload power is not going to happen because they are intermittent and isolated from the grid.
the fact the human race is causing an increase should be of no great surprise.
share: for almost twenty years, as the science became progressively more precise and frightening, we have assumed that the only way to get to a low-carbon – and ideally a carbon neutral – society was to reach a global agreement whereby the world’s nations would agree to act on the basis of clear targets, with the burden shared out on an equitable basis among them and a functioning carbon market that would seek the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions.
the  international energy agency predicts in its latest world energy outlook that  natural gas will play a “central role in meeting the world’s energy  needs for at least the next two-and-a-half decades.”
again, this spectacle involved fund managers investing and trading for people who, given a say, might well have chosen to factor climate change into the decisions taken.
use of green house to cultivate fruits and vegetables locally.
project 1 will be a post-combustion project, capturing co2 emissions from the flue gas of a coal burning power station in longannet, scotland.
concerning renewable resources it is also essential to find suitable methods to determine the net greenhouse gas savings for different alternatives.
similar exceptions concerning iluc could be argued for idle land (fallow land, set-aside-land, or land not used for crops or cattle as a result of an open landscape policy).
this is particularly true of cities in deserts.
generation and capture techniques are a far cry from green hi-tech: agricultural rot prevention, pipeline repair and landfill capture-and-burn.
to solve this crisis, china has accelerated their renewable energy practices, and will become the leader in solar and wind technologies within the next five years.
______________________________________________________ 1 incidentally,  “road map” appears to be a rather luckless concept–see the  roadmap for ending the palestinian-israeli conflict.
pyrolysis can be used to generate bio-gasoline from algae cake adjacent to the bio-jet fuel “refining” station.
grow algae, harvest algae, extract oil.
the machine that will be built tomorrow will still be there in 2040.
but they are often more expensive.
enel, the italian energy giant, had floated its renewables arm at the same time as coal india, but its ipo was a flop.
these have to do with the policy frameworks in place and that give encouragement to industry and to the consumer to prefer carbon-based production and consumption over the alternatives.
in the past,  droughts have been reported in each of these areas.
more humans, having ever more offspring, means more houses, more cars, more food, more ipods, more iphones, more xboxes, more dogs, more cats, with each house or dwelling requiring more power, which requires more infrastructure for power distribution, more streets, more sewer systems, more water treatment plant capacity, etc.
the plandevelpde here includes a new renewable electricity generation and transmission infrastructure with 155 large wind turbines, half a square kilometre of rooftop solar panels, and a biomass plant burning coconut husks.
for example, a carbon neutral energy system does not provide a carbon neutral society without changes in our food or natural resource systems; carbon neutral countries cannot balance out carbon producing countries; a carbon neutral society for 6 billion people does not necessarily sustain a carbon neutral society of 9 billion people.
we should stop rating countries based on physical and economic development for example “nepal is one of the poor countries…” rather we should start saying “nepal is one of the environmentally rich countries…” we need to develop some kind of world governance that will be able to tax for more carbon emission and reward for less.
this last election–a catastrophe for the climate and many other concerns–saw oceans of secret contributions going into the campaigns of the tea party candidates, all of whom, as far as i can tell, are scientifically illiterate, many proudly so.
once individuals, businesses and politicians see  it as in their best interest, we’ll be on the road.
s. rajasekaran and j. reif (eds), crc press, boca raton, florida, usa, pp. 21.1–21.19, 2008.
for example, if a government changes its legislation to favour investment in renewables, those invested in traditional energy can argue that this represents indirect expropriation of their own investment and seek compensation.
the small country maldives tucked away in india ocean is an example to the whole world for becoming carbon neutral.
astaxanthin which is the substance that makes salmon pink is an antioxidant 300x more powerful than vitamin e. with a value rarefied much higher than that of omega-x fatty acids.
they need very fast and serious collaboration to reduce and inhibit the reasons for that.
also, is heading toward a carbon neutral world the goal we should be focusing on over a billion of people live in dire poverty, and many hundreds of millions more are living not much better?
our situation is indeed extreme, and it is also urgent.
meaningful carbon sequestration without economic devastation but improvement.
shares duly fell on the first day of trading.
as nations begin to gather for yet another round of international climate change regulatory discussions, it is clear that countries, regions, and companies are not waiting for a binding and global regulatory framework for climate change.
a lot changed in the past decades.
efficient transport regulations are in place and stepping-up in rigor in the european union, as light and heavy vehicle manufacturers must meet more stringent tailpipe emissions standards or face increasingly stiff penalties.
most are competitive and cost-efficient, some  are still immature (e.g. smart electricity grids) or controversial (carbon  sequestration).
this imbalance between technology and human concern is very likely one of the reasons of the slow acceptance of changes.
to one extent or another, these countries’ climate policies consist of the following: a long-term and consistent climate policy with clear and measurable ghg reduction targets, based on scientific data (“evidence-based policy”), employing diverse policy tools aimed at generating more efficient energy markets and increasing the share of renewable energy resources, and periodic review and reassessment.
these contradictory messages accumulate and contribute to cynicism and sense of powerlessness amongst the group most able to address the issue and as always, it takes much more effort to undo a current idea than to promote a new one.
cornerstone #4 a wind powered method for passive de-acidification and oxygenation of the oceans.
there is always more than enough sun to generate the required on-site solar power, even here in canada.
explicating the  complex meaning of these three words takes a bit longer, much of the gloomier  middle of this essay.
sa is  then seen as a stakeholder-driven process in search of sustainable energy  futures.
so  long as you are targeting high profits in the very short-term, you can feel  free to fry our childrens’ future and to use our citizens’ money to  bankroll the cooking fat.
when calculating the same for an entire city, metro or a nation, a very favorable result can be noticed.
the current crisis does not help, and carbon  leakage effects make the situation even worse.
tax to be levied on ghg emissions per unit of energy consumed, and should be high enough to make renewable options competitive.
sa is situated at the interface between science, society and policy.
and with the state of western government finances as they are, i suppose penalties are more likely to happen than subsidies.
when we price the environment into our accounting systems, polluting activities gain an economic burden, giving a true cost to their impacts.
cornerstone #2 comprehensive system for bioremediation of eutrophic water bodies & watersheds
my recent world policy journal article looks at possible solutions and what some cities are doing now.
given the current economic atmosphere, the most promising way to push for such a transition is to make a strong economic and jobs argument for transitioning to carbon neutrality.
and claims are made that there is a cost saving in transmission – true; but when you put numbers to it, the added cost of distributed pv paid for by the ratepayers far exceeds the cost of added transmission.
backup power has to be available and that tends to be again, coal or possibly nuclear.
here, there is a very direct analogy to carbon: pollution is also a negative externality.
we need to bring carbon dioxide levels below 350 ppm from their current level of about 387 ppm.
in the summer months that rejected heat adds to the cooling load for air conditioned space.
although distributed systems  (clusters, supercomputers, grids, data centres and clouds) provide an  unparalleled level of computational horsepower for solving challenging problems  across a wide spectrum of fields—from scientific inquiry, engineering  design, and financial analysis to national defence and disaster  prediction—such horsepower usually equals enormous power consumption, not  only to run the distributed system but also to cool it.
but those people are mostly allowed no say in where their  pension funds, insurance premiums, and banking deposits are invested.
solar power is another avenue.
i hate to sound like a luddite, i am not.
“green supercomputing  comes of age”, it professional, 10(1): pp.
the 1989 kyoto protocol was such an international reaction, like other international environmental accords a compromise, yet from the start full of holes like a swiss cheese.
too many of us, including individuals, governments and businesses, do not pay to emit ghgs.
the biggest danger is that we wait for one of the other hats (business, government, consumers) to take action.
there are certainly situations where distributed pv makes sense – where there is no grid.
“doing more with less” is the biggest single change required to kick-start progress towards a zero-carbon economy.
this  means the end of cap and trade policies that shuffle money and blame around by  shifting energy intensive manufacturing processes to other parts of the world.
registered users must log in to post a comment.
in a balanced system, when demand rises for a particular stock then the price should also rise, which would normally push down demand.
our first-generation carbon neutral buildings will carry great social significance while being inherently beautiful.
we need to focus on multiple goals, such as the mdgs and the like, as we as a world begin to look more closely at how we are going to adapt and adjust, and even thrive, in new energy and environment futures.
we should take on board the fact that the us and china are currently moving faster in many respects than the eu and that far from leading the green revolution, we are in danger of playing catch-up and losing jobs and competitiveness to other parts of the world.
share: get everyone on board!
do we need to improve the level of governance and the competence of people on both, the civil service and political side?
how are we going to tell those hundreds of millions of poor people to give up a better economic future in order to be carbon neutral?
share: i would like to propose some of my thoughts related to the topic and hope only to become a catalyst for discussion.
but investments are getting scarce in this part of the world.
there is no “silver bullet” strategy to achieve a low carbon  society.
other sectors and companies are changing out refrigerants to lower  gwp versions as well, as announced in cancun this week.
this is the cycle which we must repeal.
once a lobbying group has formed, they will often persuade the ruling party to introduce compounding regulations that create high barriers to entry for competing resources (victor, 2009).
the reason we instituted taxes for these items was because the people who do not drink or smoke – the healthy ones – end up indirectly paying the medical bills for the people who do and get sick.
cities and regions around the world have become major players in the battle against climate change.
educating the public through the media and the presidential bully pulpit and then encouraging them to pressure congress into creating these policies is a key part of this process.
explicating the complex meaning of these three words takes a bit longer, much of the gloomier middle of this essay.
other social science jargon is marked similarly.
the proportion of direct and indirect urban ghg emissions in the global greenhouse gas household exceeds sixty percent.
i would point to at least three things that would speed the transition.
as the earth warms, droughts will return to our breadbasket areas.
they are permitted to gamble once again with the global economy in the  course of their routine investment business, this time knowing that the  citizenry will be there to bail them out again.
registration is easy and free, and €1 will be donated on your behalf toward environment research "
the landscaping must preserve access to natural light and be completely integrated with the building design.
enormous quantities of  refrigerant escape to the atmosphere from leaks and junking wrecks and retired  vehicles.
the current reaction of many is that taxes are applied to undesirable activities such as motoring but these are diverted or squandered but no viable alternatives are offered e.g. the lamentable option of public transport in london and the south east.
foster sustainability objectives to be achieved in order to realize this aspirational carbon neutrality.
finally, creativity.
in addition to system homogeneity, tasks are  often homogeneous or independent.
sa provides evidence to decision-makers, generates individual and  organizational learning, avoids costly mistakes and provides a forum for  deliberation and participation.
but, this is a sticking plaster for old technology not a forward-looking solution; it is also costly and inefficient and therefore unlikely to lead to the widespread adoption of ccs.
setting the stage metaphorically, from simple classic physics/mechanics, we know the simple answer to this type of problem.
we should demand that  transit, housing and other essentials are planned in such a way as to reduce  travel, fuel consumption and generation of carbon emissions.
yes, we need to clean up and sequester carbon from fossil-fuel-fired electrical generation facilities, and to revisit the desirability of both large and small nuclear plants.
this is an important and but computationally intractable problem [3].
the kyoto protocol expires in 2012, and the concurrent unfccc summit (cop17) in johannesburg is unlikely to produce a timely replacement.
u.s. wind energy market grew 78% in 2008, adding 17.3 megawatts of new wind energy capacity, and selling about half of all small wind turbines installed globally then.(2) china is rapidly accelerating wind energy development, promising 100 gigawatts of capacity by 2020, about a quarter of current total u.s. energy demand.(3)
the specific plants are chosen based upon what contaminants are in and around the lake water cross-referenced by the species that have rapidity of growth as well as requiring uptake of trace elements matching as many entries on the list of contaminants as possible.
people accept way more changes, when they understand the problems and the solutions.
______________________________________________________ 1 incidentally, “road map” appears to be a rather luckless concept–see the roadmap for ending the palestinian-israeli conflict.
in the energy sector, this means providing answers with regard to e.g. smart electricity grids, the future of fossils fuels, the reality and the perception of nuclear energy risks, long-term emission reduction goals and international energy cooperation.
i am here to show by doing that it can be done.
reduction in a minimum of 20% dependancy on the grid is guaranteed with the current available technology.
this competition is an opportunity to develop a world leading template that will be rolled out across the globe.
fortunately, there are ways to do just that.
may we dare suggest that we may not be ready at all.
charismatic leadership can provide certainty in times when actions are not immediately paying off and patience is required.
as long as geothermal heat (on a small scale) can be tapped onsite, the latitude limits for algae cultivation on a year-round basis theoretically stretch nearly to the entire earth between the arctic and antarctic circles until photo-period simply won’t support growth rates to be economically feasible.
he recognized that an effective business model requires a disruptive whole-system approach that provides profit but also could be marketed as a premium product.
indeed the fact that there are so many interested parties involved in the energy sector makes simply understanding the underlying plethora of self-interests quite a task.
to capture 100% of the particulates drawn in by the vacuum pump as the intake air is neither pre-filtered nor is it dry-filtered, it is by using water filtration (rising bubbles) the particulates in the air end up remaining suspended in the lime water.
share: change is caused by external disturbances that disrupt equilibriums, create tensions, and change system needs.
in order to meet the copenhagen accord of less  than 2 degrees celsius in temperature by 2050, meaning a global minus 50 % of  co2 emissions by 2050 or an oecd target of -80 to -95% of co2 emissions, we  require a complete system change in a very short time span.
second, continuing to decelerate towards lowering growth speed as we are reversing the trend.
regional differentiation of fuel tax or vehicle charges, introduced in order to support economic developments in certain regions, may also need special consideration.
the idea is that the adequate integration of  sustainability principles in decisions made at various levels (from local to  sub-national to (inter)national level) will contribute to the achievement of a  carbon-neutral society.
architects can design affordable zero emissions commercial buildings now.
but less often discussed are methods for actually withdrawing carbon now in the atmosphere.
share: we want to keep present ecosystem or ecosystem of some time back in which we are feeling comfortable.
unfortunately master (imf) which is pre-ordering music, likes classics of 20th century (read – ultra liberal economy), not ascetic gregorian cantos or ethnic rock.
how much more suicidally dysfunctional can modern capitalism get?
money keeps on going to the same  silly projects, like enhanced oil recovery (eor) in depleted reservoirs in the  guise of “sequestration” to store co2 emissions.
globally, most current and planned climate change regulations target high-emitting “point sources”, with coal fired, base-load power generation as the starting point.
oliver baer and clean emissions fluids, inc., is just one of the many success stories arising out of the great city of detroit, michigan.
such a hybrid power system would get wind and solar widely deployed by making  co2 into a resource.
what we need to aspire to is a low carbon, sustainable society.
energy–aware scheduling is a software based power saving approach  which has great potential due to its inherent adaptability,  cost–effectiveness and applicability.
until we understand that nothing that causes a collective harm to society is free, and that should include carbon, little progress will be made toward becoming a carbon-neutral society.
the parent body, the global wbcsd, has more than 200 members, all major corporates.
yet, notwithstanding the burgeoning research following sir  nicholas stern’s 2006 review on the economics of climate change(3), this  database would be completed long after climate change grows into a bona fide  environmental and human crisis.
we must find a way to help people see the promise of a clean energy-based society based on green jobs.
it would take a brave leader to risk their own popularity by implementing the widely unpopular decisions needed to fully decarbonise.
the call for greater energy efficiency,  reduced oil imports, and more livable cities is already significantly reducing  carbon emissions per unit of gdp.
implement tax breaks and incentives for: o reduction of resources now used in manufacturing products and durable goods o re-use of existing processed materials, o successful recycling of existing processed materials o the purchase of products and durable goods made from post-consumer recycled materials o the purchase of products and durable goods made with no toxic chemicals and made producing no voc’s (volatile organic compounds) • implement true and meaningful campaign reform, ending powerful corrupting influence by moneyed interests who continually work to retain the “status quo”, which costs all of society and our planet, while enriching the powerful few at the top
this type of community should be leading in particular in terms of removing environmental harmful subsidies; 2.
too many times, the approach to non-fossil energy has been driven by business interests which don’t always tell the whole truth without adequate consideration for what makes good public policy.
yes, we need for the us congress to legislate on industrial greenhouse gas emissions, and for the obama administration and our courts to step up while congress’s foolish regression on climate change spirals out of control.
the greatest barrier is people’s lack of access to a transparent and cogent master plan.
this means that when the die-off of the algae overgrowth that would then recycle those nutrients back into the water, those nutrients are instead taken up with the mats.
or if we should have a clear view of possible technologies soon and move forward as fast as possible.
nations are not  the only players in the global climate game.
these market mechanisms are very strong and reinforced by feedbacks, embodied in the principles of liberal economic policies.
national u.s. policies to implement the components should include: • revising tax policy to reward clean-energy winners by redirecting some of the tax breaks for the wealthiest individuals and fossil fuel industrial profits toward tax breaks on the profits from the sale of clean energy and energy-efficient devices, allowing the market to choose the “winners”; •
although setting inspiring goals, these  all-encompassing strategies are still perceived as being overly abstract.
this  means setting targets alone is by far not sufficient.
other problems caused by nox and particulate matter include premature death, increased emergency room visits with respiratory symptoms and disease, damaged farm crops, acid rain and impairment of vision.
i mentioned that i just returned from a western caribbean cruise.
this would presumably enable each nation to make rational-choice decisions about their positions in upcoming cop negotiations.
it  is a tall order, but 100 million clean stoves would reduce co2 emissions by 100  to 400 million tons a year.
several countries are knelt.
consider, right along with lost carbon sequestration from global deforestation, the huge related contribution to atmospheric co2 each day from slash-and-burn land clearing and the woody-mass-fueled cook fires used by three billion people in the developing world.
complicated however, doesn’t necessarily imply or mean complex, nor does it imply or mean that a solution absolutely needs to be complicated as well…
the protocol’s only noteworthy  long-term accomplishment is the establishment of emissions trading, an  instrument adopted in kyoto to help reduce global ghg emissions.
the desertec activity in north africa is very  intriguing for the european electric grid.
indeed, one of the fastest growing sectors in the us economy is the clean energy industry.
finally, even though there are endless opportunities for investors in clean energy – especially in the developing world – too many things (in addition to subsidies and investment rules) combine to scare the investor off.
there are obviously many things we need to do to create a carbon-neutral society.
america is on the right track, but must accelerate the pace of evolution toward a carbon neutral, clean energy society, for the sake of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and the preservation of our natural resources.
i predict it will probably  win out as the “800 pound gorilla” in the long run as we settle on  a specific implementation and the learning curve kicks in; though i don’t  rule out pv being a major player (once the initial investment is written off by  bankruptcies as happened with fiber optics) and if storage technology matures.
recycled wood is considered a renewable energy source, until it’s not.
citizens empowerment will be crucial as the recent high-level workshop “living in a low-carbon society” attended by the commissioner demonstrated.
enel, the italian energy giant, had floated its renewables arm  at the same time as coal india, but its ipo was a flop.
in fact, the iea  says, natural gas is the only fossil fuel for which demand is higher in 2035  than it was in 2008.
psychology, maybe together with some alternative economics, wrapped in philosophy and epistemology, and not at all natural or engineering sciences alone, may be holding some answers for us in the quest to find a practical way to “really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society”.
it is not free for an industrial company to pollute rivers, and so it follows thatit should not be free to pollute the air.
let’s look at a residential model.
as a change management specialist, i will develop the second part.
a consistent global carbon price (either through a tax or a cap & trade system).
biomass is still a hydrocarbon and burning it produces co2.
further to this is the effect of societal influence (i.e. disruptive technologies generally tend to progress downwards through societal classes, and not upwards (fisk, 2008)).
we have created a model of a virtual building, measured its performance at every step, and managed team members’ expectations until we designed a real building that works.
partisan politics and special interests are still intervening against  society’s best interests.
this is an essential complimentary function, as realizing the transition will require the implementation of tangible initiatives – say projects.
that sounds like a lot of money.
26 mar 09 – london presenters: nicholas j bell, pwc; per sandberg, wbcsd participants: mixed stakeholders group of around 60 people question: to speed-up & scale-up the development and deployment of sustainable solutions needed to realize the vision, what are the critical enablers and constraints: for business, policy-makers, and consumers?
let me go on: the business interests pushing pv and wind have ignored storage for as long as they could.
while demand for energy surges,  driven by economic transition, all fuel types will be in demand, from liquid  fuel, to coal, natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy.
the former can be broken down into transportation, heating, and electricity.
in colorado, we have a mandate for distributed pv which is totally out of  whack with central power generation costs.
chief among these is both the absolute scale and the depth of our dependence on fossil fuels.
currently, the ‘carbon-neutral society’ ranks amongst the  most popular ‘big ideas’, backed by world leaders, the united  nations and businesses alike.
sa is then seen as a stakeholder-driven process in search of sustainable energy futures.
the question becomes “how fast is temperature rising?” and “can we decrease carbon emissions in time to effect this change before mother nature takes over and it’s too late?”
the financial benefits alone should push us toward such reforms.
lee, y.–c. and zomaya, a.y.
one cannot change the energy system  alone.
when artificial wave action is initiated a number of interesting things begin to occur.
so far, this lengthy  course of action, already set in motion in copenhagen, has met with little  success.
the rise of a ‘green economy’ is supposed to make the ‘carbon-neutral society’ happen, as it takes the links between economy, society and the environment into account and aims to boost and diversify our society, create employment opportunities, improve equity and foster sustainability.
but a lot of people think doing a little bit is enough.
suvs could get 67 mpg if built with current hybrid technology and new advanced ultralight materials (eg, carbon fiber thermoplastic composites), according to energy expert amory lovins.
when president barroso presented his re-election bid to the european parliament, he introduced “europe’s transformation agenda”.
not a pretty picture.
a prize for good  plans should also be awarded, to stimulate innovation.
this is followed by deliberative feedback on storylines and by an assessment of the storylines’ sustainability.
instead of using hydro power to meet our demands, we have explored the seas just to derive fossil fuels from them.
carbon  neutrality at global level works but need to be initiated or adopted at local  level.
their case is instructive insofar as their climate policies exemplify the meaning and importance of “good governance”–to my mind the main stepping stone on the road to a carbon-neutral society.
unfortunately at this time we can’t tell what we don’t know.
recent data disclose the astonishing likelihood  that, far from serving as an invaluable carbon sink, these decaying trees and  deadfall will cause massive carbon-positive releases exactly coinciding with  the decades during which we hope to best the climate-forcing challenge.
but let me suppose that these adjusting mechanisms are geared too late and are too impotent to make corrections in a meaningful time.
the price for  carbon emissions could go up as high as it wants; in the end all companies can  do is close their doors when the much needed technology is not available.
this in essence is the default licence that governments and regulators have handed to the financial-services sector.
the quality of output schedule is determined using an appropriate objective function that takes into account energy consumption in addition to other conventional metrics, such as, task completion times and load balance, high throughput and high availability [4].
subsequently, favorable factor projections for different worldviews are combined into scenario skeletons, which are then elaborated into scenarios based on back-casting methodology.
a.i.s.b.l. - confederation of european paper industries said: on  01/12/2010 the original 2007 eu climate change and energy package was titled  “towards a new industrial revolution”.
it also means the end of policies that promote energy production based on its  type and not on its actual resource footprint.
furthermore, the  holistic approach of sa ensures that key sustainability topics (ranging from  biodiversity conservation to poverty eradication) are not ‘lost’ in  an overly narrow focus on carbon emissions alone.
we must all understand that, by continuing to do so we are causing more damage than good to ourselfs.
deutsche bank, working with the un secretary-general’s advisory group on energy and climate change, has already through the details of the investment scheme that would be necessary, including the insurance and risk management, in their “get fit” program (“global energy transfer feed-in tariffs for developing countries”), published in april of 2010.
it would push our leaders towards redefining national socio-economic health in terms of sustainability rather than growth, an important imperative for all nations.
share: new challenges such as global environmental and climatic change, the dwindling availability of ecosystem services, the increased demand for natural resources and geo-political power shifts demand innovative solutions.
because to change a culture, one has to change its agreements, and create new ones, then start to change behaviors, then make these new behaviors into a habit for some.
however, we also need to be reasonable and understand the complexity of the changes that need to be done.
in the largest ever initial public offering on the indian stock exchange, coal india, a huge government-owned coal company, recently offered 10% of its shares to investors at home and abroad.
however, this is a long-term approach with no guaranteed outcome to a rather immediate problem.
it is clear that changes needed will not come without  new, creative, out-of-the-box solutions.
annual energy cost savings through energy efficiency and solar power is be $185,000 for an average office building the payback for the investment to reach carbon neutrality compared to our baseline building would be 12 years if the rise in fuel costs outpaces general inflation by 4 percent a year.
also, note that first mover advantages (such as brand recognitions, creation of market positions, technology lead, creation of patent barriers) create a favorable position in the green innovation race balancing risk and opportunities associated with investments.
besides the general opinion of carbon  capture and storage or ccs, the idea to have 15 large scale pilot projects  needs to be followed up.
landfill gas relies upon more garbage being put into landfills to decay into landfill gas.
they should be concentrated where ocean currents are strongest and we allow the currents to distribute the oxygenated seawater for us where possible.
s. rajasekaran and j. reif  (eds), crc press, boca raton, florida, usa, pp. 21.1–21.19, 2008.
the climate change challenges are indeed leading to an historic transformation and it should be for the better!
indeed, at the 1992 rio world conference on environment  and development, world leaders formally endorsed the idea of sustainable  development as a guiding concept to solve complex issues linking environment  and development.
thousands of regions, cities, towns and communities worldwide have developed or are developing blueprints for the reduction of ghg emissions, and many are implementing them.
see http://network.carboncapturejournal.com/forum/topics/sequestration-time-to-punt sharpening the axe should begin with frank technology assessment, which  should not cost much.
efficiency has to be greatly improved and industries’ strengths combined, etc.
those ending up owning stock include 484 foreign funds, 195 mutual funds, 44 insurance companies, and many banks.
providing public land for solar and wind energy, grid expansion, and mass transit; • redirecting military spending towards clean energy rather than maintaining oil supplies in the middle east; •
sa provides evidence to decision-makers, generates individual and organizational learning, avoids costly mistakes and provides a forum for deliberation and participation.
here it would be incorrect to consider liuc effects.
although many algorithms and strategies have been developed, their application is quite restricted for example, to systems such as battery–powered devices, homogeneous computing systems or single–processor systems.
the media is also highly problematic – so long as witless media outlets like fox news continue to brainwash the easily influenced into thinking that climate change is “debatable,” then nothing will happen.
the next important aspect to address is energy infrastructure.
ultimately this leads to an identification of energy scenario preferences that  will embody the societal transition.
finally, for more great news about detroit and michigan, stay tuned; i will get back to you very soon!share: tags: energy, environment, progress towards sustainability click here to cancel reply.
while critics believe global warming is a hoax, anyone with their eyes open can see the polar caps shrinking, glaciers melting on a world wide basis, and droughts being reported across the globe, including the amazon basin.
carbon pricing is not a one-size-fits-all idea.
with these (quite strong) assumptions in place, one can then proceed to trace solutions to this quite complicated problem.
a market isn’t something bad in its essence, but, like as most of things, it has the other side of the shield.
the climate policy tracker launched by wwf and environmental consultancy ecofys last week showed that only a third of the actions needed to achieve the eu’s 2050 goals are in place today.
you are part of the solution – the sum of the incremental actions of all citizens can have a significant effect both through political influence and energy efficient behavior.
as nations begin to gather for yet another round  of international climate change regulatory discussions, it is clear that  countries, regions, and companies are not waiting for a binding and global  regulatory framework for climate change.
this might seem radical, but given the long life of power plants it would be a necessary step if the eu really intends to honour its commitment to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80% by 2050.
for a vast library of thoughtful knowledge on the way to create a truly sustainable planet, see the section toward the bottom of a web page, entitled “forum: straight talk on sustainability”, located at http://www.dolphinblue.com.
again,  there’s little green hi-tech has to offer
efficient transport regulations are in place  and stepping-up in rigor in the european union, as light and heavy vehicle  manufacturers must meet more stringent tailpipe emissions standards or face  increasingly stiff penalties.
it is also about historic transformation of the eu institutions relationship with their citizens and politicians.
considering the distributed deployment of the equipment, that could take a while.
the weather is more pleasant than in copenhagen and the  beaches are nice, but the chances of progress toward a new climate protocol are  slim.
to drive and speed up business change, we need a globally agreed framework for pricing carbon.
during a transition period it will be necessary to provide incentives compensating early adaptors for various inconveniences when using new fuels or energy carriers.
for the sake of brevity i’m going to describe the system using common objects for analogy based on the physical dynamics employed.
science always support for carbon neutrality and present ecosystem, let’s make use of it.
it provides a common sense transitional solution if we are really serious about reducing carbon emissions urgently.
every time there is a lead news story that’s connected to energy the energy discussion comes to a crescendo and then fades into the background as business as usual proceeds.
a carbon tax should be coupled with a carbon tariff to account for emissions generated elsewhere.
the increased realization of the consequences of global climate change has shifted the emphasis of the sustainability debate towards human-induced carbon emissions since the late 1990s.
inconsistency in governments – they can’t make up their mind what the regulations are.
essentailly it is a concerted action by the private sector, regulatory bodies , governemnt tax breaks that can go a long way in speeding up the transition.
climate change is a global phenomenon; it is only natural to respond internationally.
the question, in its present formulation, does assume a few things.
making sustainable behavior more mainstream by benchmarking it.
whether it’s climate change, peak oil, energy security, keeping the  billions we spend on oil at home to grow our own economy, or competing with the  likes of china for leadership in new industries, such as wind and solar,  everyone can find a reason to move to a carbon neutral society.
while a lofty  goal, striving towards carbon neutrality will further enable the great energy  revolution, of which we are in the early stages.
governments, on a domestic and international scale, have the power to incentivise or restrict both individuals and industry.
the presently applied incentive scheme favouring electric power generation should be phased out as soon as possible, or modified to provide a new scheme where pure biomethane delivered into the grid, physically or virtually, is also supported at a rate which compensates the supplier for required upgrading costs.
then, we will be faced with real choices in every aspect of our lives with genuine, cost effective alternatives to carbon costly activities.
while i am optimistic that there is growing support for each of these proposed directions, we can only hope that the current slow recovery from the recession does not create significant delay.
eleven years later, the 2010 unfccc summit in copenhagen (cop15) produced  essentially nothing.
the “big push” would help renewable, carbon-free energy get over the hump of initial investment costs, after which the market would kick into overdrive, as it did for computer chips.
no investments, no change.
what would it take to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral  society?
politicians have a tendency to offer short term support of long term options, not adequate support of already existing options.
we don‟t have a proper global agreement to the greenhouse gas emissions.
prices for rooftop solar systems fall as supply grows.
will this ‘really’ speed up the process?
why is our financial sector, our  pension-funds investing in china?
they are going to start using hfc-1234yf  instead of hfc-134a in vehicle air conditioning systems.
share: the question, “what would it take to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society?”, begs a multi-faceted response.
of course, unconventional oil is expensive to extract.
this means that carbon sequestration is an issue that resolves itself for at least a hundred years.
by deploying large numbers (tbd) of this floating apparatus as a test by for example; dotting the mississippi river estuary, even miles out to sea the effects on the gulf of mexico’s eutrophic estuarial dead zones will be significant and immediate.
the components are: energy efficiency – achieve significant savings in energy use through more efficient appliances, home modifications (such as weatherization upgrades), and commercial, industrial, and manufacturing practices.
thank you for your willingness to take the time to read about what i have created (and now improved).
this, in turn, results in extremely large electricity bills and reduced system reliability [1].
this could help reduce demand for wanton and wasteful energy services, leaving behind only the truly competitive products.
we need to develop new indicator for our activity, community and country for rating our society and development status in terms of carbon emission.
is the main goal we should be looking at when 5,000 children die from dirty water every day?
it is clear that changes needed will not come without new, creative, out-of-the-box solutions.
share: print this comment leave a comment jeff lewis alberta oil magazine said:on 01/12/2010 there is a misguided assumption held by many that reducing the amount of  carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere as a byproduct of industrial and  consumer behavior will be easy.
many of these investors were using ordinary citizens’ money, and this would have included the nest eggs of people worried about global warming and its dire impact on the world by the time they retire.
the political risk is too high.
i have no reason yet to believe implementing these technologies on a global scale would (if handled properly) have any deleterious effects on the environment.
yet coal india’s prospectus, crafted with the help of a clutch of big-name investment banks, did not mention climate change once in 510 pages of exhortation to invest.
all of the these shifts in thinking will have be embraced by the public at large, no mean feat.
we might end up with the technology available, the policy in place, but without the investments to get there.
a second objection is that organic farming methods would require us to have far more farmers to feed the world.
it also shows how important cities are, and will be, in the energy use and greenhouse gas emissions of the world:http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/wopj.2011.27.4.11.
even as the u.s. and canada tut-tut burning the stuff, they are busy exporting  it in ever-greater amounts to so-called developing economies.
on an international scale a change in our economic accounting of natural resources would fundamentally change our approach to them.
first, sa can be used as a foresight tool; as a guide to energy transitions.
we need better governance across the world, particularly to help business invest in africa and asia.
it is the local level where much of the real climate action happens right now.
again not all the time.
but neither is this enough.
if one is to add energy or power as an added constraint to  create a more sustainable computing system then the problem becomes much more  complex.
these two aspects must balance to not stay at the research level : you may have the best solution, technologically proven, but they will never ever be implemented without public consent.
a gradual removal of indirect and direct subsidies to the energy sector.
the more direct approach would be to recognise that most of us naturally resist giving up things we believe we already possess rather than speculate on gains that may turn out not to be realistic.
social scientists will tell you that the grounds for a negotiated climate  deal are shaky.
no national  economy can remain competitive and viable without developing them, producing or  purchasing them and using them–in short, breaking the path to a  carbon-neutral society.
secondly, sa can also be a practical tool to assess concrete projects (e.g.  energy projects).
share: i strongly believe that there are many opportunities for more sustainable technologies across many fields and disciplines.
it is time to think on that.
available direct or indirect solar power will meet all energy demands.
nevertheless, attaining a carbon moderate society takes a lot of time.
california passed a law in 2006 (ab32) which requires the state to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.
so my bottom line is that we not press for more and more non-fossil energy resources, but we try to look not only at those that can achieve 20 to 30% but 80% as is the issue with the electric grid.
our living systems are just not prepared for the huge changes required to move to a carbon neutral society.
the international energy agency predicts in its latest world energy outlook that natural gas will play a “central role in meeting the world’s energy needs for at least the next two-and-a-half decades.”
seldom are these twin facets of everyday life translated in a meaningful way by commentators and, sadly, by daily news outlets.
i was born in 1953, and, with the planet’s population then at roughly three billion human inhabitants, we imposed significantly less burden on the earth’s resources.
they are also permitted – as the coal india ipo shows – to gamble with the global climate in the course of their routine advisory business, bringing coal to the markets by the gigatonne, without the requirement for a single item of liability accounting on the global balance sheet.
using first of the 6 cornerstones, algae production to consume the co2 regardless of algae production in excess of the global energy demand will greatly accelerate carbon sequestration.
we quickly discovered that placing trees in the wrong places would impede the day lighting solution.
using these fuels in the way we currently do has serious consequences and for that reason we have to find a new way to use them cleanly and responsibly.
this is encouraging and it is a high priority to identify the successes, work out how they can be replicated and, where possible, significantly scaled up.
especially with the total product(ion) life cycle in mind, it sounds as realistic as stating the current online music industry is carbon neutral.
broad opportunities given the diversity of the challenges to address climate change while meeting increased energy demands due to the economic transitions of the emerging markets, we take a broad, thematic approach to environmental investing.
how then do we account for the inaction that characterizes our collective  response to the looming predicament of global climate change?
they say a government-imposed price on carbon emissionswould unfairly causelower income citizens to spend proportionately more of their money on utilities and products that will incur this tax or carbon pricethan theirmore well-to-do contemporaries.
this is a global issue and we need to focus on the needs of developing as well as developed regions, and we need to make sure that we have the arguments and the evidence behind the arguments well presented long term targets were largely on the domain of the “never never” – need a series of several short term targets.
nine geos themes the geos investment process leverages climate change mitigation and adaptation opportunities across nine environmental themes: -agricultural productivity and clean fuels: improve agricultural yields; non-carbon fuel sources -clean technology and efficiency: environmental conservation methods; limit waste during power generation -efficient transport: enable greater efficiencies for transport -environmental finance: carbon trading infrastructure and financing -power merchants and generation: power sources and services with low greenhouse gas (ghg)
politicians, businesses and individuals all need to be aligned toward making a carbon neutral society as the engine of our economic future.
carbon neutrality at global level works but need to be initiated or adopted at local level.
the basic of this are: generating energy is much more expensive than conserving it.
in fact it’s not a recent phenomenon; the romans deforested most of europe long before columbus discovered america changing european climate.
this fear is causing so much negative inertia that no one is gaining anything in a situation where the implementation could make a huge difference in a global economic recovery.
the  study also indicates that this electricity consumption in that year had doubled  compared with consumption in 2000
can we use the credit crunch as a paradigm opportunity to reform these values?
how  much more suicidally dysfunctional can modern capitalism get?
it is not enough to simply minimize the total energy usage in the cloud; instead one needs to simultaneously minimize energy usage between all the different providers in the clouds.
sustainability assessment (sa) is an ex ante assessment decision-supporting  process that can contribute to the transition towards a carbon-neutral society.
more than 200 billion metric tons of co2-equivalent reductions of fluorocarbon emissions (hfcs, hcfcs) have already taken place under the montreal protocol, an accomplishment greater than the entire (unachieved) first commitment period under the kyoto protocol.
so, the next question, is how to create public acceptance?
generation and capture techniques are a far cry from green  hi-tech: agricultural rot prevention, pipeline repair and landfill  capture-and-burn.
when eventually appropriate in however many years, simply recycle the excess equipment from the processes no longer needed for environmental clean up but for maintenance.
with now only forty years to  go to 2050 this is indeed true.
that means producing rated power about 30% of the time.
the international energy agency technology perspectives estimates that something around a trillion dollars alone are needed to transform the industry.
while i believe that the world should be moving to a sustainable energy base, i think we need to worry about the technical and economic realities of this conversion and not to act in a frenzied way to get there.
how can we remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere?
but if this is not managed thoroughly and driven with the adequate push, there will be no appropriation, no participation, instead there will be resistance to change, criticism, etc.
click here to read the full commentshare: i believe that the two primary factors that could help speed up the transition away from the current system are: 1.
share: my answer: transparency and cooperation: for example: both north africa and the eu stand to gain tremendous value if there is some way we can get all of the potential countries, equipment vendors, constructors, raw energy providers to recognize that there is room for a world changing win for everyone if we can work together to orchestrate proper integration and balancing of the resources and by products.
clearly, there are environmental issues  with the generation of electricity.
however, maintaining a somewhat philosophical approach on the issue, we dare ask away yet some other framing questions.
at the same time, investment bankers will be back  in their casinos with barely a light slap on their wrists after nearly plunging  the world into depression in 2008.
what do you do the rest of the time?
the bigger challenge will be convincing china and india that coal is uncouth.
the following is a wbcsd report on the results of its interactive session at our 10th anniversary summit staged at the london hq of the institution of civil engineers.
the opposite is often the case in many u.s. metropolitan areas.
http://tiny.cc/iyasf 5.
we also need to understand that looking at this issue from the wealthy countries, like in the eu, is very different from looking at this from the perspective of a poor farmer or slum dweller in south asia and africa, or even china.
interestingly, the literature on governance for sustainability and the search for “best sustainable practices” that can be adopted by other nations also highlight these factors.
our energy and environment futures will be very complex and are related to our economic, health, and human security futures.
this will not only meet the daily needs of consumers, but will eradicate the burden of trailers/trucks used to transport commodities between cities and countries.
the number of u.s. solar panel roof systems is exploding as the price plummets 60% or more with new tax incentives.(1) plastic solar cells, organic solar concentrators and rapidly evolving solar thermal technology are rapidly making solar energy costs competitive with fossil fuels.
see http://network.carboncapturejournal.com/forum/topics/sequestration-time-to-punt sharpening the axe should begin with frank technology assessment, which should not cost much.
what are renewable energy sources?
but we will never achieve a carbon-neutral society unless we push very hard  on other strategies that have nothing to do with electrical generation,  industrial ghg emissions quotas or, for that matter, even co2 emissions  themselves.
the idea is that the adequate integration of sustainability principles in decisions made at various levels (from local to sub-national to (inter)national level) will contribute to the achievement of a carbon-neutral society.
final comments above presented ideas concerning incentive schemes and tax on fuels or energy carriers, are completely focussed on (a) favouring fuel efficiency and reduction of ghg emissions, also (b) ensuring that renewable energy can successfully compete with energy based on the use of fossil resources.
they  involve things like zero-carbon homes, electric cars used as mobile energy  storage plants, smart grids to optimise power use, and green bonds for  financing the whole thing.
all of the these shifts in thinking will  have be embraced by the public at large, no mean feat.
converging catalysts create opportunity there are multiple and  converging catalysts at work that are enabling this energy revolution to power  global economies more efficiently.
as  recent events once again demonstrate, the german public does not particularly  like nuclear energy, especially the shipping of nuclear waste.
this is only human nature.
we all know for a fact that two-third of the earth’s surface is covered with water.
we need to ensure there is adequate support for emerging technologies and the role of popular understanding and government support should not be underestimated.
each cabin included furniture, cabinetry, and various materials, including wood, plastics, and metal.
is this the goal we should be so focused on when so many are under psychological stresses due to unemployment and economic stagnation?
subsequently the consumptions has risen by leaps and bounds.
it requires policies and social  marketing that target behavioral changes in industry and business and also  consumers, since in the end it is us as consumers, citizens, and shareholders  who will direct the trsansition.
this concept won’t work everywhere.
but yes, a strategy is available – converting this biomass to syngas, bio-oil and biochar via pyrolysis – an extraordinary public works project, but necessary, it appear, to get ahead of this problem.
the success of many cities in reducing ghg emissions demonstrates that effective climate change policy is possible at the urban level as well.
3 stern estimates the costs of mitigation and adaptation at two percent of global gnp.
recent years have seen an impressive rate of technological achievement in computing and communications.
from a knowledge perspective, are we actually ready to address the issue fully and with necessary seriousness of purpose?
much more is needed, but in some sense the  transition is already underway.
the  quantity of co2 released may reach several hundred megatons, not of co2, but of  carbon, offsetting and perhaps cancelling all the carbon management measures i  mentioned in the beginning.
yes, we must push hard to  incentivize and create new energy-efficient, low-carbon sustainable  technologies.
of course the stock response is energy storage.
since innovation tends to favour the funded i.e. the well off can buy new, efficient stuff while the poor are stuck with old tech, care is required to ensure that viable options are developed for everyone.
in fact  it’s not a recent phenomenon; the romans deforested most of europe long  before columbus discovered america changing european climate.
we used, and relied on, dramatically less resources.
in the context of our current society, it is fair to suggest that such a transition is required within a very short period of time if we want to reduce the risks of climate and natural resource disruptions.
at the very least, this has a significant “chill effect” on potential investors in clean energy.
but despite a lot of discussion, actual progress proceeds at a snail’s pace.
the “road map” adopted by the 2007 cop13  conference in bali.(1) raised hope and expectations, but in copenhagen’s  snowy environs, 194 nations with widely divergent interests wrangled about all  three cardinal issues on the unfccc agenda: the who, how and when of  mitigation, the funding of adaptation, and redd, the absorption of ghg  emissions by encouraging and funding reforestation in transition countries.
it is the local level  where much of the real climate action happens right now.
the price for carbon emissions could go up as high as it wants; in the end all companies can do is close their doors when the much needed technology is not available.
the offering was oversubscribed 15 fold, and  the stock soared on the first day of trading, 4 november, valuing coal india at  $49bn.
here are some examples: leed certified buildings will reduce our energy consumption.
that means delivering  a vision of a healthy, stable society that people can buy into.
but in the panic over global warming, post-combustion chemical co2 capture and underground co2 dumping (“sequestration”), biofuels, windmills, and solar — none of which are workable at utility scale for providing the baseload power the world needs — were rushed forward and absorbed all of the available money.
the sequestration idea is particularly ridiculous.
products either need to last longer or be more easily dematerialized and repurposed.
energy–aware resource management has emerged as a promising approach for sustainable/green computing.
we need policy and regulatory certainty over time and a reasonable price on emissions so that companies, governments and individuals can make the right decisions when we buy energy and products and services.
the alternatives are (a) get rid of politicians entirely (not likely), or get some kind of benevolent global dictator who will tell us to do it (even less likely).share: the concept of ‘transition’ assumes a system state that is qualitatively different than the current state of affairs.
although many algorithms and strategies have  been developed, their application is quite restricted for example, to systems  such as battery–powered devices, homogeneous computing systems or  single–processor systems.
in china, lung cancer caused by air pollution is now the leading cause of death in urban areas.
governments have to take the lead.
pursuing such a strategy would help the world decarbonize much more quickly, because it would accelerate the drop in price for renewables dramatically, using the enormous scales of the market for energy in developing countries — who urgently need clean, affordable energy services most.
will we ever be carbon neutral.
only then will they be ready to throw sufficient human and material resources as quickly as possible into its solution, stopping carbon emissions.
the strong brand equity nissan has experienced since the leaf announcement has led to increased general dealership volumes and plans at nissan to expand electric vehicle offerings.
the usual suspects of solutions are just way too simple to apply to everywhere and to all people.
some people are aware and doing something about it.
limiting anthropogenic ghg emissions in a manner which would put a halt on global warming •
all these are aspects that pave the way for a  successful societal transition towards carbon neutrality.
but may be it’s possible to harness this bulldozer for turning market mechanism controls in the right direction?
this means setting targets alone is by far not sufficient.
the  assurances of the environmentalists and the cap-and-trade advocates that  “we have all the technology we need” have now proven to be false.
the quality of output  schedule is determined using an appropriate objective function that takes into  account energy consumption in addition to other conventional metrics, such as,  task completion times and load balance, high throughput and high availability  [4].
adjacent to an example coal fired power plant we build algae cultivation capacity capable of sustaining the energy needs of the local community plus the difference between that, and the amount of co2 needed to produce the algae annually to fuel a more flexible combined-cycle gas/steam turbine power system.
carbon capture technologies need to be clean, efficient and low-cost.
tens of millions of low-heat fires are notorious soot and co2 generation “pinpoint” sources, which when aggregated likely contribute many hundreds of megatons of co2 to the atmosphere.
if the whole lifecycle cost of a product could be explained to us in terms of sustainability, we might start to change our behavior and expectations, and business might respond to that.
share: print this comment leave a  comment frederick anderson mckenna long & aldridge llp said: on 01/12/2010 my answer may surprise, if not astonish, those who also seek ways to speed  up the transition to a carbon-neutral global economy.
sa is then an iterative, long-term, pro-active and  explorative framework generating knowledge to feed the societal debate on how  to tackle major challenges in a sustainable way.
the international energy agency technology  perspectives estimates that something around a trillion dollars alone are  needed to transform the industry.
we will define the  conditions desired and the policies needed , keeping in mind that our sector,  based on renewable and recyclable materials, is part of the solution for a low  carbon 2050 share: print this comment leave a comment daniel sperling director, institute of transportation studies university of california, davis said: on 01/12/2010 the media and politicians clamor for simple solutions to complex problems.
such practices have already been applied to tobacco and alcohol, and it should be the same with carbon.
in the past, droughts have been reported in each of these areas.
the u.s. could save almost $1 trillion over the next decade (2008 mckinsey global institute report.)
our team found out that designing for carbon neutrality demands integrated, unflinching design and analysis, and that nothing is too important to be questioned or changed.
there are, unfortunately, many reasons why the transition to a carbon neutral society is proceeding at a frustratingly slow pace.
the  design of such protocols for cloud systems is further complicated by the fact  that the different sites in a cloud system are likely to have different  capabilities.
germany, which has already succeeded in decoupling economic growth from fossil  energy use and national ghg emissions, is about to extend the phase-out period  of its nuclear reactors, paradoxically to achieve the ambitious ghg reduction  targets it has set for itself.
not if you already know that non-co2 emissions, primarily methane, hydrofluorocarbons, smog-causing ozone and dark soot particles, cause just under half of all climate-forcing, which means that the strategies we discuss the most address only about half the problem.
a classic example of a  distortion resulting from this type of approach is of north american woodchips  being burned in europe to generate “carbon-neutral” electricity.
that means delivering a vision of a healthy, stable society that people can buy into.
clean electricity at source feeds downstream, negating the urgent need for significant changes in consumption and infrastructure.
some of them we experienced in action – and it’s economic crisis.
yet the huge soot and  co2 emissions from open fires of all sorts globally go almost unaddressed.
much more is needed, but in some sense the transition is already underway.
energy efficiency is the place to begin.
nobody wants to admit a mistake and change direction, especially when the funding apparatus is supervised by those invested in the mistake.
this rethinking would help us solve two problems: the need to extract and sequester carbon from the atmosphere and the need to rejuvenate the fertility of our agricultural soils.
in recent years there has been a much more widespread conversation about global warming, or is it climate change from al gore’s movie to data around ice melting at the poles to unstable weather patterns that has put energy back in the forefront in a larger and should i say it, more sustainable way.
while i am optimistic that  there is growing support for each of these proposed directions, we can only  hope that the current slow recovery from the recession does not create  significant delay.
by that time, contamination levels should have decreased to allow more & different plants to be grown as feed-stocks for other industries (cellulosic ethanol) offsetting the systems cost substantially.
and it would happen about as fast as one could possibly imagine, in real political, economic, and technical terms.
these difficulties are nothing when compared to the added intricacies that stem from bringing the issue up in international political negotiations.
but how likely is that on a wide scale basis?
however, if one were to bring this simple process argument in front of seasoned famed economists, s/he may be chased out of the room with a vengeance.
as a hopeless optimist i cannot but end on a positive note.
wind power makes strides in china.
second, we need to rethink how we consume goods and services and  change the designs and delivery accordingly.
older model heavy-duty diesel engine trucks and buses release unburned hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide (co), sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides (nox), particulate matter, and other toxic compounds.
it’s widely acknowledged that with a republican majority,  there’s no chance for energy and climate change legislation.
if you’re not invited,  don’t despair.
it  appear, to get ahead of this problem.
it is thus essential to ensure that the criteria chosen are vetted very carefully, that the results are tied to state-of-the-art technolgy, and that they are also reflecting changes over time concerning exploration and extraction efficiencies for various fossil resources.
for pharmaceutical use these oils sell (as of this writing) for $200+ per gallon.
we may achieve these aims, but not in the short-term, and we may only have the short-term – or at most the medium-term – available to us if we are to act on reducing atmospheric carbon in time to avoid catastrophic and irreversible climate change.
as the bubbles rise, the air within exchanges some trace gasses with the seawater and will also become saturated with water vapor to 100% rh.
well-to-wheels, or cradle-to-grave, ghg efficiency studies performed are inevitably influenced by the vested interests among the people engaged in the study.
china is a good example.
the author sincerely hopes that stakeholders will begin to look beyond the dividends of subsidies and begin to formulate systematic policies for the longer term evolution to a low carbon future.
products either need to last longer or be more  easily dematerialized and repurposed.
methane, a valuable fuel and main constituent of natural gas, has a gwp of  25 and is released from landfills, livestock, coal mines, rice paddies and  leaky gas pipelines.
the simplest solution of this problem would probably be to apply the same fuel tax as for the corresponding fossil fuel, but at the same time pay the producer a subsidy based on the actually assessed ghg emission reduction per unit of fuel produced at his particular plant.
that means long term sustainability with reduced consumption of materials, and to some extent energy.
tomorrow might perhaps be different and better, given the growth rates of  renewables industries, notwithstanding the languishing share prices of many  renewables companies.
some, such as energy corporations, are not particularly helpful.
as floods and wildfires have  shown pakistanis and russians this summer, a few extreme events can visit  ruinous setbacks on economies.
landfill gas is a renewable energy.
feedstock • long term substitution of coal as a source for transportation fuels and chemical industry feedstock • possibilities to avoid ghg emissions from the use of fossil fuels • possibilities to provide a foolproof solution concerning nuclear waste • development of the large potentials for renewable electric power care should not erode the availability of fuels for mobile applications • utilizing waste and other biomass resources in an optimal manner, maximizing net fuel output per tonne of waste, or per hectare of land •
the may 2010 interim conference in bonn yielded a negotiation text that had swelled from 17 to 34 pages, even greater disparities among national delegations about everything, and some undiplomatically pessimistic public statements, such as un secretary-general ban ki- moon’s acknowledgment that cancun “…might not produce a definitive agreement.”
will this be sufficient in the fight against the omnipresent interferences of intra-national interests and cross border concerns?
sa also embodies the democratic values of sustainability, as it needs to be conducted in a participatory way.
every project and every human consumption should be measured in terms of carbon foot print.
but higher energy prices, due to a carbon tax and/or higher use of costly renewable energy, mean lower economic growth and lower job creation.
the question is whether such reductions will be planned and gradual or forced and chaotic.
such incentive schemes should, to be meaningful, have a life-length of 15 years (enough to provide investor and consumer confidence) and then only cautiously phased out.
currency will be crucial.
considering the need to household with renewable biofuel feedstock we should avoid using available biomass for other purposes than biofuel production or chemical industry feedstock.
ultimately this leads to an identification of energy scenario preferences that will embody the societal transition.
the analogy to carbon neutrality plans should be  clear: careful preparation should not be omitted.
going back to the source of how we produce our electricity in the first place is the only way in which change can occur.
regulation needs to go hand in hand with education and communication to ensure public buy-in for energy-saving products.
driven to reduce its dependency upon foreign crude oil, america has developed an appetite for clean, renewable energy.
and to recognize that the added co2 from these sources, until we can technically and economically sequester the co2, will be offset by the need for the world to deploy geoengineering such as solar radiation management – with or without ctl/gtl should climate change prove to be sooner and greater than the most likely values.
share: my answer may surprise, if not astonish, those who also seek ways to speed up the transition to a carbon-neutral global economy.
i get bothered about using energy to make energy, as conversions are never 100% efficient.
called the “big push,” the strategy builds around three key elements: (1) establishing feed-in tariff mechanisms globally (that is, guaranteed-purchase price supports for renewable energy) (2) investing heavily in renewable energy in the developing world through those mechanisms, and (3) providing an array of technical and policy support services to speed adoption and implementation.
but somehow, the entire value chain still needs to be fed, be it in people, fuel, energy, primaries… it would thus be more realistic to reflect upon on a carbon moderate society.
as a society we have understood that each of these “vices” inevitably lead to real costs to our country – they are a negative externality – and we have to account for these costs.
for within the water itself we install algal mats which promote rapid algae growth with the property that the algae from the water will tend to stick to the mats to be removed from the lake with the mat.
in the energy sector, this  means providing answers with regard to e.g. smart electricity grids, the future  of fossils fuels, the reality and the perception of nuclear energy risks,  long-term emission reduction goals and international energy cooperation.
during the past 10,000 years the human race has stripped a good portion of indigenous forests across most of the land masses around the world exposing more soil to heating, erosion, and temperature rises.
by having a plentiful supply of food, it’s the one common thread that keeps the human race civilized without becoming a pack of animals reverting back to our primal primitive instincts.
in order to meet the copenhagen accord of less than 2 degrees celsius in temperature by 2050, meaning a global minus 50 % of co2 emissions by 2050 or an oecd target of -80 to -95% of co2 emissions, we require a complete system change in a very short time span.
for more see this op-ed piece in the new york times and this more technical article published in the proceedings of the us national academy of sciences.
but it equates to about 10 years of what was already pledged at copenhagen ($100 billion annually), and only two years of u.s. defense spending.
to “turn this ship around”, so to speak, we must do the following: • curb population growth in all regions of our planet • grow food locally, and, organically •
there is also a lack of any clear model for what can integrate into the legacy system that will not cost jobs or reliability.
acknowledgment that cancun “…might not produce a definitive  agreement.”
as i write these lines, delegates around the world are packing their suitcases to attend the cop16 meeting in cancun.
instead of an insurmountable challenge, perhaps the need to decarbonise our society should be seen as a promising technological opportunity.
the fact that we emit co2 naturally by breathing, along with the entire animal world, doesn’t make the “right” for humans to industrially emit so much more in orders of magnitude co2 that it dwarfs any planetary natural capacity of compensation either a “nature endorsed” possibility or a natural right.
thus, reaching global carbon-neutrality also involves replacing open cook fires with the simple, efficient biomass-burning cook stoves available today.
however, i doubt it would be possible with my lifetime or even three generations on to create a carbon neutral world.
build only leed-certified commercial and residential structures to reduce energy consumption •
it is a tall order, but 100 million clean stoves would reduce co2 emissions by 100 to 400 million tons a year.
even as the u.s. and canada tut-tut burning the stuff, they are busy exporting it in ever-greater amounts to so-called developing economies.
any dispute of this sort is likely to be heard in an international arbitration tribunal, behind closed doors, and on the basis of commercial considerations alone.
in conclusion, sustainability assessment can be a powerful process that allows decision-makers to structure complex ‘hot societal topics’ in a systematic way, based on scientific input and on participation.
the added funding of renewable energy research would also create much-needed us jobs in the newly emerging “green” sector.
barriers (especially the not seen or not so easily traceable ones) to our very ability to address fully the issue may be higher than we imagine.
what is requierd is vision and will to do so.
many urban regions are increasingly vulnerable to climate change, especially in coastal zones.
yet, notwithstanding the burgeoning research following sir nicholas stern’s 2006 review on the economics of climate change(3), this database would be completed long after climate change grows into a bona fide environmental and human crisis.
on the same day coal india shares started trading so too did enel green power’s.
please imagine, a high volume pv solar powered vacuum pump connected to what is in essence sealed room with an inlet pipe dropping into a cistern creating in effect, an enormous solar powered hooka.
2 all concepts in quotation marks are part of negotiation theory.
the indulgences issued by the catholic church did not stop sin, and “carbon offsets” will not reduce co2 emissions.
clearly, there are environmental issues with the generation of electricity.
cities must now make themselves part of the natural cycle by recycling their organic wastes back into the soil.
smog-causing ozone and soot emissions are already stringently regulated,  but emissions can be reduced further (with enormous co-benefits for health,  food crops and property) with broader, stricter controls.
policy makers need to articulate and create the need for urgency to change amongst consumers; also that a different way of life does not mean a worst way of life.
germany, which has already succeeded in decoupling economic growth from fossil energy use and national ghg emissions, is about to extend the phase-out period of its nuclear reactors, paradoxically to achieve the ambitious ghg reduction targets it has set for itself.
and again that falls back to coal or nuclear.
if one is to add energy or power as an added constraint to create a more sustainable computing system then the problem becomes much more complex.
but how does a sustainability assessment ‘look like’ in practice?
a fair taxation of biofuels is a more tricky issue as the actual ghg avoidance varies for each combination of plant location and chosen technology.
as for your question “what would it take to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society?”
carbon abatement is the only method we can employ today to control carbon emissions.
need for more common values in terms of how business operates and politicians to have a system based on gross national happiness as opposed to gross domestic product.
subsequently, favorable factor projections for different worldviews  are combined into scenario skeletons, which are then elaborated into scenarios  based on back-casting methodology.
could we not use that money better for transforming our energy and industry  system and creating our future society that we aim for?
by using all 6 of these processes in combination, collectively we can without great technical difficulty inexpensively and rather rapidly reverse the directional trends of climate change contamination and ocean acidification while we reclaim & re-use chemical fertilizers from a number of sources.
short-term economic considerations and narrow national interests continue to call the shots in unfccc negotiations.
too many times, the approach to non-fossil energy has been driven by  business interests which don’t always tell the whole truth without  adequate consideration for what makes good public policy.
alberta, the canadian province i call home, is virtually paved with pipelines.
appropriate measures to mitigate climate change and to adapt to changing environmental conditions are unmistakably in order.
92–99, shanghai, china, 2009.
when looking at the quite illustrative vacuum for the ets future: yes, clarity and moving on definitely will on carbon issues.
however electric cars and plug in hybrids today recharge at night and in the us that means about 50% of the power produced is coal based, not carbon neutral.
these relate mostly to the domestic energy policies in the host country.
update the current national electrical grid into a “smart” grid, utilizing energy storage systems such as megabatteries, high voltage dc power lines, fly wheel storage technology, electric plug-in vehicle storage, and two-way information flow of energy usage and distribution.
we should not pretend that switching to renewable energy will automatically generate millions of “green jobs”.
it would in this case probably also be best to calculate ghg avoidance for different fuel options based on tonnes of feedstock used.
by 2025, half of the vehicles on american roads are projected to be powered by electric batteries or alternative fuels.
(inside our legal and political systems we can declare it nonetheless a natural right, but such declaration would most probably hold little water if any in the face of objective natural tests over future history)
please see my comments also best regards nam raj khatri one part of the way forward to reducing our carbon emissions would be to focus on cities.
this must include travel (train versus plane), pensions (high carbon investments versus low carbon investments), energy sources (electricity versus gas, renewable versus non etc) with the cost applied to one directly credited as a subsidy to the alternative.
share: leaders of the major carbon-emitting nations need to view climate change with the same sense of urgency that their historic forebears viewed world war ii.
koomey, j. g. “estimating total power consumption by servers in the u.s. and the world.
the incorporation of biochar in soils has been shown to increase soil fertility while successfully sequestering carbon.
consequently these systems are anchored, in new behavioral norms and values, through integrated functions of which a clear example is the renewable energy case and the way it serves as a hedge against: - geo-political threats, like being dependent on russia and middle east - future scarcity of fuels like oil peak scenario’s etc based on experience, we are sure that consumers allocate their budgets on purchase decisions that maximize utility; consequently producers invest resources in production, with the market and price signals acting as coordinating mechanism.
although day lighting is the single-most important way to reduce electricity and carbon emissions, carbon neutral design requires a precise balance of light and heat.
the indeterminacy and uncertainty of transitions makes it difficult to develop a set list of actions that would speed up such transition.
it assumes (1) that a carbon neutral society would be a good thing, hence a desirable thing[i] , (2) that transition to such a society is first of all possible, and (3) that speeding up same transition is both desirable and possible.
it is not only a question of historic transformation of our industry, our cities, our transports, our buildings.
how much tonnage of the earth’s materials were displaced to build that single ship?
the courage, the ambition to really drive the 2050 targets and the industrial revolution needed to get there.
all of our existing energy production methods require vast  amounts of non-renewable resources – from steel and rare earths to fossil  fuels.
in fact much of the wind generation in the midwest gets curtailed daily as transmission and distribution capacity is limited from these areas.
but other areas could include penalising householders with inefficient boilers, much higher taxes on car usage and taxes on the carbon footprint of various foodstuffs (which are quite well calculated these days).
i predict it will probably win out as the “800 pound gorilla” in the long run as we settle on a specific implementation and the learning curve kicks in; though i don’t rule out pv being a major player (once the initial investment is written off by bankruptcies as happened with fiber optics) and if storage technology matures.
although the frolicking billionaires of wall street hoped for a new junk  bubble in bogus offset trading schemes such as cap-and-trade, that is not going  to happen either.
3 stern estimates the costs of mitigation and adaptation  at two percent of global gnp.
carbon neutrality means not making the co2 problem worse as we satisfy the need for more power.
we also need to change how we incentivize consumers, e.g. on personal water or carbon budgets.
for biofuels produced from waste and residues it is a matter of determining, for each alternative pathway and with all things considered, the net ghg reduction per tonne of feedstock used.
and to fund the r&d and demo  programs for these activities.
consumer patters have to  change, value chains redesigned, renewable materials used for production and in  balance with their use for energy.
in the energy sector, sa can be used to assess the  sustainability impacts of a wide range of initiatives, such as developing new  power plants, assessing wind parks, assessing projects under the kyoto  protocol’s flexible mechanisms, as our team did for clean development  mechanism-projects in vietnam.
the gwp of hfc-134a is 1,430, while the gwp of hfc-1234yf is only four (4).
whether it’s climate change, peak oil, energy security, keeping the billions we spend on oil at home to grow our own economy, or competing with the likes of china for leadership in new industries, such as wind and solar, everyone can find a reason to move to a carbon neutral society.
provided we do, we need to understand that with the exception of  drying our clothes in the sunlight, we do not possess any way of harnessing  carbon free power.
to change belief and understanding: we need education and role models, including education for all – consumers, governments and business leaders.
we can talk about carbon taxes and carbon limitations, like what the us president is proposing for refineries, but there are just so many sources of carbon emissions we would unlikely get to all of them.
these stoves  consume most of their carbon-containing gaseous emissions and generate stable;  carbon-rich biochar that can be used to supplement the productivity of  agricultural lands.
a range of stoves, for example, those sold by worldstove, are available, from small “nomad” or “backpacking” units, to family sized, to the large, community-sized pyrolysis units that also produce syngas and bio-oil.
you may recognize elements of what i have suggested as the  heart of the so-called fast action agenda.
finally, we must embrace a properly structured carbon tax as a painful but  necessary policy mechanism.
i have also expressed similar concept for world climate govenrance.
but for accelerating the process, i see no better candidate than the big push.
of course, i understand – this is a utopian idea as well as carbon neutral society.
myriad hurdles threaten to trip up the advance of a carbon-neutral world.
no  investments, no change.
when enough people get these new habits, and these habits are properly pubicized, a new culture can arise.
sustainable development was defined by the seminal brundtland  report as ‘development that meets the needs of the present without  compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs’.
make it important to be well versed in science and technology so as to avoid buying the frequently offered snake oil solutions and be able to make educated choices.
that is the only function of this device.
there are many different perspectives on these issues and many different goals and objectives.
ghg emission penalties via the fuel tax should also apply equally in all sectors (i.e. no special favours for certain industries or consumer groups).
it appears that  we are doing little to confront this quandary, instead watching idly while it  intensifies to ominous proportions.
need to redefine the measures of success for business, which should not always be driven by growth but other performance factors availability of low risk finance for low carbon investment or a self financing business model.
obviously, i’ve only touched on a few of the potentially thousands of areas we could change in addressing how to really speed up the transition to a carbon neutral society.
the current plethora of policies – subsidies for renewable energy (at different levels for different types), mandates for certain levels of renewable or low-carbon energy, a carbon trading system, compulsory shutdowns of fossil fuel power stations – is expensive/economically inefficient, and just weakens the price signal given by the eu’s cap & trade system.
operable windows allow for seasonal natural ventilation.
dramatically improve automobile fuel-economy, by double the current standards (michael c. ruppert, in his latest book, confronting collapse, points out that every tire, of which there are at least five on each car, requires 30 gallons of oil to manufacture – that’s 150 gallons of oil being used just to allow a car to roll on down the road) •
however, a  real job that wind and solar might do is the conversion task, in electrolytic  dissociation of co2 to make liquid fuel or elemental carbon, recycling the  oxygen back into the plant for oxyfuel combustion or oxygen-blown gasification.
the infrastructure that underpins our use – and abuse – of carbon-intensive fuels took hundreds of years to evolve.
and that makes it all the more important to think this through carefully and strategically with many goals in mind.
and to recognize that the added co2  from these sources, until we can technically and economically sequester the  co2, will be offset by the need for the world to deploy geoengineering such as  solar radiation management – with or without ctl/gtl should climate  change prove to be sooner and greater than the most likely values.
you are now starting to hear the issue  discussed – as a separate entity from generation.
so my bottom line is that we not press for more and more non-fossil energy  resources, but we try to look not only at those that can achieve 20 to 30% but  80% as is the issue with the electric grid.
so far, the will to move forward has been lacking because of a lack of this vision.
but for now the coal india ipo illustrates the enormity  of the mountain we have to climb in order to arrive there.
there are many cultural and geographic issues that have to be considered.
indeed, in this case it is not so much a gamble as a known outcome, if you  believe the vast majority of climate scientists.
if these targets are  indeed to be met, we need currency, courage, choices and creativity.
in a systematic way, based on scientific input and on participation.
investment in low-carbon technologies will bring huge economic benefits both regionally and nationally and will allow the uk government to realise its ambition to become a green leader.
share: “electricity should be as cheap as oxygen.”
after all, 80% less co2 means a carbon free power sector as the remaining 20% co2 will be needed in other sectors such as aviation and agriculture.
in a civilisation intent on ensuring its own survival, much less prosperity, we would be using home-made sources of renewable energy, with great efficiency and fairness, and investing our own money to roll out ever more green infrastructure with which to build resilient local and national economies, so creating worthwhile jobs for our children.
share: print this comment leave a comment david merchant merchant consulting said: on 01/12/2010 for the past 34 years i have had the opportunity to work in the petroleum  industry as a reservoir engineer.
the weather is more pleasant than in copenhagen and the beaches are nice, but the chances of progress toward a new climate protocol are slim.
one is that some cities would have to shrink their size considerably because their surrounding region could simply not support their food needs.
detroit is not only the home of the north american international auto show, but is also the home of a company founded by oliver baer, a graduate of the university of detroit jesuit high school and general motors institute, (now kettering university) in flint, michigan.
it will also finance the development of  cleaner technologies.
some cited long-term fears for the viability of renewables generally.
consider how much further from a  carbon-neutral global economy we would be now without montreal, and there are  more reductions where those came from: at the recent bangkok montreal protocol  summit, ninety one parties agreed to support the phase out of hfcs, which could  potentially eliminate up to 100 billion metric tons more of co2-equivalent by  2050.
knowing we have little time, we should still find a system that leaves the door open for solutions that might look crazy today, but might make a lot of sense tomorrow.
this is because most of the energy we use comes from fuels like oil, coal, and gas.
if we could reduce co2 emissions without economic pain, then there would be no need for climate policy.
urban planning, the replacement of antiquated urban infrastructures and the development of institutional capacities can produce significant ghg reductions and lead to relatively rapid changes in residents’ energy consumption and behaviors.
so, no nation can be exempt from the responsibility of bringing their population to a sustainable level, preferably through the humanity of planned families, and not the inhumanity of floods, epidemics, and starvation.
however, the problem is completely different  in the case of cloud computing systems.
there is no “silver bullet” strategy to achieve a low carbon society.
the answer to that question involves the human race’s ability to grow food for the masses.
the climate change new narrative is not only about problems but: 1.
so, they have committed sizeable resources towards reducing air pollution, slowing population increases, and developing a clean renewable energy industry.
to do this we must rethink the relationship between cities and the countryside and in the process our relationship to the soil.
this attitude has transfigured into an overwhelming  consensus that we do, and the political establishment and even the corporate  world now share this position with scientists, social activists, the media and  the public.
the people or companies who are clean –those who are not spewing carbon into the air – are paying for the polluters.
how can we speed up this transition?
historically, legislation has always fallen short of what is recommended by science.
there are also “willing developing countries” prepared to learn and cooperate; there may just not be enough time for these budding partnerships to evolve into effective global climate change protection.
if this rate continues, the heat (per square centimetre) produced by future intel processors would exceed that of the surface of the sun; this implies the possibility of worsening system reliability, eventually resulting in poor system performance.
one way to ensure that a carbon price would not act as a regressive tax would be to institute an additional luxury carbon emitter tax.
in this lack of power and control lies the most important instrument for speeding up such a transition.
proper communication based on correct surveys and correctly delivered can today, according to my own experience create the most effective change.
being “carbon neutral” means removing as much carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as we put in.
and invest the fund managers did, unfettered by risk regulation or any  meaningful requirement to place a value on the climate consequences of their  scramble for short-term profit.
share: many people now have a better understanding of the relationship between their actions and the effect they have on the environment.
sa is then an iterative, long-term, pro-active and explorative framework generating knowledge to feed the societal debate on how to tackle major challenges in a sustainable way.
underpinning our existing energy systems are both a market and physical infrastructure based upon the assumption that fossil-fuels will never run out (although there is a short-term presumption of scarcity) based on the premise that there are no inherent limits to production (harris & carman, 1983).
look for natural gas-fired power plants to gradually replace coal as the electricity-generating mainstay in western countries.
in order to turn these challenges into opportunities, sustainable development is proposed as the answer.
we do not question or endorse the validity of the claims, we simply point out their existence.
even the fourth assessment report issued  in 2007 by the ippc, the very scientific body founded by the unfccc to support  international climate policy by producing (increasingly disturbing) data for  cop negotiators, fails to sufficiently impress policymakers in the  international community.
available resources should instead be used in a manner which maximizes the availability of transportation fuels and also required chemical industry feedstock.
there are certainly situations where distributed pv makes sense –  where there is no grid.
in both categories, awareness on carbon is not a problem, neither is it a matter of the existence of convincing technologies [although the carbon impact needs obviously ongoing improvement].
we also need some honesty and realism in climate policy and in ngo pronouncements, notably: •
third, ensuring that as the “braking” body moves past origin it will have the change in dynamic of influencing driving forces that will induce a/the new equilibrium to occur around the origin this time.
necessary international policies include: halting destruction of important carbon storage ecosystems, such as tropical rainforests peat bogs.
should the same resources and innovation be applied to clean technologies we would surely see a rapid change in energy generation, transport and the other industries that contribute most to our current emissions.
constraints: lack of an integrated system – we are not business or consumers or policy makers.
or if we  should have a clear view of possible technologies soon and move forward as fast  as possible.
the kyoto protocol expires in 2012, and the concurrent unfccc  summit (cop17) in johannesburg is unlikely to produce a timely replacement.
in the us, we just finished grueling elections  that brought back some pretty extreme views, including denial that climate  change is a factual reality.
so, we respond to quick fixes such as reduced consumption vehicles, turning the lights off, recycling etc while at the same time expecting continued economic growth exemplified by consumption of more items, greater freedom to travel and more accumulated wealth for our pensions.
but as of now we are short of good climate governance,  and of the political will to put the available technological and policy tools  into practice.
2- a number of research papers and projects on the renewable energy field, and the most important one is the model of the electric generation from the sea waves.
one proposal calls for the separate assessment, for each country, of the costs of climate change under a business-as-usual scenario and the of residual costs of climate change after mitigation and adaptation.
policies can address market barriers, for instance by reducing transaction costs via information campaigns and improved institutional capacity.
social scientists will tell you that the grounds for a negotiated climate deal are shaky.
institutional  shareholders were particularly unsupportive.
share: we must now go beyond becoming a carbon-neutral society to one that is carbon-negative.
mining canadian oil  sands in particular requires multibillion-dollar capital investments that are  typically paid back over long periods, which means mines currently up and  running – and there are many – will not be switched off overnight.
we do so in our free, downloadable online book, cool the earth, save the economy: solving the climate crisis is easy, at http://www.
i dare say complicated, since it seems to be a problem that needs to take into consideration a systemic view of the world–the one we live in which overall is at this current time rather accelerating its carbon production, hence still moving quite fast away from a carbon neutral society.
this is what scipio biofuels inc. was created to do.
these protocols normally govern how an application or a set of  applications are mapped onto the existing resources in a cloud environment.
the launching of a reinforced cooperation between some eu member states as the “climate investment community” suggested by notre europe proposing to apply the jean monnet strategy.
but it is my raw idea and your idea seems matured and backed by existing thing hapening in the world.
for sectors like ours, 2050 is two paper machine investments away.
pricing carbon is simply the fastest way to become carbon neutral and will also lead to some very positive unintended consequences: we would make significant headway toward balancing the budget.
prop 23 was voted down, but prop 26 passed – it requires a two-thirds vote to pass any new taxes on business, which will make it difficult to fund the climate change law.
my favorite electric  grid generation approach – csp, solar thermal has built in storage and is  probably less expensive to build than pv per kwh.
although some improvements are now in the pipeline following european legislation on energy-using products and the energy performance of buildings, there is plenty of scope for further action on the demand side, not to mention the potential for supply-side improvements to be had from reducing energy losses in electricity generation and transmission.
wind and solar and electric cars are all intended to reduce the carbon footprint.
many projects have died because of lack of it.
so, the solution does not uniquely lie in the technology, but, according to our experience in the proper balance between technology research and social acceptance.
what is carbon neutral?
the clean electricity would power not only homes and businesses, but also vehicles.
this kind of governance not only  brings carbon at neutral also contribute to world democracy indirectly.
the machine that will be built tomorrow will  still be there in 2040.
most of the technologies for the transition to a carbon-neutral society already exist, among others renewable energy resources, energy efficiency in housing and transportation, heat exchange systems and climate-friendly infrastructures.
today, the  earth barely supports over 6 billion people from crops grown on only 10% of the  earth’s surface.
going carbon neutral does not mean your country never produce any co2 emissions.
let me go on: the business interests pushing pv and wind have ignored  storage for as long as they could.
similarly there is need to reorient our infrastructure rebuilding.