“that’s good,” i thought until it was explained that the paper work was not to protect the patients but to protect the doctors.
adult patients in the icu had a minimum of monitoring equipment and the patients lay in either air fluidised or spinal beds that allowed easy rotation.
with our tickets purchased, we passed security and went to the designated waiting area with comfortable seating surrounded by shops and restaurants.
i asked the paediatric burn surgeon about the costs of care and the  operative strategy.
i was told that between two and three thousand patients were seen each day by the 70 doctors in the clinic.
this was an incredible building with a high curving roof  that looked far more like an airport terminal than a railway  station.
all of these sites are free to use but do require you to register.
this met with general agreement and we headed for the wuhan station.
andrew burd is professor of plastic, reconstructive, and aesthetic surgery at the chinese university of hong kong.
in four years china has built the most extensive high speed train network in the world, a massive and very expensive undertaking.
she told me about the mounds of paper work that had to be  filled in before operating on a child.
it was 100 years ago in october of 1911 that thewuchang uprising overthrew the qing dynasty to bring democracy to china.
but i digress somewhat.
when returning to the uk, i still prefer to  take my chances on a train rather than the motorways, despite the history  offatal train crashes in the uk.
in the meantime doctors share their concerns  about their moral and ethical dilemmas with regard to patient care but also  concerns about their personal safety.
i have heard of other chinese families hiring people to make protests on their behalf – rent a crowd, or rent a thug!
we could constantly monitor the speed from the  electronic display at the end of each carriage and the maximum speed i noted  was 345 kph.
some say it was inevitable; some say it is just  the “tip of the iceberg.”
the following day we went to a futuristic science park to visit a cutting  edge r&d centre for antibody targeted drug therapy for cancer.
academic interests include pragmatic ethics related to the practice of medicine including research and publication.
after the talk i was shown round the department  by the senior doctor in charge of the outpatient department.
and in china, road, rail, or  plane?
academic interests include  pragmatic ethics related to the practice of medicine including research and  publication.
and in china, road, rail, or plane?
the treatment rooms contained a plethora of equipment for steaming, soaking, injections, and infusions as well as bandaging and other topical treatments.
helping doctors make better decisions.
needless to say the  journey was spectacular.
both adult and children wards were full and  overflowing.
some say it was inevitable; some say it is just the “tip of the iceberg.”
much work needs to be done in mainland china to bring affordable healthcare  to the whole population.
i noticed the electronic information board was calling for  ticket holder 750 and it was only eleven am.
my choice  would still be the train.
i was told that  between two and three thousand patients were seen each day by the 70 doctors in  the clinic.
quite a contrast to the local train from guangzhou to  shenzhen.
the  treatment rooms contained a plethora of equipment for steaming, soaking,  injections, and infusions as well as bandaging and other topical treatments.
subscribe to the bmj blog feed here.
i have travel  insurance and if i had survived, would seek care from one of the many excellent  private hospitals in the mainland and, not having the power of the people  behind me, i hope the doctors would feel relaxed enough to give me their best  care.
wuhan features a rather politically sensitive anniversary this  year.
after the talk i was shown round the department by the senior doctor in charge of the outpatient department.
i have travel insurance and if i had survived, would seek care from one of the many excellent private hospitals in the mainland and, not having the power of the people behind me, i hope the doctors would feel relaxed enough to give me their best care.
the question was how?
wuhan is a fascinating city, positioned half way between beijing in the north and guangzhou in the south, and half way between shanghai in the east and chongqing in the west.
felix, the retribution approach to untoward medical events and outcomes is a feature of professional practice in other asian countries and certainly one of our staff from bangladesh said that this was a concern there.
fwiw, in saudi arabia, one's passport gets held if there is a patient complaint pending the outcome of an investigation.
in four years china has built the most  extensive high speed train network in the world, a massive and very expensive  undertaking.
wuhan features a rather politically sensitive anniversary this year.
both adult and children wards were full and overflowing.
needless to say the journey was spectacular.
a few weeks ago i took the family on a trip to wuhan.
this met with general agreement and we headed for the  wuhan station.
facebook fascinating approach to the management of untoward events.
in the afternoon we went to the 3rd affiliated hospital to meet up with old friends in the burns centre.
i am pragmatic and in the past my position has a been planes for the longer journeys but trains, high speed trains if applicable, for the rest.
as such i expect a massive review of safety policies and procedures is underway right now.
but then i  try to put things in perspective.
posted in andrew burd.
i asked the paediatric burn surgeon about the costs of care and the operative strategy.
this is a shame as it has  many historical and cultural sites to visit.
“that’s good,” i  thought until it was explained that the paper work was not to protect the  patients but to protect the doctors.
the ride was quiet, smooth, immensely comfortable, and we were all  highly impressed.
since no particular system of medicine has been able to provide total cure for bronchial asthma which has been revealed in the various studies, it is advisable to augment all the good and beneficial factors from the available different systems of medicine with an objective of establishing asthmatic free society.
the following day we went to a futuristic science park to visit a cutting edge r&d centre for antibody targeted drug therapy for cancer.
as such i expect a massive review  of safety policies and procedures is underway right now.
and if there was a crash?
when the time came for boarding we descended a long escalator to the platform level to enter the lavishly appointed bullet trains.
his major clinical interests involve paediatric burns care and the role of plastic surgery in the palliation of advanced malignancy.
once you have registered you can begin bookmarking.
this is a shame as it has many historical and cultural sites to visit.
but i  digress somewhat.
my choice would still be the train.
adult patients in the icu had a minimum of monitoring equipment  and the patients lay in either air fluidised or spinal beds that allowed easy  rotation.
dr sun yat-sen, the che guevara of the orient, played a prominent role in the process.
when  the time came for boarding we descended a long escalator to the platform level  to enter the lavishly appointed bullet trains.
the lonely planet guide says that wuhan is a  place that many visit but only to pass through.
after  lunch it was time to return to hong kong.
these sites allow you to store, tag and share links across the internet.
with our tickets purchased, we passed security and went to the designated  waiting area with comfortable seating surrounded by shops and restaurants.
but then i try to put things in perspective.
either copy this feed address and paste it into your news reader software or click the relevant one-click subscription button: 15 aug, 11 | by bmj grouptweet
it was two weeks later that the beijing to shanghai high speed link started amidst a lot of politics and adverse comments from both local and international experts.
even if there was no corruption it would be virtually impossible to expand at such a rate without having some significant problems.
i have always liked trains and so i had suggested we try the high speed train from wuhan to guangzhou.
indeed the interior was so vast that individual voices melded into a background hum much as in the giant cathedrals of europe.
it was 100 years ago in october of 1911 that thewuchang uprising  overthrew the qing dynasty to bring democracy to china.
the ride was quiet, smooth, immensely comfortable, and we were all highly impressed.
after lunch it was time to return to hong kong.
we could constantly monitor the speed from the electronic display at the end of each carriage and the maximum speed i noted was 345 kph.
emotions can run very high if a family sells all its belongings to pay for the treatment of a family member who then does not survive.
they were attentive, appreciative, and there  was a lively discussion.
i noticed the electronic information board was calling for ticket holder 750 and it was only eleven am.
when returning to the uk, i still prefer to take my chances on a train rather than the motorways, despite the history offatal train crashes in the uk.
wuhan is a fascinating city, positioned half way between beijing in the  north and guangzhou in the south, and half way between shanghai in the  east and chongqing in the west.
in  the afternoon we went to the 3rd affiliated hospital to meet up with old  friends in the burns centre.
it stands on the mighty yangtze river and the yellow crane tower figures in many classical poetic works.
we went with another  family and a family friend, so it was a jolly party that crossed the border and  took a domestic flight from shenzhen to wuhan on the friday evening.
they were attentive, appreciative, and there was a lively discussion.
next time i am visiting the mainland if there is a choice, plane or train?
this threat certainly does bring in a new dimension of defensive medicine.
his major  clinical interests involve paediatric burns care and the role of plastic  surgery in the palliation of advanced malignancy.
we went with another family and a family friend, so it was a jolly party that crossed the border and took a domestic flight from shenzhen to wuhan on the friday evening.
on the saturday morning i went to the first affiliated hospital in wuhan to deliver a lecture on the surgical management of skin pathology to an assembled audience of dermatologists.
treatments were about 50/50 traditional chinese and western medicine.
in the meantime doctors share their concerns about their moral and ethical dilemmas with regard to patient care but also concerns about their personal safety.
then the fatal crash on the wenzhou line occurred; six carriages  derailed and 40 killed.
then the fatal crash on the wenzhou line occurred; six carriages derailed and 40 killed.
andrew burd on chinese medicine and chinese trains 15 aug, 11 | by bmj group tweet
dr sun yat-sen, the  che guevara of the orient, played a prominent role in the process.
visit site latest from bmj.com latest from bmj.com podcasts blogs linking here © bmj publishing group limited 2012.
next time i am  visiting the mainland if there is a choice, plane or train?
much work needs to be done in mainland china to bring affordable healthcare to the whole population.
quite a contrast to the local train from guangzhou to shenzhen.
another major train crash in the high speed rail network would be politically unacceptable at this time.
i am pragmatic and in the past my position has a been planes for  the longer journeys but trains, high speed trains if applicable, for the  rest.
emotions can run very high if a  family sells all its belongings to pay for the treatment of a family member who  then does not survive.
another major train crash in the high speed rail network would be  politically unacceptable at this time.
this was an incredible building with a high curving roof that looked far more like an airport terminal than a railway station.
she told me about the mounds of paper work that had to be filled in before operating on a child.
on the saturday morning i went to the first affiliated hospital in wuhan to  deliver a lecture on the surgical management of skin pathology to an assembled  audience of dermatologists.
it stands on the mighty  yangtze river and the yellow crane tower figures in many classical poetic  works.
andrew burd is professor of plastic, reconstructive,  and aesthetic surgery at the chinese university of hong kong.
even if there was no corruption it would be virtually impossible  to expand at such a rate without having some significant problems.
it was two weeks later that the beijing to shanghai high speed link started  amidst a lot of politics and adverse comments from both local and international  experts.
indeed the interior was so vast that individual voices melded  into a background hum much as in the giant cathedrals of europe.
the lonely planet guide says that wuhan is a place that many visit but only to pass through.
the question was how?  i have  always liked trains and so i had suggested we try the high speed train from  wuhan to guangzhou.