i personally hope the tsa continues to find weapons and real dangers, but i cannot support it's ever expanding scope of trading liberty for so-called security.
we’ve  caught everything from spring breakers with terrible ids tofraudulent passports .
and i sincerely hope you do not feel that anyone at tsa is mocking you.
her old drivers license was destroyed.
meanwhile, i find it curious that you don't address the fact that the id check is essentially useless if the terrorist does have valid id.
while the memory isn't as good as it once was i can tell you when i first heard about it and where i first heard about it.
please look intogilmore v. gonzalez if you're not familar with this situation.
lots of people sitting around getting paid big bucks to watch tv!
nothing more, nothing less.
june 12, 2008 1:49 pm "the legislation that enacted the program gives the federal government open-ended authority to include biometric information, like a person’s retinal scan, fingerprint and genetic information, said perry, r-kaplan.
at the same time, i will not berate them for being members of the american stasi or similar, for they are just trying to do their poorly defined job.
any mis-step, abusive behavior or any other action that i feel violates my civil rights by anyone working for tsa will be met with maximum effort complaints.
june 16, 2008 11:18 am
by increasing our options, people with bad intentions don’t know what exactly to plan against, have to beat multiple layers at the checkpoint and need to be ready to face any number of obstacles to their plans."
because gilmore lacks standing to challenge anything but the identification policy’s impact on air travel, his sole argument is that “air travel is a necessity and not replaceable by other forms of transportation.”
this might make it a little bit harder for them to get a fake id, but matter how much technology we put into identification cards, a criminal will be able to either get a false id or "steal" someone else's identity and get a card with his picture and the other person's name.
we all have our opinions of the quality of work tsa does on a daily basis.
to do that, you have to be able to identify people.
it is an unreasonable burden" it took me a few hours to do reaserch that trollkiller distilled into a single posting.
okay to fly, but refusing to provide an id =
damn straight i’ll keep holding government agencies accountable.
id checks at the checkpoints accomplish nothing toward that end.
the no-fly list is a disaster.
june 12, 2008 12:35 pm just who would have a fake id folks?
and we're gonna have a time.
your ground-level staff are uneducated and poorly paid, and when they're not making up rules on the spot they're improperly and inconsistently enforcing the ones that do exist.
enhancing our id requirements further enables  tsa security officers to ensure that individuals are who they say they are when  they enter the security checkpoint and not individuals who may pose a threat.
gilmore had the option of taking an ssss if he chose not to present id.
i don't make the rules, but i have to follow them just like every one else.
nix the interviews and give us our pat downs, but keep it at that.
this rule discriminates against those without identification.
i can print my real boarding pass and an identical copy with a different name.
june 13, 2008 11:57 am um, why do you people have such problems with ids and security?
this way the tsa could launch an emergency secret investigation of anyone who doesn't show id.
they are working on pr blogs and new uniforms with shiny badges while not checking air cargo.
they should be responsive to citizens.
for the life of me, i couldn't imagine that chertoff and hawley would not have followed the law of the land to the letter.
one  enterprising fellow has even advocated it as a quicker way through security in  the past.
june 11, 2008 7:17 pm "circumventing watch list matching" is a joke and will remain a joke even after the implementation date.
"this is just another form of security to protect all of you!"
it's pure and simple retaliation for not getting his way with real id.
then some idiot failed to hurt anybody and i had to take off my shoes.
thank you tsa for continuing to trample on the constitution and then mock those of us who care.
note that the new tsa rule that will become effective june 21, 2008, does not require potential airline passengers to present credentials (i.e., to "show id"); that will still be optional, and will still help people avoid a more thorough secondary screening.
july 1, 2008 2:16 pm "people willing to trade their freedom for temporary security deserve neither and will lose both.
if they don't have the "pointy objects", in your terms, they can't harm the aircraft.
honest people protest the actions of the president of the united states.
identification is a process -- the process of identifying someone, of determining his or her identity.
the tsa knows it can't deny people without id from taking a flight so instead you will not allow them in the boarding area.
in gilmore, the government said that producing id was not required to travel and you were only subjected to a secondary search.
now that rule has just been more thoroughly enforced to prevent gaming the system.
ben franklin is attriubuted to saying "they who would give up an essential liberty for temporary security, deserve neither liberty or security."
" so, i noticed the last time i flew, that the id checker used a black light and loupe (sp?) on my passport when matching the names.
tsa looks like the keystone cops, and as you know they were fools!
like the frog in the hot water experiment.
how on *earth* do you sleep at night?
june 19, 2008 4:02 am dingdongrb: i am always wondering why i have to be asked three or four times to see my passport and boarding pass in a matter of moving merely 50 feet in a security check line?
june 16, 2008 8:50 pm anonymous said: the trouble with so much of this criticism is the lack of understanding by people outside the security field.
now, how about actually reading the gilmore decision, ok?
chertoff's approval of this new procedure, and, 2.
actually, it’s an effort to keep people that pose a threat to aviation off airplanes and keep you, your family and mine safe."
at the airport, use the fake boarding pass and your valid id to get through security.
christopher also said: "instead of allowing anyone without an id to show up, go through a quick pat down and bag check, circumventing watch list matching, we’re now opening up the options to include interviews with behavior detection officers and law enforcement; options no real terrorist is looking forward to and ones that legitimate passengers will find quicker and more convenient than today’s process.
june 16, 2008 6:29 pm the trouble with so much of this criticism is the lack of understanding by people outside the security field.
so eather way the security at the airport are darned if they do and darned if they do not by people like all of you.
i say if you don't like the process then maybe you should drive.
no unconstitutional restraints on anyone's right to travel is imposed by the challenged statutes and regulations.
we're complaining about adding intrusive procedures that add little or no security.
i will pity them, but i will not berate them, for they are unaware of how poorly they fit their job description.
the one thing i've given tsa *any* credit on since this blog's establishment has been the fact that you did not appear to be afraid of posting comments which are openly and strongly critical of your agency - it would be a shame for you to reveal that there truly are no redeeming qualities to it at all...
pure bs i have to wonder, are you an american or what?
that stinks of totalitarian governments, not the united states.
did you say troll?, where?
june 11, 2008 6:01 pm too many holes in this feeble attempt to say that it enhances security.
by destroying fundamental rights?
" safe and secure from what -- fraudulent paper cuts as opposed to legitimate ones?
others have pointed out how ludicrously easy it is to defeat this so-called "security check", so i see no need to elaborate further.
they won't be able to fly without ssss.
that sounds a little like the exact opposite of "innocent until proven guilty." again, you are continuing to dance around how id =
no, and i hope that our military keeps those terrorists off of us soil.
“if the security systems actually worked then there would be no need to check id.”
since the usa is founded on liberty, loving the usa means loving liberty.
to second guess and hold in check wanton power grabs by the government, its agencies and my countrymen who abet them is my right as a citizen.
show me just one terrorist that you have apprehended.
maybe the fact that michael chertoff is an israeli citizen makes the idea of presenting travel papers appealing to him.
speaking of watch lists and no fly lists, if someone is dangerous enough to be on a watch list or a no-fly list, shouldn't they be dangerous enough to be arrested and/or prosecuted and convicted in a court of law?
you wrote that beginning june 21, you will require passengers to present id.
when the tso looking at my bags via an x-ray machine can recognize the difference between a flash drive and a knife, i will recognize them as being properly trained and deserving of respect.
june 24, 2008 12:47 am someone claiming to be a tsa agent wrote: "when you buy your ticket it saids go to whatever website and read the rules, but people don't take time out to read them for whatever reason.
like in the previous article, a comment was made that the 9/11 terrorists all had valid id's and used their real names.
june 15, 2008 4:10 pm this is totally disgusting.
get the message, chertoff, we
june 16, 2008 1:21 pm re:just a quick note… our ticket checkers found a fraudulent id at jfk.
why is i.d important for security?
think about that while you advocate that we trade essential liberty for temporary false security.
kc june 13, 2008 1:17 am hope you all have jobs lined up for after jan. 20.
under today’s rules, you show up, say you lost your id, get  a quick pat down, have your bag searched and you’re on your way.
in california, you have the right to use any name you wish, as long as you are not doing so to commit fraud.
if, for example, the tdc checker missed that they were a selectee, then the tso at the wtmd could catch it.
honest people, however, go to pro-life rallies.
when the tsa or any government agency tries to steal my liberty, or my rights, i take it personally.
a formal approval of the transportation security oversight board.
the third-party company that handled his travel arrangements fit, 100% of the time, into the capps profile for what it desigates as selectees.
no, making sure that passengers aren't carrying anything which is a threat to the aircraft is as basic as security gets - and it's what you're supposed to be doing, and according to your latest published results, you’re all failing miserably!
june 13, 2008 2:08 pm someone anonymously wrote: "why do you people have such problems with ids and security?
let true, centuries-old intelligence agencies (fbi, nsa) do the work.
you will be as guilty as your leaders and just as accountable.
fly your own jet, or charter one.
this plan includes enabling our officers to refuse  entry into the area beyond the security checkpoint to anyone who does not  cooperate with us to establish his or her identity.
if we started letting anyone through and the terrorist attacked, then you would blame the security for not doing their job.
june 12, 2008 12:44 pm anonymous said... this is a good policy.
there is no appeals process for those who have been blacklisted.
i will hold them accountable for wasting billions of dollars and time, subjecting us to all this crap and it not making a lick of difference.
we see little difference between the search measures discussed in davis and those that comprise the “selectee” search option of the passenger identification policy at hand.
there are far too many names on the list to be effective.
it's interesting to note that most of the instances of passengers being caught with falsified id cards and passports that are described ontsa's "travel document checker (tdc)" web page (under "travel document checking success stories") were arrested on charges of immigrations violations, possession of illegal drugs, or credit card theft.
seriously, this is rapidly moving from security theater to clown-car security.
theory #2: it could also be intentional on grounds of redundancy.
unfortunately, many younger americans have been so conditioned to presenting credentials (usually a driver license) to private parties that they fail to see the risk of being required to do so in order to pass government checkpoints.
we'll go honky-tonkin'
i think we can all agree to the last part.
or the no-fly list that homeland security chief michael chertoff said indicated caused one major carrier to have 9,000 false positives on any given day.
my dad spent 23 years in the cold war air force to keep the communists from taking over.
"this vulnerability isn't new.
gilmore wasn't required to provide id to a federal employee.
gilmore had the option of a secondary screening.
wtf are you trying to say?
you remind me of every other typical american who has forgoten about 9/11.
i feel safer already!
june 12, 2008 4:02 am honestly.
if anyone wants to pony up the dough, i could use a hawaiian or alaskan vacation.
i asked him a few questions in regard to how he flew - without exception, he was flying on business, as is the case for most of the travelers that leave out of huntsville.
if i don't have my id and you request extra screening, no problem as that is reasonable.
unfortunately, as has been demonstrated many, many times before, it's much too easy to design fake boarding passes that look 100% real, even to these so-called trained inspectors (see: boing boing).
where are your papers??
"we are too deep for the rest of you.
(sorry for the ear worm) june 12, 2008 1:39
the truth is that you are not requiring id, but plan to continue to coerce people into voluntarily showing id and also to harass travelers who wish to exercise their right to travel and associate without interference from their government.
to second guess the agencies under his control is foolish.
june 11, 2008 6:09 pm let’s think about this: making sure the guy sitting next to you on the plane isn’t a terrorist is about as basic as security gets.
i mean what the hell, if osama or mohammed just want to case the joint out, you know test the system, then it's okay with you.
and yes, there is a hidden agenda:
if you truly will stand on your principle, you will....if you don't and simply rant for rant's sake, i'll see you in the sterile area with your pocket constitution and valid government issued id.
june 11, 2008 6:15 pm yes, christopher, i do feel you are mocking me.
honest people fly to political conventions.
"if we started letting anyone through and the terrorist attacked, then you would blame the security for not doing their job."
"instead, the tsa should focus on improving the search for dangerous items in luggage.
those are reserved for the judicial branch.
june 15, 2008 2:28 pm chris responded to one comment: “if the security systems actually worked then there would be no need to check id.”
please, continue burning my employer at the stake now.
june 25, 2008 10:52 am phil said...
his mother worked for israeli el al.
we can all rest easy now.
june 18, 2008 1:11 pm the trouble with so much of this criticism is the lack of understanding by people outside the security field.
it is clear that the inmates are running the asylum -- and that you guys are making this stuff up as you go along.
going to puerto rico.
no, they knew they could never take us on in military might, but they knew they could get us to implode from the inside.
because right now, all one has to do is print their own fake boarding pass (e.g., use an old boarding pass and change the name, date, and flight number with graphics program and reprint it) that matches their id.
if so, we’re at a philosophical divide that no amount of discussion is going to change.
those people can't bring down the plane by being drunk on the plane, but they can and often do disrupt the flight, the airport environment, the other passengers, and everyone around them.
[...] travel document checkers are tsa officers that are specially trained to detect fraudulent ids and boarding passes to help keep our airports safe and secure.
if you forget your id, you're ok.
this new policy does not allow those simple options.
acci argues that the statutes and regulations it violated are unconstitutional restrictions on the right to travel because not everyone can afford to pay the higher fares on regular flights to europe.
then, save that web page as a pdf and use adobe acrobat to change the name on the boarding pass to your own.
ergo, a hypothetical scenario: on the first day, we're told to verify the presence of the boarding pass when the passenger comes through the walk-through metal detector.
this is just another dragnet to try to justify tsa's existence, and turn us into a police state.
under the old id requirement, gilmore lost.
they can't challenge the tsa about their status or prove their innocence.
from the law itself: ‘‘(l) regulations.
if a lawyer at the tsa signed off on this based on the gilmore vs. ashcroft (now gonzales) case, they need to find another profession.
listen, liquids are hazmat or they're not, you need to publicly show the mmw screens, teach your staff some manners and common sense (and lose the faux-cop uniforms), and for god's sake stop making up newer and dumber policies and start examining your weaknesses honestly.
we are not allowed to know who is on the list, who put them there, or why they were put on it.
gilmore was free to leave
under the new id requirement i am not so sure he would.
on one hand, it is true that tsa with its visual inspection of id and boarding pass has corectly verified that i am indeed who i claim to be (john badman), on the other hand, the tsa agent has no idea that john badman is someone who shouldn't be allowed to fly.
this is just another form of security to protect all of you!
today, any terrorist smart enough to google "print your own boarding pass" can bypass the no-fly list.
no fly today, smacks of retribution on the part of tsa.
this is a true cornerstone of mission creep...and i don't like it.
june 24, 2009 10:42 pm traveling a lot, i feel relieved with the level of security the tsa provides.
under your new order, the passenger has no choice.
june 15, 2008 9:26 am
you gonna censor this one also blog ops? june 22, 2008 11:39 pm extremely important these days!
sincerely, an ex-tsa fan june 12, 2008 4:16 am the tsa should continue to allow refusal to show id without enhanced visible screening.
i think others have said it all.
june 11, 2008 9:22 pm don't get too upset, everyone -- the industry is unsustainable as-is anyway (see articles like http://www.kpho.com/news/16577581/detail.html), so we should only have to deal with this for about another decade or so (depending on how many bailouts at taxpayer expense the industry gets before collapsing completely).
we are beyond your comprehension.
let’s think about this: instead of allowing anyone without an id to show up, go through a quick pat down and bag check, circumventing watch list matching, we’re now opening up the options to include interviews with behavior detection officers and law enforcement; options no real terrorist is looking forward to and ones that legitimate passengers will find quicker and more convenient than today’s process.
give it time, people.
it has prevented exactly zero terrorists from flying.
why do you want to do that? "as the intelligence people become more intelligent and the law enforcement [people] plus local and state
secret laws cannot be constitutional.)
you people are a pathetic joke that's long since ceased to be funny.
er i mean the terrorists under control.
doing otherwise puts us all in danger.
i am the person that in open court has told a judge that he is running a kangaroo court and should be ashamed of himself.
i asked him if his company got the travel arrangements themselves, or contracted it out to someone else.
seriously, though, you people seriously messed up.
june 11, 2008 11:48 pm christopher -- i hope you didn't write this post yourself.
if the security systems actually worked then there would be no need to check id.
unless this is all a farce.
when a government agent asks me to show my papers or searches me, i feel *un*safe.
and please tell me how these id checks are keeping us safe.
stick to actually looking for things which can threaten the safety of the aircraft, and come back and talk to us again after you can consistently get an exemplary grade (let alone a passing one, which you're nowhere near).
until then, they are but costume-wearers looking for a free donut.
the airlines deny boarding to drunk passengers all the time.
if they did, the entire dhs would look entirely different and the tsa would not exist.
you will not allow us to know how they got there or how to get off of it. "to [restrict travel based on our secret blacklist, we] have to be able to identify people." agreed.
honest people go to pro-choice rallies, too.
note that even if you fail at a and b, a terrorist organization can still trivially defeat any id checkpoint by using the "carnival booth" algorithm (google for more details).
when every tso is well trained, and knows how to do their job properly, i fully expect that the tsa will immediately change all the rules for some poorly thought out and undefined 'security reason.'
he claimed to have flown over twenty times in the past two years, and that he was a selectee for every single round-trip flight.
if they do not accept instruction, i will immediately request to speak to their supervisor without getting out of line or attempting to repack my bags.
michael chertoff's mother was a stewardess at el al, his father was a rabbi, and he was a prosecutor.
june 15, 2008 3:35 am need to apologize for my somewhat disorganized post on bob's "big catch" addendum.
sometimes implementing new policies and procedures helps them figure out what is working and what is not, so they can make better changes in the future.
how long before we get mandatory strip searches?
the airline checks boarding passes against tickets when people board the plane.
i don't think anybody wants to ride a welfare airline.
any time saved when people volunteer to show id comes at the cost of less effectively checking them for dangerous items.
the fact is: the tsa jurisdiction is limited to 5% of the airfields in the country, and then again limited to the commercial side at those locations.
june 24, 2008 1:03 am i do not see how the requirement to show valid id that proves that the person holding the boarding pass is the person able to fly on the ticket makes tsa the enemy.
so what is there to assess?
then you can either produce the id, or turn around and explain to the others waiting to go somewhere why your act of revivalist 60s numbskullery is interfering with their "right" to travel.
if i'm not polite at the checkpoint, perhaps it's because you guys keep increasing the number of hoops for me to jump through without actually making me any safer.
the whole process is just too demeaning.
the people examining him and the documents have _no_ idea if that name is on the no fly list.
nothing that happened on 9/11 as to screening violated any of the protocals, then in place.
i know if i tried to stick my hand in the till, ali or muhammad would make sure i pulled back a nub.
as for the london bombers, i think you need to review the current testimony of just what was planned and what was to be used.
june 18, 2008 12:57 pm i know christopher is a busy lad, but is he ever going to come back and try to explain how the gilmore ruling allows this unconstitutional restriction to our right to travel freely?
"this new procedure will not affect passengers that may have misplaced, lost or otherwise do not have id but are cooperative with officers."
the airlines support these measures, because it sells more tickets.
hats off to the security at any cost folks as you've given up constitutional rights for the sake of a nanny state.
this id policy is rank nonsense, up there with 3.4-1-1, since it presumes that no terrorist is capable of saying, "i lost my id."
june 12, 2008 2:05 pm "wake me up when the tsa actually does something that actually increases airport security!"
bob labels: blogger bob, christopher, id posted by blogger bob at  5:19 pm
under the law  that created tsa, the aviation and transportation security act, the tsa  administrator is responsible for overseeing aviation security (p.l. 107-71) and  has the authority to establish security procedures at airports (49 c.f.r.  § 1540.107).
if the purpose of checking id is to check it against "the list" then you have a virtually pointless and futile process in place.
why this would be so is beyond me, but it works as good personal proof that the lists are fundamentally flawed.
‘‘(3) factors to consider.—in determining whether to issue, rescind, or revise a regulation under this section, the under secretary shall consider, as a factor in the final determination, whether the costs of the regulation are excessive in relation to the enhancement of security the regulation
seems to me that we're getting closer to that all being a waste.
just in case you think this important issue just "slipped their minds" the right to travel between the states has been a right since the articles of confederation, the first constitution, that created the united states of america.
on the second day, we're told to take over the travel document checking role previously held by contracted airline personnel.
so who died and appointed you nanny?
i also do not have looks or a name that could be considered "suspicious" (whatever that is).
june 17, 2008 7:12 pm checking ids to try to find terrorists is useless because of the low number of terrorists, and the false positive rate of using id checks as a proxy for terrorist intent.
do it quietly and no one will notice.
try working through this page with terrorism as cancer, 2,000,000 people per day, and any tsa "detection" program you can think of.
so who are you to comment on our behavior or how we spend our time?
and you still refuse to address the states that don't conform to real id.
the wtmd operator does not have a copy.
consider...sticks and stones can break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
wiggum voice] may 28, 2009 5:55 am i messed up... my daughter recently got married and changed her drivers license to her new surname.
they are triple checking boarding passes and confiscating water from passengers while some people with airside access receive limited checks.
gilmore had the option of leaving.
if i were you, i'd be taking a good long look at some of our concerns about the dumping of hazmat in open trash cans in public areas.
it is ok with me that i give up some of my constitutional rights for the bigger picture.
you obviously haven't a clue.
i want someone who posesses much better administrator skills than he apparently posesses.
we will weed out the dumb ones....but the smart will keep on going.
one need look no further than the ongoing trial in london to see the dangers of looking only for things.
fema, an agency under the control of michael chertoff, absolutely failed during katrina's aftermath.
a passenger is either a threat because they have a weapon or they are not.
june 11, 2008 10:36 pm remember, in gilmore v. gonzales, gilmore did not possess government-issued photo identification.
will you have the bdos draw atrivial pursuit card and make all us potential terrorists react to a stupid question? june 13, 2008 4:37 pm
anyone who wants to can fly in private aircraft, without showing id, luggage searches, or being delayed for bottled drinks, personal appearance, choice of clothing, or other trivial issues.
june 14, 2008 8:57 am
if the passenger decides to uphold his right not to present papers the tsa can invoke penalties.
mandatory use is right around the corner, i'm quite sure - if they truly think they can get away with "papeire bitte!
the better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the different states in this union,the free inhabitants of each of these states, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several states; andthe people of each state shall free ingress and regress to and from any other state, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of trade and commerce, subject to the same duties, impositions, and restrictions as the inhabitants thereof respectively, provided that such restrictions shall not extend so far as to prevent the removal of property imported into any state, to any other state, of which the owner is an inhabitant; provided also that no imposition, duties or restriction shall be laid by any state, on the property of the united states, or either of them.
january 5, 2009 6:56 pm this is so against the u.s constitution.
are residents of those states going to be forbidden to fly?
i've heard of a lot of 5 yr olds, grandmothers, and others hastled, delyed, ssssearched and annoyed by the process, but few or no big fish caught by your agency.
according to this, under some circumstances passengers who have not shown id will be granted access to the sterile area.
that is where you should be concentrating your efforts.
this will not ensure that people are who they say they are.
they won't be allowed many things.
tsa should focus its efforts and resources on its true purpose of preventing weapons on airplanes and stop harrassing innocent or even not-so-innocent people who are not a threat to safety.
the mission creep they've been engaged in concerns me deeply.
...........................
[tsa blog guy]christopher said: "and i sincerely hope you do not feel that anyone at tsa is mocking you.
" well, whether that is true or not, you are still contributing to a climate of oppression.
granted he did not rule on the gilmore case.....
[tsa blog guy]christopher said: "you really mean to advocate searching exclusively for pointy objects and not individuals that may pose a threat?
it might be possible to save whatever was your first personality.
if you really need to get to where you are flying to, just follow the rules and regulations.
additionally, in gilmore v. gonzalez, 435 f.3d  1125 (9th cir. 2006) the ninth circuit court of appeals rejected the  plaintiff’s constitutional challenges to a passenger identification  policy.
to sign up for updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your contact information below.
"how is that remotely defensible?
june 12, 2008 7:09 am
clue the number is less than 1.
" i don't think most people have forgotten that.
did you know that a cop can only seize your license and run a check on you at a traffic stop?
june 15, 2008 6:07 pm y'all need to chill out!...u people have too much time in your hands to sit in ur computers and do all this ridiculous blogging....the constitution is waaaaayyy too old to reflect the modern/changing times, you can't deny this....when they wrote people have a right to "bear arms" they didn't meant anybody could buy a gun to kill the first person they see on the street, did they?...
....when they wrote people have a right to "bear arms" they didn't meant anybody could buy a gun to kill the first person they see on the street, did they?
this is beyond moronic.
"[someone wrote:] `if the security systems actually worked then there would be no need to check id.'
(b) review by transportation security oversight board.—any regulation or security directive issued under this paragraph shall be subject to review by the transportation security oversight board established under section 115.
june 14, 2008 9:53 pm
june 11, 2008 11:46 pm my driver's license is a license to drive.
tahe xray operator does not have a copy.
if i'm not mistaken, you would rather the tsa not catch terrorist if they don't have "pointy things" on them at this moment.
also please explain how the residents of the 10 states that refuse to comply with the onerous real id will be handled by the tsa.
june 12, 2008 3:41 pm "to the constitutional right to travel freely within the u.s" i have recently had my eyes opened and i have much more to learn but...
so for the security experts in the crowd (and you know  you’re out there) you might be asking yourself a few questions, like: so if a terrorist shows up and says his dog ate his id,  you’ll just let him go?
drop the shoe rules and the 3-1-1 insanity.
it's about the what.what difference does it make to me if a terrorist is sitting next to me so long as he doesn't have a weapon?
june 24, 2008 6:49 pm anonymous said... i do not see how the requirement to show valid id that proves that the person holding the boarding pass is the person able to fly on the ticket makes tsa the enemy.
theory #1: this caused by one thing being added while another thing wasn't taken away in our operating procedures.
a compliant and docile populace isn't in anyone's best interest!
people can show their id to whomever they want, whenever they want to do so, if it makes them feel safer.
‘‘(a) in general.—notwithstanding any other provision of law or executive order (including an executive order requiring a cost-benefit analysis), if the under secretary determines that a regulation or security directive must be issued immediately in order to protect transportation security, the under secretary shall issue the regulation or security directive without providing notice or an opportunity for comment and without prior approval of the secretary.
i will focus on hawley's flimsy justification and his completely unsupported rationale.
unlike mr. gilmore, mr. miller is still free to use the roads as a passenger.
there are lot of people in large cities who don't drive and don't have id.
"this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the no-fly list" do you have a plan to begin checking our names against the lists at your checkpoints?
so he's an attorney.
welcome to the united states of east germany.
june 18, 2008 9:39 pm i am always wondering why i have to be asked three or four times to see my passport and boarding pass in a matter of moving merely 50 feet in a security check line?
the under secretary may waive requirements for an analysis that estimates the number of lives that will be saved by the regulation and the monetary value of such lives if the under secretary determines that it is not feasible to make such an estimate.
of course, higher air tariffs will limit travel of those who cannot pay the price.
or the no-fly list that was revealed to have kept sky marshals off planes?
probability laws point out to my being on a watch list (ridiculous, since i have absolutely no connection that could be regarded as remotely "worrisome").
i've brought marshmallows, who has the sticks.
gilmore was very specific in the scope of the ruling.
you've lost it again with this.
i think i get it - none of them will be allowed in the sterile area.
and it's another excuse for tsos to badger and harass innocent people who forget their id, now that they can be officially denied travel based on a subjective judgment of "cooperation."
it was not too long ago that none of this was done.
that does not help your case bob.
unfortunately, they're going to be scapegoats no matter what because when something happens again, congress will get up in arms about it.
the tsa has removed that option in not only an unconstitutional move but a blatantly illegal move based on the limits in 49 c.f.r. § 1540.
arizona today rejected realid.
did this person carry any contraband that was prevented from getting on the airplane?
now the tsa, in an unconstitutional and un-american move, requires my federally approved government issued id in order to travel.
but you have to understand that this new id phenomenon probably has a trickle-down effect.
because the tsa requirement seems to be targeted to this kind of expressive conduct (hence the exception for lost or stolen ids), it may run afoul of the first amendment."
june 12, 2008 10:58 am big fat meh on this entry.
first of all, chertoff doesn't have time to know "the depth of the threat".
why else would you have this blog at all, where you attempt to justify each and every new injustice and idiocy handed down by your bosses in the holy name of "securitys aginst teh terariztz!!!!1!"
regardless of the deficiencies and inconveniences, it is still the safest system we have ever had.
so lets say as soon as i came up to a id checkpoint with "no id" written on my boarding pass, the officer would immediately contact his supervisor.
every passenger is screened twice: once to get into the secure area of the airport, another time to get into the specific waiting lounge for the gate.
[terrorists] if they don't have "pointy things" on them at this moment.
it was cooperating with the hijackers and letting them take control of the cockpits that caused it.
because of this lack of choice, the id order creates an envioroment that is diametrical to the right of all citizens to be “free to travel throughout the length and breadth of our land uninhibited by statutes, rules, or regulations which unreasonably burden or restrict this movement".
show me how to fly without entering the sterile area and i will agree with you.
this would be security theater if you did this for the purpose of catching the bad guys, but for that to be true you need to be doing this to catch the bad guys.
june 11, 2008 6:44 pm i always show id when asked - don't think it is a big deal although i understand who doesn't want to show it.
these rights are crucial to a free society and we are unwilling to relinquish them.
i acknowledge that the inconvenience of showing id is trivial.
by  increasing our options, people with bad intentions don’t know what  exactly to plan against, have to beat multiple layers at the checkpoint and  need to be ready to face any number of obstacles to their plans.
btw-i noticed there was no mention of the role, if any, the tsa's spotniks played in this 'big catch'; were they off for the weekend or did someone skip one of kip's security layers?
whether we want you to or not.
for you to dismiss the entire gilmore decision as not relevant is laughable and insulting to the american people.
in fact, these lists have an outrageous number of false positives.
but restricting travel -- based on the opinion of someone who guesses that a particular traveler might want to do harm, or based on the anonymous opinion of the some maintainer of a blacklist -- is just plain wrong.
june 12, 2008 2:42 pm hsvtso dean said... just an observation.
yeah, way to go there, guys...).
so, all of this justification and approvals documentation must be right at your fingertips.
tsa has never done anything to improve airport security.
(see today's ny times.)
june 23, 2008 11:25 pm anonymous said... i don't see the big problem here.
while i believe that the integrity of travel documents is vital, when i handed my european passport containing a us visa to a trained document checker at sdf on friday, she told me that she was unable to verify the photo on my visa, and asked for secondary id, since she was unable to see a photo in my passport.
first of all, i'd like to show my appreciation for making a blog entry about this.
and he's still having hissy fits, this time because he's not getting his way with real id.
in so holding, we considered several airport screening procedures, including behavioral profiling, magnetometer screening, identification check, and physical search of the passenger’s person and carry-on baggage.
"" please describe exactly where in the id viewing process that the no-fly list is referred to.
it's time that our government stops throwing law abiding citizens into the same category as terorists.
look at the court's opinion on the freedom to travel issue.
june 12, 2008 11:28 pm
the dog was barfing and i hit "post" before hurrying to get him out the door.
june 11, 2008 7:39 pm christopher said...
we're told to do this, without the procedures from the first day being rescinded.
our rights are being taken away.
*********************************** blogger bob, seriously, this is the tsa's idea of a 'big catch' worthy of a blog update on the weekend???
security at any cost is a dismal failure.
i am not submissive to overbearing authority.
not on more useless rules that punish free thought and civil disobedience.
christopher eos blog team june 11, 2008 6:11 pm under the law that created tsa, the aviation and transportation security act, is the act itself constituional?
you have completely failed to explain how requiring people to identify themselves to government agents prior to traveling within the united states will improve transportation security.
right to travel [11] gilmore alleges that the identification policy violates his constitutional right to travel because he cannot travel by commercial airlines without presenting identification, which is an impermissible federal condition.
i first wrote about it in 2006.
we have to remember that we really are dealing with human beings here.
passengers who fail to comply with security procedures may be  prohibited from entering the secure area of airports to catch their flight (49  c.f.r. § 1540.105(a)(2).
[12] like the plaintiff in miller gilmore is nothing like miller.
our founding fathers felt that the right travel was such an undeniable right, and the courts have agreed to this point, that is was not necessary to include it as part of the constitution.
this is yet another example of tsa mission creep, and yet the american people put up with it.
just in case you are curious about the monarch travel services v. associated cultural clubs case cited; acci was in the transportation business thinly disguised as a club.
did you know that a cop can only force you to identify yourself when he/she can articulate reasonable suspicion that a crime is about to be committed?
i hate to break it to you, but there are plenty of terrorists out there that aren't on any no-fly list, and if they were getting on a plane, there would be nothing stopping them from using their own perfectly valid id.
thetraitor presently in control of this nation reminds us of it every chance he gets.
[...] i don't make the rules, but i have to follow them just like every one else.
instead, the tsa should focus on improving the search for dangerous items in luggage.
oh "troll" as in fishing...
all of the 9/11 terrorists had valid identification.
anyone could have picked up my identification and gone through security as me!
what we need to happen is someone will have to be a test case for this new requirement.
in it, schneier writes: "anyone on the no-fly list can easily fly whenever he wants.
whether it is the electronic strip search or the high school drop out "security professional" that will interrogate you, your spouse and your children for hours because he/she can; the only response possible by the people is to abandon commercial airlines as a travel option.
either the courts or the legislators will be sure the long arm of the tsa is shortened.
additionally, gilmore was free to decline both options and use a different mode of transportation.
the people are no longer going to put up with your antics and your bullying.
but because no one checks ticketed names against ids, the security breaks down.
if i'm going on a trip, i shouldn't have to remember to take it out of the glove compartment to board an airplane.
january 5, 2009 7:03 pm i agree january 5, 2009 7:03 pm sadly, airline security is no better today than it was on 9/11.
" september 10, 2008 11:52 am this is so against constitution and the people who are in favor are also agreeing that the government is violating our civil rights!!!!!!
this is proof positive that the id requirement is not about security; it's about control, pure and simple.
at what point is the process "good enough" or can we count on the rules getting more and more byzantine and nonsensical with each passing year?
if these people pose a danger to others, why don't we go arrest them instead of waiting for them to present themselves at the airport, then hassling them or preventing them from flying before sending them on their way?
can't access the boarding area, can't get on your plane.
go visit tsa in arlington, va.
at security checkpoints, the tsa just matches ids to whatever is printed on the boarding passes.
june 12, 2008 4:24 pm "starting june 21, that person could be subjected to a range of options, including interviews with behavior detection officers, local and/or federal law enforcement, enhanced pat-downs or other options.
as the intelligence people become more intelligent and the law enforcement peeps plus local and state govies become a little more picky about the id rules in general, don’t you think it’s going to be a little bit harder for terrorists to obtain real ids in the first place?
(and the court ruling was simply wrong.
june 12, 2008 2:58 pm someone using the handle twoshort posted the following comment in reponse to a related boingboing post ("tsa outlaws flights to those who refuse to show id", by mark frauenfelder, june 9, 2008): "all arguments about why it is reasonable for tsa to check id are irrelevant.
the no-fly list -- a list of people so dangerous they are not allowed to fly yet so innocent we can't arrest them -- and the less dangerous "watch list" contain a combined 1 million names representing the identities and aliases of an estimated 400,000 people.
ok never mind, carry on.. ;) june 15, 2008 1:59 am anonymous said...
i think that america is really doing the best that they can.
oh that's right, it doesn't!
“this is just another attempt to control the american people and steal more and more of our rights.”
then i fake up my boarding pass and change the passenger name from john cleanname to john badman.
[tsa blog guy]christopher said: "making sure the guy sitting next to you on the plane isn’t a terrorist is about as basic as security gets."
june 16, 2008 12:00 pm boy what a bunch of ninnies.
tsa wouldn't (or shouldn't) be held to account if they actually did security right.
10 we reject gilmore’s right to travel argument because the constitution does not guarantee the right to travel by any particular form of transportation.
i feel well-protected against terrorists who can't lie.
setting up a checkpoint at airports to stop everyone just to find the few criminals is un-american, and probably unconstitutional.
(reasonable) gilmore chose not to allow it.
in the united states, we are innocent in the eyes of the law until proven guilty.
the tsa's new id requirement does not pass the test that allows us to free to travel throughout the length and breadth of our land uninhibited by statutes, rules, or regulations which unreasonably burden or restrict this movement.
as hawley himself said, only the dumb get caught; sophisticated terrorists are not dumb.
the key to airport security is that someone doesn't have dangerous items on them.
get up and your risks for death from other factors increase.
:( june 11, 2008 8:10
it doesn't do fine detail very well.
june 12, 2008 2:49 pm dear hsvtso dean, thank you for the information regarding possible reasons for harassssment (love the term).
but hey, at least you're looking at everyone's driver's licenses now, too, just in case you weren't already overwhelmed!
"this new requirement is meant for the person that simply won’t produce id nor work with us to determine that they’re not someone that poses a threat to that flight."
play it out: someone is on the no fly list.
if you want to take action based on the fact someone will someday become a terrorist by committing an act of terrorism, you will need to check your crystal ball.
this gives authorities the chance to discover i'm actually a terrorist and have me attested without me knowing that they were investigating me the whole time.
that in turn can be defeated by determined evil-doers by the production of a fake id with a matching name.
was she a threat to aviation?
they won't be allowed entry into federal buildings.
"enhancing our id requirements further enable tsa security officers to ensure that individuals are who they say they are when they enter the security checkpoint and not individuals that may pose a threat."
the whole id given or claimed to have lost =
let's look at just a couple of aspects of it, shall we?
while the liquid policy is stupid, pointless, and silly, it's somewhat reasonable compared to this id policy, especially for domestic travel.
if it wasn't an emergency, i would like for you to publish the following documentation: 1.
this statement is irrelevant to the topic at hand.
" your employer makes rules that we are required to follow but we are not allowed to read.
being required to show an id to the screener or risk being denied the right to travel and the right to free trade is losing essential liberties.
if you dare to stand up for your rights, you will not fly.
it does not seem as if there is a "constitutional right to travel freely within the u.s." it seems that our rights to free travel derive from the constitutional rights to association and assembly.
very true the id requirement in the gilmore case was not an unreasonable burden because gilmore could have opted for a secondary screening instead.
in the updated post, you tout finding another non-terrorist as a 'success': "the port authority police department released the passenger after issuing a summons to appear."
will tsa work with us?
he had hissy fits then if he didn't get his way
if a terrorist has no weapons, no bombs, no knives, no way to damage the flight why should we care who he is?
my family, when they travel, drive so as to not subject us to the security theater called tsa.
your agency is, judging from the available evidence, clumsy and slow to act, totally unable to balance safety and customer service, in a pr free fall you've been trying (and failing) to get out of since your inception due to your numerous public screwups.
tsa will continue to come out with more and more restrictive policies and give their "officers" more power.
as an avid flier, i want to make sure that the john doe sitting next to me is really john doe.
"how to fly, even if you are on the no-fly list: buy a ticket in some innocent person's name.
that supervisor would then start dispatching undercover officers and investigators.
that gives way to a police state feeling, which is unamerican.
christopher eos blog team update: 6/14/08 just a  quick note… our ticket checkers found a fraudulent id at jfk.
all without any justification whatsoever for the new policy (just as the 3-1-1 nonsense has no basis in fact): did someone "with bad intentions" slip through the current no-id procedure and bring down a plane without anyone but tsa noticing?
this prevents nothing.
1) he refused to show an airline employee his id.
june 16, 2008 1:00 am blogger bob posted breaking news on 6/14/08 at new york kennedy airport (jfk) on thursday, june 12, a passenger was interviewed by police after attempting to enter into a security checkpoint with a fraudulent id.
and again, you aren't doing all that well just looking for those things.
if you truly will stand on your principle, you will....
it's a job-creation program sold as "security" paid by tax payers and the flying public.
it sure is a good thing that terrorists won't lie and can't pass a behavioral interview.
prior to my flight, i check-in online, and print the boarding pass for john cleanname.
dhs/tsa cannot be trusted and prove it everyday.
if someone is a known terrorist, i doubt he's going to walk into a government office to request an id.
christopher said: "making sure the guy sitting next to you on the plane isn’t a terrorist is about as basic as security gets."
the articles of confederation article iv.
if the guy next to me has been properly screened, then explain to me how he plans on bringing the plane down.
and that's exactly what we're doing with every stupid thing tsa and dhs require now.
he used and gave his real name, yet he was prevented from making his flight (in order to meet with his congressional representative).
osama's probably laughing his tail off in his cave.
the tso doesn't compare it against the no fly list.
june 12, 2008 3:09 am
i knew that wasn't true, and i didn't show id.
bob eos blog team april 11, 2009 10:27 am it's looks like your id check has failed.
june 12, 2008 5:32 pm two more quick points: 1.
the only point of the new rules is to train us not to question the authority of the government (which derives from us).
if you're not doing a and b you fail.
right to travel [11] gilmore alleges that the identification policy violates his constitutional right to travel because he cannot travel by commercial airlines without presenting identification, which is an impermissible federal condition.10
and, it's pure and simple retaliation against americans who choose to travel anonymously.
one might argue that the gate staff should do a secondary match to make sure that i have and id that matches the boarding pass, which in turn matches their passenger manifest.
june 21, 2008 8:54 pm
this farce of id's at the checkpoint is merely a revenue protection mechanism for the airlines -- it allows them to charge exorbitant change fees and cancellation fees.
no one is complaining about "adding extra security".
june 12, 2008 12:57 pm sad to see of what became of the "land of the free" in just a few short years.
i have plenty of safety.
many people who have found themselves on the list are u.s. citizens who have no ties to any terrorist organization.
if you got the money honey, i’ll do the time…
tsa is mocking us - why else would they be backlashing against those travelers who've been standing up for their right to travel without showing a government official their identification papers?
" i think you misread the press release.
frankly asking me to trust that those low-res images that were put up are what the screeners see is asking a lot.
i say bravo, check everyone for id and do it now!!!!
one could successfully argue that this is what our government is doing already.
i usually have bouncers at bars look at my id more closely (and i'm in my mid-30s!)
if you are going to blow smoke at least light the cigar first.
enough other americans have ripped apart your agency's notion that id= any measure of security.
you are correct i should have written "establishing your id" or something to that effect.
i will not be a smart*ss and hand the tso the printed copy of the x-ray machines operator manual.
my inline comments in bold text.
as an attorney in new jersey he represented defendant clients of al qaida.
june 23, 2008 2:47 pm i don't see the big problem here.
as has been pointed out previously, both on this thread as well as others, if those on the tsa's assorted 'watch lists' are so dangerous, they should be arrested, charged, & tried in a court of law.
i call redundant argument and respond with redundant arguement.
the port authority police department released the passenger after issuing a summons to appear.
" tell us, christopher, how you personally would be able to identify if a passenger were on the no-fly list?
at home, before your flight, check in online and print out your boarding pass.
that's a kudos on your part.
paraphrasing words of the identity project: no matter how sophisticated the security embedded into an i.d., a well-funded criminal will be able to falsify it.
it seems your rational is such: "everyone who enters an airport is a threat until we determine them not to be."
the only reason  we’re doing this is to make sure people are who they say they are and not  someone who is a known threat to aviation.
the low rate of terrorism, and the false positives that tsa touts so loudly make it clear that tsa is huge waste.
here, i'll help you: john gilmore (“gilmore”) sued southwest airlines and the united states attorney general, alberto r. gonzales, among other defendants,1 alleging that the enactment and enforcement of the government’s civilian airline passenger identification policy is unconstitutional.
the denial of a driver's license due to lack of documentation does not equal denial of air travel.
you stay in bed and your risks for some forms of death increase dramatically.
when the federal government is trying it's damndest to catch the islomafascist terrorist from killing us all you bitch that you might have to show an id.
my last set of boarding passes were printed on paper that felt like a cheap wal-mart receipt.
tsa has deployed  thousands of highly-trained document checkers to identify fake ids.
maybe, if the tsa was checking ids against an airline database of issued boarding passes (or perhaps directly against the no-fly list), then maybe you could make an argument that this could, maybe, potentially possibly make a difference.
we value this opportunity to discuss important issues with the traveling public and cherish the opportunity to communicate directly with you.
you gained credibility when you actually addressed the mmw and 3-1-1 issues.
you don't need a knife or gun to kill someone as someone with the desire can do so with a pen.
and as far as i know, the tsos have no way to validate the boarding pass.
june 11, 2008 7:40 pm
why does dhs/tsa continue to tell the public things that are simply not true?
i couldn't help but see how the exact same thing is happening in this country today.
(please look up what the court considers an order)
we're less free than we used to be and we're certainly not brave anymore.
we need to take back some more essential liberty.
did hawley determine that implementing this procedure was an "emergency" under pl 107-71?
how many new rules, all unjustified and unproven, will we have to subject to?
whenever the tso asks for my id i will hand the pocket constitution to the tso."
this has absolutely nothing to do with security and the sooner you drop the farce, the happier we will all be.
it isn't even subtle.
but tsa doesn't do much to protect us from terrorists!!!!!!
i have two theories about this myself.
" -benjamin franklin august 13, 2008 1:38
anybody who has seen the innards of the freedom center can tell you it is far more than a big screen tv with cnn and fox.
although we remanded for further consideration of whether the defendant consented to the search, we held that airport screening searches of potential passengers and their immediate possessions for weapons and explosives is reasonable so long as each potential passenger maintains the right to leave the airport instead of submitting to the search.
that's almost comical...
we're being lied to about federal air travel policies by airport security at kci and other locations, and it's not making us any safer.
this is really simple: if someone is so dangerous that he shouldn't be allowed to travel within the country, we should send the police to arrest that person and get him in front of a judge -- not wait for him to show up at an airport, then hassle him or turn him away.
i also choose not to let the terrorists win by giving our our way of life and cowering in fear of them.
the court reaffirms the reasonableness of a secondary screening
it is the addition of a new rule and the whole "layers of security" talk that worries me.
the poor man's lack of choice in his mode of travel may be unfortunate, but it is not unconstitutional.
security didn't fail on 9/11.
and of course, the troublesome part is that we are not allowed to pass this checkpoint without identifying ourselves in a manner that is acceptable to the government agents there, then waiting for permission to proceed.
(although i still stand by the opinion that if someone ever tries to hijack an airplane ever again, every person on that plane will stand up and beat that hijacker into a bloody pulp.) june 11, 2008 5:59 pm as bruce schneier said, i now feel well protected from the threat of terrorists who can't lie.
christopher eos blog team ...........................
absolutely not…this rule is solely focused on  the passenger who simply will not provide id or help us establish their  identity.
(i remember the previous time that the british tried to foist rules on us in regard to tea...)
june 16, 2008 7:27 pm in your blog, you indicate the exclusive reason is to ensure people are who they say they are and not gaming the system using a boarding pass with a fake name.
are you ready for what is coming?
as i see it, the tsa's main function is not to catch them anyway, it is to prevent highjackings by keeping weapons off of airplanes.
june 12, 2008 1:35 pm i think this policy is wrong and in no way improves security one iota.
they pass him into the 'secure' area.
if i was going to pick an example of how important id'ing everyone is i think i would have passed on this one.
has your agency ever caught a terrorist with the assistance of the no-fly list?
they modify the ticket to bear the name of the someone on the no fly list.
if a citizen refused to show id they were given a secondary screening, something that the 9th circuit court of appeals stated in the gilmore decision was constitutional.
"stop complaining because people easily forget about what happened on 9/11 and after that tragic event.
june 17, 2008 8:11 am checking ids is essentially useless.
they have grounded infants, all john smiths in the country and even air marshals!
trollkiller wrote: "under the new rule showing id is a requirement to be granted access to the sterile area.
then, beginning with the following paragraph, you explained that some passengers will not be required to present id.
june 11, 2008 9:24 pm if a person is not carrying anything that is capable of harming an airplane, they are not a threat to the flight.
secondarily, there is another comprehensive security screening at what's called the gate-hold area.
june 11, 2008 6:22 pm how does catching "spring breakers with terrible ids" fall under the scope of increasing transportation security?
just an observation.
use one to get through security and one to board the flight.
those people who are willing to simply lie to you, helping to convince everyone else that it is okay to ask for permission from their government before traveling within their own country, will be unaffected by your new rule.
the "freedom center" is a joke.
i was at the holocaust museum a few weeks ago and in "daniel's story", the boy told about how they needed papers to do anything and were subject to inspection of those papers and goods at any time.
regarding the "update" re: a woman at jfk with fraudulent documents: who cares?
now i buy a ticket with a fake name such as john cleanname which is not on the no-fly list.
did we lose the second world war and the cold war only to adopt the ways of our enemies?
if i am not driving the thing i don't need a license.
gilmore was not sanctioned for refusing to show the id, 4)
a tsa travel document checker noticed a passenger trying to use a fraudulent new york driver’s license and notified the port authority police department who came and interviewed her.
note the court affirms it is the right of citizens to travel uninhibited by rules, regulations that are an unreasonable burden or restrict movement.
you really mean to advocate searching exclusively for pointy objects and not individuals that may pose a threat?
if you, sir, choose to buy into that, i can't help you.
as a matter of fact, i'm laughing at your efforts to impress any kettles who might be reading this blog.
this will eventually cause a light bulb to go off.
travel document checkers  are tsa officers that are specially trained to detect fraudulent ids and  boarding passes to help keep our airports safe and secure.
our courts have established that people in this country have the right to travel and associate without being monitored or stopped by the government unless they have been convicted of committing a crime or are suspected -- with good reason -- of having committed a crime.
if he's not believed to be of sufficient danger to have him arrested, then we should let him go about his business.
seebruce schneier's august 28, 2008, los angeles times op-ed, "the tsa's useless photo id rules" for more.
the no fly list inconveniences thousands of people everyday even ones with common names like robert johnson, david nelson, and so forth and does nothing to prevent a terrorist to get on a plane.
it's not against the constitution to require id or it wouldn't have been allowed all this time folks.
"if a terrorist has no weapons that can be used, then there’s no way that the terrorist can harm the passengers or the aircraft.
bob can you tell me how this person compromised the safety of that flight?
" i haven't seen anyone express a "problem with ids and security", but assuming you meant something like, "why are you people so opposed to the idea of security guards and government agents demanding that people present id upon demand?": because what is being established is a government checkpoint at which we are required to identify ourselves and wait for permission to proceed.
if not unconstitutional, it is at a minimum unenforceable and stupid.
they show up at the airport and present the doctored ticket and an id that matches.
"instead of allowing anyone without an id to show up, go through a quick pat down and bag check, circumventing watch list matching, we’re now opening up the options to include interviews with behavior detection officers and law enforcement; options no real terrorist is looking forward to and ones that legitimate passengers will find quicker and more convenient than today’s process.
when you buy your ticket it saids go to whatever website and read the rules, but people don't take time out to read them for whatever reason.
gilmore refused to show id to tsa and also refused to undergo the more thorough "secondary screening" search.
june 12, 2008 8:14 am christopher in the column said: "this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the no-fly list and ensure the safety of the traveling public.
i received aresponse from jeanne oliver, associate director of tsa office of the executive secretariat.
you *aren't* checking the no-fly list (an odious concept in and of itself in which someone too innocent to arrest is too dangerous to fly, and which contains numerous children while deliberately excluding known terrorists.
i don't know about you
the "either or" part of that statement.
btw, an unanswered question from way back - what about the states that do not conform to read id?
" god help this country.
we can and do call upon tsa to ensure safe air travel by preventing people from carrying dangerous items onto flights.
(the u.s. 9th circuit court of appeals decided this month that no-fly passengers can sue the fbi, but that strategy hasn't been tried yet.)
i can't, this idiotic new rule has my blood boiling.
if you have a list of terrorists and suspected terrorists, don't wait for them to show up at an airport and identify themselves to you; hand your list over to the police so they can go arrest those people and get them in front of a judge.
i can't believe i'm reading some of the post here.
tsa: thousands standing around
the freedom center is not even in arlington.
okay, so if i object to the id requirement i won't be allowed access to secure areas, but if i forget it's okay?
so through gilmore's activist actions intent on undoing id requirements to fly, he did the exact opposite and compelled one of the most liberal activist courts in this country to reject his claim and create the case law that this requirement will be based upon.
this is one of the reason's the 9th circuit gets overturned on a regular basis.
but all i want to do is ride the plane, not drive it.
everyone in america thinks this is a big deal, and
people who show id receive a less-thorough screening.
" and according to daniel solove, it may be an example of first amendment discrimination:"although the first amendment doesn't restrict the tsa from requiring ids in order to board an airplane, it does restrict using the id requirement to penalize people who engage in expressive conduct.
the tsa says that soon real id will be the only valid id.
sounds a bit like your situation.
june 11, 2008 6:21 pm
for you tso's to just say i was following orders won't cut it if the order was unlawful.
i don't want the government tracking anything i do.
true the constitution does not explicitly cover the right to travel, common law does.
id stands for identification.
"nice work, boys" [/chief
i find the quoted statement by tsa to be false.
june 12, 2008 2:53 am ummm before anyone takes too much stock in what the 9th circuit court of appeals has to say, look at thequality of their judges.
i just put myself on a "no fly" list.
he eventually lost his case before the 9th circuit of the u.s. court of appeals which recognized that persons have the right to travel, but not necessarily by airplane.
take this part where they say denying a person the ability to fly is equal to denying a person the ability to drive.
they couldn't travel freely.
[government] become a little more picky about the id rules in general, don’t you think it’s going to be a little bit harder for terrorists to obtain real ids in the first place?
june 11, 2008 6:36 pm
this circuit’s decision in miller v. reed, 176 f.3d 1202 (9th cir. 1999), is on point.
they can't even write documents on their own web site that show any consistancy at all (i.e. 3-1-1).
since keeping people who are the no-fly list off the flights this must be accomplished or no reason exist for this procedure.
and there are newer and stupider rules being created all the time.
keep in mind this will greatly inconvenience people, but especially those who are deaf, mute, has religious beliefs, and those who are autistic.
restricting travel based on an id check simply cannot improve security.
at the security checkpoint, i present my fake boarding pass, and my authentic, government issued id for john badman.
june 12, 2008 11:24 am an anonymous person wrote: after getting ssss boarding passes 15 times in a row, i have come to the sad conclusion that my name must be on a "watch list".
honest people attend gun shows.
the dhs/tsa was nothing more than bush's idea of a "job stimulus/workfare" program.
the exclusive reason to do this is to ensure people are who they say they are and are not gaming the system by using a boarding pass with a fake name; a well-known endeavor of professionals andcollege kids alike that could potentially circumvent the no-fly list.
june 11, 2008 6:46 pm christopher of the eos blog team wrote: "making sure the guy sitting next to you on the plane isn’t a terrorist is about as basic as security gets.
actually, it’s an effort to keep people that pose a threat to aviation off airplanes and keep you, your family and mine safe.
many americans thought we'd never see the day that, like people living in cold-war ussr and under other totalitarian regimes, we would be stopped by government agents at a checkpoint and required to identify ourselves & get permission to proceed.
you ignore valid questions, post meaningless pr drivel, and insult us by spinning your screwups as triumphs.
i hope you'll at least take my suggestion in consideration, since i'm a mere citizen... but take it from me, you guys are going too far this time.
he and hawley have demonstrated absolutely zero desire to arrive at that understanding.
june 24, 2008 9:59 am someone claiming to be a tsa agent wrote: "when you buy your ticket it saids go to whatever website and read the rules, but people don't take time out to read them for whatever reason.
when the tso that checks my bags by hand can properly unpack, inspect and repack the equipment i carry, or is smart enough to ask me how to do it, i will thank them, recognize them as being properly trained and of being deserving of respect.
if i'm a college student attempting to fly on a ticket with soemone elses name on it, how is that a threat to homeland security or an airplane?
", it won't be long at all till we hear "get in the scanner, comrade - do you want to fly today?
[tsa blog guy]christopher said: "instead of allowing anyone without an id to show up, go through a quick pat down and bag check, circumventing watch list matching, " do you really need us to throw the bs flag on this, christopher?
now i not only have to show my id, i have to remove it from the clear plastic carrier in my wallet.
every year they add another rule.
june 11, 2008 7:22 pm christopher, i think that you need to reread gilmore v. gonzalez, 435 f.3d 1125 (9th cir. 2006).
in your quest for all-but-nonexistent "people with bad intentions" you will harass and interrogate and waste the time of thousands and thousands of citizens guilty of absolutely nothing more than forgetting their wallet or having their purse stolen on a business trip.
if he is a terrorist, he is probably in prison.
turns out, the third-party that handled all of the company's travel arrangements typically made said arrangements within twenty-four hours of the flight.
these policies are hurting the economy by decimating tourism.
june 17, 2008 1:29 pm anonymous said... the trouble with so much of this criticism is the lack of understanding by people outside the security field.
how about i just tell you my name to establish my identity.
either you show id or you get extra screening.
you don't need to know who i am.
id. at 1205 (citing monarch travel servs., inc. v. associated cultural clubs, inc., 466 f.2d 552, 554 (9th cir. 1972)).
it's not about the who.
it's good for those who want to maintain control over the public and bad for everyone else.
and arguably, tsa is making us less safe by focusing on fake id's, shampoo and toothpaste and letting things like bombs and guns thru.
what's really funny (not) is that you claim you're not preventing anyone from flying, you're only preventing them from entering the sterile area.
when the tso i encounter is courteous, polite, and professional in behavior, i will recognize them as being deserving of respect.
thought processes like this is one of the reasons the 9th circuit gets overturned on a regular basis.
let's try working on freedom for a while again.
please tell me how it succeeds in keeping us safe?
they have ruled that we cannot set up roadblocks and checkpoints to stop everyone who passes just to catch the few who have done something wrong, or to find the few who are suspected of intending to do something wrong.
of the 900,000+ names on your no fly list, how many really belong to terrorists?
june 17, 2008 10:08 am the process will never be "good enough".
carry and show your id and u will not have any problem with this policy.
it's insulting to the american people that you use college kids with fake ids as justification for a "regulation or security directive must be issued immediately in order to protect transportation security."
last week we announced on our web site a plan to begin requiring id from travelers on june 21st.
so, after 9/11 i had to remove all my pointy objects that used to be ok.
(have the screens viewable by the people in line at the checkpoint)
very romantic notion, but showing id to a screener is far, far, far from losing an "essential liberty".
i neither caused trouble nor slowed things down for other travelers when i asserted my right to travel without checking in with the government by identifying myself; i was taken out of line to be screened along with other "selectees".
june 17, 2008 5:42 am this epidemic of fake id toting spring-breakers is a menace to my security and must be stopped - and i'm willing to sacrifice the constitution to do it!
you're going to punish patriots for standing up for their rights.
see shapiro v. thompson, 394 u.s. 618, 629 (1969) (noting the right of all citizens to be “free to travel throughout the length and breadth of our land uninhibited by statutes, rules, or regulations which unreasonably burden or restrict this movement”), overruled in part on other grounds by edelman v. jordan, 415 u.s. 651, 670-71 (1974).
june 12, 2008 2:49 pm why are you citing case law which doesn't apply, in both the present circumstances along with outside of the 9th district court's jurisdiction?
translation: the court did not bother researching the question pertaining to the nessecity of air travel.
when i see security guards in airports wearing what look like police uniforms and demanding identification, and police on our streets wearing what look like military uniforms, driving dhs-grant-funded armored vehicles, marching in riot gear with machine guns, pepper-spraying and tasing peaceful demonstrators, it makes me feel like i live in what is approaching a totalitarian state.
june 12, 2008 8:00 am
the port authority police department released the  passenger after issuing a summons to appear.
at least try to give the id program a good spin by saying that you are trying to catch criminal alien id thieves.
in affirming the district court’s dismissal pursuant to rule 12(b)(6), we concluded that “by denying miller a single mode of transportation—in a car driven by himself—the dmv did not unconstitutionally impede miller’s right to interstate travel.”
if tsa is indeed intent on solving this loophole, the security checkpoint must be tied-in to the no-fly list and the airline reservation system.
june 11, 2008 9:42 pm
june 11, 2008 7:43 pm this is simple to understand.
if it's unconstitutional it would have been struck down
you don't know me very well do you?
those holes have been closed.
by this fouled up reasoning the authorities could in all constitutional righteousness deny you every form of travel except walking.
i knew comrade chertoff years ago.
" generally, yes, although many things can be used as a weapon (e.g., a plastic knife, a door handle torn from the lavatory, or bare hands) by anyone who wishes to use them as such.
starting june 21, that person could be subjected to a range  of options, including interviews with behavior detection officers and local  and/or federal law enforcement, enhanced pat-downs or other options.
"that's just not true.
in several foreing airports, there is an initial security screening done at the beginning of the secure zone as it is currently done in us airports.
"the problem is that it is unverified passenger names that get checked against the no-fly list.
any regulation or security directive issued under this paragraph shall remain effective unless disapproved by the board or rescinded by the under secretary.
moreover, the identification policy’s “burden” is not unreasonable.
so be grateful, is it so hard to be at the airport a couple hours early, and go through extra measures of security to ensure your families safety!!.
please... as i said before - "бумаги угождают, камрад," or "papiere bitte, kamerade."
oh and remind matt i am still waiting for the section of law that limits the amount of real estate the tsa can place under its control at the airports.
we've wasted more money and life standing in these ridiculous lines and being subject to tsa's stupidity than we lost on 9/11.
just an observation: i once spoke with a passenger who was designated as a selectee (or, as some people put it, "singled out for harassssment") who was... hm - quite upset with the fact.
this hole is well known and has been widely discussed.
she just gets extra hastle, can't print a boarding pass at home, or check-in electronically.
when the tso checking my id can properly recognize my id as being valid without asking me what it is, i will recognize them as being properly trained and deserving of respect.
“i think it’s very dangerous for what we’re moving to.”
june 16, 2008 7:51 pm the trouble with so much of this criticism is the lack of understanding by people outside the security field.
here's a hint: the answer is zero.
let's say i am an evil-doer named john badman, and i have a state driver's license issued under that name, and i am on the no-fly list.
— ‘‘(1) in general.—the under secretary is authorized to issue, rescind, and revise such regulations as are necessary to carry out the functions of the administration.
well, i guess he was right.
every american knows this, and so does tsa, and so do the poor wretches tasked to lie to the american public via this blog.
if the agencies under his control are any indication of the man, he is poorly qualified for the task at hand.
tsa already lost a similar case once, why try again?
the identification policy requires that airline passengers either present identification or be subjected to a more extensive search.
so with kippie's latest id farce, he's essentially trying to quash dissidence.
you can fly if you say "i left it in my other pants".
even if we could prune the list so that it included only people who actually pose a "known" threat, potential terrorists could probe the system by sending people on innocent trips, observing which ones were subjected to additional screening, then later sending the other people on a real terrorist mission.
[13] in davis, an airline employee searched the defendant’s briefcase as part of the airport’s preboarding screening procedure.
on the fourth day, we're still checking the boarding pass at both locations.
but if you just lie, say you lost your id and then answer some questions (which you may have to answer even if you do have your id), then you'll be allowed on board.
there is no difference in security, only in your willingness to express an opinion the tsa doesn't like.
june 13, 2008 5:19 pm and when are you going to answer my question about real id?
try again...and please, find a new mantra instead of cheapening one with actual meaning.
i am submissive only toproper authority.
if this had happened in hawaii would the "other forms of travel" argument be viable?
how can you blatantly lie like this and sleep at night?
we could argue that with the war on terror that we've spilled more american blood and wasted more money than the terrorists have cost us.
i'm less than impressed.
several states say they won't conform to real id.
will it be 100% pat downs or 100% denial into sanitized area?
he'd have to be one tough terrorist to do it with his bare hands.
june 11, 2008 6:32 pm
they are coming up with wasteful, ineffective and oppressive procedures that affect millions of americans on a daily basis while doing little to provide safety.
june 13, 2008 2:10 pm maybe this id rule is a make-work program for the bdos: if they can pick out liars on the id issue they can score more 'wins' in their job performance statistics.
cargo is still unsecured, screeners fail to find test bombs 70% of the time, and theft of passenger items run rampant.
or was the oath just empty words to you?
june 11, 2008 8:27 pm ensuring that people on the no-fly list don’t get on board is as important as using the metal detector.
if you are trying to catch terrorists, this is another*false alarm*.
if, and only if they went back to making sure bad stuff doesn't get on board the planes, then i would shut up.
on a recent flight, my husband and i went through security separately.
requiring us to request and receive permission to travel within our own country does nothing to improve our safety, although tsa repeatedly states without explanation that it does.
if you don't and simply rant for rant's sake, i'll see you in the sterile area with your pocket constitution and valid government issued id.
june 12, 2008 2:23 pm christopher, are you going to at least make an attempt to defend your position on gilmore vs. gonzalez?
i hope the next administration makes some serious changes.
this is not israel, an by god it will not be israel if i have anything to say about it.
seek professional help as soon as possible.
that is what will happen to the tsa if they continue to push this unconstitutional restriction of travel.
how am i suppose to know the name matches on the ticket?
june 12, 2008 6:37 am after getting ssss boarding passes 15 times in a row, i have come to the sad conclusion that my name must be on a "watch list".
that's a straw man and a sign of a weak argument.
beat you to it, we're blaming the tsa for not doing their job because they are not doing their job.
it's hard because all the extra hassle is show and does nothing to enhance security!
sorry, tsa, you fail the straight-face test on this one.
history books say america won, but it looks like the tsa is intent on adopting the same kind of means of control that were favored by the nazis and the soviets who were on the losing side of history.
" no, i don't think so.
" very romantic notion, but showing id to a screener is far, far, far from losing an "essential liberty".
what tsa is really asking us to do is to present our credentials so that they can identify us.
before you go "ah ha", the single mode of transportation denied miller was his driving a vehicle because he refused to give his ss number to the dmv.
then in was shoes, then it was fingerprinting and photographing, then nail clippers (now back), then no fly and "suspicious" persons lists then liquid limitations, then having to take hooded sweatshirts off (beware! unwritten rule!), then transit visas, then puffers, then virtual strip search machines, and now id or psycho super screener grilling you guantanamo style (better described as id "or else").
the identification policy requires that airline passengers either present identificationor be subjected to a more extensive search.
if i lie about who i am, but aren't carrying anything to pose a threat to an airline, what does it matter if i fly within the united states?
what dhs/tsa is doing in this case is wrong.
i want tsa to focus, concentrate, and improve on their original mission statement.
i have been working on this post for two days, i was trying to be fair, and just present the facts.
the constitution is waaaaayyy too old to reflect the modern/changing times, you can't deny this
don't forget this little tidbit of authority taken directly from tsa.gov: under the law that created tsa, the aviation and transportation security act, the tsa administrator is responsible for overseeing aviation security (p.l. 107-71) and has the authority to establish security procedures at airports (49 c.f.r. § 1540.107).
as you know when the blame starts getting passed around the ones on the bottom will take the most heat.
airlines love it: tickets cannot be resold; tsa loves it: they can now boast for catching false ids used by under-aged.
i am the person that on more than one occasion have told a police officer they need to settle down and stop yelling.
then they turned up the sensitivity on those devices and even my belt buckle set off the metal detector, so now i have to take off my belt.
what's happening now?
no where in this post did bob explainhow an id check enhances security.
people already have debunked that myth on here so i'm not going into it again.
then don't try to stand up for your rights.
june 16, 2008 4:29 pm to anonymous at 1:21 pm....
how long before we get mandatory strip searches?" you've seen the new virtual-strip-search scanners, right?
tsa's current practice of allowing people who show id through security with less screening than other people receive contributes to a false sense of security, breeding complacency among passengers, crew, and tsa agents.
why would a terrorist show up and say he has no id when he can just  show a fake and breeze right through?
now that is dedication.
tsa also checks to see if the id is authentic and that person imitating a no-fly list person would have a fake id then.
june 20, 2008 9:12 pm
the tsa doesn't become involved unless the behavior is shown in the checkpoint, but it's not just what you are carrying but who you are and how you behave that matters when traveling by air.
under the new rule showing id is a requirement to be granted access to the sterile area.
the next flight you are on just might be the last if you complainers get your way.
if you have never watched the reality tv program airline i'd advise you to do so.
there are so many ways that terrorists can get past this new plan requiring valid idenfitication to travel.
the honest people wouldn't be going anywhere.
even j. edgar hoover said in his study of communism that that communist governments require internal passports for traveling.
june 12, 2008 2:14 am dear tsa, you disgust me.
i asked him how far in advance did they make the travel arrangements.
identifying who a person is does absolutely nothing to identify their intent.
there was no 'false positive' on any watch list.
a rich man can choose to drive a limousine; a poor man may have to walk.
papers, please! june 25, 2008 2:27 pm
it has no place in neo america.
my grandfathers both fought in wwii to keep the nazis from taking over.
please explain this as i am confused?
you wrote, "this plan includes enabling our officers to refuse entry into the area beyond the security checkpoint anyone that does not cooperate with us to establish his or her identity.
for those that want to play along at home, here is the 9th circuit court of appeals ruling.
your response to the constitutional right to travel freely within the u.s (id or no id) is: "too bad for you, legal eagle.
june 14, 2008 1:00 pm regarding the "update" re: a woman at jfk with fraudulent documents: who cares?
june 12, 2008 11:23 pm the people who want to hurt us will always find a way around it.
whenever the tso asks for my id i will hand the pocket constitution to the tso.
then they got word from the british that our beverages are threats to security, so we all had to reduce the liquids that we carry on.
when i did (in the 1980s), we were taught that a key difference between the usa and the ussr and eastern bloc was that we didn't have to have permission from the government for domestic travel, and didn't have to show id papers on demand.
so while the undercover officers observe me as i walk through the airport, investigators would be pulling up video of me from airport cameras and as much other information that they could find.
although we recognized the fundamental right to interstate travel, we also acknowledged that “burdens on a single mode of transportation do not implicate the right to interstate travel.”
the only time one is checked against the no fly list is by the airline when tickets are purchased.
as for your "by increasing our options, people with bad intentions don’t know what exactly to plan against," justification, you really do seem to be going for the keystone-cops terrorist detection plan.
note the "moreover, the identification policy’s “burden” is not unreasonable."
she did not indicate that tsa would fix the problem, but did confirm that if a traveler is "unwilling or unable to produce a valid form of id, the traveler is required to undergo additional screening at the checkpoint to gain access to the secured area of the airport."
" tsa's job is to ensure transportation safety, not to catch criminals.
put on the list by unidentified government officials, they can't get off.
the old story of the airline  contractor not even looking up at a person while checking ids is long in the  rear view mirror.
if we were truly serious about transportation safety, we would be better off putting all the tsa personnel to work fixing bridges and roads: a 10% improvement in road safety would save4200 lives per year june 18, 2008 11:23 am i think the majority of you making your comments in here need to stop wining.
later, when i get to the gate, i present to the gate staff my real boarding pass issued to john cleanname so that my boarding pass matches their passenger manifest.
i am the person that will not allow a police officer to review the images on my camera.
however that is exactly what does not happen in the overwhelming majority of cases where a person with a name on the watch list or no-fly lists attempts to travel and does not attempt to "circumvent the watch list".
i want to know if they are a threat.
some remember but were sofrightened by a horrendous crime (one that clearlycould have been avoided) that they have since sat by idly while our constitution is being subverted in the name of keeping us safe from anoverblown threat that is likely to be no more dangerous to the average person than was communism during the cold war.
after re-reading the london bomber plot, do you know what i noticed?
an entire federal district court bench based the gilmore decision on this assumption.
june 13, 2008 12:27 pm being on the no fly list doens't even mean you can't fly.
i think you will have a hard time really convincing us this promotes security.
ergo, we are beyond the obligation to be held accountable for our actions," is classic narcissism.
although we do not question this allegation for purposes of this petition, it does not follow that defendants violated his right to travel, given that other forms of travel remain possible.
there are altogether too many tsa rules that just totally defy common sense.
they are originally from bangladesh and are here for the freedom and opportunity.
how many terrorists has tsa detained, referred to leo for arrest, or detected since their inception?
after returning home, i filed a complaint with tsa.
also, our partners in the  law enforcement and intelligence communities work tirelessly to identify  potential threats to aircraft.
april 21, 2010 1:43 am post a comment subscribe to post comments [atom] create a link << home comment policy | privacy & website policies | get plug-ins | blog home subscribe in a reader click here to see what type of things cause comments to be deleted.
, gilmore does not possess a fundamental right to travel by airplane even though it is the most convenient mode of travel for him.
never mind that the no-fly-list has been shown to not be an accurate list of "threats" to aviation.
did anyone think that this person could have been one of the almost 1 million people on your no fly list that had done absolutey nothing wrong other than getting on the list by some unknown means and was attempting to fly without being abused by the tsa?
i'd love for tsa to explain just how many 9/11 hijackers this policy would have caught.
no secret motives,  no hidden agendas, just a security enhancement aimed at people trying to game  the system.
recent congressional testimony suggests that over 900,000 names are now on the united states' so-called "terrorist watch list".
(the above is from 2theadvocate.com) louisiana, as did arizona recently, is moving to reject real id.
the no fly list doesn't contain names of the most dangerous terrorists because the government doesn't want to tip them off that we're on to them.
6.11.2008 why is id important for security?
what memory techniques are you teaching your tsos that allow them to memorize the monstrous no-fly list so that they can match my name against it in their head?
(lazy) with this new policy in effect it requires you show your id to a government agent and removes the choice of a secondary screening.
i'll give you a hint: tsa has to trot success of busting college kids with fake id's to look like it's doing something.
there are so many ways that terrorists can get past this new plan requiring valid [identification] to travel."
passengers that fail to comply with security procedures may be prohibited from entering the secure area of airports to catch their flight (49 c.f.r. § 1540.105(a)(2).
if these new options are in addition to the old process of a "quick pat down and bag check", how will i find this to be "quicker and more convenient"?
i fear that if we accept this at airports, we'll soon be accepting it elsewhere.
labels: blogger bob, christopher, id posted by blogger bob at 5:19 pm sounds a lot like nazi germany to me...
this is pure & simple retaliation by a cabinet member with no regard for the constitution he swore to protect and serve.
" from scotus' decision that detainees at guantanamo bay have constitutional rights to challenge their detention in us courts.
june 13, 2008 12:37 pm "don’t you think it’s going to be a little bit harder for terrorists to obtain real ids in the first place?
it is a restriction of our right to travel, and thus of our right to associate.
and on the miniscule chance that tsa actually does notice a real terrorist with one of these checks, they will likely treat them the same way as they do with the other 99.9999% of false positives.
it's how a government bureaucracy justifies it's existence.
everybody just relax please.
in sum, by requiring gilmore to comply with the identification policy, defendants did not violate his right to travel.
if this is your best example of how document checking keeps us safe, tsa is hopeless.
but i think i know who the real terrorist are now!
this new requirement is meant for the person that simply won’t produce id nor work with us to determine that they’re not someone that poses a threat to that flight.
i've always defended tsa against it's more rabid critics.
anyone who is serious about blowing a plane out of the sky is going to have the means to obtain either a legitimate id from the states or will be provided with a legitimate passport from a foreign country.
yes, the constitution is just another 'quaint' concept that is outdated.
june 16, 2008 5:30 pm someone anonymously wrote: "if i'm not mistaken, you [commenters] would rather the tsa not catch
until then, they will be politely instructed on how not to break things.
i've always tried to respect your side, tsa...but in this instance, you've gone too far, creating a "papers please" environment (even though it may not be intentional), and it's not necesssary nor is it american.
in miller, the plaintiff challenged california’s requirement that applicants submit their social security numbers to the dmv in order to obtain valid drivers licenses.
because of this they are a danger to the flight and are denied boarding.
june 15, 2008 12:23 pm sandra said... need to apologize for my somewhat disorganized post on bob's "big catch" addendum.
as you may have noticed on the other page, i have been looking into the gilmore case.
additionally, the terrorists from 9/11 were in the country legally and had valid ids (see: open a newspaper), and were these "laws" in place on september 11th, 2001, those planes would have still been hijacked.
i resent having to pay to have my rights trampled by tsos who make up rules on the spot and having to pay for bureaucrats to imagine new ways to remove what is left of my constituional rights.
hopefully you will notice above what the tsa is refusing to acknowledge.
if this were really stopping terrorists, wouldn't they be catching them?
those of us who wish to do so will need to convince agents at government checkpoints that our credentials were simply misplaced, not withheld on principle.
hopefully, they will eventually get it a pace that will work...
will you uphold your oath?
my doing so doesn't make me feel any safer.
either one's entirely appropriate now.
does that mean that if you lose your wallet  in the cab on the way to the airport you’re going to have to walk home?
the id checker does not have a copy.
" i think you misread thepress release.
june 11, 2008 6:30 pm none of your reasoning makes sense.
id has nothing to do with security and everything to do with control.
another poster wrote to the effect of: "how do you sleep at night after spewing forth the claptrap that is this blog?
am msc said: "i think that if you had truly good security it should not matter who flies.
as the 9/11 commission said, “the policy challenges were linked to this failure of imagination…” “this is just another attempt to control the american people and steal more and more of our rights.”
people who agree on this particular term might as well agree on the government violating our rights.
a  tsa travel document checker noticed a passenger trying to use a fraudulent new  york driver’s license and notified the port authority police department  who came and interviewed her.
there was no science to prove that x-rays can't see through fabric, but we still had to follow the rule.
(except maybe the government's) also, when do you stop making up new rules and restrictions?
while the old policy (just ssss'ing them, giving them a pat down) is admittedly pretty easy and non-intrusive, it's what makes sense.
sieg heil june 12, 2008 1:41 pm
how does that make michael chertoff uniquely qualified to be the security expert beyond reproach, a person so in tune with the threats that face this country that not even the agencies under his control should be questioned?
you know we must keep the palestinians....
"almost all of the people stopped by the no-fly list are false positives.
september 9, 2008 9:37 pm apparently you haven't read much of the discussion here.
frankly, most of it's critics are ill informed and just plain wrong.
this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the  no-fly list and ensure the safety of the traveling public.
it is not the duty of the tsa or any other part of the executive branch to judge guilt and impose punishment.
i suggest that all tso's walk away now before your found guilty of a crime against the united states.
someplace like hawaii or alaska.
june 18, 2008 3:31 pm quote from anonymous: "i think the majority of you making your comments in here need to stop wining.
no one is saying that we shouldn't have security.
before june 21st, 2008 the id check was not a requirement to be granted access to a sterile area.
the identification policy requires airline passengers to present identification to airline personnel before boarding or be subjected to a search that is more exacting than the routine search that passengers who present identification encounter.
he might have a 'deep understanding of terrorist' but he lacks management skills.
seriously, did any of tsa leadership take a civics class or even elementary social studies in the us?
this country was founded by people who were previously living under a government that abused its power.
now, passengers are still not required to present credentials, but are required to assist with identification.
the id policy in place at the time of gilmore was, show id or get a secondary screening.
this is just to get the public used to one more "requirement" to fly, so that the next round of requirements will come easier.
we reject gilmore’s right to travel argument because the constitution does not guarantee the right to travel by any particular form of transportation.
that isn't a difficult concept to grasp.
lack of options and a punitive nature makes the new id order a burden that unduly restricts travel.
according to this, under some circumstances passengers who have not shown idwill be granted access to the sterile area.
best we can tell, plenty of innocent people are on your blacklist.
i am very very glad you cited the gilmore case as the legal rational to require id.
the test case needs to happen where air travel is the only real choice of travel.
you tried to impress us by quoting a single law and a cfr that implements it.
" june 15, 2008 9:37 am i, for one, am glad the tsa is there watching out for my safety.
besides that, i still do not understand how getting a boarding pass marked ssss then being allowed to wonder freely within the airport before subjecting to harassssment improves security.
the more extensive search is similar to searches that we have determined were reasonable and “consistent with a full recognition of appellant’s constitutional right to travel.”
am i don't know what the big fuss is about adding extra security.
june 11, 2008 6:14 pm from now on i'm carrying a pocket constitution with me.
if you have to dip this deep into the barrel to find something to crow about, it says a great deal about how deep you have to troll in order to find something to crow about.
yes, you have caught numerous criminals, but none caught, would have caused a "security" problem on an airplane.
if your justification for requiring id is to see if the person is not on a watch or no fly list, you first have to show us that these lists make sense!
--------------------------------
at the identity project.
is it because there is no faith that the first person did their job correctly?
or maybe you can use the argument that they are scared away.
the agency was unable to do the simple task of moving supplies from point a to point b. tsa, an agency under the control of michael chertoff, absolutely fails at its given task.
am "this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the no-fly list and ensure the safety of the traveling public.
id does not equal security
june 16, 2008 8:45 pm y'all need to chill out!
gilmore was free to leave.
trollkiller, rather than "lighthearted" threads there should be a general notice to the effect that comments will take longer to get posted for a while because bob needs some rest.
we're doing exactly what the terrorists hoped to do: destroy america.
to counter this, dhs must then escalate and put all airline gate staff through the same law enforcement/tsa training to spot fake credentials.
(and the answer to your next question is "no, i don't have one of those ostentatious belt buckles.")
june 11, 2008 7:20 pm so help me out here.
more security theater.
is it so that the overpaid underworked person has job security?
june 12, 2008 12:56 pm to just change the name on the boarding pass and have an id match that would not work 100%.
i haven't forgotten 9/11.
now, her picture drivers license id does not match her ticket name.
prior to june 21, 2008, passengers were required neither to present credentials nor to assist government agents at the checkpoint with determining identity of the passengers.
the more rights that are taken away from average people, the worse things will get.
you need to train your agents to say "papers please" when they ask for id, because that's what this is.
the tsa has become the domestic enemy.
this just creates an additional, unnecessary dragnet and will consume people's time...all for nothing.
they are actively drifting their mission while not doing a good job of their primary mission.
nice guys but try to steal from them and they take it personally.
the pennsylvania woman who was supposedly kidnapped, but actually in disney world used a coworkers id to buy a plane ticket and travel to florida.
since my first attempt at posting this particular comment was shot down by the moderators despite no violations of the comments policy of any kind (i've checked three times now), i'm taking another stab at it with a couple of minor edits.
i can't help but wonder how dhs/tsa hired all the out of work communist from the old ussr!
when the terrorists attack again, i will hold tsa accountable.
however, we should not restrict travel based on your blacklist, and you simplycannot identify people who are determined not to be identified.
life, itself is a risk.
it works for law enforcement.
by the way, you wanted to know how one can fly without entering the sterile area?
the next question cinched it as far as i was concerned.
june 14, 2008 6:41 pm bob@tsa wrote: "our ticket checkers found a fraudulent id at jfk.
the london plotters were going to use items that weren’t on the prohibited item list at the time but would have blown up 7 airliners over the atlantic.
we haven't allowed the terrorist to erode any of our freedoms, it is our own government that has accomplished that task.
homeland security secretary chertoff has a deep understanding of terrorists.
unless the tsa agent is able to clear my id against the no-fly list at that point, the system does not work as intended.
i do not fit in: made all reservations myself, well in advance, round trips.
june 12, 2008 11:47 am and again, how does id =
at that point, we're back to the detection of dangerous items in baggage.
june 12, 2008 11:00 am "the laws and constitution are designed to survive, and remain in force, in extraordinary times,” justice anthony m. kennedy wrote for the court.
suggest you put away your broad paint brush.
unless tsa boarding pass/id checkers at the security checkpoint are tied in to the no-fly list, the system can still be gamed, in the same manner as originally publicized by the graduate student who authored the diy boarding pass website.
until then, they are playing with equipment they don't know how to use and their supervisors shall notified of the need for retraining.
btw, all of these bloggers claiming they'll never show the id to the tso.
on the third day, we're still checking the boarding pass at both locations.
the problem is that id doesn’t equal security.
you are the threat, far more than some mad-bomber terrorist.
papers for domestic travel are a travesty.
before anybody gets all bunched up, yes the names of the guys that work the convenience store by my house are really named ali and muhammad.
for more on this topic, please read "what's wrong with showing id?"
i neither need nor want the service you offerin lieu of security.
june 12, 2008 2:14 am
so it boils down to this: if you want to travel anonymously or heaven forbid, protest the ever increasing silliness perpetrated by the tsa, you can't fly.
and for all the legal eagles out there, it is my  constitutional right to fly without id.
i asked kip hawley, who runs the tsa, about it in 2007.
second, and most importantly, "to second guess the agencies under his control" is not "foolish" -- it's american!
thank you tsa for keeping ft lauderdale safe from spring breakers with fake id's.
straight to the issues: http://www.papersplease.org/gilmore/facts.html anecdotal and personal: papiere bitte by doris colmes http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig6/colmes1.html gute nacht allerseits.
so what exactly does this prevent?
meanwhile, this blog, created to foster dialog between us and you is just another venue for you guys to show how poorly you understand the business you're in.
that and the fact that no one is allowed to see the "g-rated" mmw images.
,>) june 11, 2008 7:08 pm internal passports for travel--sounds like the soviet union.
this man knows the depth of the threat.
(his driver's license was revoked when he was diagnosed with epilepsy.)
you sure won't be when you bump into a petty bureaucrat who reads the poorly worded regulations differently than anyone else.
so, it seems that prisoners at gitmo have more rights than some poor schmuck trying to get on an airplane.
the district court correctly decided that it was an indirect carrier.
adding still more unnecessary distractions can only further endanger the aircraft and passengers.
people making up these ineffectual rules should be fired for incompetence and sent back to civics class to understand what makes (er, used to make) america such a great place to live.
june 12, 2008 2:49 pm "highly-trained document checkers"?
this plan includes enabling our officers to refuse entry into the area beyond the security checkpoint to anyone who does not cooperate with us to establish his or her identity.
never caught a terrorist and now you are looking more and more like stasi.
concentrated h2o2 is detectable.
america used to be the land of the free and the home of the brave.
june 17, 2008 2:39 pm chris wrote: "checking ids is essentially useless.
again chill out!...if it's such a problem please don't fly!!
you can't eliminate all risks.
i have tolerated tso's up till now but will not do so any longer.
[12] like the plaintiff in miller, gilmore does not possess a fundamental right to travel by airplane even though it is the most convenient mode of travel for him.
hats off to chertoff and hawley for bringing about a stasi like environment.
june 24, 2008 9:19 pm trollkiller wrote: "under the new rule showing id is a requirement to be granted access to the sterile area.
i fly for business reasons.
some papers please reading.
june 12, 2008 2:39 pm oops, i accidently put my id in my checked luggage with my 4-oz can of cheeze-whiz.
let's look at just two of them.
doesn't exactly instill confidence to have a trained person assume that some passports are issued without a photograph.
to sum up if the tsa is going to use gilmore as its case law to back this new id requirement it will need to understand that 1) gilmore refused to show id to an airline employee, not the tsa, 2)
thanks superamerican i'd forgotten 9/11.
june 18, 2008 5:13 pm anonymous said... "i think the majority of you making your comments in here need to stop wining.
pm ayn r. key said... "from now on i'm carrying a pocket constitution with me.
on average anyway, there are tsa folks who look more closely but many seem to give the id side of things just a cursory inspection at most.
my id matches my boarding pass, and the tsa agent would wave me through.
denial of access is now punitive in nature due to the fact the passenger is required to genuflect in order to be allowed a secondary screening instead of the presentation of an id.
first computers had to come out of bags.
most people find that reasonable.
june 25, 2008 1:05 pm trollkiller wrote: "you are correct i should have written "establishing your id" or something to that effect.
gilmore had options, he had to decline both options before being refused.
in my humble opinion this present id requirment is a crime and will be dealt with in due course.
the system is based on the faulty notion that the feds have this master list of terrorists, and all we have to do is keep the people on the list off the planes.
and people like you are letting it happen and in fact welcoming it!
reading the court decision that will bolster this new id requirement and the asinine reasoning the 9th circuit used to back their ruling is about to make my head explode.
your defense of this new "policy" is completely indefensible and should be embarrassing to you.
i'd rather have tsa be able to throw in congress's face that they did security right with risk based policies and there was nothing they could have done to prevent it rather than put on the dog and pony show that they do now to try to put on the illusion of security when the facts show that our checkpoints leak like a sieve and other vulnerabilities are left wide open.
from the gilmore vs. gonzales (previously ashcroft) although we recognized the fundamental right to interstate travel, we also acknowledged that “burdens on a single mode of transportation do not implicate the right to interstate travel.”
it's relatively easy to get a fake id, and regardless of how much technology we put into id cards, a criminal will be able to purchase a fake one or steal someone else's identity and get a real id with his picture and the other person's name.
tsa is full of pointy-haired management geniuses: actual enforcement of this new rule might increase their sham terrorist detection metrics, but as bruce schneier noted, it is all about control:"that's right; people who refuse to show id on principle will not be allowed to fly, but people who claim to have lost their id will.
and if you guys at the tsa don't see the logical fallacies in your id policy, you really ought not to be in charge of anyone's safety.
theory #3: perhaps incompetent leaders couldn't buy a clue if they were available.
i do, especially with this behavior detection stuff going on.
it's their responsibilty, not yours.
the point here is that id checks do not catch terrorists.
not questioning an out of control agency, managemnt, policies, etc results in the current trampling of our consitutional rights.
by requiring the equivalent of an oral id, the ninth circuit might not see it the same way this time.
" yes, i do mean that, and if *you* don't as well, then you really ought to pull your head out.
even though the above ruling strengthened thereasonableness of having the option to show id or submitting to a secondary screen, it did not weaken the right of all citizens to be “free to travel throughout the length and breadth of our land uninhibited by statutes, rules, or regulations which unreasonably burden or restrict this movement.
the exclusive reason to do  this is to ensure people are who they say they are and are not gaming the  system by using a boarding pass with a fake name; a well-known endeavor of  professionals andcollege kids alike that could potentially circumvent the  no-fly list.
my concern is that a requirement to show id would allow the government to monitor and restrict our travel.
if you dont have one, then just go to the bmv and get a state id card ( u need one to get a ticket at the counter or ligitimitly drive to the airport anyway)
june 17, 2008 2:46 pm
if i will not grovel for a law enforcement officer, judge or boss, you can rest assured i will not grovel for a tin star security guard.
i don't care who the person next to me says they are.
you remind me of every other typical american who has forgoten about 9/11."
is the tso: (a) checking to see that the boarding pass is valid, and (b) running the name on the id through the no-fly list?
_____________________________
it was on that foundation that the court rejected gilmore's challenge.
united states v. davis, 482 f.2d 893, 912-13 (9th cir. 1973).
june 11, 2008 5:36 pm
if you forget your id, just tell them.
june 12, 2008 2:18 pm
"you cannot fly if you say "i don't have id because i don't think i should have to show it to you".
just  thought some of you might be interested.
anonymous travel is a right in this country.
thanks for posting the subject though, i'm sure you'll get quite the response.
this is just an assault on my personal  freedoms and security theater.
terrorists, illegal aliens?
liberticide is not an option.
[tsa blog guy]christopher said: "actually, it’s an effort to keep people that pose a threat to aviation off airplanes and keep you, your family and mine safe."
you really mean to advocate searching exclusively for pointy objects and not individuals that may pose a threat?" i believe that it is ridiculous for you to allow thousands of security guards to determine on-the-spot whether someone "may pose a threat" based on anything besides whether or not that that person is carrying a dangerous item onto a flight.
in other words, the state of california has the common sense to recognize that it's your behavior, not your name, that counts.
upon meeting up at the gate, we realized that we each had gone through security with the others boarding pass.
our officers are very adept at finding fake documents and work closely with  behavior detection officers on a daily basis.
june 11, 2008 11:35 pm um, the passenger controls the lock (the boarding pass) and the key (the id).
if not, then it seems to me your statement is at best disingenuous.
it reminds me of descriptions of life in the former ussr, where identification was required upon demand, movement was restricted, and people either kept quiet and did as they were told, or risked disappearing into the night, never to be heard from again.
i understand your id checking revune needs...however, why don't you have the airlines do it?
this policy really bothers me, however... why waste people's time by interviewing them if they forgot their id?
all such administrative requirements from the tsa are very much like what the nazis and soviets did, the very things that our parents and grandparents in uniform fought against in the second world war and during the cold war: "your papers!", government permission to travel domestically, etc.
i understand the argument that the 911 terrorists had real ids.
"this gaping security hole would bother me more if the very idea of a no-fly list weren't so ineffective.
however, they've actually had a squeaky clean accomplice make the flight reservations, so when the board the airplane they use their real boarding pass.
june 12, 2008 1:54 pm time to stop flying.
message to the government: follow the constitution, stop trying to be a nanny, and obey what the founding fathers wanted this country to be.
you don't make the rules but you did take an oath to defend the constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.
the answer is a simple  and clear no.
we're becoming akin to communist russia or eastern germany.
i keep it in the car with my registration and proof of insurance.
if a terrorist has no weapons that can be used, then there’s no way that the terrorist can harm the passengers or the aircraft.
let's not set ourselves up for more of that which many of our ancestors fought to escape simply becuase some of us were sofrightened by a horrendous crime (one that clearly could have been avoided) that they have since sat by idly while our constitution is being subverted in the name of keeping us safe from anoverblown threat that is likely to be no more dangerous to the average person than wascommunism during the cold war.
i work at lax and passengers always act surprised like they don't know the process.
please tell me i'm dreaming.
" this confusion stems from the unfortunate misuse of "id".
if foundation documents are not enough to convince you of the right to travel validity maybe the latest legal brick will.
whew i bet it took as long for me to mark that up as it did for them to write it.
anyone working for dhs/tsa is causing harm to the united states if you permit this rule to go into effect.
hope the dog is alright.
ah hah,  that’s where layers of security really come into play.
if they're so innocent, put them out in public.
instead they've become distracted and lost what focus they may have ever had in the first place.
then 100 times out of 100 a document checking success lead to no terrorists being caught.
april 11, 2009 10:01 am anon said: go visit tsa in arlington, va.
gilmore can not possess a drivers license for medical reasons, though arguably could possess other government id.
you're definitely getting a stiff-armed salute and the appropriate response in german (“jawhol, mein herr!”), if i ever am forced to stoop to air travel by a family emergency (which is the only thing that would ever get me to put up with your agency's violations).
even abraham lincoln said that's how american would destroy itself ... from the inside.
maybe he envisions מחסום being set up not only at the borders but in random areas.
your statement doesn't comport with what i have read.
someone, anyone please explain to me how denying someone the ability to operate a car equals the ability to deny someone access to a vehicle they are not operating?
the most important aspect of the gilmore case is gilmore refused to show his id to the airline employees.
wake me up when the tsa actually does something that actually increases airport security!
june 11, 2008 6:30 pm
you people need to goosestep over to the constitution and read it.
i am always wondering why i have to be asked three or four times to see my passport and boarding pass in a matter of moving merely 50 feet in a security check line?
i made trip reservations for the family using her maiden name.
i really do need to forfeit all of my rights as a citizen.
i remember my son's comments about his flight over the wtc remains around midnight on 9/11.
in summary, the tsa has no right to demand an id and restrict the travel of free citizens that refuse to capitulate.
june 11, 2008 10:33 pm actually, it’s an effort to keep people that pose a threat to aviation off airplanes and keep you, your family and mine safe.
last week we announced on our web site a plan to begin requiring id  from travelers on june 21st.
once the police comes and interviews you, watch how submissive you'll become.
june 12, 2008 11:53 pm it does seem a little extreme.
oh well - at least your disgusting unconstitutional efforts are discouraging ever-larger numbers of passengers from flying, so there are fewer people to suffer the results of your failures.
by this, odds of someone that tsa catches by fake id being an actual terrorist is less than 1% and the odds that tsa is wasting time is nearly 100%.
“the man who trades freedom for security does not deserve nor will he ever receive either,” perry said, quoting one of the nation’s founding fathers, benjamin franklin.
i both can and do deny this.
why should i believe anything i read on this pr blog again?
after all denying you a mode of transportation does not equal denial freedom of travel.
we are screening for weapons as well as those intending evil to the plane and/or passengers and crew of the plane.
this is just another attempt to control the american people and steal more and more of our rights.
the exclusive reason to do this is to ensure people are who they say they are and are not gaming the system by using a boarding pass in a fake name; a well-known endeavor of professionals and college kids alike that could potentially circumvent the no-fly list."
i am that person that requires a police officer to have clear probable cause before allowing a search of my vehicle.
the tsa says that we have to show valid id to fly or we can't get in, even with a pat-down alternative.
ensuring that people on the no-fly list don’t get on board is as important as using the metal detector.
i appreciate the topic finally being given some consideration on the blog.
instead of allowing anyone without an id to show up, go through a quick pat down and bag check, circumventing watch list matching, we’re now opening up the options to include interviews with behavior detection officers and law enforcement; options no real terrorist is looking forward to and ones that legitimate passengers will find quicker and more convenient than today’s process.
at new york kennedy airport  (jfk) on thursday, june 12, a passenger was interviewed by police after  attempting to enter into a security checkpoint with a fraudulent id.
as trollkiller said: "anonymous said... you can all thank, with weepy eyes, activist john gilmore who took the u.s. government to court in 2004 over showing id to fly.
it seems the tsa wants to be hated.
june 16, 2008 2:29 pm
he told me that a third-party arranged the travel plans, and issued them to his company.
you're comparing the boarding pass to the id, both of which are being handed to you by the passenger you're allegedly checking.
i think that if you had truly good security it should not matter who flies.
first and be very clear on this, what lost gilmore his case were these facts.
none of them is described as having been found to be carrying anything that, had he brought it onto his flight, would have put other passengers or crew at risk.
i'm waiting for someone in government to do a smack down on dhs/tsa for not exercising some common sense and failing to obey the basic tenets of our constitution.
june 13, 2008 3:12 am i don't believe tsa is going anywhere.
and when are you going to answer my question about real id?
obviously not because she was allowed to go on her way.
i must reiterate, as i've said over and over.
i a lot more afraid of having my rights violated by some ego-inflated tso than i am about my plane being hijacked.
for more insightinto tsa future plans, read: http://www.gsnmagazine.com/cms/features/news-analysis/820.html june 12, 2008 6:02 pm do you remember the president telling us in the months after 9/11, about how "we" must not allow "terrorists" to erode our freedoms and destroy "our" ways of life?
"ensuring that people on the no-fly list don’t get on board is as important as using the metal detector.
the "one mode of transportation" in the miller case is strictly the operation of an automobile.
june 12, 2008 5:12 am "this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the no-fly list" the no fly list can easily be gamed using valid id.
prohibit dangerous items from being taken on airplanes, don't worry about peoples names.
the tsa screeners did not notice that the id presented did not match the names on the boarding passes!
why don't they arrest people who are "threat to aviation."
2) he had the option to take a secondary screening instead of showing his id.
the cia, nsa, fbi, military, etc do much more to protect us than tsa would ever be able to do in 20 lifetimes.
seriously, what is the big deal?
the cards we typically refer to as "ids" are not an identifications (which doesn't even make sense), they are credentials -- things that are used in the process of identification.
if the name on your ticket doesn't exactly match the name on your id (e.g., bob v. robert), you can be forced to purchase a new ticket.
june 11, 2008 5:53 pm c'mon people, you had to know by now that the tsa's word supersedes the constitution of the united states of america.
june 18, 2008 6:31 pm i think the majority of you making your comments in here need to stop wining.
june 14, 2008 5:27 pm ayn r. key said... "seig heil.
the 9th circus also ruled that his travel was not restricted because he did not prove to them that the same id requirement was in place for buses or trains.
june 12, 2008 12:33 am
one of my colleagues names, or a derivitive of her name, is on the list.
" are you kidding me?
june 11, 2008 11:33 pm can you please describe just when the document checkist compares the name on the id/boarding pass to the no fly list?
"this change will apply exclusively to individuals that simply refuse to provide any identification or assist transportation security officers in ascertaining their identity.
"as an avid flier, i want to make sure that the john doe sitting next to me is really john doe."
i can no longer defend tsa.
your agents may be trained to recognize fake ids, but what about fake boarding passes?
is has inconvenienced hundreds if not thousands of innocent people from legitimate travel because of a near match on a name.
you mean the no-fly list that contains nearly one million names?
you are absolutely right, showing an id to a screener is not losing an essential liberty.
did you people forget that there are terrorist out there who are desperate to destroy our country and kill the american people?
whether their name matches one of thousands on an ever-growing list is irrelevant.
the case also hinges on the fact he could leave instead of being searched.
so you found a bogus id and the person was such a threat that the cops gave her a ticket and let her go?
the plaintiff alleged that this policy violated his fundamental right to interstate travel and his right to freely exercise his religion.
‘‘(2) emergency procedures.—
you people continue to disgust me with your communist policies.
for more information, go here.
let these people do their jobs.
even worse, the whole concept of matching passenger names against a list of bad guys has negligible security value.
want to visit grandma this summer?
june 11, 2008 9:26 pm
we are destroying our country from the inside by constantly trading freedom for "security."
the persons regulated are carriers.
at the gate, use the real boarding pass in the fake name to board your flight.
i take the liberty of offering the words of one who has read, researched, reasoned and conributed to the discussion here.
learn from what other countries have done.
no secret motives, no hidden agendas, just a security enhancement aimed at people trying to game the system.
you should be ashamed of yourselves, tsa.
government agents requiring people to show id before boarding a flight wouldn't make air travel any safer.
in fact, your system will allow a criminal organization to probe your system by sending people on innocent trips, noting which ones are flagged for additional screening, then send the other people on a real mission later.
bs having a name on a piece of plastic match a name on a piece of paper doesn't improve security and takes time away from processes that might.
you can't do it and neither can the id checkers, other than checking for an ssss.
" you have that option now, prior to implementation of your new rule.
the undercover inspectors continue to get guns and explosives past the tsa, but every year my hassle increases.
what tsa isn't doing is security, it's fear mongering.
as well, as you said, others need to pick up the slack.
in the gilmore case the court ruled gilmore's rights were not violated because gilmore had the option of a secondary screening.
june 20, 2008 12:22 pm
security is one thing.
it catches innocents such as ted kennedy, whose name is similar to someone's on the list, and islam yusuf (formerly cat stevens), who was on the list but no one knew why.
id's have been checked since the tsa took over and people without boarding passes couldn't go through.
again not a difficult concept to grasp.
he only had to present it to an airline employee/contractor.
anyone with sufficient determination will acquire a fake id or steal someone else's identity and get a real id with that person's identity and his own photograph.
" money can buy anything, absolutely anything.
the agenda is to ensure that everyone has their papers in proper order.
so the check does help the no-fly list not get gamed.
big screen tv watching cnn.
am so dhs/tsa makes new rules, eh?
and finally: this initiative is simply a way for us to better enforce the no-fly list and ensure the safety of the traveling public.
i haven't flown into or out of the states for about a year now, and i'm not going to fly again until at least the moronic 3-1-1 rules are rescinded or you stop dumping our dangerous and explosive shampoo in public trash bins.
the tsa can come with a million new requirements/guidelines/restrictions, but i will not feel more secure until i have confidence in the tsa and its agents june 30, 2008 12:42 pm straightforward question: bob -- do you or do you not support the idea of having an independent passenger obmudsman?
but i lack cash for a legal team.
this is a good policy.
there aren't that many terrorists out there; if there were, we would be feeling their effects.
people won't appreciate being interviewed by police if they forgot their id - they'll feel like they did something wrong.
june 11, 2008 8:48 pm
june 15, 2008 6:17 pm
by the way, we don't have a secret agenda.
unfortunately, peoplehave forgotten that this country was founded by people who fled a government that severely abused its power, and that the protections that some of us are trying to stand up for were put in place to avoid having such a situation recur.
mr. miller is still free to ride in a car, bus, train, or plane.
june 17, 2008 2:48 am "the constitution is waaaaayyy too old to reflect the modern/changing times"
the new rulewill require passengers not to be honest about any intention to travel without checking in with the federal government.
june 11, 2008 6:55 pm
so lets hold them to high standards, but give them a chance to do their jobs.
just thought some of you might be interested.
june 12, 2008 1:43 pm which is exactly why i refuse to fly any more except in a dire emergency.
would you want someone sitting next to you that is wanted for murder and armed robbery?
suppose 1 false id per 3 days is normal, and your document checkers found a hundred 'sucesses' like this one during the last year.
if i am entering a secure area and you want to search my vehicle, no problem as that is reasonable.
it's passengers that don't wanna go with the flow that miss their flights and then have the nerve to blame tso's like myself.
i noticed that sniffers could have detected the bombs.
stop complaining because people easily forget about what happened on 9/11 and after that tragic event.
are they going to be "harassed" each and every time they decide to fly?
u people have too much time in your hands to sit in ur computers and do all this ridiculous blogging
what if those with the power to put people on a 'no fly' list decided that they didn't like the reason for which you wanted to travel?
you're responsible for ensuring the safety of people flying on planes--and safety means physical items.
until then, their skills are unsatisfactory and i shall notify their supervisors of the need for retraining.
the gilmore case hinges on the fact that he could fly without id if he allowed himself to be subject to a secondary screening.
(yep, that's in the law also.)
"the no-fly list is a kafkaesque nightmare for the thousands of innocent americans who are harassed and detained every time they fly.
it has, however, stopped peaceful activists from getting to planned demonstrations and congressmen from flying home to meet with their constituents.
please stop using senarios from hollywood when you make decisions.
punishing us for asserting our rights, as tsa has stated intent to do beginning four days from now (making crystal clear that this is no longer about ensuring safety, but about exerting control), just sends us further down the path towards life under a totalitarian regime.
it's not just about weapons folks.
with the new order, we have no options.
trying to use the case law they have admitted to as the basis for their new found foolishness, would be like me arguing the use of a take a penny, leave a penny cup at the convenience store gives me permission to stick my hand in the till.
june 11, 2008 6:29 pm while flying out of kansas city last year, i saw tsa signs at the airport stating that travelers must present government-issued photo identification.