for many cadets, the journey from the street to the right seat is a two- to three-year process.
u.s. airlines laid off more than 10,000 pilots after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
the government there finally drew up a code of conduct that requires pilots to give adequate notice before leaving for another airline.
the goal is to reduce the time it takes to be trained as a first officer to as little as 12 to 18 months.
in the u.s., the federal aviation administration requires 250 flight hours  to attain a commercial license.
"i worry," said john nance of tacoma, noted aviation writer and a former 737 pilot for alaska airlines.
" the framework for the new program, known as the multi-crew pilots license,  or mpl, was established last year by the international civil aviation  organization, an agency of the united nations.
instead of  accumulating a couple of hundred or more hours flying in a small, single-engine  plane, the brisbane students will spend a lot of their training in a boeing  737-800 simulator.
they will rotate their time in the simulator as captain, first officer and as an observer.
but just how safe is this approach to pilot training, which runs counter to the long-held belief by traditionalists that experience at the controls of a plane is the best teacher?
but there is no shortage of pilots in the u.s. to fly commercial jetliners.
alteon will continue to monitor their progress for several years to determine if their performance is as good as, better or worse than first officers who come up through the usual pilot-training process.
nance is aviation safety consultant for abc news.
although one of the world's foremost aviation bodies established the framework for the program, it is not without controversy.
19:03 - 2012/03/07  .
from cessnas to simulators training pilots to fly commercial jetliners is difficult, expensive and  time-consuming.
"but it is all about safety first.
that could change, however.
it is not unheard of for the captain of an african carrier to shut down the engines of his plane after a flight and literally walk off the job for a better-paying one with another airline in asia or the middle east.
"there are a lot of people looking at what we can do to ensure a faster flow of competent, dependable pilots," carbary said.
and that's for someone with no previous  experience flying a plane.
"• 1 comment please enter the characters from the image above.
according to alteon's forecast: india has fewer than 3,000 pilots today, but will need more than 12,000 by 2025.
cae  of canada, which is used by airbus, is another major player.
so don't expect to see pilots with mpl certificates  as first officers in u.s. jetliners any time soon.
in africa, poachers are after a new kind of game -- commercial jetliner pilots.
philippine airlines reportedly lost 75 pilots to other airlines over the past three years.
china will need an average of 2,162 new pilots a year, or 43,240 by 2025.
before they can receive an mpl certificate, they must make a dozen takeoffs and landings in the same type of commercial jetliner that they will be flying for an airline as first officer.
the aim is to teach students from the beginning the skills they need to fly in a multicrew jetliner.
so the industry is  closely watching what is happening at alteon's flight training school in  brisbane, australia.
carbary described the brisbane program as a "beta test."
what happened, he said, is that students did well in the simulator but were  not prepared for what it was like inside the cockpit of a commercial jetliner  when something went terribly wrong and the plane started bouncing around.
about a month ago, six cadets from china started training that will land  them in the right seat of a commercial jetliner in about half the time it takes  today to be trained as a first officer.
let something go to heck in a handbasket, and you will have a hard time justifying your faith in the ultimate safety of this type of training program.
china, india and many other countries that have a lot of new planes coming from boeing and airbus, as well as from the manufacturers of smaller regional jets, are not able to train enough pilots at home.
"they are begging for pilots," said sherry carbary, president of alteon, boeing's commercial jetliner training arm.
and that's for someone with no previous experience flying a plane.
china is snatching pilots from brazil and just about anyplace else they can be found.
according to alteon's forecast: india has fewer than 3,000 pilots today, but will need more than 12,000 by  2025.
alteon will continue to monitor their  progress for several years to determine if their performance is as good as,  better or worse than first officers who come up through the usual  pilot-training process.
the mpl program established by icao requires students to receive 70 hours of actual flight time, 10 hours of which must be solo.
from cessnas to simulators training pilots to fly commercial jetliners is difficult, expensive and time-consuming.
alteon's carbary said boeing worked with regulators and customers to  "enhance" what icao proposed.
the mpl program has been embraced by a number of airlines and regulatory bodies, but not by the faa.
canada and the united states have about  64,000 jetliner pilots today, but will need more than 128,000 by 2025.
high  demand 05/02/07 boeing unit tries to speed pilot training to fill high demand 01:08:31 pm, categories: aviation p-i aerospace reporter
they will rotate their time in the simulator as captain,  first officer and as an observer.
it will need  nearly 27,000 by 2025.
before they can receive an mpl certificate, they must make a dozen takeoffs  and landings in the same type of commercial jetliner that they will be flying  for an airline as first officer.
canadian expat in china this blog will detail the road less traveled  by a canadian pilot, trying to make it into the majors in china.
but alteon has gone beyond what icao requires, according to marsha bell, marketing director for alteon who was previously vice president of alteon's first officer programs.
when their training is over, the six cadets will return to their respective airlines, china eastern and xiamen.
alteon's carbary said boeing worked with regulators and customers to "enhance" what icao proposed.
many remain out of work, though some are taking jobs in asia and the middle east, where the shortage of pilots is most severe.
south america has fewer than 10,000 commercial jetliner pilots today.
it will need nearly 27,000 by 2025.
so the industry is closely watching what is happening at alteon's flight training school in brisbane, australia.
in africa, poachers are after a new kind of game -- commercial jetliner  pilots.
the mpl program has been embraced by a number of airlines and regulatory  bodies, but not by the faa.
(case insensitive)captcha code:
the six cadets now in training in australia should be flying in the right  seat with their respective airlines in china by next summer.
"if this does not work, then we won't proceed," she said.
with the world's jetliner fleet expected to double over the next 20 years,  alteon estimates that more than 17,000 new pilots will be needed each year just  for the new planes that will be delivered from 2006 to 2025.
in fact, there is a pilot surplus.
the aim is to teach students from the  beginning the skills they need to fly in a multicrew jetliner.
we are trying to provide a program that is not only  equally safe (as pilot training programs today), but more safe.
the mpl program established by icao requires students to receive 70 hours  of actual flight time, 10 hours of which must be solo.
they will also spend 117 hours in simulators, first in a diamond 40  simulator and then in the boeing 737-800 simulator.
nance said similar approaches to training commercial pilots have been tried  before in which the emphasis is put on simulator time.
nance is aviation safety consultant for  abc news.
central america and south america will need 1,344 new pilots a year.
instead of accumulating a couple of hundred or more hours flying in a small, single-engine plane, the brisbane students will spend a lot of their training in a boeing 737-800 simulator.
it is not unheard of for the captain of an african carrier to shut down the  engines of his plane after a flight and literally walk off the job for a  better-paying one with another airline in asia or the middle east.
even more will be  needed to fill the seats of retiring pilots.
south  america has fewer than 10,000 commercial jetliner pilots today.
two airlines in china each supplied three cadets.
no region of the world will need more pilots than north america over the  next 20 years, according to boeing.
one accident is  too many."
as the boeing co. and airbus sell more planes than ever, many of those planes are headed to parts of the world where airlines are desperate for pilots.
but just how safe is this approach to pilot training, which runs counter to  the long-held belief by traditionalists that experience at the controls of a  plane is the best teacher?
post details: boeing unit tries to speed pilot training to fill
alteon, which stresses that safety won't be compromised, has some rather startling data to show just how bad the pilot shortage is.
with the world's jetliner fleet expected to double over the next 20 years, alteon estimates that more than 17,000 new pilots will be needed each year just for the new planes that will be delivered from 2006 to 2025.
the alteon cadets each will be required to complete 33 missions in the  boeing simulator as captain, 33 missions as first officer and 33 missions as  the observer.
what happened, he said, is that students did well in the simulator but were not prepared for what it was like inside the cockpit of a commercial jetliner when something went terribly wrong and the plane started bouncing around.
the government there  finally drew up a code of conduct that requires pilots to give adequate notice  before leaving for another airline.
the six cadets now in training in australia should be flying in the right seat with their respective airlines in china by next summer.
so don't expect to see pilots with mpl certificates as first officers in u.s. jetliners any time soon.
nance said similar approaches to training commercial pilots have been tried before in which the emphasis is put on simulator time.
the training is not over once the cadets complete the alteon program.
as the boeing co. and airbus sell more planes than ever, many of those  planes are headed to parts of the world where airlines are desperate for pilots.
india may be even hungrier for pilots than china.
many remain out of work, though some  are taking jobs in asia and the middle east, where the shortage of pilots is  most severe.
alteon's cadets will spend at least 83 hours in a single-engine diamond 40 plane.
europe will need an average of 3,747 new pilots a year.
alteon, which stresses that safety won't be compromised, has some rather  startling data to show just how bad the pilot shortage is.
an alteon briefing paper describes its current pilot-training programs like this: "the world needs more pilots now, and our current training solutions are lengthy and inefficient.
an alteon briefing paper describes its current pilot-training programs like  this: "the world needs more pilots now, and our current training solutions  are lengthy and inefficient.
the middle east and africa will need an average of 1,205 pilots a year.
but it can take as long as three years to train someone who has never flown  any kind of plane to fly commercial jets as first officer.
u.s. airlines are starting to order new planes again, and both boeing and airbus forecast the north american market will be bigger than even china or india over the next two decades.
but alteon has gone beyond what icao requires, according to marsha bell,  marketing director for alteon who was previously vice president of alteon's  first officer programs.
"i'm nervous that we can take someone off the street and with mostly  simulator time turn them into a competent pilot and put them in the right seat.
of course, they would still not be able to be the pilot in command of a  small cessna -- unless they had a private pilot's license.
"they are begging for pilots," said sherry carbary, president of  alteon, boeing's commercial jetliner training arm.
"they wanted to see if this is a way they can pull pilots faster into  their airlines," carbary said.
"there are a lot of people looking at what we can do to ensure a  faster flow of competent, dependable pilots," carbary said.
students will spend much more time in ground-based simulators and far less time actually flying a plane -- and that has critics worried.
"but it  is all about safety first.
boeing's alteon has nearly two dozen training centers around the world.
the goal is to reduce the time it takes to be trained as a first officer to  as little as 12 to 18 months.
"i worry," said john nance of tacoma, noted aviation writer and a  former 737 pilot for alaska airlines.
most first officers would have many more hours  than that.
u.s. airlines are starting to order new planes  again, and both boeing and airbus forecast the north american market will be  bigger than even china or india over the next two decades.
for many cadets, the journey from the street to  the right seat is a two- to three-year process.
but it can take as long as three years to train someone who has never flown any kind of plane to fly commercial jets as first officer.
"they wanted to see if this is a way they can pull pilots faster into their airlines," carbary said.
alteon's cadets will spend at least 83 hours in a single-engine diamond 40  plane.
cae of canada, which is used by airbus, is another major player.
"they are walking a fine line here," he said of the test program.
when their training is over, the six cadets will return to their respective  airlines, china eastern and xiamen.
in other words, they learn to be a crew member flying a full-motion  simulator that is as realistic as the cockpit of a 737, rather than  accumulating flight time in a single-engine cessna 152.
about a month ago, six cadets from china started training that will land them in the right seat of a commercial jetliner in about half the time it takes today to be trained as a first officer.
with such demand, alteon is testing a program that can cut training  time in half.
even more will be needed to fill the seats of retiring pilots.
in parts of asia, poachers have disrupted air travel.
in other words, they learn to be a crew member flying a full-motion simulator that is as realistic as the cockpit of a 737, rather than accumulating flight time in a single-engine cessna 152.
philippine airlines  reportedly lost 75 pilots to other airlines over the past three years.
china is  snatching pilots from brazil and just about anyplace else they can be found.
let something go to heck in a handbasket, and you will have a hard time  justifying your faith in the ultimate safety of this type of training  program.
by james wallace p-i aerospace reporter
carbary receives frequent updates on their progress.
each training mission will last about two hours.
"i'm nervous that we can take someone off the street and with mostly simulator time turn them into a competent pilot and put them in the right seat.
they will also spend 117 hours in simulators, first in a diamond 40 simulator and then in the boeing 737-800 simulator.
with such demand, alteon is testing a program that can cut training time in half.
u.s. airlines laid off more than 10,000  pilots after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
we are trying to provide a program that is not only equally safe (as pilot training programs today), but more safe.
canada and the united states have about 64,000 jetliner pilots today, but will need more than 128,000 by 2025.
of course, they would still not be able to be the pilot in command of a small cessna -- unless they had a private pilot's license.
most first officers would have many more hours than that.
china, india and many other countries that have a lot of new  planes coming from boeing and airbus, as well as from the manufacturers of  smaller regional jets, are not able to train enough pilots at home.
students will  spend much more time in ground-based simulators and far less time actually  flying a plane -- and that has critics worried.
one accident is too many.
" the framework for the new program, known as the multi-crew pilots license, or mpl, was established last year by the international civil aviation organization, an agency of the united nations.
although one of the world's foremost aviation bodies established  the framework for the program, it is not without controversy.
"but i'm confident the industry is going to move in this direction."
the alteon cadets each will be required to complete 33 missions in the boeing simulator as captain, 33 missions as first officer and 33 missions as the observer.
no region of the world will need more pilots than north america over the next 20 years, according to boeing.
in the u.s., the federal aviation administration requires 250 flight hours to attain a commercial license.