on arrival our hearts sank as the scenes before us looked like something from a disaster movie.
jason yapp tags: champagne, ciampino airport, dover, iceland, rome, san lorenzo,  volcano this entry was posted on monday, april 26th, 2010 at 9:48 am and is filed  underyapp travel.
i picked pippa and our boys  (alfred 11 and william up in san lorenzo and we hit the autostrada.
the only car available here was a peugot 207 for which we were fleeced an outrageous 900 euros by hertz (at least dick turpin wore a mask).
leave a reply mail (will not be published) (required)
for a pretty reasonable 180 euros i collected the keys and a satnav and then had the baptism of fire that is driving in rome.
having had a terrific week in rome (more of which at a later date) we were enjoying dinner in a restaurant with friends on thursday evening (which we believed to be our last night abroad) when we received the news that a volcano had erupted in iceland.
we then headed west then north across the autoroutes of france with  minimal stops at service stations.
i picked pippa and our boys (alfred 11 and william up in san lorenzo and we hit the autostrada.
the only car available here was a peugot 207 for which  we were fleeced an outrageous 900 euros by hertz (at least dick turpin wore a  mask).
seldom  has it felt better to eat at our own table and sleep in our own beds but it was  a herculean effort to drag ourselves out of bed to get to school and work on  thursday morning.
website yapp brothers are members of 'the bunch', a group of britain's best independent wine merchants.
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0  feed.
we naively laughed off the idea that this might in any way interfere  with our travel plans.
via france by  plane?
i then had the unenviable  task of heading out to bristol airport to pick up my long abandoned car.
there’s nothing like travel to make you appreciate getting home and when a neighbour asked the boys if they’d had a good holiday they replied ‘yes great thanks’.
you canleave a response, or trackback from your own site.
unsurprisingly we had little joy in getting any train or plane bookings but through a friend of a friend pulling strings we did manage to locate what was possibly the last hire car available in the eternal city.
the following morning as we were due to leave for rome ciampino airport we  discovered that our flight had been cancelled.
roma numberplate like many other families we found our easter holiday break involuntarily extended due to the closure of uk airspace at the end of last week.
on arrival our hearts sank as the scenes  before us looked like something from a disaster movie.
after some frantic searching  on-line we eventually managed to re-book 4 flights for the following monday.
by lunchtime we had docked at dover and after a ridiculous schlep on foot  across town to dover priory station we caught a high speed train to london  saint pancras.
fortunately  pippa had had the presence to pack a picnic so we were able to belt north  unrelentingly before an enforced overnight pit-stop in san remo.
happily the evacuation operation was being well run and within 2 hours we were on board the ‘pride of dover’ heading back to blighty at a not unreasonable 195 euros all in.
unsurprisingly we had little joy in getting any train or plane bookings  but through a friend of a friend pulling strings we did manage to locate what  was possibly the last hire car available in the eternal city.
we  weren’t allowed to leave italy with the hire car and san remo is the most  northerly outpost of avis in the country but the office had closed for the  evening by the time we arrived.
april 26th, 2010 by jason yapp roma numberplate like many other families we found our easter holiday break involuntarily  extended due to the closure of uk airspace at the end of last week.
we weren’t allowed to leave italy with the hire car and san remo is the most northerly outpost of avis in the country but the office had closed for the evening by the time we arrived.
for a pretty reasonable 180 euros i collected the keys and a satnav and then  had the baptism of fire that is driving in rome.
by lunchtime we had docked at dover and after a ridiculous schlep on foot across town to dover priory station we caught a high speed train to london saint pancras.
after that it was a relative doddle with a tube to paddington, train to westbury and taxi home to frome, somerset.
e-mail your story to: sales@yapp.co.uk by may 17th.
having had  a terrific week in rome (more of which at a later date) we were enjoying dinner  in a restaurant with friends on thursday evening (which we believed to be our  last night abroad) when we received the news that a volcano had erupted in  iceland.
at 9pm that night we checked into the reassuringly old-fashioned hôtel de la bannière in laon, just north of champagne.
i then had the unenviable task of heading out to bristol airport to pick up my long abandoned car.
fortunately pippa had had the presence to pack a picnic so we were able to belt north unrelentingly before an enforced overnight pit-stop in san remo.
it was only on the train back to rome that we found out monday’s flight had been cancelled, as had the following day’s and the days after that.
making the most of this setback we headed south down the coast to sperlonga  where we enjoyed a terrific weekend on an empty beach before heading back into  rome for our second ‘final night’ of the holiday.
the following morning as we were due to leave for rome ciampino airport we discovered that our flight had been cancelled.
after a fretful night in the appalling hotel eveline (too bad to go in to detail) we dropped the lancia off at 8.30am sharp and got a taxi across the border to nice airport.
we will send a bottle of yapp champagne to the reader with what we judge to  be the most arduous return voyage as a result of the icelandic volcanic  eruption and disruption.
after some frantic searching on-line we eventually managed to re-book 4 flights for the following monday.
files of coaches were backed up onto the autoroute slip road, hire cars were abandoned indiscriminately and files of foot passengers were being herded into queues.
after that it was a relative doddle with a tube to paddington,  train to westbury and taxi home to frome, somerset.
jason yapp tags: champagne, ciampino airport, dover, iceland, rome, san lorenzo, volcano this entry was posted on monday, april 26th, 2010 at 9:48 am and is filed underyapp travel.
we naively laughed off the idea that this might in any way interfere with our travel plans.
at 9pm that night we checked into the  reassuringly old-fashioned hôtel de la bannière in laon, just  north of champagne.
queues at calais we were up and running (sans breakfast) at 6am to honour our 9am car rental return at calais sea port.
making the most of this setback we headed south down the coast to sperlonga where we enjoyed a terrific weekend on an empty beach before heading back into rome for our second ‘final night’ of the holiday.
after a breakneck trip across town on the back of our friend maura’s motorbike i reached an avis rental office and never has a battered old lancia looked more attractive.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
files of coaches were  backed up onto the autoroute slip road, hire cars were abandoned  indiscriminately and files of foot passengers were being herded into queues.
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
happily the evacuation operation was being well run and within 2 hours we were  on board the ‘pride of dover’ heading back to blighty at a not  unreasonable 195 euros all in.
it was only on  the train back to rome that we found out monday’s flight had been  cancelled, as had the following day’s and the days after that.
we then headed west then north across the autoroutes of france with minimal stops at service stations.
the situation was beginning to look serious so we earnestly began to explore other routes home – via corsica by ferry?
after a breakneck  trip across town on the back of our friend maura’s motorbike i reached an  avis rental office and never has a battered old lancia looked more attractive.
there’s nothing like travel to make you appreciate  getting home and when a neighbour asked the boys if they’d had a good  holiday they replied ‘yes great thanks’.
the situation was beginning to look serious so we earnestly began to  explore other routes home – via corsica by ferry?
we will send a bottle of yapp champagne to the reader with what we judge to be the most arduous return voyage as a result of the icelandic volcanic eruption and disruption.
queues at calais we were up and running (sans breakfast) at 6am to honour our 9am  car rental return at calais sea port.
after a fretful night in the appalling hotel eveline (too bad to go in to  detail) we dropped the lancia off at 8.30am sharp and got a taxi across the  border to nice airport.
seldom has it felt better to eat at our own table and sleep in our own beds but it was a herculean effort to drag ourselves out of bed to get to school and work on thursday morning.