per-passenger emissions from a 500-mile trip in a bus or train amounts to 84 and 215 pounds of co2, respectively.
get the latest green car updates and urgent actions from the union of concerned scientists.
the high fuel  economies and low tailpipe emissions of the most popular hybrid models have  made the technology synonymous with eco-friendly engineering.
on a  per-passenger basis, a car with four seats occupied is roughly four times more  environmentally friendly than it is when the driver travels alone.
another important factor that affects the eco-impact of plane trips is what class you’re traveling, since first class seats take up more room onboard and are therefore responsible for a greater share of the flight’s total emissions.
cars to figure out where all this data came from, let’s first  look at a typical car: a 23 mpg gasoline-powered sedan.
however, additional family members don’t get  the added emissions benefit that they do in personal vehicles, so a family of  four making that trip amounts to roughly 1,200 pounds of co2 emissions.
accounting  to the slightly lower fuel economy you get with a full vehicle, the per-person  emissions for a family of four in the hybrid example above are a mere 75 pounds  per passenger.
and do other factors matter, such as how many people are going or how  far you’re traveling?
for a number of years now, hybrids have been considered the keeper of the  crown when it comes to environmentally friendly passenger cars.
daily driving of course, even if it makes sense to leave your hybrid home when heading out on vacation, that’s no reason to stick with a gas guzzler over a hybrid for your daily driving needs.
while  we’re only going to touch on some of the key findings in this watchdog,  detailed information about plane, train, automobile, and bus emissions is  available ingetting there greener, free online at the union of  concerned scientists web site.
while that’s not always the case it is true that today’s most popular hybrids are  among the most environmentally friendly vehicles now on the road.
while we’re only going to touch on some of the key findings in this watchdog, detailed information about plane, train, automobile, and bus emissions is available ingetting there greener, free online at the union of concerned scientists web site.
another important factor that affects the eco-impact of plane trips  is what class you’re traveling, since first class seats take up more room  onboard and are therefore responsible for a greater share of the flight’s  total emissions.
as you’ll see, the answers may not always be what you might expect.
if you need a car, purchasing an efficient hybrid is a good choice.
what about other  modes of travel?
the amount of carbon dioxide emissions from an airplane trip depends on numerous factors, including the type of plane(s) flown, how many layovers are taken (since takeoff and landing activities have their own sets of emissions), and how many miles are ultimately logged in getting to your final destination (which is affected by how far out of the way any layover stops might be).
for trips with only two travelers, hybrids are still a pretty  good option, coming in second only to buses.
when it comes to cars, however, that’s only part of the story, because the fuller a vehicle, the more environmentally friendly it is.
the charts below, from getting there greener, show graphically how efficient hybrids compare to the other modes analyzed in the report.
compared with other modes of travel, family trips in efficient cars offer considerable eco-opportunity.
this issue of the watchdog gets to the bottom of  those questions by parsing out some of the results from the recent ucs report, getting there greener:
but, for solo trips efficient  hybrids fall down to the middle of the pack—especially on longer-distance  trips where lower-carbon options exist such as the bus or train.
so if you’re planning a vacation, should you hop in your hybrid and hit the road?
© 2010 union of concerned scientists |  privacy statement | feedback | sitemap | ucs clean vehicles |
this issue of the watchdog gets to the bottom of those questions by parsing out some of the results from the recent ucs report, getting there greener:
efficient hybrids, such as the toyota prius, have earned their right as  environmental darlings of the passenger car market.
so if you’re planning  a vacation, should you hop in your hybrid and hit the road?
donate nonprofit software
daily driving of course, even if it makes sense to leave your hybrid  home when heading out on vacation, that’s no reason to stick with a gas  guzzler over a hybrid for your daily driving needs.
in short, if an efficient hybrid car  is used to move a family of four, it’s the most eco-friendly travel  option around.
so, how do efficient hybrids stack up against the competition on a 500-mile or longer trip?
for a 500-mile trip, that amounts to 540 pounds of co2 pollution.
speaking of other modes, as getting there greener explains in detail, the lowest-carbon mode of travel actually does depend how far you’re traveling and how many people are going with you.
and if a hybrid is not  available in the type of vehicle you need, always look for the highest fuel  economy model that meets your needs.
in short, if an efficient hybrid car is used to move a family of four, it’s the most eco-friendly travel option around.
and, perhaps surprisingly, a direct coach flight is a better travel option than driving solo in a hybrid if the trip is longer than 500 miles.
for a 500-mile trip, that amounts to 540  pounds of co2 pollution.
how do efficient hybrids compare to, say, planes, trains, or  buses?
while that’s not always the case it is true that today’s most popular hybrids are among the most environmentally friendly vehicles now on the road.
a new road: hybrid tech report hybrid transit buses take action: pledge to get there greener link to the hybrid center donate ucs info on electric cars hybrid watchdog: do hybrids go the distance for vacation travel?
moreover, unlike planes—which have much higher occupancy  rates—motor coaches and trains are often underused and may offer what  amounts to a carbon “free ride.”
for trips with only two travelers, hybrids are still a pretty good option, coming in second only to buses.
on a per-passenger basis, a car with four seats occupied is roughly four times more environmentally friendly than it is when the driver travels alone.
when it comes to cars, however, that’s only part of the story,  because the fuller a vehicle, the more environmentally friendly it is.
including  “upstream” emissions (the emissions associated with the extraction,  refining, and transporting of the fuel from the well head to the gas tank), the  production and consumption of a gallon of fuel produces approximately 25 pounds  of carbon dioxide (co2) emissions.
an efficient hybrid, such as the 46-mpg gen. 2 prius,  would be half of that at 270 pounds.
and if a hybrid is not available in the type of vehicle you need, always look for the highest fuel economy model that meets your needs.
the guide to your lower-carbon vacation.
the amount of carbon dioxide emissions from an airplane trip  depends on numerous factors, including the type of plane(s) flown, how many  layovers are taken (since takeoff and landing activities have their own sets of  emissions), and how many miles are ultimately logged in getting to your final  destination (which is affected by how far out of the way any layover stops  might be).
the charts below, from getting there greener, show graphically how efficient hybrids compare to  the other modes analyzed in the report.
moreover, unlike planes—which have much higher occupancy rates—motor coaches and trains are often underused and may offer what amounts to a carbon “free ride.”
while they are often overlooked when it comes to vacation travel, buses and trains can also make great sense from a carbon perspective, as they are among your lowest-emission options, especially on shorter (less than 500-mile) trips.
including “upstream” emissions (the emissions associated with the extraction, refining, and transporting of the fuel from the well head to the gas tank), the production and consumption of a gallon of fuel produces approximately 25 pounds of carbon dioxide (co2) emissions.
an efficient hybrid, such as the 46-mpg gen. 2 prius, would be half of that at 270 pounds.
for a number of years now, hybrids have been considered the keeper of the crown when it comes to environmentally friendly passenger cars.
and, perhaps  surprisingly, a direct coach flight is a better travel option than driving solo  in a hybrid if the trip is longer than 500 miles.
the high fuel economies and low tailpipe emissions of the most popular hybrid models have made the technology synonymous with eco-friendly engineering.
a 500-mile plane trip (non-stop, coach) emits slightly more than 300 pounds  of emissions per passenger.
but, for solo trips efficient hybrids fall down to the middle of the pack—especially on longer-distance trips where lower-carbon options exist such as the bus or train.
as  you’ll see, the answers may not always be what you might expect.
speaking of other modes, as getting there greener explains in  detail, the lowest-carbon mode of travel actually does depend how far  you’re traveling and how many people are going with you.
efficient hybrids, such as the toyota prius, have earned their right as environmental darlings of the passenger car market.
while they are often overlooked when it comes to  vacation travel, buses and trains can also make great sense from a carbon  perspective, as they are among your lowest-emission options, especially on  shorter (less than 500-mile) trips.
a 500-mile plane trip (non-stop, coach) emits slightly more than 300 pounds of emissions per passenger.
if you need a car,  purchasing an efficient hybrid is a good choice.
per-passenger emissions from a 500-mile  trip in a bus or train amounts to 84 and 215 pounds of co2, respectively.
cars to figure out where all this data came from, let’s first look at a typical car: a 23 mpg gasoline-powered sedan.
however, additional family members don’t get the added emissions benefit that they do in personal vehicles, so a family of four making that trip amounts to roughly 1,200 pounds of co2 emissions.
so, how do efficient hybrids stack up against the  competition on a 500-mile or longer trip?
how do efficient hybrids compare to, say, planes, trains, or buses?
accounting to the slightly lower fuel economy you get with a full vehicle, the per-person emissions for a family of four in the hybrid example above are a mere 75 pounds per passenger.
and do other factors matter, such as how many people are going or how far you’re traveling?
what about other modes of travel?
compared with other modes of travel, family trips in efficient  cars offer considerable eco-opportunity.