for some environmentalists, flying will now never be socially acceptable.
climatechangecorp welcomes your comments.
for everyone else, it will continue to be a reality for  longer distances.
for everyone else, it will continue to be a reality for longer distances.
water, transport, food, heating, and power are all going to be affected by climate change and its change agenda.
the action by governments right now is focusing on the easy wins: pressuring business, for example, or pushing product carbon labelling.
download your free copy here subscribe to ethical corporation magazine now - click here poll should business be more involved in negotiating a global post-2012 climate change plan?
(this confirms that the form is being filled in by a human) - hot jobs on climatechangecorp find out how to advertise your recruitment vacancies here.
author: tobias webb | print version | send to a friend check in here for lower emissions
newer groups like the articulate and direct action focused plane stupid organisation have already been on television news complaining about a recent report from an airline pilots union.
flybe says their ecolabel initiative for their new planes is designed to help consumers identify which type of aircraft or which type of route is the most sensitive choice to the environment.
recent posts - green jobs could increase industry costs - how long will lithium last?
flybe’s self created  eco-labelling scheme will be audited by deloitte, and will provide passengers  with “detailed but user-friendly breakdown of the fuel consumption, carbon  emissions and noise patterns of the aircraft type to be used on their  journey”.
passengers, the airline says, “will  then be in a position to decide, on an informed basis, whether they want to  carbon-offset that journey”.
back to blog respond: write to tobias webb at t.webb@ethicalcorp.com, or write to theeditor at zara@climatechangecorp.com.
but soon much harder questions, like fuel prices and their impact on behaviour will need addressing if the 70 or 80% cuts in carbon currently suggested are anything like realistic.
ethical corporation magazine browse the march 2009 issue of our sister publication.
"effective insulation in homes would get bigger gains, quicker, than fighting flying" the airline is also going to buy carbon offsets via pure, a non-profit carbon offsetter.
it seems like an odd  concept in the face of the uk’s current anti-flying hysteria, but picking  the most environmentally friendly airline could be a way for consumers to  engage with climate change while governments wrestle with tougher questions.
passengers, the airline says, will then be in a position to decide, on an informed basis, whether they want to carbon-offset that journey.
while aviation retains its bad-boy image, at least one airline is dealing with the publics concerns about climate change it seems like an odd concept in the face of the uks current anti-flying hysteria, but picking the most environmentally friendly airline could be a way for consumers to engage with climate change while governments wrestle with tougher questions.
however, in a low margin industry, where trade publications still refer to  environmental “myths”, such as climate change, this seems to signify  leadership.
for some environmentalists, flying will now never be  socially acceptable.
climatechangecorp.com 20 march 2012 jobs | reports | letters | links | podcasts about us | advertise | magazine | conferences home strategy markets branding policy technology
while aviation retains its bad-boy image, at least one airline is dealing  with the public’s concerns about climate change
- carbon trading: "boom and bust won't work" archives subscribe to our free twice monthly newsletter: - february 2012 - january 2012 - june 2011 - july 2010 - august 2009 - september 2008 »
it is hard to know if that’s impressive or not.
flybes self created eco-labelling scheme will be audited by deloitte, and will provide passengers with detailed but user-friendly breakdown of the fuel consumption, carbon emissions and noise patterns of the aircraft type to be used on their journey.
but soon  much harder questions, like fuel prices and their impact on behaviour will need  addressing if the 70 or 80% cuts in carbon currently suggested are anything  like realistic.
- first name: - surname: - email address: - comment: - is grass green or blue?
given that effective insulation in homes would get bigger gains, quicker, than fighting flying, perhaps its time for the insulation action group to be formed.
newsletter archive conferences - benchmark against the best, and figure out how to communicate your positive sustainability messages - ethics, values and corporate compliance how to persuade employees to do the right thing - find out about upcoming events, subscribe to ec conference updates ethical corporation reports for sale - get the inside track on how to cut costs using water strategies - find out how your competitors report on greenhouse gas emissions - learn how new uk carbon rules affects your business - big businesses reveal their carbon trading strategies find out how to advertise your recruitment vacancies here.
flybe, a uk airline, says is has now invested more than $2 billion in  “environmentally sensitive” aircraft.
flybe says their “ecolabel” initiative for  their new planes is “designed to help consumers identify which type of  aircraft or which type of route is the most sensitive choice to the  environment”.
campaigners will be up in arms about this.
jobs | reports |  letters | links | podcasts about us | advertise | magazine | conferences home strategy markets branding policy technology reporting climate  opinion people blog blog are greener planes an acceptable compromise?
flybe, a uk airline, says is has now invested more than $2 billion in environmentally sensitive aircraft.
the scheme will allow passengers to assess the  environmental impact of their journey.
by 2009, they say, they will  have one of the most environmentally friendly aircraft fleets in the world.
20 jun 2007 | author:  tobias webb | print version | send to a friend check in here for lower emissions
rail’s halo slips… the british airline  pilots association claims that for flights over 500 kilometres, new planes  perform as well as trains.
however, in a low margin industry, where trade publications still refer to environmental myths, such as climate change, this seems to signify leadership.
water, transport, food, heating, and power  are all going to be affected by climate change and its change agenda.
red fields are required.
flying: a reality flybe pitches its new planes as scoring an impressive b rating for co2 emissions.
even  kyoto excludes it.
plane stupid retorts that airline emissions are two to four times more harmful to the environment at altitude, and that most flights are less than 500 kilometres in europe anyway, making the train a better option.
flying: a reality flybe pitches its new planes as scoring “an impressive b rating for co2  emissions”.
back to blog write to tobias webb at t.webb@ethicalcorp.com, or  write to theeditor at zara@climatechangecorp.com.
the scheme will allow passengers to assess the environmental impact of their journey.
passengers will opt in to pay for these.
plane stupid retorts that airline emissions  are two to four times more harmful to the environment at altitude, and that  most flights are less than 500 kilometres in europe anyway, making the train a  better option.
governments and companies appear to be hoping that  if we can get emissions down elsewhere, that will have to make up for it.
carbon offsetters too, will probably do well out of it in  the coming years, although there is bound to be a shake out in the market over  time.
by 2009, they say, they will have one of the most environmentally friendly aircraft fleets in the world.
climatechangecorp welcomes your comments - click here.
it is hard to know if thats impressive or not.
reporting climate opinion people blog blog are greener planes an acceptable compromise?
the  action by governments right now is focusing on the easy wins: pressuring  business, for example, or pushing product carbon labelling.
"effective insulation in homes would get  bigger gains, quicker, than fighting flying" the airline is  also going to buy carbon offsets via pure, a non-profit carbon offsetter.
given that effective insulation in homes would get bigger gains,  quicker, than fighting flying, perhaps its time for the “insulation action  group” to be formed.
rails halo slips the british airline pilots association claims that for flights over 500 kilometres, new planes perform as well as trains.
carbon offsetters too, will probably do well out of it in the coming years, although there is bound to be a shake out in the market over time.
governments and companies appear to be hoping that if we can get emissions down elsewhere, that will have to make up for it.
even kyoto excludes it.
no yes download our business intelligence brochure now climatechangecorp.com © ethical corporation 2012 about us | feedback | ethical corporation | links
newer groups like the articulate  and direct action focused plane stupid organisation have already been on  television news complaining about a recent report from an airline pilots union.