in the physical design of its trains, amtrak is imitating airlines by placing luggage racks overhead with doors that close.
watch some of our friends describe how they see us and how we've worked to help them create a better region.
in europe, the answer is that flying has long been much  more of an elite activity than here (although that is changing with the  introduction of low-cost airlines like ryan air).
planes place luggage racks overhead  because there is no other space for them.
i was less than pleased.
on trains, where space is much less at a premium, you shouldn't need to strain a muscle putting a heavy suitcase over your head.
that was the only dining option, if  i recall.
the great thing about train travel, from a comestible viewpoint, is that you can sit across the table from someone, chat, and have a proper meal.
here in the usa, train travel is also imitating air travel.
nor is it a good policy choice, but we will leave that for another day.
special initiatives spotlight on the region - sign up - join rpa's mailing list and receive spotlight, our urban-planning newsletter.
it was clear she was quite pleased with herself in that she was  providing the same kind of service you would get on a plane!
the great thing about train travel, from a comestible viewpoint, is that you  can sit across the table from someone, chat, and have a proper meal.
most significantly, amtrak is now practicing "yield management,"  where you are charged different ticket prices depending on when you buy.
why would a train imitate the inconveniences of a plane?
just like on a plane, she took my order and then  came and set a tray full of food on my lap.
by imitating air travel, the  eurostar folks were saying, "see, we are just as sophisticated and elite  as an airplane!"
so far you can still get a full refund on amtrak if you don't use the ticket, but who knows, maybe that will change too to resemble airlines' no-refund policies.
by imitating air travel, the eurostar folks were saying, "see, we are just as sophisticated and elite as an airplane!"
there are two or three things at work here, and  they intermingle.
besides the reasons already  stated, it may be because they don't have the time or energy to educate  passengers in a different way of doing things.
there are two or three things at work here, and they intermingle.
most significantly, amtrak is now practicing "yield management," where you are charged different ticket prices depending on when you buy.
(3) - bad asphalt: streets need to be smoother and safer (5) -
it was clear she was quite pleased with herself in that she was providing the same kind of service you would get on a plane!
or at  least, you used to be able to.
- transit-oriented development - regional assembly - donate now - opportunities - contact search planes, trains and carriages june 16, 2008 by alex marshall, editor, spotlight on the region
in the physical design of its trains, amtrak is imitating airlines by placing  luggage racks overhead with doors that close.
planes place luggage racks overhead because there is no other space for them.
besides the reasons already stated, it may be because they don't have the time or energy to educate passengers in a different way of doing things.
here in the usa, train travel is also  imitating air travel.
that was the only dining option, if i recall.
we were whizzing along at 180 mph or so, when the "train attendant" did something that slowed the journey down considerably for me: she asked me what i wanted to eat.
amtrak now issues tickets clearly designed to resemble  plane tickets and offer the train equivalent of the frequent flier program.
we  were whizzing along at 180 mph or so, when the "train attendant" did  something that slowed the journey down considerably for me: she asked me what i  wanted to eat.
remaking the far west side - an energy-rail-broadband expressway to quebec (1) - spotlight archives follow rpa on @regionalplan - © 2012 regional plan association - - home - | site index - | contact
- protecting landscapes: the changing face of environmental conservation - what new york's transit system could learn from são paulo (2) - right in my backyard: communities wrestle with growth - block by block: cities tackle big problems with small-scale solutions (1) - the u.k. moves ahead with high-speed rail.
little space is provided anymore for separate luggage compartments at the end of the aisles, much less entirely separate baggage cars.
or at least, you used to be able to.
one is amtrak's attempt to raise revenue by imitating the  hostile pricing practices of airlines.
i was  less than pleased.
why would anyone imitate the inconvenience of air travel, where a plate of food, usually bad, is placed precariously on your lap and thus forces you to eat elbows held in so you don't hit your neighbor, and cautiously, lest you spill food down your front, which usually happens anyway.
in europe, the answer is that flying has long been much more of an elite activity than here (although that is changing with the introduction of low-cost airlines like ryan air).
so far  you can still get a full refund on amtrak if you don't use the ticket, but who  knows, maybe that will change too to resemble airlines' no-refund policies.
amtrak now issues tickets clearly designed to resemble plane tickets and offer the train equivalent of the frequent flier program.
why would a train imitate the inconveniences of  a plane?
one is amtrak's attempt to raise revenue by imitating the hostile pricing practices of airlines.
that's understandable, if not pleasing.
on trains, where space is much less  at a premium, you shouldn't need to strain a muscle putting a heavy suitcase  over your head.
little space is provided anymore  for separate luggage compartments at the end of the aisles, much less entirely  separate baggage cars.
e-mail by alex marshall, editor, spotlight on the region a few years ago i rode the then-new eurostar train from paris to brussels.
categories: tags: - about - welcome - mission - staff - board - regional committees - regional assembly - support rpa - contact - programs - community design - energy - housing - national issues - open space
just like on a plane, she took my order and then came and set a tray full of food on my lap.
a second thing going on is that plane travel has become the dominant inter-city travel mode, and other modes of travel imitate it.
a few years ago i rode the then-new eurostar train from paris to brussels.
- sustainable communities - transportation - work force & economy - regions - new york - new jersey - connecticut - long island - reports & maps - experts - calendar - archives - feedback rpa is...
a  second thing going on is that plane travel has become the dominant inter-city  travel mode, and other modes of travel imitate it.
why would anyone imitate the inconvenience of air travel,  where a plate of food, usually bad, is placed precariously on your lap and thus  forces you to eat elbows held in so you don't hit your neighbor, and  cautiously, lest you spill food down your front, which usually happens anyway.