rocket science it ain’t (though it helps when you’ve got trusted friends bothered to do the co2 maths).
we’ll have to agree to differ on the “endless worrying” bit.
yet my general experience is that this argument is usually trotted out by people who (1) would be the last to support widespread enforced limitations, and (2) use it as a rationalization for totally disregarding personal morality.
i just don’t go for the idea that the fact that we lose in the end means we shouldn’t try hard to adapt and thrive (qualitatively, not necessarily quantitatively).
what about offsetting?
in many arenas, this is a fair argument  – at least, it’s worth engaging with, even if you disagree with it.
most travel agents and other sources of information are insanely biased towards air travel, so sites like this are hugely valuable.
i know it looks like hard work to anyone who prefers to find a perspective and stick to it, but it’s like breathing for me.
to me, endless worrying over the tiny ripples we make in moving through the world is truly futile.
« exploring the megalithic mind in malta bjm in europe » travelling without planes so, having signed up for the exciting metageum conference in malta this  november, the question of travel arises.
more specifically, how does this sit  with my “no air travel unless essential” plan?
i don’t think any butterfly i thoughtlessly gassed as a child died in vain, all three of them before i decided it was cruel hobby.
they’re all hopelessly intertwined.
mark is clearly someone who would be doing this with or without an  impending climate crisis: “many people would rather not fly, or like me,  simply prefer a more civilised, comfortable, interesting, adventurous,  romantic, scenic, historic, exciting and environmentally-friendly way to  travel.”
be a planetary bastard and proud of it!
… they do everything but watch television.”
joel - 30th may 2007 @ 13:53 i’m just an dyed-in-the-wool multi-perspective type.
surely if there’s no other way we can buy our way out of this one?
is that so hard to understand?
gyrus - 30th may 2007 @ 16:29 «
the industry claims it can reduce its emissions by means of new  technological developments.
well, as you say, it’s all “hopelessly intertwined”, hopelessly being the operative word.
ah, for a mind cast in black-and-white!
jim bliss, my ex-engineer friend whose head for maths makes me dizzy, on moving to dublin last year, sat down to work outhow much worse it would be if he flew to london rather than taking a coach.
it’s great that people like john gray are reminding our progress-obsessed christian-hangover tech culture that in the end we are “as straw dogs”.
they farm fungi, raise aphids as livestock, launch armies for wars, use chemical sprays to alarm and confuse their enemies, capture slaves.
but as the royal commission on environmental pollution points out, its targets “are clearly aspirations rather than projections”.
i’m with you on the serious thought about planetary collapse (as you know).
we are spores of something greater, never have been anything else.
i’ve little truck with people who take action against climate change as some straw to hang on to to save their illusions about our supposed mastery over nature.
it is all a glorious projection of meaning.
the people i know who dedicate a great portion of their waking lives to  campaigning for such limits also apply this sense of collective morality to  their own actions.
there’s  a truth in that.
(of course, no one’s perfect, andhypocrisy is the result of high ideals as well as a lack of integrity.)
surely if there’s no other way we can buy our  way out of this one?
joel - 30th may 2007 @ 16:06
i’d much prefer if the global warming issue was dropped as the trivial distraction it is, and instead some serious thought was given to the collision course our planet is inevitably on.
it’s not zero effort, but it’s quite distinct from being in a perpetual tizz (at least it should be).
but it may be possible to include a pleasant jaunt through italy as part of train travel most of the way, and discovering the best way to do this is made all the easier by this brilliant website:
my trip to malta may inevitably end up entailing air flight, if for no  other reason than no ferry services seem to operate in november (i’m a  good swimmer, but not exceptional).
i think this is known as “integrity”.
we all die in the end, but it’s no argument for topping yourself (at least, not on a good day ;-).
most travel agents and other  sources of information are insanely biased towards air travel, so sites like  this are hugely valuable.
mark is clearly someone who would be doing this with or without an impending climate crisis: “many people would rather not fly, or like me, simply prefer a more civilised, comfortable, interesting, adventurous, romantic, scenic, historic, exciting and environmentally-friendly way to travel.”
not so, unfortunately, with air travel: … every other source of global warming can be reduced or replaced [...] without a serious reduction in our freedoms.
it’s geared towards british travellers, but does include information on travel within other countries that people originating elsewhere may find crucial.
do it or don’t do it, but don’t get embroiled in these side-issues.
you never struck me as the get-there-quick-or-else type.
gyrus - 30th may 2007 @ 0:56
that is the only seriousness about this adventure.
i also don’t think things like this are clear, mutually exclusive choices between distinct “issues”, some of which are a distraction next to “the important one”.
i think the knack is knowing what our real job is in the scheme of things.
but there is no means of sustaining long-distance, high-speed travel.
we should just shut up and let it happen, before we no longer have the resources to escape the earth or before a huge meteorite hits us.
like the gigantic fruiting body we are, we should ripen and disperse into space and the singularity that awaits us.
as ever, all we’re doing is trying to adapt.
personal sacrifices in a matter like this, some may argue, are as nothing without widespread limits enforced for all.
there are some basic technological constraints which make  major improvements impossible to envisage.
i was talking about being true to what you believe and not fudging the issue to serve another master, since it’s only yourself you’re fooling, no-one else.
merrick just did some more diy carbon calculations, and worked out that  – using aviation-friendly estimates – “every minute  you’re on a plane is the same as a day’s worth of your  electricity”.
we have nature to thank for the template.
exploring the megalithic mind in malta bjm in europe » download free ebook »
the best we could do after all these millennia of evolution is probably to jettison little vials of our dna out into deep space, out of danger of the earth being no more.
carbon emissions, of course.
first off, why no air travel?
jim bliss, my  ex-engineer friend whose head for maths makes me dizzy, on moving to dublin  last year, sat down to work outhow much worse it would be if he flew to london  rather than taking a coach.
obviously you value a megalith conference in malta more highly than your views on climate change.
frequently painted as a passé form of hippy “hair-shirt” self-mortification, reduction is often the path of choice for the true sensualist.
joel - 30th may 2007 @ 5:20 i (polemically) assumed you were averse to the train ride because i couldn’t otherwise see why you saw my decision to take it as “beating myself up”!
we’ve traded a martian stepping stone to the stars for suburbs, endless toing-and-froing, and an oil-guzzling military system with which to kill each other over the last scraps of the oil we’ve wasted.
skip to navigation | skip to content « exploring the megalithic mind in malta bjm in europe » so, having signed up for the exciting metageum conference in malta this november, the question of travel arises.
we've made a slidecast (slideshow with synched audio recording) of the recent talk on 'war & the noble savage' at the october gallery in london.
but as the royal commission on environmental  pollution points out, its targets “are clearly aspirations rather than  projections”.
yet again, the philosophy of reduction, of intelligently scaling back some of the excesses of capitalist industrialism, is often more than it appears when forced through the growth- and speed-fixated filters of consumer economics.
gyrus - 30th may 2007 @ 14:33
(of  course, no one’s perfect, andhypocrisy is the result of high ideals as  well as a lack of integrity.)
we are already fossils in rocks.
my hard work is usually fighting the idea that i need to find a perspective and stick to it… that is to say, i totally appreciate the wide-angle view you’ve described so well.
as for the rest, it’s not noble it’s mostly just posturing.
ants… we do seem more like a social insect (or virus) than monkeys.
this is what we are about.
honestly, i feel like punching people who beat themselves up over this, just to save them the trouble.
that’s where our destiny lies, in space.
whether with our deforestation or our late-on recycling, it is only part of this illusion to imagine we have any impact whatsoever.
there’s a truth in that.
again, i don’t see it as an either/or choice between smug environmentalism and stepping back to see the wider picture.
merrick just did some more diy carbon calculations, and worked out that – using aviation-friendly estimates – “every minute you’re on a plane is the same as a day’s worth of your electricity”.
is this so hard to understand?
real ants move bits of dead leaf from a to b and keep the aphids down.
probably humanity’s greatest achievement was getting off the ground and into the air, and from there to space.
i wasn’t expressing a preference for the plane.
bringing all our options to the table, seeing that it’s all futile and acting well anyway, the perception of futility as theground for acting well – that’s my position.
my darker wide-view is that fossil fuels were life’s ticket to go there – and we’ve pretty much blown it.
a great book i just read quotes lewis thomas as saying ants are “so much like human beings as to be an embarrassment.
well, due toseveral important practical considerations, the short answer to that is, “no – deal with it”.
see if i can find the perfect pizza napoletana… posted may 28th 2007 @ 16:20 comments feed why not just admit to yourself that you want your cake and want to eat it?
i guess you might go by plane, though, just to annoy anyone who thinks that personal responsibility counts for anything… more wasted energy, though (in more ways than one).
and generally that’s because i’ve spent a little time while awake to think the shit through and find a good balance between moral ideals and day-to-day life.
have you been watching it?
the fact that this philosophy’s most famed branch, the slow food movement, itself began in italy as a reaction to fast food makes me even more inspired to take my time getting to malta.
i give some consideration to these things and act accordingly.
my trip to malta may inevitably end up entailing air flight, if for no other reason than no ferry services seem to operate in november (i’m a good swimmer, but not exceptional).
it’s only like a plant withers and dies once it has spread its seeds.
the fact that this philosophy’s most famed branch, the slow food  movement, itself began in italy as a reaction to fast food makes me even more  inspired to take my time getting to malta.
more specifically, how does this sit with my “no air travel unless essential” plan?
i for one have found it a joyful thing each evening for the past few weeks to see the international space station burning brightly as the sun sets.
andtheir intelligent selflessness sometimes puts most of us to shame!
george monbiot the singular nature of air travel in this respect means that we just have  to travel less by air.
the industry claims it can reduce its emissions by means of new technological developments.
a certain smugness in putting all one’s wine bottles in the recycling bin holds off for another day real thought about who we are and why we are here.
if we can make our way briskly past the noxious climate change denial industry (and associated amateurs), accepting that this stuff is actually happening and that our actions have consequences, we usually come to the arguments for “tech fixes”.
i am generally in favour of the idea that it should amount to something, this experiment or accident.
turns out it’s about 31 times worse.
but there is no means of  sustaining long-distance, high-speed travel.
the people i know who dedicate a great portion of their waking lives to campaigning for such limits also apply this sense of collective morality to their own actions.
and i don’t see the choice as being either to hole up and be a self-mortifying puritan or to buy the daily mail and say, “fuck it!”
i don’t give a damn what people do, but i don’t like to see intelligent people lying to themselves.
frequently painted as a passé form of hippy “hair-shirt”  self-mortification, reduction is often the path of choice for the true  sensualist.
in many arenas, this is a fair argument – at least, it’s worth engaging with, even if you disagree with it.
yet my general experience is that this argument is usually  trotted out by people who (1) would be the last to support widespread enforced  limitations, and (2) use it as a rationalization for totally disregarding  personal morality.
yes, we each do our bit, every ant has its purpose.
for me, doing the latter prevents the smug part of the former.
but in the end i can’t help but recognize that only fools think they know for certain what the future holds – which to me means acting now in a way you think will contribute to a better future, even though that future (like the planetary collapse one) isn’t certain.
i wasn’t even talking about personal responsibility.
as for your understanding of why i’m making this decision… well, it’s your understanding is the best place to leave it i guess.
george monbiot the singular nature of air travel in this respect means that we just have to travel less by air.
anyway, talking of wasting energy… gyrus - 30th may 2007 @ 11:54
but that’s what we do.
if you want to go to malta to look at rocks because the rocks down the road aren’t good enough for you, just go and forget paying lip-service to “responsibility”, because if you really cared one way or the other about the damage your journey would cause you simply wouldn’t go.
we ants move a few thoughts from one place to another and imagine we are masters of the earth’s fate.
see if i can find the perfect pizza  napoletana… posted may 28th 2007 @ 16:20
joel - 30th may 2007 @ 0:38
it’s geared towards british  travellers, but does include information on travel within other countries that  people originating elsewhere may find crucial.
if we can make our way briskly past the noxious climate change denial  industry (and associated amateurs), accepting that this stuff is actually  happening and that our actions have consequences, we usually come to the  arguments for “tech fixes”.
maybe we should ditch tv?
personal sacrifices in a matter like this, some may  argue, are as nothing without widespread limits enforced for all.
it may be foolish to think you know the future, good point there, even for one who has invested his time reading oracles, but it is even more foolish to think that we ants are affecting anything at all.
every which way you look, increasing aviation is a bad idea, though.
really, your punch would be a waste of energy cos i’m losing no sleep over this.
perhaps the ant we crush in the bathroom, afraid it is the advance scout of a future infestation, had the job of making us feel guilty so we would reappraise our attitudes towards insect life.
what’s important is the new seed.
if we destroy the planet to send our dna out into the universe then i expect we will have done our job.
i agree about about space (though obviously not enough to have been keeping up on the iss – must look out for it!).
view » all tags » view library » to receive email notifications when there's a new post on the blog, please fill in this form » posts feed comments feed links to here my technorati profile
not so, unfortunately, with air travel: … every other source of global warming can be reduced or replaced  [...] without a serious reduction in our freedoms.
but it may be possible to include a  pleasant jaunt through italy as part of train travel most of the way, and  discovering the best way to do this is made all the easier by this brilliant  website: the man in seat sixty-one the hobby site of “career railwayman” mark smith, it details  concise and helpful information for anyone who – for whatever reason  – wants to travel without flying.
the man in seat sixty-one the hobby site of “career railwayman” mark smith, it details concise and helpful information for anyone who – for whatever reason – wants to travel without flying.
there are some basic technological constraints which make major improvements impossible to envisage.
anyway, i thought you’d be the train-across-the-continent, catch some good italian cuisine along the way kind of guy.
yet again, the philosophy of reduction, of intelligently scaling back some  of the excesses of capitalist industrialism, is often more than it appears when  forced through the growth- and speed-fixated filters of consumer economics.
you seemed to miss the whole point of the post: the climate change position (whether you agree with it or not) and the pleasure-seeking position coincide.
well, due toseveral important practical considerations,  the short answer to that is, “no – deal with it”.
i never said i was averse to the train.