once on the plane, you have approximately an hour flight.
it also assumes that advances in aerodynamics and weight reduction through material sciences (the latter of which would also benefit rail) stays consistent with past achievements.
based on that number, it would take 47 years to match rail's 3x advantage (assuming that new rail makes no such advancements).
currently,  to fly from dallas to austin one has to drive at least 30 minutes to the  airport then you have to wait at least another 30 minutes to board and take  off.
share | posted by larchlion  at thursday, april  01, 2010 labels: trains planes and automobiles
http://www.transportenvironment.org/publications/prep_hand_out/lid/398
wrong place wrong time wrong tool (1) thursday, april 1, 2010 not either/
a  few % / yr + in plane efficiency would do the trick over 2 decades 40 minutes  ago via tweetie so why not focus on making them super-efficient rather than building  a whole new infrastructure for rail?
according to the above, from 2005, the annual improvement in seat-kilometer fuel efficiency between 1971 and 1998 was 2.4%.
lesson: stop  oversimplifying debates.
and i just came across a couple of tweets  by a tweeter named anthonyiftf as retweeted by fast company writer greg lindsay: future high-speed rail only 3x more co2 efficient than today's planes.
rather, both are necessary as part of an interconnected global hierarchy  of transportation, a robust ecology of solutions.
rather, you have to think about where plane travel is lacking and where  hi-speed makes sense.
does this co2 efficiency take into account the full end-to-end trip including  the car travel to/from the airport and the idling of planes?
42 minutes ago via tweetie it seems to me that planes are much more of a transportation 2.0  tech than hi-speed rail: distributed, packet-switched, standards-based 42  minutes ago via tweetie
1) competition between the  two ought to be encouraged and, 2) they serve different scales.
plane travel will still have a place in the  future, but only where it prices out appropriately.
last, what this also doesn't  take into account in terms of land use.
no one is about  to hop a maglev from new york to san diego even if one were available.
how does it take into account preference if cost of  a ticket for each scenario is equal for comfort or pleasure in a fair  competition?
while i  understand the point about new infrastructure, it sounds pretty easy to assume  that we can make plane flights more efficient, does that also assume we can not  make high speed travel more efficient?
how does this "3x" calculation  properly assess the value for time lost?
should we have not built airports in the first place  because of their prohibitive costs?
and finally, getting to downtown austin might take another 30 minutes.
all in all, it takes roughly 3 to 3.5 hours or the same amount as to drive and  is on the whole a pretty miserable experience at every segment of the trip  whereas in a high-speed train scenario, you would be getting from downtown  dallas to downtown austin (substitute houston and the equations stay the same)  in an hour to 1.5 hours.
the short commuter airlines  are getting killed and they don't even have competition currently.
furthermore, because adding  more cars to a train doesn't add much inefficiency, the cars can be as spacious  and comfortable as need be.
in the sixties, the philosopher ivan illich showed that the amount of energy invested into cars and road infrastructure would be sufficient to cover the distance by foot - and in a considerably more beautiful and peaceful environment.
airports are at the extreme end of  locally unwanted land uses (lulus) whereas train stations are integral parts of  downtowns where land value is the highest.
for example, regional or megalopolitan areas.
as the title of this post suggests, this  doesn't have to be an either/or question (why must we frame everything that  way?).
deplaning and  finding your way to whatever form of transportation takes another half hour.