one of the more recent and detailed analyses i came across done by sightline institute actually found that the worst way to travel (for the planet) was by driving solo.
if i want to fly from winnipeg to denver the carbon footprint will be significantly different whether i take a direct flight vs. connecting thru minneapolis, chicago, calgary, etc.
your email address will not be published.
i couldn’t take a close look at the factors involved  in the evaluation done by sightline institute.
with the warm spring temperatures this year it may be time to get out check that compost pile.
the answer depends on the length of your journey, how full  the plane is, whether you’re driving solo or carpooling, and many more  factors!
this applied whether the vehicle you were driving  was an suv or an average car.
one factor i don’t see mentioned which may affect the analysis of flying is whether you are taking a direct flight.
for  flights, don’t forget to include the cost of taxis or buses to and from  the airport (city buses are a very inexpensive option).
in the second case, the figures given from ipcc seem to suggest you would need to consider each leg of your flight journey separately as short, medium or long haul, and then add these together for an idea of your trip’s total impact.
the ipcc evaluation and later caa quotes are in metric.
in the second case, the figures  given from ipcc seem to suggest you would need to consider each leg of your  flight journey separately as short, medium or long haul, and then add these  together for an idea of your trip’s total impact.
this was an interesting and challenging question because of the number of  variables involved.
the answer depends on the length of your journey, how full the plane is, whether you’re driving solo or carpooling, and many more factors!
josh brandon | september 23, 2011 | 2:22 pm | reply anyone want to guess the carbon footprint of canadian generals taking  holidays in their private jets?
we asked the question: is it better to drive than to fly for business or vacation travel?
financially, your best choice will again be influenced by a variety of factors, especially where you are heading.
green action centre has a few suggestions.
required fields are marked * name *
if you’re planning on taking a train or bus, keep an eye on upcoming or last minute sales.
anyone want to guess the carbon footprint of canadian generals taking holidays in their private jets?
i couldn’t take a close look at the factors involved in the evaluation done by sightline institute.
one of the more recent and detailed analyses i came across done by  sightline institute actually found that the worst way to travel (for the  planet) was by driving solo.
peter tataryn | september 22, 2011 | 9:52 pm | reply minor question: what is the above referenced gas mileage in, imperial or us  gallons?
i’d like to send out a big thank you to green action centre and the winnipeg community for being so welcoming to me and the rest of my katimavik group.
when calculating your driving costs, don’t forget to factor in higher gas prices in other provinces (caa quotes an average of 130c/l nationally), wear and tear on your vehicle (budget about 5c/km for the average vehicle), and meals and hotels.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment the winnipeg free press reported this morning that manitoba’s conservation minister, gordon mackintosh is working on a new comprehensive plan for the environment.
i won’t even begin to pretend that cycling 365 days a year is for everyone, but it could certainly be for more people.
– bruce krentz barbie shukster is a crafty lady.
and  some of the most relaxing vacations i have been on have been right here in  manitoba.
this applied whether the vehicle you were driving was an suv or an average car.
the best transportation choices in this study  were to hop on a bus, take a train, or to carpool with 2 other passengers.
if i want to fly  from winnipeg to denver the carbon footprint will be significantly different  whether i take a direct flight vs. connecting thru minneapolis, chicago,  calgary, etc.
some of the best options for work travel or family vacations can also be close to home.
some of the best options for work travel or family vacations can also be  close to home.
teleconferencing, “skyping” and webinars are all great options for businesses looking to cut their carbon and their budget.
home → living green, living well  → myth busted: better to drive than fly?
4 responses michael smith | september 12, 2011 | 11:45 am | reply one factor i don’t see mentioned which may affect the analysis of  flying is whether you are taking a direct flight.
looking at peter’s question, i assume the first evaluation is in us gallons, as the organization is based in the u.s.
minor question: what is the above referenced gas mileage in, imperial or us gallons?
myth busted: better to drive than fly?
teleconferencing, “skyping” and webinars are all  great options for businesses looking to cut their carbon and their budget.
an earlier report from the ipcc shows the complexity of variables at play.
and some of the most relaxing vacations i have been on have been right here in manitoba.
do the calculated numbers assume equal distance traveled using all modes of transportation?
it may even be time to turn it!
the ipcc evaluation and later  caa quotes are in metric.
this was an interesting and challenging question because of the number of variables involved.
for flights, don’t forget to include the cost of taxis or buses to and from the airport (city buses are a very inexpensive option).
well known for her jean toss pillows, this time, barbie has upcycled several pairs of jeans into a brand new quilt that will last many years.
or  more accurately, it depends.
if you’re planning on taking a train or bus, keep an eye on upcoming  or last minute sales.
the best transportation choices in this study were to hop on a bus, take a train, or to carpool with 2 other passengers.
do the calculated numbers  assume equal distance traveled using all modes of transportation?
committing to riding absolutely every day is for only a “special” few, and i almost made it.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
consider joining mailing lists to catch deals early.
or more accurately, it depends.
connecting  flights are sure to increase the carbon footprint of flying.
looking at peter’s question, i assume the first evaluation is in us  gallons, as the organization is based in the u.s.
we asked the question: is it better to drive than to fly for  business or vacation travel?
in this analysis, it makes a big difference whether you’re taking a short  haul or long haul flight, and whether you’re driving a truck to your  destination or a small car.
when calculating your  driving costs, don’t forget to factor in higher gas prices in other  provinces (caa quotes an average of 130c/l nationally), wear and tear on your  vehicle (budget about 5c/km for the average vehicle), and meals and hotels.
posted by jessie klassen in living green, living well.
connecting flights are sure to increase the carbon footprint of flying.
financially, your best choice will again be influenced by  a variety of factors, especially where you are heading.
jessie klassen | september 28, 2011 | 4:10 pm | reply great comments!
more importantly, she makes use of recycled materials to create beautiful projects that are useful for the home.
in this analysis, it makes a big difference whether you’re taking a short haul or long haul flight, and whether you’re driving a truck to your destination or a small car.
what are some of your favorite ways to travel carbon (and dollar)-light?
surprisingly, the answer may be no.