i had to rely on memory of a us keyboard layout to figure out which one to hit which is more difficult than you’d think on a keyboard with very small keys.
i don't care how nice the display looks if i'm looking at a machine with worse specs than a $700 cheaper mac book.
trust me on this the sales guy isn't sitting in starbucks in order to download his/her email or work on the latest spreadsheet.
the ssd discussion system performance: iphoto & iwork system performance: office '08, file decompression, photoshop & quicktime performance summary & subjective feel battery life thermals & strange
the odd thing to me is the number of  people who claim to really notice the difference, even though the benchmarks  don't seem to be that drastically different in a lot of areas.
apple didn’t invent the ultra portable, but with the macbook air it’s attempting to do it right.
that in order  to achieve a baseline of functionality you are conceivably carrying around an  ethernet dongle, possibly the super drive (probably not in college, but most  definitely if you are traveling) a usb extension cord, plus some sort of 3g  device if you really want to be mobile.
phrozt reply mba ultraportable by totenkopf on friday, february 15, 2008 "thinner and lighter" only covers about two thirds of ultraportable,
by steveyballmer on tuesday, july 08, 2008 it is amazing to me that so many people can't seem to see through the steve  jobs reality distortion field!
it's like that blonde, oxygen thief piece of arm candy you always wanted to make you look good around your friends!it doesn't actually do anything very well, but at least it's inadequate for everyday use.
obviously this would have less of an impact than the  iphone situation, because the battery can clearly be removed and therefore  replaced, but i'm still wondering about it's limits (especially after the  mention of the 8 hour bug).
two comments about the benchmarks, one question about the battery.
most of them require the need to vpn into their office network in order to retrieve misc files they might require.
this is a person who checks email at home or in the office isn’t really going to be accessing the vpn much from a remote location.
slim for uh, um, i can't think of  a rhyme but if i could it would be something bad.
she wants something that is light and easy to carry around the  house.
as for the benchmarks, i think something needs to be said about the differences of expectations in real world use (in regards to the ssd vs. stock hdd argument).
if  you take an old walkie-talkie cellphone and make it lighter and slimmer and  than call it ultra portable...
the screen size of a notebook actually determines the keyboard layout and size.
the impact of ssd on battery life
but really i think the mba was put in the most positive light as possible.
having 1 usb port would be fine.
just how much weight would have been added to put on  firewire anyway???
by pink78 on friday, april 11, 2008 i've heared  that next-gen macbook pros are to recieve the multitouch trackpad: http://www.maconair.com/next-gen_macbook_pros_to_g...">
therefore, from a real world useability standpoint, the ssd would be much better experience, because it improves in the areas where you have high expectations, and only falters in areas that you already have low expectations.
the odd thing to me is the number of people who claim to really notice the difference, even though the benchmarks don't seem to be that drastically different in a lot of areas.
it's been said that one of the shortcomings of the iphone is that there are a limited number of times the battery can be charged.
hard drive swap: diy ssd install installing the ssd  macbook air performance: ssd vs. mechanical hdd
finally, about the usage tests.
right, you get nothing extra for your money, just the envy of other inerds.
the  superdrive installing mac os x inside the air little or no upgrade path an ipod  hard drive in a mac?
it's  like that blonde, oxygen thief piece of arm candy you always wanted to make you  look good around your friends!it doesn't actually do anything very well, but at  least it's inadequate for everyday use.
no removable battery?
if you take an old walkie-talkie cellphone and make it lighter and slimmer and than call it ultra portable...
the ssd discussion system performance: iphoto & iwork system  performance: office '08, file decompression, photoshop & quicktime  performance summary & subjective feel battery life thermals & strange  issues final words print this article 42  comments view all comments post a comment hmmm... by bsozak on monday, january 18, 2010
intel core 2 duo 1.6 - 1.8ghz (65nm merom) intel core 2 duo 2.0 - 2.2ghz (65nm merom) intel core 2 duo 2.2ghz - 2.6ghz (65nm merom) gpu intel gma x3100
however, how many of you had two computers when at college?
the impact of ssd on battery  life
some weren’t even able to complete the process without using the  ethernet dongle.
in addition, you can’t use the one usb port with the migration assistant.
macthespoon reply 3 things... by phrozt on friday, february 15, 2008
pink78 reply windows on mba?
admittedly i’ve never had an ultra portable break on me, but i’ve also never really dropped one.
most of them require the need to vpn into their office  network in order to retrieve misc files they might require.
i also wonder if the type of ssd makes a difference?
i thought the comparison to the ferrari was excellent.
the air on paper on paper, the macbook air's size is impressive until you compare it to the macbook - in many ways the air is just a thinner macbook.
how does the mba run windows in bootcamp?
the more you use a  computer, the more your expectations change.
intel gma x3100 (144mb uma
in order to keep things light, ultra portables generally have tiny batteries and are built out of very lightweight materials - resulting in poor battery life and a hardly durable feel.
it needs to be very clear what your expectations are of it and what sort of relationship you plan on having with the notebook in order to avoid something unpleasant.
there’s no budget for a large battery and heatsinks need to be on the order of millimeters in thickness.
the first ultra portables were around 3 lbs, but over the years we’ve seen entries into the space weigh in at less than 2 lbs.
it feels so good the best keyboard on an ultra portable?
think about it, you are getting less for  more!
lame!  annonymouscoward reply good review overall by kac77 on tuesday, february 19, 2008 i feel the review was good overall.
you get to do small work on a weekend when you happen to want a latte.
, they  completely missed the point of the ultra portable!
for feb 29 google chrome 17 hits stable channel more sandy bridge e laptops: eurocom panther 4.0 and maingear titan 17 amd releases two llano based athlon ii x4 cpus hitachi releases ultrastar ssd400s.b: 25nm slc nand is here firmware updates bring lion internet recovery to 2010 macs google releases chrome for android - updated intel updates sandy bridge graphics drivers nokia announces white lumia 800 droid 4 available february 10th for $199 dailytech intel settles '09 ny antitrust case for only 5 hours worth of its yearly profit at&t doubles smartphone upgrade fee to $36 after disastrous q4 2/10/2012 daily hardware reviews motorola fails to score the hat trick, losing to apple at last in germany georgia tech uses shape-memory alloys to create earthquake-resistant buildings report: apple to debut ipad 3 during first week of march tesla motors unveils all-electric "model x' crossover hackers have their way with apple supplier foxconn german appeals court approves galaxy 10.1n, tells apple
macbook air macbook macbook pro 15" dimensions h: 0.16-076" w: 12.8" d: 8.94" h: 1.08" w: 12.78" d: 8.92" h: 1.0" w: 14.1" d: 9.6" weight 3.0 lbs 5.0 lbs 5.4 lbs screen size/resolution 13.3" / 1280 x 800 13.3" / 1280 x 800 15.4" / 1440 x 900 cpu
these points  are what i'm talking about.
i've heard great things about  runcore ssd which has some really good pricing here - but if i end up dropping  that kind of coin for moderately better performance, i don't think i'd be too  happy.
it's been said that one of the shortcomings of the iphone is  that there are a limited number of times the battery can be charged.
, i just needed it to do some basic writing and web browsing.
for this person this device makes perfect sense but for anyone else i just don’t see it.
but really  i think the mba was put in the most positive light as possible.
i think it makes the mba become more of a product
i’ve heard reviews from other sites that this process can take way more than 2.5 hours more like 5 or more.
the overall thing with this device is that in order to achieve a baseline of functionality you are conceivably carrying around an ethernet dongle, possibly the super drive (probably not in college, but most definitely if you are traveling) a usb extension cord, plus some sort of 3g device if you really want to be mobile.
apple was afraid to make the necessary sacrifices to make a true ultra portable computer.
since there isn't a express port or pcmia slot they are stuck with wifi??
the argument to looking forward where all  information is on a network somewhere or at home would have held some weight.
once you are carrying around all of these things have you really saved any weight?
the weight side of an ultra portable is only one facet of importance, form factor is the other.
my hands always had to do this strange ballet/gymnastics move in order to punctuate anything, which eventually drove me away from the notebook.
obviously this would have less of an impact than the iphone situation, because the battery can clearly be removed and therefore replaced, but i'm still wondering about it's limits (especially after the mention of the 8 hour bug).
since the ssd takes longer to complete  write projects, and therefore more energy overall to complete the process, i  would be interested to see what the usage time would be if you were to script  out a process that included a lot of pdf/image/file conversions/saves.
lugging even a 5-pound notebook around to class was a pain, i wanted something whose weight and form factor resembled its name; i wanted a notebook, something very thin, very light and just as easy as a pad of paper to carry around with me.
yes, it is not the most comfortable on the eyes or the hands...
click here for advertising information
in addition, you can’t use the one usb port with the  migration assistant.
it feels so  good the best keyboard on an ultra portable?
finally what wasn’t touched on at all, transferring files from the host pc.
http://bit.ly/6yz3cu"> http://bit.ly/6yz3cu bsozak reply drink the koolaid children!
the asus eee can operate as  an extension of your desktop by allowing you to write, surf and accomplish  minor tasks away from your primary machine.
does the  air suffer this same fate?
spending $2k - $3k on an ultra portable isn’t out of the ordinary.
apple hasn’t historically been the first to introduce a new type of device, but rather a company that looks at where others have done poorly and attempts to do better.
htc announces initial ice cream sandwich rollout plans rambus and nvidia bury the hatchet, sign 5 year agreement windows 8 consumer preview event scheduled
for now, it's bedtime that was high-end back in 2006 - 8 cores in a 4u box, now we have 12 in a 2u box finally carried our old db server up to the lab: four socket, dual-core opteron 880 based hp proliant dl585http://t.co/ftyi8bpf @ozym4ndias @wilshipley @pmod not really, not internal at least.
if you can't afford two laptops you should get a more practical  laptop and skip the mba.
since writing and basic internet access were the main duties of this machine, things like hard disk space, having an internal optical drive and absolute performance weren’t really concerns; running notepad or textedit just doesn’t require much.
by macthespoon on saturday, february 16, 2008 thanks very much, this was a really comprehensive, excellent review!
the mba really does require a  companion pc in order to assure the buyer that he/her can reinstall the os if  problems arise.
this device really has one market …the ceo.
the platter he is serving on in this picture is a "macbook" (even though it's thinner than a magazine)
annonymouscoward reply good review overall by kac77 on tuesday, february 19, 2008 i feel the review was good overall.
the screen is identical and the footprint is virtually unchanged.
first, about the battery.
the platter  he is serving on in this picture is a "macbook" (even though it's  thinner than a magazine)
i'd call it the mac book "airhead".
the problem is that in the quest for small size and ultimate lightness, a number of sacrifices are made.
they are  designing presentations.
i think it's important  that you stress real world expectations in this situation.
as for the benchmarks, i think something  needs to be said about the differences of expectations in real world use (in  regards to the ssd vs. stock hdd argument).
this wasn’t going to be my ultimate work machine, i wasn’t going to be running photoshop on it
can you not handle two extra pounds and the oppressive thickness of the mac book?
with 3g this product really  would have made some sense.
therefore, from a real world useability standpoint, the ssd would be  much better experience, because it improves in the areas where you have high  expectations, and only falters in areas that you already have low expectations.
for the price difference between the two it  seems hard for me to justify the ssd version, though intuitively it would seem  like the advantages would be greater.
it's not supposed to be!
the mba really does require a companion pc in order to assure the buyer that he/her can reinstall the os if problems arise.
i owned a sony x505 imported from japan and it got me through my last year of college, but the keyboard was terrible to type on.
when you just scratch the surface it appears fine but when you go deeper the lack of ports, no drive, no 3g, no ethernet, (and no, being in it i am not going to have the marketing department change their own battery or hard drive)
http://www.maconair.com/next-gen_macbook_pros_to_g... is that true?
you give up performance because the cooling and power requirements of a high speed cpu just aren’t possible to satisfy given the form factor and weight requirements of an ultra portable.
when you open it up it's the same size as the rest of the mac books!
yes, it is not the most comfortable  on the eyes or the hands...
what if i want to use some  optical media on a train/bus/plane?
i transferred files to and from  via usb drives, logging onto the network, installing software which was apart  of the class.
does the air suffer this same fate?
you said that you noticed everything starting/working quicker w/the ssd, but the benchmarks showed that in write situations, it showed an obvious disadvantage.
i was dissappointed in the lack of a mention  of windows on the mba.
terms, conditions and privacy information.
the start of the review comes off as a bit too  pro-apple.
by macthespoon on saturday, february 16, 2008 thanks  very much, this was a really comprehensive, excellent review!
most likely you are going to want to put some music on your computer, or just sync those files that you need for work.
by pink78 on friday, april 11, 2008 i've heared that next-gen macbook pros are to recieve the multitouch trackpad: http://www.maconair.com/next-gen_macbook_pros_to_g...">
if you look at the weight of a textbook and remember how much you hated lugging that around in school, you’ll understand how even a 1 pound difference in notebook weight can make a big difference.
the argument to looking forward where all information is on a network somewhere or at home would have held some weight.
i think it's important that you stress real world expectations in this situation.
writing normal sentences wasn’t a problem, it’s the punctuation that really threw me off.
audio 1 x mini-dvi 1 x audio 1 x dual-link dvi battery 37whr 55whr
the start of the review comes off as a bit too pro-apple.
i also  wonder if the type of ssd makes a difference?
as a  thin laptop it's a failure!
this thing has to feel small in your hands when carrying it around, it has to feel just as natural and painless as carrying a paper notebook around.
i have a need to run windows regularly.
it's a niche product, well what niche is that??
copyright © 1997-2012 anandtech, inc.
with that pesky dtr out of the way, let’s get to know the air a bit better.
finally what wasn’t touched on at all, transferring files from the host  pc.
that link didn't seem to take, so let's just try this:
but when you go deeper the lack of ports, no drive, no 3g, no ethernet, (and  no, being in it i am not going to have the marketing department change their  own battery or hard drive)
i've heard great things about runcore ssd which has some really good pricing here - but if i end up dropping that kind of coin for moderately better performance, i don't think i'd be too happy.
issues final words print this article 42 comments view all comments post a comment hmmm... by bsozak on monday, january 18, 2010 for the price difference between the two it seems hard for me to justify the ssd version, though intuitively it would seem like the advantages would be greater.
people, people, people!
does the drive sharing work?
you said that you noticed  everything starting/working quicker w/the ssd, but the benchmarks showed that  in write situations, it showed an obvious disadvantage.
traveling managers (marketing or sales i presume) these people use their laptops even more than college people do.
some weren’t even able to complete the process without using the ethernet dongle.
all three of these tests are heavily  read reliant with almost no writing.
by steveyballmer on tuesday, july 08, 2008 it is amazing to me that so many people can't seem to see through the steve jobs reality distortion field!
one of my biggest complaints about my 700m is the cramped keyboard.
you *want* a program to start up at the snap of your fingers, but you *expect* saves/exports/transfers to take a long time.
bsozak reply re: hmmm... by bsozak on monday, january 18, 2010
many consider apple to be a leader in the computing world, but in many ways it is an attentive follower.
by redwolf on thursday,  february 21, 2008
redwolf reply 1 button by  annonymouscoward on tuesday, february 19, 2008 1 button trackpad?
bsozak reply re: hmmm... by bsozak on monday, january 18,  2010
my dell inspiron 700m is getting a bit old and i'm looking for a replacement.
in order to keep power consumption down, smaller screens with cramped resolutions are the norm in the ultra portable space.
the asus eee can operate as an extension of your desktop by allowing you to write, surf and accomplish minor tasks away from your primary machine.
sata 200gb 7200rpm sata optical drive optional external usb superdrive integrated combo drive or superdrive integrated superdrive networking 802.11a/b/g/n 802.11a/b/g/n 10/100/1000 ethernet 802.11a/b/g/n 10/100/1000 ethernet built in isight
it had a japanese key layout so some of the key labels were in the “wrong” places.
the trackpad so bright, so  screen a sound sleeper & connectivity designed for a utopian society
the superdrive installing mac os x inside the air little or no upgrade path an ipod hard drive in a mac?
expansion is an obvious problem; most of the ultra portables i’ve owned over the years didn’t have integrated optical drives, which made installing applications or just reading a disc handed to me while on the road frustratingly impossible.
back in college i needed a notebook to take to class with me that i could take notes on and email/browse with during class (not all lectures were as captivating as i’d like).
lets look at the supposed markets: college students ok the mba could possibly work it here.
will be doing power and perf comparison between the old and new configs over the coming weeks.
they are  downloading email often from remote locations so having 3g capability would be  mandatory.
i’ve heard reviews from  other sites that this process can take way more than 2.5 hours more like 5 or  more.
a friend of mine likes to call this talk a dtr, or defining the relationship.
first,  about the battery.
in many senses all i needed was a notebook-sized iphone.
the trackpad so bright, so screen a sound sleeper & connectivity designed for a utopian society
slim for uh, um, i can't think of a rhyme but if i could it would be something bad.
it's still basically the same footprint...
are you going home with it?
once again, apple is selling form over function...
apple was afraid to make  the necessary sacrifices to make a true ultra portable computer.
they are designing presentations.
when i was in college mine got a thorough work out.
once you start to go deeper the whole niche theory, or "its not made for you" aspect starts to appear rather light in common sense.
i have to plug in some stupid portable  optical drive?
and finally we have the issue of price; the culmination of all of these sacrifices is a very light weight, very portable device...that also costs a great deal of money.
however, how  many of you had two computers when at college?
i can also see it working for my wife (the primary user of our 700m).
it was quite thorough and by the end, i didn't feel the same pro-apple bias.
once you are carrying around all of  these things have you really saved any weight?
historically the ultra portable has been first and foremost, a very light notebook.
they have the iphone, we have a coffeetable!
a full size keyboard would be wonderful.
my dell inspiron 700m is getting a bit old and i'm  looking for a replacement.
usually with her it refers to something romantic but with the macbook air there are many similarities.
it was quite thorough and by the end, i didn't feel the same  pro-apple bias.
trust me on this the sales guy isn't sitting in starbucks in order to  download his/her email or work on the latest spreadsheet.
these points are what i'm talking about.
i can see the mba working for people who have the money to spend on a third computer (second laptop) and for anyone who does a lot of typing but needs a laptop that can be carried around.
i have to plug in some stupid portable optical drive?
without it the product comes off as trying to sell a drowning man a glass of  water.
the durability issue is compounded by the notebooks being very thin, which only makes them feel more likely to break.
redwolf reply 1 button by annonymouscoward on tuesday, february 19, 2008 1 button trackpad?
all in all, a very good, in-depth and objective review.
yeah, too late, clicked the wrong button :)
think about it, you are getting less for more!
at the same time, having a good keyboard, a killer form factor and keeping weight down were all more important than with a regular notebook.
60whr price $1799 $1099 $1999 it feels so good index
when you just scratch the surface it appears fine
all three of these tests are heavily read reliant with almost no writing.
i can also see it working for my wife (the primary user  of our 700m).
since the ssd takes longer to complete write projects, and therefore more energy overall to complete the process, i would be interested to see what the usage time would be if you were to script out a process that included a lot of pdf/image/file conversions/saves.
i can see  the mba working for people who have the money to spend on a third computer  (second laptop) and for anyone who does a lot of typing but needs a laptop that  can be carried around.
performance, keyboard, screen size/resolution, expansion, durability, battery life and price are all areas that you have to make sacrifices in if you want an ultra portable notebook.
"deal with it" google's motorola mobility purchase approval expected next week quick note: kodak bails on digital camera market 2/9/2012 daily hardware reviews hackers mug google's wallet app on rooted android devices google drive cloud storage service to launch "soon" lenovo announces q3 financials, posts record profit activist groups protest apple stores in name of supplier worker treatment in china toyota's 50mpg prius c hybrid to start at $18,950 twitter @marcreichman what's insane is that you can get that much compute in blades now as well @anshelsag haha
yes yes inputs 1 x usb 2.0 1 x integrated mic 2 x usb 2.0 1 x firewire 400 1 x audio in 1 x integrated mic 2 x usb 2.0 1 x firewire 400 1 x firewire 800 1 x expresscard/34 1 x audio in 1 x integrated mic outputs 1 x audio 1 x micro-dvi 1 x
login view all comments post a comment follow anandtech latest from anandtech pipeline submit news!
with a smaller screen, the keyboard that the screen covers when closed is similarly tiny.
phrozt reply mba ultraportable by totenkopf on friday, february 15, 2008 "thinner and lighter" only covers about two thirds of  ultraportable, it's still basically the same footprint...
most likely you are going to want to put some music on your computer, or  just sync those files that you need for work.
at best while on the go he’s taking notes.
at best while  on the go he’s taking notes.
ultra low voltage cpus are generally preferred here and it’s only recently that we’ve seen ultra portables really get faster than 1ghz.
macthespoon reply 3 things... by phrozt on friday, february 15, 2008 two  comments about the benchmarks, one question about the battery.
everyone says it's a niche product, well what niche is that??
that isn't convenience that's a tragedy.
everytime he gets up at one of his sissy-boy "conventions" he performs cheap magic tricks for the faithful, sometimes he even drags well meaning journalist along with him!
the mba  is a luxury.
when apple announced the macbook air, it was met with harsh criticism from many; it was almost as if the air was being treated as the next macbook pro instead of an ultra portable mac.
how does the  mba run windows in bootcamp?
a  full size keyboard would be wonderful.
that one usb would be a hindrance no matter how you look at it.
by redwolf on thursday, february 21, 2008
here's a hint: http://t.co/iv6wxn7i :) @randommegabytes the 512gb drive won't actually update to the latest firmware, but the 128/256gb drives are very quick @pmod ivb gives you the same memory bandwidth as snb, likely see ddr3-1600 in mobile @wilshipley @pmod remember with ivy bridge tdps don't actually go down, in 2013 that will change though... @wilshipley @pmod the pro won't go away entirely, but we will see a trend towards thinner notebooks in general.
that link didn't seem to take, so let's just try this: http://bit.ly/6yz3cu"> http://bit.ly/6yz3cu bsozak reply drink the koolaid children!
that's  right, you get nothing extra for your money, just the envy of other inerds.
when  i was in college mine got a thorough work out.
in addition, having 1 usb port in college would be insane.
since there isn't a express port or pcmia slot they are stuck with  wifi??
she wants something that is light and easy to carry around the house.
let me give you an example.
totenkopf reply subject comment post comment please login or register to post a comment.
user name password remember me?
everytime he gets up at one of his sissy-boy  "conventions" he performs cheap magic tricks for the faithful,  sometimes he even drags well meaning journalist along with him!
without it the product comes off as trying to sell a drowning man a glass of water.
with 3g this product really would have made some sense.
what if i want to use some optical media on a train/bus/plane?
the more you use a computer, the more your expectations change.
1 x micro-dvi 1 x audio 1 x mini-dvi 1 x audio 1 x dual-link dvi battery 37whr 55whr
they do develop creaks over time just like other notebooks, there’s just no getting around that.
my account logoff login register home about forums rss news bench galleries cpus motherboards ssd/hdd gpus mobile it/datacenter smartphones memory cases/cooling/psu(s) displays mac systems linux trade shows guides home mac the macbook air: thoroughly reviewed by anand lal shimpi on 2/13/2008 12:00:00 am posted in mac buy the hardcandy cases bsl-macair13-blk $45.38 understanding the ultra portable before we get anywhere in this review, we have to have the talk.
and to the author: describing it as a ferrari is laughable.
) nvidia geforce 8600m gt (128mb - 256mb) memory 2gb ddr2-667 (fixed) 1gb - 4gb ddr2-667 2gb - 4gb ddr2-667 hdd 80gb 1.8" hdd or 64gb 1.8" ssd 80 - 160gb 2.5" 5400rpm sata hdd 120 - 250gb 2.5" 5400rpm
i was dissappointed in the lack of a mention of windows on the mba.
i transferred files to and from via usb drives, logging onto the network, installing software which was apart of the class.
hard drive swap: diy ssd install installing the ssd macbook air performance: ssd vs. mechanical hdd
as a thin laptop it's a failure!
can you not handle two extra pounds and the oppressive thickness of the mac  book?
http://fakesteveballmer.blogspot.com"> http://fakesteveballmer.blogspot.com steveyballmer reply macbook pro touchpad?
the two pounds apple has managed to shave off and the reduction in thickness are huge, regardless of how small they may seem in numerical form.
, they completely missed the point of the ultra portable!
true, it isn't fit for use as your primary machine, but isn't it supposed to perform better than your primary machine?
if you can't afford two laptops you should get a more practical laptop and skip the mba.
this is a  person who checks email at home or in the office isn’t really going to be  accessing the vpn much from a remote location.
they are downloading email often from remote locations so having 3g capability would be mandatory.
i don't care how nice  the display looks if i'm looking at a machine with worse specs than a $700  cheaper mac book.
these two limitations generally run in contrary to one of the main uses for having an ultra portable: writing a lot becomes difficult.
true, it isn't  fit for use as your primary machine, but isn't it supposed to perform better  than your primary machine?
just how much weight would have been added to put on firewire anyway???
for this person this device makes perfect  sense but for anyone else i just don’t see it.
the overall thing with this device is
steveyballmer reply macbook pro touchpad?
once you start to go deeper the  whole niche theory, or "its not made for you" aspect starts to appear  rather light in common sense.
you *want* a program to start up  at the snap of your fingers, but you *expect* saves/exports/transfers to take a  long time.
kac77 reply great review!
he isn’t doing the presentations, someone else usually is.