western bound trains are less crowded and have an observation car with couch type seats that face ceiling to floor windows.
in the next few months, i'm going to schedule a train trip and report back here on my experience.
a great source for all sorts of information on passenger rail issues is the national association of railroad passengers ( www.narprail.org), of which i am a member.
it's expensive; so i did it in winter.
many of the seats have 110 volt outlets, so i don’t have to rely on my computer’s battery.
in the dining car, they try to seat your party with other people, to encourage socialization.
lw wherever you go, there you are
mindy, i travel by train to washington dc to visit family.
bathrooms are generally clean, but be prepared for the rare exceptions.
another cause is equipment failures, which are becoming more frequent as amtrak's equipment ages without sufficient funding for replacement.
riding with folks and splitting costs is a great option--but not always practical (i'm not sure how many of my friends would actually want to join me on a 3-day trip to western pennsylvania to visit my relatives, although my family is great!)
i met probably a third of the travelers, between the differing cars.
one time i completed a mola (only one i've ever done!)
i hope you enjoy your trip and i look forward to reading your impressions of the experience.
the most frequent direct cause is congestion of freight trains, with which amtrak must share tracks in most of the country.
i gave to a friend at one end of the trip; another, i worked on an embroidery project.
i would like to know of other scenic rides.
the freight railroads own the tracks, and although the law says they must give amtrak preference, the law is poorly enforced.
by mindy hiteshue — last modified sep 09, 2008  10:39 pm filed under: transportation with more and more of my money going to fuel, i've been trying to get a bit  more creative when traveling to nearby states.
here are some of my questions  (related to amtrak trains specifically): are train schedules fairly reliable?
i can board the train at the cary train station and travel to union station in washington, downtown and close to my family member’s office.
what are some good resources for information about trains' impact on the  environment?
riding with folks and splitting  costs is a great option--but not always practical (i'm not sure how many of my  friends would actually want to join me on a 3-day trip to western pennsylvania  to visit my relatives, although my family is great!)
is the extra time worth it, compared to driving or flying?
3) i have never gotten motion sick on a train.
coach seats recline farther and offer more legroom than any airline seat, and overnight trains offer sleeping cars (though often at a hefty premium).
parking is free at all amtrak stations in north carolina, but space may be limited since ridership has gone up.
6) coach seats are very spacious, with two seats on either side of the aisle.
on the train i have a seat that has more leg room than first class on airplanes.
hey, it's a beautiful country in winter, too!
i met european students and retired folk enjoying not driving behemoths down the freeways (before gas became prohibitive!).
air travel is ok, but, again, you've got rising fuel costs causing inflated  ticket prices, and a backed-up system that seems to always include flight  delays, long wait times on the runway, and, of course, an eternity just to get  through security.
amtrak offers some great routes to major cities in the us, and their prices  are quite good.
on several occasions i have taken amtrak from raleigh back to cary-a rather quick trip.
please check us out there!
as far as getting motion-sick, which is least offensive: flying or riding  the train?
i traveled by train from charlotte to raleigh by train with my young children (and a couple of other families) for the day just for fun--as a kind of "field trip".
and once we got to dc we didn't have to pay for parking--just walked and took the great transit (and cabs).
parking at the cary station, like the raleigh station, is free.
trains offer a very smooth ride, except in a few spots where track conditions cause bumps and jolts.
filed under: transportation
i can put my lap top computer on the fold down tray and have room to open it, unlike the situation on many airline seats.
in the next few months, i'm going to schedule a train trip and  report back here on my experience.
is there a high cost to park your car at the station?
it is more expensive than the bus, but i would rather wait inside at the raleigh train station than stand at the bus stop.
it was great fun for the adults and the children.
you can walk around freely on a train, socialize with others, and eat in the café or dining car, all of which are difficult to do on cars and airplanes.
2) i think it's worth the extra time because it's a more enjoyable ride.
the nc conservation network blog is about the issues, events, people, and news that affect north carolina’s environment...
if i could afford it, i'd take all of them, stopping to see country, family and making friends all the way across.
the trip takes about seven hours, about the same as driving if you include a few stops.
i was wondering if you wrote your book??
there is more space between each seat on overnight trains than on daytime ones, and some seats have footrests.
revitalizing intercity passenger rail and rail transit is a cause i hope the environmental movement champions to a greater degree in the coming years.
most of the time i can find an empty table (or side of a table) in the snack car, making it even more comfortable to use my computer.
amtrak allows a few open-ended stops (you can get off and back on a few days later; your choice of stops).
i can generally sleep well anywhere; this served me.
also, i recently traveled from charlotte to washington, dc for a long weekend.
i was not able to afford a sleeper car; and the seat i was assigned (yes, reserved) in the coach car was the most uncomfortable of any i have endured, including cattle car style airplanes.
i've left my car at the greensboro depot for extended periods and i've never worried about it.
train travel is a great way to travel with children (who get so restless in cars).
for now, i'd love to hear some feedback on  other people's experiences with train travel.
but don't let this discourage you: on-time performance has improved significantly over the past year and most delays are less than 2 hours.
how much room does each person have?
something i could work on and talk, watch the gorgeous scenery go by.
amtrak has refurbished the interiors of most of its fleet.
amtrak offers some great routes to major cities in the us, and their prices are quite good.
for environmental facts specifically, see this page oramtrak's travel green page.
the snack car at that time was also a smoking car; fun to hang out in, but as a non-smoker, oppressive.
i traveled alone and found it quite a social event!
for these long trips, i always took a handwork project...
the sleeping roomettes are pretty small, but i am 6 feet tall and i can fully recline in a roomette bunk.
| skip to navigation with more and more of my money going to fuel, i've been trying to get a bit more creative when traveling to nearby states.
i am checking to see if you are the malcolm who was taking amtrak and my friends & i meet you in a charming hotel when the fire alarm went off.
this trip does take longer than by car (1 full day of travel each way) and is more expensive, but the children loved being free to roam, play cards, read books, watch movies, and i read books and enjoyed the rural scenery.
air travel is ok, but, again, you've got rising fuel costs causing inflated ticket prices, and a backed-up system that seems to always include flight delays, long wait times on the runway, and, of course, an eternity just to get through security.
the scenery, the food, the service and the sleepette were wonderful!!!
it certainly beats driving.
recently, i've started seriously looking into traveling by train--it seems cheaper, it's better for the environment, and the extra time that it takes to travel that way seems worth it, just to reduce my traveling frustrations.
i am free to get up and walk at any time, very important for someone as restless as me.
travelling in the west is much different than east of chicago.
a great,fun, relaxed, and social way to see the country!
i will travel east next time.
these, as you have noted, are in the east, as well.
anyway, here are answers to your questions: 1) trains are often delayed, thanks to chronic underinvestment in passenger rail in the us.
there have been isolated reports of car windows being broken near train stations, but as long as you take the usual precautions of not leaving anything valuable in a visible spot in the car, it'll be fine.
you travel with the same passengers for days.
as of february 10, 2010, the nccn blog has moved solely to our facebook page.
moving more people and goods by rail will greatly reduce co2 emissions and engender more centralized development patterns.
i often ride the tta bus into downtown raleigh from the cary train station.
i can usually plug in my computer at the table.
i traveled a couple of times across the country by amtrak from az to ky.
so i slept, lying down, on the marginal couches of the observation car.
a number of other people did this also.
for now, i'd love to hear some feedback on other people's experiences with train travel.
it was a great amtrak ride.
are the trains clean and comfortable?
i wish the schedule for charlotte to atlanta was more optimal (currently one leg of the trip departs @ 2:00am) as i hate the car congestion of that drive especially.
east of chicago, trains were always more crowded; but still a relatively friendly mode of travel.
recently, i've started seriously looking into traveling by train--it seems  cheaper, it's better for the environment, and the extra time that it takes to  travel that way seems worth it, just to reduce my traveling frustrations.
there are 3-4 routes across the country at various latitudes.
as for your specific questions, i agree with malcolm’s reply.
i can read a book for hours on a train, whereas i start getting dizzy after 15 minutes of reading in a car or on a bus, and after about 30 minutes on a plane.
here are some of my questions (related to amtrak trains specifically): i am a frequent amtrak rider and advocate of passenger rail, as well as an active member of nc con net.
highways are mind-numbingly boring, but trains pass through beautiful rural areas, small towns, and interesting urban areas.