if you wish, use the form in the lower left hand corner of this page to send us a message.
roll over zoom - contact us - track an order - returns & exchanges
international customers will incur additional shipping charges based on  weight of the items.
if a product that you order happens to be temporarily out of stock, you will  recieve an email stating that your item is on back order.
if you wish, use the form in the lower left hand corner of this page to  send us a message.
please allow 5-10 business days from the date your order was placed.
you will be given the option of having a full refund, no questions asked.
shopping cart: home personalized clocks trains, plane & trucks blue train clock trains, plane & trucks blue train clock - description - shipping & returns - this adorable clock from olive kids popular trains, planes, trucks kids bedding collection features a fun train on a a colorful background.
international orders are shipped via usps.
you will be given the option of having a full refund, no  questions asked.
clocks - baby bedding bedding - girl baby bedding - boy baby bedding - crib sheets - baby bassinets - moses baskets - toddler chairs item(s)
description shipping & returns this adorable clock from olive kids popular trains, planes, trucks kids  bedding collection features a fun train on a a colorful background.
we promise a prompt reply.
$29.99 scroll down for related bedding, sheets & more ↓ we offer a full 30 day money back guarantee from the date that you receive  your order.
rugs - olive kids rugs meal time sets - kids plates - mealtime sets - placemats - kids clocks - clocks - personalized - non pers.
availability: all items in stock except where noted — please allow up to 14 days for shipping.
home  personalized clocks trains, plane & trucks  blue train clock trains, plane & trucks blue train clock
- shipping - int'l shipping - privacy - sitemap - resources - shopping cart
if a product that you order happens to be temporarily out of stock, you will recieve an email stating that your item is on back order.
we will ensure to the best of our ability that you receive your product in the shortest amount of time possible.
some items are made to order.
kids bedding - contact us - track order - about us - home - (800)-490-9273 - shipping: $11.99 - checkout skip navigation - girls - bedding sets - duvets covers - huggers for girls - plain sheet sets - luxury bedding - bunk beds - boys - bedding sets - duvets covers - huggers for boys - boys sheet sets - plain sheet sets - toddler bedding - room décor drawer knobs - drawer knobs - dresserz girls knobs - dresserz boys knobs - drawer pulls - wall décor - wall decals - wall borders - growth charts - framed art - framed prints pillows & rugs - plush pillows - floor pillows - kids room
- international customers will incur additional shipping charges based on weight of the items.
- please allow 5-10 business days from the date your order was placed.
- one aa battery (not included).
we will ensure to the  best of our ability that you receive your product in the shortest amount of  time possible.
if you still have unanswered questions, please do not hesitate to contact us
one aa battery (not included).
$29.99 scroll down for related bedding, sheets & more ↓ - we offer a full 30 day money back guarantee from the date that you receive your order.