the rib tops at about 30 mph, which is slower then the 2 stroke variants.
larry mccarthy michael moroney re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (19  september, 2007 19:53)  registered: 4 years ago posts: 72 i wish to confirm dave's comments in this instance , last  sunday there were indeed 4 not 3 speed boats in the inner lake between  quigleys and portaneena playing chicken as he described it , c. 2.30-2.45  pm circling each other in a dangerous series of manouvres at speed,not  only that some of the occupants were small children and not all of them
these unthinking people are behaving irresponsibly endangering the lives  of innocent people both those in the speed boats but also that of other  water users (ie fishermen & boaters) in their vicinity .
registered: 4 years ago posts: 10 surely the key issue is mandatory 3rd party insurance.
even then, the response may be inaccurate, misleading ...
this forum is provided as a service by iwai to its members and others interested in the development and use of of our waterways.
forum  list message list mark maguire legally train u16s to drive a  rib or dingy - (16 september, 2007 04:02)
information provided above may be out of date,  inaccurate, misleading, incorrect, dangerous or otherwise usless!
even then, the response may be  inaccurate, misleading ...
as a voluntary organisation, we are always happy to welcome new members or receive donations.
paddy mackey re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (20 september, 2007 04:28) registered: 4 years ago posts: 533 hi mark and dave, i'm just seeking clarification here - are you both arguing that there should be no age limit or that the age limit should be 15?
the iwai forum is powered by software from phorum
the views expressed in the above message are not necessarily the official policy or comment of the inland waterways association of ireland and are personal to the sender of the above message only, unless otherwise stated.
i  have a big issue with age limits , three years ago or whenever it was perfectly legal for 15 year olds to drive this kit, suddenly its not, the issue isnt age its competence.
each boat had between 2-4  occupants, a receipe for a disaster and a subsequent clampdown in my view.
home | search | about iwai | join the iwai | news and events | faq | sitemap | site contents + about iwai + iwai branches - about iwai - join iwai or renew membership - iwai branches & officers - press releases - iwai policies - recent activities - meeting reports - iwai magazine inland waterways news - boating & leisure committee - heritage committee - administrative policies & procedures - iwai history - iwai former officers + waterways of ireland - athlone - barrow - belturbet - boyle river - boyne navigation - carrick-on-shannon - coalisland - corrib - cruising club - dublin - lough derg - lough erne - kildare - lagan - newry - north barrow - offaly - shannon harbour - slaney - river bann & lough neagh + news and events - all navigable waterways - river bann & lough neagh - erne navigation - shannon navigation - shannon-erne waterway - corrib navigation - royal canal - grand canal - barrow navigation - nore - suir - slaney - closed navigations - ulster canal - others - publications: books, charts etc.
e.g. 6-ish metres with twin 150hp honda 4 stroke ( quite a heavy engine in itself )
dave larrymccarthy re: legally train u16s to drive a  rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 17:55)  registered: 4 years ago posts: 10 surely the key issue is mandatory 3rd party insurance.
very important note:
- rent a waterside house/apartment - day trips + water safety + waterside activities - pamphlets - rescue groups - boating blunders - oops!
e.g. 6-ish metres with twin  150hp honda 4 stroke ( quite a heavy engine in itself )
information is provided by  iwai in good faith.
website feedback, errors, corrections etc. are always  welcome.
i witness on sunday , three very fast speedboats, with very loud and obviously powerful petrol engines, play "chicken" and endlessy circle and cut accross each other bows at high speed near the lakeside recently.
would specing the  rib with a 30 or 20hp make me any more "responsible".
hooted to show our displeasure at their behaviour !!!
these posts likely contain out-of-date information.
i have noticed a trend ever since the celtic tiger started to get his water wings, of over powered ribs of all sizes.
that's a matter of choice obviously but  depending on the requirements and competency of all the potential  operators, on balance i would say yes all the best....
if the  operator is aware of the excessive power and uses it appropriately ok, but in a lot of cases these boats are pushed to the limit most of the time ( or until the operator has his/her near death experience )
rent a cruiser on-line shannon/erne charts rent a barge rent for a day photo gallery the shannon navigation wateride walks the iwai shop credits & copyrights © 1998-2008 iwai all rights reserved
i think it's irresponsible for someone to spec a  craft like this.
this is an archive - these posts likely contain  out-of-date-information all content is copyright © the inland waterways association of ireland  - all rights reserved.
i would argue that the examiner who issues the powerboat cert should be the decider, that person may feel a certain 12 year old has a better grasp of the issues then a 15 year old.
dave newer topic older topic print view note:
this archive was auto-generated from emails - its also possible that important information may not have been transfered into the archive.
in  many cases i suspect it would force many of the owners into having to  obtain the necessary training.
and yes its on my davits, though let me tell you anyone with davits carrying 40hp enginess are in the minority.
that's a matter of choice obviously but depending on the requirements and competency of all the potential operators, on balance i would say yes all the best....
dave mark maguire re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 00:08) registered: 4 years ago posts: 78 dave >>>i have a big issue with age limits , three years ago or whenever it was perfectly legal for 15 year olds to drive this kit, suddenly its not, the issue isnt
dave mark maguire re: legally  train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 00:08)   registered: 4 years ago posts: 78 dave >>>i have a big  issue with age limits , three years ago or whenever it was perfectly  legal for 15 year olds to drive this kit, suddenly its not, the issue isnt  age its competence.
+ buy a boat, chandlery, ... - upcoming events - waterways news - navigation notices/warnings - long-standing navigational snags/issues - iwai magazine inland waterways news + services for boat owners - buying a boat - buying chandlery - buying a lifejacket - boat surveyors - boat insurance - boat transporters - boating code of conduct - fast craft - code of conduct - inland marinas & moorings - boating education - bringing a boat to ireland - living aboard + boating information - boat surveyors - boat insurance - boat repairs - marine mechanics - marine electricians - boat transporters - inland marinas & moorings - boating education - bringing a boat to ireland - boating code of conduct - fast craft - code of conduct - regualtions on cordage/warps/ropes - navigation notices/warnings, news and events - long-standing navigation snags/issues - weather - vhf radio - gps in ireland - on-line charts (maps) - publications: books, charts etc.
mike mike moroney ( moroneymf[ag]eircom.net )
- view on-line charts - regualtions on cordage/warps/ropes - navigation notices/warnings, news and events - long-standing navigation snags/issues - weather - boating articles from iwn magazine - vhf radio - gps in ireland - waterways heritage articles - heritage boats & historical interest - boats of the irish waterways - travelogues and personal pages - useful knots - living aboard - boating code of conduct - fast craft - code of conduct + charts, books, guides, ...
if in doubt, ask again by  posting your own request to the live forum.
i have  noticed a trend ever since the celtic tiger started to get his water wings, of over powered ribs of all sizes.
site development team iwai backoffice iwai officer's webmail home > waterways general discussion archive > topic advanced legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy posted by mark maguire
under the command of someone of your considerable experience, no problem :-)
>>>surely better to facilitate  training youngsters rather than pretend it >>>doesn't happen
mark maguire 087-2528845 056-7706720 rescuewatercraft[ag]eircom.net www.loughderglifeboat.com
alternatively, you can donate by laser, credit card or paypal if you're feeling generous or appreciative.
you canjoin on-line today.
topic advanced legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy posted by mark  maguire this forum is an archive.
mark  maguire rescuewatercraft[ag]eircom.net www.loughderglifeboat.com dave mccabe re: legally train u16s  to drive a rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 17:21)  registered: 4  years ago posts: 1,461 sure i agree , the issue isnt the spec  of the rib, more the incompetence of the owner.
the previous situation was that there  was no lower age at all.
- buying a lifejacket - checking a lifejacket - repairing a lifejacket - boating code of conduct - boating education - certificate of competency - boat surveyors - iwai shop - waterside walks - keep the children happy - waterside restaurants - angling/fishing - nature - official - discussion forum - photo gallery - opinion polls - friends of the ulster canal + links to agencies, clubs etc.
the previous situation was that there was no lower age at all.
buy a boat books, charts, guides, ...
rescuewatercraft[ag]eircom.net www.loughderglifeboat.com
the rib tops at about 30 mph,  which is slower then the 2 stroke variants.
the same things exists on  the road as well.
you can go down to 3.5 hp and still plane some of these craft.
each boat had between 2-4 occupants, a receipe for a disaster and a subsequent clampdown in my view.
>>>surely better to facilitate training youngsters rather than pretend it >>>doesn't happen cause it's not allowed.
to a previous poster, mandatory insurance is not a way of  improving standards, its merely a way of driving up the cost of insurance.
the same things exists on the road as well.
( this rib has been used in the irish sea as  well).
the mistake in my opinion was to overlook  certification as a way around teh problem, rather then just a simple age  mechanism.
the 'waterways ireland' patrol boat can not be everywhere but something must be done about this type of behaviour before its too late .
and yes its on my davits, though let me tell you anyone with davits  carrying 40hp enginess are in the minority.
dave >>>as an owner of a 3.9metre rib  with a 40hp yamaha, what exactly is "irresponsible".
it frightens me to see 3.5-ish ribs ( davit friendly ) powered by up to 40 hp outboards.
this forum is provided as a service by iwai to its members and others  interested in the development and use of of our waterways.
this archive  was auto-generated from emails - its also possible that important information  may not have been transfered into the archive.
+ rent a boat / boat hire - books, guides - charts - official reports - get charts and books from the iwai shop - day trips - all rentals - rent a barge - rent a cruiser - rent a canoe - rent for a day - rent a sailing boat - managed boating hlidays (hotel boat, canoes etc.)
registered: 4 years ago posts: 1,461 sure i agree , the issue isnt the spec of the rib, more the incompetence of the owner.
larry mccarthy michael moroney re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (19 september, 2007 19:53)
the engine is  within the specs of the boat.
the views expressed  in the above message are not necessarily the official policy or comment of the  inland waterways association of ireland and are personal to the sender of the  above message only, unless otherwise stated.
this is an archive - these posts likely contain out-of-date-information all content is copyright © the inland waterways association of ireland - all rights reserved.
dave mccabe re: legally train u16s  to drive a rib or dingy - (17 september, 2007 10:30)  registered: 4  years ago posts: 1,461 as an owner of a 3.9metre rib with a  40hp yamaha, what exactly is "irresponsible".
dave >>>would specing the rib with a 30 or 20hp make me any more "responsible".
the  'waterways ireland' patrol boat can not be everywhere but something must be done about this type of behaviour before its too late .
dave >>>as an owner of a 3.9metre rib with a 40hp yamaha, what exactly is "irresponsible".
see above for a link to the active forum.
information provided above may be out of date, inaccurate, misleading, incorrect, dangerous or otherwise usless!
it frightens me to see 3.5-ish ribs ( davit friendly ) powered by up  to 40 hp outboards.
we were  coming in slowly and these idiots were cutting across our bows at speed i  hooted to show our displeasure at their behaviour !!!
paddy mackey re:  legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (20 september, 2007 04:28)  registered: 4 years ago posts: 533 i'm  just seeking clarification here - are you both arguing that there should be no age limit or that the age limit should be 15?
as a voluntary organisation, we are always happy to welcome new  members or receive donations.
i witness on sunday , three very fast speedboats,  with very loud and obviously powerful petrol engines, play  "chicken" and endlessy circle and cut accross each other bows at  high speed near the lakeside recently.
website feedback, errors, corrections etc. are always welcome.
paddy dave mccabe re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (20  september, 2007 10:16)  registered: 4 years ago posts: 1,461 i  would argue that the examiner who issues the powerboat cert should be the decider, that person may feel a certain 12 year old has a better grasp of the issues then a 15 year old.
alternatively, you can  donate by laser, credit card or paypal if you're feeling generous or  appreciative.
registered: 4 years ago posts: 78 >>>even a 3.5m inflatable with a 15hp motor will plane.
these posts likely contain  out-of-date information.
where errors or inaccuracies  occur, we will endeavour to correct these as early as practicable afterwe are  notified.
- faq - government agencies/bodies, etc. - international & overseas agencies & similar - clubs and voluntary organisations - irish waterways portals - overseas portals - irish community sites and community organisations + about this website - iwai sitemap - site development team - advertise on this website - recent updates - join our waterways discussion forum - receive news updates - other languages most popular iwai news & diary of events chandlery /
the engine is within the specs of the boat.
( god knows theres enough incompetent adults around ).
information is provided by iwai in good faith.
dave mccabe re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (17 september, 2007 10:30)
registered: 4 years ago posts: 78 >>>even a 3.5m inflatable with a 15hp motor will  plane.
i think it's irresponsible for someone to spec a craft like this.
had life jackets on either - it's an accident waiting to happen only it  will not be an accident - such an event implies the element of chance -  being in the wrong place at the wrong time - this will not be the case in  these situations it is reckless behaviour akin to dangerous driving .
dave larrymccarthy re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 17:55)
in many cases i suspect it would force many of the owners into having to obtain the necessary training.
dave mccabe re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (18 september, 2007 17:21)
registered: 4 years ago posts: 72 hi list, i wish to confirm dave's comments in this instance , last sunday there were indeed 4 not 3 speed boats in the inner lake between quigleys and portaneena playing chicken as he described it , c. 2.30-2.45 pm circling each other in a dangerous series of manouvres at speed,not only that some of the occupants were small children and not all of them had life jackets on either - it's an accident waiting to happen only it will not be an accident - such an event implies the element of chance - being in the wrong place at the wrong time - this will not be the case in these situations it is reckless behaviour akin to dangerous driving .
if the operator is aware of the excessive power and uses it appropriately ok, but in a lot of cases these boats are pushed to the limit most of the time ( or until the operator has his/her near death experience )
we were coming in slowly and these idiots were cutting across our bows at speed i
this forum is an archive.
these unthinking people are behaving irresponsibly endangering the lives of innocent people both those in the speed boats but also that of other water users (ie fishermen & boaters) in their vicinity .
( this rib has been used in the irish sea as well).
would specing the rib with a 30 or 20hp make me any more "responsible".
cause it's not allowed.
if in doubt, ask again by posting your own request to the live forum.
i have a big issue with age limits , three years ago or whenever it was perfectly legal for 15 year olds to drive this kit, suddenly its not, the issue isnt age its competence.
home > waterways  general discussion archive >
however in novice/newbie hands potentially lethal.
where errors or inaccuracies occur, we will endeavour to correct these as early as practicable afterwe are notified.
registered: 4 years ago posts: 1,461 as an owner of a 3.9metre rib with a 40hp yamaha, what exactly is "irresponsible".
the mistake in my opinion was to overlook certification as a way around teh problem, rather then just a simple age mechanism.
paddy dave mccabe re: legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (20 september, 2007 10:16) registered: 4 years ago posts: 1,461
forum list message list mark maguire legally train u16s to drive a rib or dingy - (16 september, 2007 04:02)
to a previous poster, mandatory insurance is not a way of improving standards, its merely a way of driving up the cost of insurance.