if you are on  a tight budget, you can buy perfectly good ones in india in most places for rs  120 or so (about $3).
hopefully you will have left all of your valuables like passport, plane tickets, and most of your cash with the parikrama organisers for safe keeping at the beginning of the parikrama.
please check back before you leave to see what further information has been added with the help of others.
a black or a dark color is best.
mosquito repellent repellents containing deet such  as cutters or deep woods off in a spray can are the most useful.
a 24 exposure roll  of kodak (made in usa)
this way you're not all mental about wrecking your cloth by paying obeisances in the dust.
digital is better than analogue (tick tick tick) since the clock is going to be about a foot from your head most of the time.
there are a whole range of repellent products discussed here.
for the same reason, two small bags are preferable to one large bag.
one bottle has enough  permethrin to treat several nets and each treatment lasts for six months or  until you wash the net.
band aids (plasters) indian bandaids (plasters) are straight from the 1940's and not "ouchless" when you take them off.
normally, the left hand is not used at all at the time of eating, so it stays clean for collecting your belongings, opening doors, turning on faucets, etc.
some  say i am over-prepared.
for those who lack dexterity or cultural flexibility, use of a spoon is  permitted but the right hand still must be washed after eating and is  considered unclean until then.
keep one set with your luggage separate from your passport and plane tickets.
the first line of  defence against infection from cuts that in the west would never become  infected.
it's a very compact and light bag and may be  good for a train trip, especially in an ac coach, which tends to be too cold at  times.
the gamsha used to dry  is used to wash next time.
washing powder save an empty film canister and put a  little laundry powder in it for plate washing after meals.
mark dhotis in a corner and turn  kurtas inside-out and mark the pockets on the inside.
it does not feel as confining as the bed-tent and it works fine against  mosquitoes so long as you are not too tall.
the recombo feature is handy so that you can change combos when you change roommates.
again, the cheaper, the better.
for the bed-tent there is a permethrin spray which does the same thing.
the hotel phone numbers are more  current in this guide than inspiritual guides.
socks are optional because they get dirty just about instantly and are hard to  wash by hand (even with thelaundry brush), so you might only want to wear them  while sleeping e specially if you are planning to sleep in a tent.
you will need some string to set it up, so bring some with you.
this one has most of the extra features you will need  including tweezers and is similar to the one i used for years.
it comes in a one or two person size.
this is the tried and truecasio f-91w, which is pretty much the bottom of the casio line.
it has a special formula that  doesn't soak into your skin (much) and is highly effective when applied to bare  skin on the neck and hands.
both are inexpensive, easy to find, and easy to clean.
here's the whole list with hyperlinks to the particular item.
feminine hygiene supplies
the most popular-sized hard suitcases barely fit under the seats on the train.
it is used for bathing and in india especially, one should always bathe clothed.
a new gamsha will "bleed" color for a long time when used or washed, so be careful not to wash it with your other cloth.
these are  a bit longer than bed-sized (9 inches longer) which is a problem if you  actually want to use it on a bed (in a hotel in delhi or somewhere)
inexpensive wristwatch.
(you have to wash your hands if you do this).
it might be a bit warmer than the other models, but it has proven to  be the most popular with devotees and is recommended.
many practical and useful tips and information  about many temples and places in india not found in other travel guides.
hair brush or comb fingernail clippers (don't carry on the airplane) nail file (don't carry on the airplane) tweezers (don't carry on the airplane)
please  check back before you leave to see what further information has been added with  the help of others.
metal dinner plate and cup (thali and lota) a thali is a round plate with about one inch tall sides.
the hotel phone numbers are more current in this guide than inspiritual guides.
a 24 exposure roll of kodak (made in usa) asa 100 only costs about $2.40 in india.
i can't say for sure it is as good or not.
kaopectate or pepto-bismol tablets good for  soothing the travel weary tummy or for a moderate case of the runs especially  if taken before meals.
but  advantageous if you're taller than about 5 feet 10 inches.
this one has most of the extra features you will need including tweezers and is similar to the one i used for years.
a little hindi goes a long way and the  indian people always appreciate the effort.
sometimes called flip-flops.
if your  visa is valid for more than six months you are supposed to register with the  foreigner registration office, which is located in mathura within two weeks of  arriving in india, though you can probably get by without doing this if you are  only visiting india for a month.
there are two basic styles of freestanding mosquito nets, one has a floor and a zipper and the other doesn't.
obviously you can just was easily buy these in india (no, really?)
the advantage of a sport duffel bag  is that getting things out of it is easier than a top-loading bag (pictured).
plastic bucket and lota
the advantage of the straps is that you can wear it like a backpack  instead of carrying it though it had a handle if you want to do that.
the third set is  for the parikrama registration formalities.
it comes in a choice of  regular and fine mesh.
ibuprofen are useful for refreshing your  eyes if they get sore from travelling or the sun.
if you click on the pictures below, (usually) you will come to the web sites of one of the places that sell these items online and ship them directly to your door in the usa, mainly cvs pharmacy, ems sports, walmart and k-mart.
you may not have to register if you have a  multiple entry tourist visa and leave india within 180 days.
you can get them replaced pretty cheaply in india, so it might be a good idea to bring a copy of your prescription.
for the real renunciate there is the genuine indian woven plastic sleeping pad which can be bought in the market for about rs30.
useless not secure at all.
at the cloth  shop light chaddar this is really optional at is it likely  to be warm (or even hot) during the parikrama, even at night.
no key to carry around  and lose.
the primary advantage in eating  with your fingers is that it is impossible to burn your mouth (you burn your  fingers instead).
laundry line if you didn't bring one, plastic rope is sold by the meter.
there is a different two-person model on offerhere which might be a good choice.
my new knife has computer tools built into it but costs a lot more than this one.
see thehealth page for more about this.
heavy duty cable-type chain
sells for £1 at the pound land stores in  england.
you might be better off with awool chaddar or simply a sheet or dhoti.
they are a bit pricey, starting at $50 and ranging up to $110.
if applicable: prescription medication or c and b12 zip-lock bags  anti-fungal cream camping store a daypack or shoulder bag self inflating mattress waist pack sleeping bag small pillow camping flashlight (torch) something for  soothing mosquito bites permethrin mosquito net dip duffel bag optional heavy duty lock cable chain plastic coated steel laundry line things to buy in india bottled water cheap slip-on sandals
many practical and useful tips and information about many temples and places in india not found in other travel guides.
zip-lock bags useful for bringing home mahaprasad from the dham, also for protecting papers and carrying laundry powder.
permethrin mosquito net dip permethrin mosquito repellent dip repels mosquitoes that would like to bite you through your net or tent.
if you plan to make any train journeys in india, this is useful with your lock (above) for securing your luggage under the seat of the train.
one bottle has enough permethrin to treat several nets and each treatment lasts for six months or until you wash the net.
i would suggest bringing three sets.
electronic ones that are easy to read and don't contain mercury have come way down in price.
more information and names of additional places to buy the book are available on theirwebsite.
i usually have about twenty, because a few will  invariably go missing.
note: in india, practically everyone eats with their fingers, and using the right hand only.
i have used this for the past two years and it worked really well.
the first thing is your  shoes, the second is your watch.
teva or reef sandals plain black don't seem to get  stolen.
sleeping bag (it is highly unlikely that you will be needing a sleeping bag in the  navadvipa parikrama at the end of march, which is just before summer sets in.
if the seal is broken, hand it back and ask for another bottle.
this model is called the bed-tent, and is bed-sized, but can be used on the floor or even outdoors.
it also has mosquito-proof fabric at the base which prevents you  from getting bitten through the net (especially on the feet, knees, elbows, and  especially the knuckles.
it also does not look flashy and has the possibility of locking using a large luggage lock or small padlock at the top.
for cleaning  feet and hand-washing clothes .
i've always found it in good outdoor shops sunglasses laundry clips (pegs)
small folding umbrella keeps off the sun as well as the rain.
it might be a bit warmer than the other models, but it has proven to be the most popular with devotees and is recommended.
there is a different two-person  model on offerhere which might be a good choice.
they dry faster if you hang them up this way as well.
i suggest bringing a spray can for spaying on clothing such as a chaddar and socks and (if you can find it) a bottle of non-deet repellent
actually, anyone who sleeps on their back must snore, it's an  anatomical certainty.
this page is subject to further revision and update.
they have shock corded poles, which add a bit to the  weight, 22 ounces instead of 16, but are well worth it.
optional lonely planet - india (isbn 1864502460) worth considering, especially if you can't lay your hands on a copy ofspiritual guides (above).
gamshas are not "color-fast".
you can get them replaced pretty cheaply in india, so it might be a  good idea to bring a copy of your prescription.
it also  does not look flashy and has the possibility of locking using a large luggage  lock or small padlock at the top.
once you've gotten your india visa, you should make three copies each  of the photo page (the inside cover which has the passport number and photo)  and the page that has the india visa.
you can visit a barber before you leave and they can give you a haircut as well for about rs13 (25 cents).
it's a very compact and light bag and may be good for a train trip, especially in an ac coach, which tends to be too cold at times.
anti-fungal cream useful for clearing up fungal infections  especially on the feet.
though most medicines are available in india (usually  far less costly than in the west) if you are taking any prescription medicine,  be sure to bring an adequate supply for your stay in india.
i've tried to make this shopping business less laborious.
laundry bag an extra pillowcase works fine for this.
if you want to do this.
unlike the bed-tent it comes in a choice of regular and fine mesh.
benadryl and caladryl cream are sometimes effective as well.
sells for £1 at the pound land stores in england.
alternatively, in vrindaban, the shops in loi bazaar sell good cloth  shoulder bags (sastra bags) which are good for carrying your note book, water  bottles, etc.
but second  best is to have unattractive sandals, well broken in, and a cheap watch.
it is possible to buy things there now that you  couldn't buy five years ago, especially in mathura, vrindaban, and the touristy  areas of new delhi.
the advantage of a sport duffel bag is that getting things out of it is easier than a top-loading bag (pictured).
you should never carry your shoes in such a bag however because they are considered dirty.
so you know how it works.
if your visa is valid for more than six months you are supposed to register with the foreigner registration office, which is located in mathura within two weeks of arriving in india, though you can probably get by without doing this if you are only visiting india for a month.
when prasadam is served on the parikrama,  there is usually nowhere to wash your hands before taking prasadam.
camera batteries flash photography really runs them  down quickly.
cheap bags that you can find for  $25 in discount stores are likely to be much heavier and bulkier, but if you  want to save some money those might be worth considering.
soft bags are  preferable to hard suitcases especially for traveling by train.
eveready camping flashlight (torch)
self inflating mattress staying at a dharamsala means  sleeping on concrete.
when the batteries are fresh,  this casts a very bright beam, however it goes through batteries quickly (takes  four aa's) so bring extras.
converts from a flashlight (torch) to a lantern.
be sure to pack it with your checked-in luggage.
besidesk-mart, one place that seems to have decent luggage-quality (i.e. more expensive) sport duffel bags isebags.
with any footwear, it is wise to separate them when you take them off which makes it hard for anyone to mistakenly take them or steal them.
once you've gotten your india visa, you should make three copies each of the photo page (the inside cover which has the passport number and photo) and the page that has the india visa.
edition by kishore krishna dasa (updated bythis e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
if you want to come prepared, you can buy them at k-mart for about $8.
what to bring to india vraja mandala parikrama 2009 edition by kishore krishna dasa  (updated bythis e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
obviously you can  just was easily buy these in india (no, really?)
it has a  little zippered expansion panel at the foot end which accommodates taller  devotees.
be sure to  pack it with your checked-in luggage.
it is used for  bathing and in india especially, one should always bathe clothed.
larger bottles are now available, though sometimes with a returnable deposit.
recommended reading rough guide  hindi (and urdu) phrasebook (isbn: 185828922x ) full of very practical  and useful dialogue examples and tips.
i can't  say for sure it is as good or not.
you may need to call  around for this one.
a gamsha  is a thin, plaid (usually) cloth that is generally knee length.
sometimes shops give a discount for processing film bought from them.
the wooden ones are  better than the plastic ones.
i have used  this for the past two years and it worked really well.
optional - mosquito net
i'd welcome some feedback on this section.
deet  is a heavy chemical, and should not be applied directly to the skin if possible.
it used to come in a  two-person model, but that one is discontinued.
even  though they are discontinued, they may still have some.
note: in india, practically everyone eats with their fingers, and
at the chemist (that's what the pharmacy is called) anti-malaria medicine
the most practical solution for  carrying all of your necessary articles to and from india.
you may need to call around for this one.
waist pack or money belt the smaller and plainer the  better.
in bengal they sell the same style favored by devotees.
cheap bags that you can find for $25 in discount stores are likely to be much heavier and bulkier, but if you want to save some money those might be worth considering.
a plastic lota looks like a measuring cup.
electronic ones that are easy to read and  don't contain mercury have come way down in price.
be sure to clean  under your finger nails).
box of wash-and-dry or alcohol wipes useful for hand  washing hands and under the fingernails before eating or after using the  toilet.
even though they are discontinued, they may still have some.
very handy for the parikrama.
this is mainly a problem in hot weather (gour mandal  parikrama).
sorry, this picture is not clickable.
this way you're not all  mental about wrecking your cloth by paying obeisances in the dust.
it does not feel as confining as the bed-tent and it works fine against mosquitoes so long as you are not too tall.
prescription medication though most medicines are available in india (usually far less costly than in the west) if you are taking any prescription medicine, be sure to bring an adequate supply for your stay in india.
some will not fit at all.
you can visit a barber before you leave and  they can give you a haircut as well for about rs13 (25 cents).
i usually have about twenty, because a few will invariably go missing.
thermarest mattresses have been around for decades and are simply the best and are guaranteed for life.
petroleum jelly applied to feet (after washing, especially before bedtime) it helps prevent cracks.
items which are optional are on the optional list.
anti-fungal cream useful for clearing up fungal infections especially on the feet.
this is an item you might pick up used on ebay or in a  classified advert and it's machine washable.
it only comes in one mesh type, fine mesh, and a floor which keeps  out everything including bed-bugs (sometimes a problem in hotels and in  dharmsalas with beds, but not on the parikrama).
toothbrush bring your own if you can't bear the thought of using crest or colgate.
pumice stone good for buffing off calluses,  especially on the heel, otherwise after a while they crack, which is painful.
washcloth it's quite important to keep your skin clean in india, and washing diligently with soap and a washcloth may help avoidboils and help them from spreading if you are unlucky enough to get one.
you may not have to register if you have a multiple entry tourist visa and leave india within 180 days.
good for spotting marauding mosquitoes inside your net/tent and very handy for the toilet and shower which seem to be popular targets for light bulb thieves.
things to get when in india
in navadwip dham, there is a yet another type of gamsha which is ankle length and has a larger plaid pattern.
good for carrying your rupees, swiss army knife, bandaids, alcohol  wipes, etc.
reefs are hard to find in stores (or out of season) and these seem to have been discontinued altogether.
they dry faster if you  hang them up this way as well.
this is mainly a problem in hot weather (gour mandal parikrama).
a  sheet or a chaddar will certainly suffice.)
larger bottles  are now available, though sometimes with a returnable deposit.
at a camping store daypack or shoulder bag
keep one set with  your luggage separate from your passport and plane tickets.
but second best is to have unattractive sandals, well broken in, and a cheap watch.
waist pack or money belt the smaller and plainer the better.
some devotees swear by tea tree oil and other non-deet repellents.
be sure to clean under your finger nails).
a sheet or a chaddar will certainly suffice.)
if you want to skip shaving  altogether, fine.
available in many discount, hardware, and  camping stores.
at the cloth shop light chaddar this is really optional at is it likely to be warm (or even hot) during the parikrama, even at night.
you will want to take some precautions against being bitten through the net.
the filling is thinsulate® which is something you might  look for in another bag.
bottled water all real bottled water has a  tamper-evident neck seal that breaks when you open it.
the gamsha used to dry is used to wash next time.
i have tried incorporate only the most practical and useful items on this list.
petroleum jelly applied to feet (after washing,  especially before bedtime) it helps prevent cracks.
in hindi it's called a "macchar  dhani".
the cheaper the better.
carrying those things around will just leave you in needless anxiety, and every year devotees who don't heed this advice end up trooping off to delhi to try to get them replaced.
the ones i foundonline are already "broken in" (by the korean army no less) and only cost $7.
these are often sold on the street, and are mainly worn by muslims, so are best avoided.
costs about $14 at home  depot sku: #424250 best same as 155 but more secure.
besidesk-mart, one place that seems to have decent luggage-quality (i.e.  more expensive) sport duffel bags isebags.
for keeping the sun off.
laundry marker pen parikrama is like a trip to summer camp.
mark dhotis in a corner and turn kurtas inside-out and mark the pockets on the inside.
asa 100 only costs about $2.40 in india.
stationery items stationery items notebook and pen a small notebook, blank book, or diary will be useful for taking notes.
when prasadam is served on the parikrama, there is usually nowhere to wash your hands before taking prasadam.
you should never carry your shoes in such a bag however because  they are considered dirty.
if you want to come  prepared, you can buy them at k-mart for about $8.
according to several leading india guides, ladies should bring an adequate supply from home to avoid disappointment with indian products.
i  haven't seen any small pillows in india, only huge hard foam slabs
it is possible to buy things there now that you couldn't buy five years ago, especially in mathura, vrindaban, and the touristy areas of new delhi.
more  information and names of additional places to buy the book are available on  theirwebsite.
reefs are hard to find in stores (or out of season) and these seem to have  been discontinued altogether.
carrying those things around will  just leave you in needless anxiety, and every year devotees who don't heed this  advice end up trooping off to delhi to try to get them replaced.
it has shock corded poles and is easy to setup and take down.
i like the reefs, because they are cheaper than the tevas, plus the  back strap is velcro and comes off completely.
this list was created with  the help of brahma muhurta dasa (acbsp) an india veteran, and has been refined  over the last five years or so and has been useful to many devotees, so they  tell me anyway… i used to be a boy scout, and their motto is "be prepared".
this makes it very convenient to  step in and out of your sandals to pay obeisances and enter temples without  touching your shoes.
for cleaning feet and hand-washing clothes .
permethrin  mosquito net dip permethrin mosquito repellent dip repels  mosquitoes that would like to bite you through your net or tent.
if you are joining the parikrama in a small town like varsana, it would be a good idea to bring one with you.
my new knife has  computer tools built into it but costs a lot more than this one.
genuine swiss army knife
time was that eating with a spoon was frowned upon, but they seem to have gotten over it.
here is a list of  articles that i have found useful to bring to india.
check the seal before you pay.
costs about $14 at home depot sku: #424250 best master model 177d same as 155 but more secure.
i have tried incorporate only the most practical and  useful items on this list.
these are a bit longer than bed-sized (9 inches longer) which is a problem if you actually want to use it on a bed (in a hotel in delhi or somewhere)
they come in single and double sizes.
the third set is for the parikrama registration formalities.
you can come to india and do ok without any of this stuff  (except maybe the mosquito repellent), but i'm assuming that you want to come  prepared and not spend your time searching high and low for things you could  have bought at k-mart.
optional lonely planet - india (isbn  1864502460) worth considering, especially if you can't lay your hands on a  copy ofspiritual guides (above).
bottled water all real bottled water has a tamper-evident neck seal that breaks when you open it.
at the market cheap slip-on sandals for the bathroom.
when sprayed with mosquito repellent every other day or so, it keeps them off  as well.
for those who lack dexterity or cultural flexibility, use of a spoon is permitted but the right hand still must be washed after eating and is considered unclean until then.
sleeping bag (it is highly unlikely that you will be needing a sleeping bag in the navadvipa parikrama at the end of march, which is just before summer sets in.
band aids (plasters) indian bandaids (plasters) are straight from the 1940's and not  "ouchless" when you take them off.
leave one set at home.
if you are traveling on an air-conditioned train, you might want to bring some warm clothing, a hat, a chaddar, and a pair of socks, because the ac can be a bit too cold at times.
drugstore (chemist) items a few of these items seem to be particular to the usa.
best is you don't wear either one!
some devotees use the inflatable type sold at camping stores.
you need javascript enabled to view it.
some  devotees keep their watch in their bag or waist pack, not on their wrist.
you need  javascript enabled to view it)
film travel alarm clock washcloth alcohol wipes  petroleum jelly prescription eyeglasses toothpaste kaopectate or  pepto-bismol tablets if applicable: feminine hygiene supplies toothbrush band aids (plasters)
note: you should avoid  using anyone's birth year as the combo, because that reduces the number of  possible combinations from 10,000 to about 30!
alternatively, in vrindaban, the shops in loi bazaar sell good cloth shoulder bags (sastra bags) which are good for carrying your note book, water bottles, etc.
if you click on  the pictures below, (usually) you will come to the web sites of one of the  places that sell these items online and ship them directly to your door in the  usa, mainly cvs pharmacy, ems sports, walmart and k-mart.
these models are available fromone place in the usa and one place in the uk.
these models are  available fromone place in the usa and one place in the uk.
camera batteries flash photography really runs them down quickly.
small pillow i use a washable throw pillow that i  bought for $1.
light cotton chaddar
laundry marker pen parikrama is like a trip to summer  camp.
you can find a store that sells reef  products atreef's web site .
in practice they last for  years and years of daily use with minimal care.
zip-lock bags useful for bringing home mahaprasad from the  dham, also for protecting papers and carrying laundry powder.
benadryl and caladryl cream are sometimes  effective as well.
kaopectate or pepto-bismol tablets good for soothing the travel weary tummy or for a moderate case of the runs especially if taken before meals.
good master model 155 combination lock with recombo key.
for the bed-tent there is a permethrin spray which does  the same thing.
spiritual guides -  holy places and temples of india (isbn 0965385809) by jada bharata dasa an excellent guidebook.
if you are traveling on an air-conditioned train, you might want to bring some  warm clothing, a hat, a chaddar, and a pair of socks, because the ac can be a  bit too cold at times.
these are often sold on the  street, and are mainly worn by muslims, so are best avoided.
here is a list of articles that i have found useful to bring to india.
they have shock corded poles, which add a bit to the weight, 22 ounces instead of 16, but are well worth it.
i bought the lafuma "one kilo" for about $85 in a camping store in berkeley, california.
alkaline batteries can be found in cities and tourist  areas.
this model is the lightest and least expensive, but is a bit more  challenging to setup as you have to fit the fibreglass poles together without  them falling apart.
actually, anyone who sleeps on their back must snore, it's an anatomical certainty.
there's nothing worse than a dull knife.
it comes in a choice of regular and fine mesh.
using the right hand only.
antiseptic cream (neosporin)
here's another product that seems to do the same thing.
it comes in a one or two  person size.
at a hardware store heavy duty combination locks useful for dharamsalas.
prescription  eyeglasses it would be a good idea to have a spare pair as well as  monkeys like to steal them and in a parikrama situation, it's pretty easy to  break them.
you don't really need them if you have one in the swiss army knife.
the wooden ones are better than the plastic ones.
this list was created with the help of brahma muhurta dasa (acbsp) an india veteran, and has been refined over the last five years or so and has been useful to many devotees, so they tell me anyway… i used to be a boy scout, and their motto is "be prepared".
hopefully you will have left all of your valuables like passport,  plane tickets, and most of your cash with the parikrama organisers for safe  keeping at the beginning of the parikrama.
you can come to india and do ok without any of this stuff (except maybe the mosquito repellent), but i'm assuming that you want to come prepared and not spend your time searching high and low for things you could have bought at k-mart.
you might be  better off with awool chaddar or simply a sheet or dhoti.
optional - mosquito net there  are lots of other bed-nets availablehere though you can buy ones that are just  as good in india for less money.
until the right hand is thoroughly washed after eating.
prescription eyeglasses it would be a good idea to have a spare pair as well as monkeys like to steal them and in a parikrama situation, it's pretty easy to break them.
toothbrush toothpaste bring your own if you can't bear the thought of using crest or colgate.
you won't find them easily in india.
it also has mosquito-proof fabric at the base which prevents you from getting bitten through the net (especially on the feet, knees, elbows, and especially the knuckles.
the primary advantage is that  there is no "stringing up" the net, which is usually a challenge as  there need to be places to tie the strings.
optional - see the  heath page for more about this.
also, if you are sharing a room with several devotees, chances are that you will be paired with a snorer.
box of wash-and-dry or alcohol wipes useful for hand washing hands and under the fingernails before eating or after using the toilet.
for washing clothes and for  bathing .
a little hindi goes a long way and the indian people always appreciate the effort.
for the real renunciate  there is the genuine indian woven plastic sleeping pad which can be bought in  the market for about rs30.
the most practical solution for carrying all of your necessary articles to and from india.
washing powder light cotton chaddar metal dinner plate and  cup (thali and lota ) laundry line (if not brought) optional stationery items notebook and pen a small notebook, blank book, or diary will be useful for taking notes.
the width is about  the same as the one above which means that you still have to take some  precautions against being bitten through the net.
the primary advantage in eating with your fingers is that it is impossible to burn your mouth (you burn your fingers instead).
metal dinner plate and cup (thali and lota) a thali is  a round plate with about one inch tall sides.
if the grunge look isn't you, bring your razor and shaving  cream, though both are available.
see the  travel health page.
in practice they last for years and years of daily use with minimal care.
normally, the left hand is not used at all at the  time of eating, so it stays clean for collecting your belongings, opening  doors, turning on faucets, etc.
something for soothing mosquito bites i used to recommend "after bite" (found in camping shops) which takes the sting and itch out of bug bites.
if you plan to make any  train journeys in india, this is useful with your lock (above) for securing  your luggage under the seat of the train.
they come in pairs, which should be sufficient.
film good film is also available in india.
this lota is a steel drinking  cup.
times are a-changing in india.
i  would not recommend the 100% deet that you can find in camping stores.
sometimes  shops give a discount for processing film bought from them.
most shops are  reputable, some vendors on the trains are not.
this is the tried  and truecasio f-91w, which is pretty much the bottom of the casio line.
some western  brands are available (for western prices) in india.
mosquito  repellent shampoo or body wash toothbrush small scrub brush fingernail  clippers razor/shaving cream hair brush or comb earplugs nail file  tweezers camera batteries small folding umbrella alkaline batteries  laundry bag
the recombo feature is handy so that you  can change combos when you change roommates.
it's helpful if all of your cloth has your initials on it somewhere since many  gamshas and all white dhotis look alike.
it won't stop bed-bugs, and the  lack of mosquito proof material at the bottom means that you still have to take  some precautions against being bitten through the net.
four settable digits.
ask for the "reef convertible 692".
available in many camping stores.
the bag i use is a genuine us army issue duffel bag with straps like the one here.
for washing clothes and for bathing .
also handy  for cuts and scrapes.
but the parikrama is a bit  hard on your clothing and you might want to figure on sacrificing your existing  cloth and buy new stuff on your way out of india.
shampoo or body wash bring what you like.
if the grunge look isn't you, bring your razor and shaving cream, though both are available.
the ones i foundonline are already  "broken in" (by the korean army no less) and only cost $7.
a new  gamsha will "bleed" color for a long time when used or washed, so be  careful not to wash it with your other cloth.
there is also the problem of  ceiling fans disturbing the net and of devotees walking into the strings and  hanging their laundry on them.
one brand which contains deet that i like and have used for years is called  "sawyer's controlled release lotion".
some devotees keep their watch in their bag or waist pack, not on their wrist.
it used to come in a two-person model, but that one is discontinued.
sorry, this picture is  not clickable.
this model is called the bed-tent, and is bed-sized, but can be used on  the floor or even outdoors.
this makes it very convenient to step in and out of your sandals to pay obeisances and enter temples without touching your shoes.
i say "stick with what works".
alkaline batteries can be found in cities and tourist areas.
they are a bit  pricey, starting at $50 and ranging up to $110.
it has a special formula that doesn't soak into your skin (much) and is highly effective when applied to bare skin on the neck and hands.
the filling is thinsulate® which is something you might look for in another bag.
for the same reason, two small bags are preferable to one large  bag.
razor/shaving cream
ibuprofen visine eye drops are useful for refreshing your eyes if they get sore from travelling or the sun.
for years  now devotees have been buying freestanding mosquito nets.
spiritual guides - holy places and temples of india (isbn 0965385809) by jada bharata dasa an excellent guidebook.
also, if you are  sharing a room with several devotees, chances are that you will be paired with  a snorer.
gamshas you will need two or three gamshas for the  bathroom.
in the gaudiya math, kaupins are part of the sanyassa dress only, so bring the bvds.
sunscreen lotion might be more useful for kids than adults.
the first thing is your shoes, the second is your watch.
the primary advantage is that there is no "stringing up" the net, which is usually a challenge as there need to be places to tie the strings.
gamshas can go missing, so it's best to have an extra.
the address isthis e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
earplugs india is a noisy place.
thermarest mattresses have been around for decades and  are simply the best and are guaranteed for life.
also handy for cuts and scrapes.
i usually place some dhotis around the inside which gives a bit more room and solves the problem.
plastic-coated steel laundry line you can get cheap plastic line in india, but the advantage of plastic-coated steel laundry line is that it doesn't stretch when you load it up with wet dhotis and drag your laundry all over the ground.
when the batteries are fresh, this casts a very bright beam, however it goes through batteries quickly (takes four aa's) so bring extras.
i haven't seen any small pillows in india, only huge hard foam slabs
this model is the lightest and least expensive, but is a bit more challenging to setup as you have to fit the fibreglass poles together without them falling apart.
f fever thermometer try it out when you are healthy
stationery items notebook and pen laundry marker pen photocopies recommended reading rough guide hindi (and urdu) phrasebook spiritual guides -  holy places and temples of india optional teva or reef sandals inexpensive  wristwatch hooded sweatshirt dhotis + kurtas (saris if applicable)  underwear and socks drug store (chemist) antiseptic cream  (neosporin) visine eye drops pumice stone laundry clips(pegs)
teva or reef sandals plain black don't seem to get stolen.
deet is a heavy chemical, and should not be applied directly to the skin if possible.
with any  footwear, it is wise to separate them when you take them off which makes it  hard for anyone to mistakenly take them or steal them.
vraja mandala parikrama 2009
no key to carry around and lose.
pumice stone good for buffing off calluses, especially on the heel, otherwise after a while they crack, which is painful.
if you want to skip shaving altogether, fine.
a black or a dark color is  best.
small scrub brush (nail brush)
the advantage of the straps is that you can wear it like a backpack instead of carrying it though it had a handle if you want to do that.
you can find a store that sells reef products atreef's web site .
but the parikrama is a bit hard on your clothing and you might want to figure on sacrificing your existing cloth and buy new stuff on your way out of india.
good for carrying your rupees, swiss army knife, bandaids, alcohol wipes, etc.
small pillow i use a washable throw pillow that i bought for $1.
this lota is a steel drinking cup.
there are two basic styles of freestanding  mosquito nets, one has a floor and a zipper and the other doesn't.
most shops are reputable, some vendors on the trains are not.
i would not recommend the 100% deet that you can find in camping stores.
self inflating mattress staying at a dharamsala means sleeping on concrete.
when sprayed with mosquito repellent every other day or so, it keeps them off as well.
digital is better than analogue (tick tick  tick) since the clock is going to be about a foot from your head most of the  time.
ladies should take the advice of senior ladies on this point.
gamshas mosquito net plastic bucket  plastic lota
something for soothing mosquito bites i used to recommend "after bite" (found in camping shops) which  takes the sting and itch out of bug bites.
optional - anti-malaria medicine see the heath page for more about this.
for years now devotees have been buying freestanding mosquito nets.
time was that eating with a spoon was frowned  upon, but they seem to have gotten over it.
there's nothing worse  than a dull knife.
washing powder save an empty film canister and put a little laundry powder in it for plate washing after meals.
one brand which contains deet that i like and have used for years is called "sawyer's controlled release lotion".
this is an item you might pick up used on ebay or in a classified advert and it's machine washable.
until the right hand is thoroughly washed after  eating.
underwear and socks three or four sets of underwear.
it is also bed-sized, and comes in a one or two person size.
soft bags are preferable to hard suitcases especially for traveling by train.
good for spotting marauding mosquitoes inside your  net/tent and very handy for the toilet and shower which seem to be popular  targets for light bulb thieves.
(remember those alcohol wipes?
for the economy-minded, the  closed cell foam pads are available in any k-mart or sporting goods store for  $6-$12 and are ok if you don't mind how thin they are.
in bengal they sell the same style favored by  devotees.
in navadwip dham, there is a yet another type of gamsha which is  ankle length and has a larger plaid pattern.
gamshas you will need two or three gamshas for the bathroom.
clothing absent from this edition are items pertaining to cold weather.
recommended reading rough guide hindi (and urdu) phrasebook (isbn: 185828922x ) full of very practical and useful dialogue examples and tips.
it only comes in one mesh type, fine mesh, and a floor which keeps out everything including bed-bugs (sometimes a problem in hotels and in dharmsalas with beds, but not on the parikrama).
see the travel health page.
plastic-coated steel laundry line you can get cheap  plastic line in india, but the advantage of plastic-coated steel laundry line  is that it doesn't stretch when you load it up with wet dhotis and drag your  laundry all over the ground.
small folding umbrella keeps off the sun as well as  the rain.
according to several leading india  guides, ladies should bring an adequate supply from home to avoid  disappointment with indian products.
here's another product  that seems to do the same thing.
the most  popular-sized hard suitcases barely fit under the seats on the train.
well stocked chemists (pharmacies) in india have something similar.
proper gamshas an be found in cloth shops.
it is also bed-sized, and  comes in a one or two  person size.
you will want to take some precautions  against being bitten through the net.
it's helpful if all of your cloth has your initials on it somewhere since many gamshas and all white dhotis look alike.
you need javascript enabled to view it)
prescription  medication
i bought the lafuma "one kilo" for about $85 in a camping store  in berkeley, california.
laundry line if you didn't bring one, plastic rope is  sold by the meter.
the first line of defence against infection from cuts that in the west would never become infected.
socks are optional because they get dirty just about instantly and are hard to wash by hand (even with thelaundry brush), so you might only want to wear them while sleeping e specially if you are planning to sleep in a tent.
it won't stop bed-bugs, and the lack of mosquito proof material at the bottom means that you still have to take some precautions against being bitten through the net.
note: you should avoid using anyone's birth year as the combo, because that reduces the number of possible combinations from 10,000 to about 30!
if you don't have one already.
f fever thermometer try it out when you  are healthy
at a hardware store useful for dharamsalas.
but advantageous if you're taller than about 5 feet 10 inches.
available in many discount, hardware, and camping stores.
the bag i use is a genuine us army issue duffel bag with straps like the one  here.
some will  not fit at all.
dhotis and kurta  (or saris)
dhotis and kurta (or saris) i would suggest bringing three sets.
there are lots of other bed-nets availablehere though you can buy ones that are just as good in india for less money.
you don't  really need them if you have one in the swiss army knife.
the address isthis e-mail address is  being protected from spambots.
if you are on a tight budget, you can buy perfectly good ones in india in most places for rs 120 or so (about $3).
washcloth it's quite important to keep your  skin clean in india, and washing diligently with soap and a washcloth may help  avoidboils and help them from spreading if you are unlucky enough to get one.
some western brands are available (for western prices) in india.
it worked just fine without the mink oil they now put in it!
i suggest bringing a spray can for spaying on clothing such as a chaddar  and socks and (if you can find it) a bottle of non-deet repellent
there are two things that indians always check out.
in hindi it's called a "macchar dhani".
in the  gaudiya math, kaupins are part of the sanyassa dress only, so bring the bvds.
i'd  welcome some feedback on this section.
sturdily bound notebooks with good quality paper are hard to find in india.
it has shock corded poles and is easy to setup and  take down.
the width is about the same as the one above which means that you still have to take some precautions against being bitten through the net.
a gamsha is a thin, plaid (usually) cloth that is generally knee length.
mosquito repellent repellents containing deet such as cutters or deep woods off in a spray can are the most useful.
ladies must also cover the upper body at all times as well especially if bathing outdoors or in a river.
you will need some string to  set it up, so bring some with you.
time for the sting-eze!)
ladies must  also cover the upper body at all times as well especially if bathing outdoors  or in a river.
there is also the problem of ceiling fans disturbing the net and of devotees walking into the strings and hanging their laundry on them.
if you are joining the parikrama in a small  town like varsana, it would be a good idea to bring one with you.
i like the reefs, because they are cheaper than the tevas, plus the back strap is velcro and comes off completely.
i usually place some dhotis around the  inside which gives a bit more room and solves the problem.
proper gamshas an  be found in cloth shops.
having you name on your bags will make it easier to travel with them.
some say i am over-prepared.
terry cloth bath towels are useless, so leave them at home.
for the economy-minded, the closed cell foam pads are available in any k-mart or sporting goods store for $6-$12 and are ok if you don't mind how thin they are.
it has a little zippered expansion panel at the foot end which accommodates taller devotees.