if you process your images in a computer, using adobe photoshop, etc., you can usually go past your fogging limit without damaging results, because you can process the image faults out of existence.
this is the capability a slider offers.
there is still one very high-quality device currently on the market.
with these procedures, your camera's image will always be guaranteed tack sharp, and that's the bottom line, period!
remember, vse products are based on functional  simplicity, not a bunch of dysfunctional baubles.
that's why takahashi (japanese)  refractors, you purchase in the us, had no back focus.
with a ccd camera, and the specific software that came with your camera, you can manually focus using the software's focusing sub-routine, or use your autofocus sub-routine in conjunction with an autofocus equipped focuser.
second, how are you going to locate your  imaging target through a high powered eyepiece with no field of view?
don't forget to pull the  slider's mirror knob out so your imaging cone is redirected straight-through to  your imaging chip.
how to get started in ccd or 35mm celestial photography a web compendium by paul b. van slyke, founder & director, black  forest observatory (bfo) black forest observatory (pictured above) was colorado's largest  observatory, period!
stiletto image  focusers from sti offers many 35mm and ccd focusing devices.
also, re-focus your  imaging camera when moving to another object that is [let's say] more than 20  degrees from where you are currently imaging.
the imaging train equipment, shown  in the above telescope picture from left to right, is an old sbig st-6
for all types of astroimaging, you can get improved results by using lumicon's exclusive deep-sky filter, that will dramatically darken the stellar background, and help to block light pollution.
there was nothing but awkward, unusable, devices on the market back then.
next, screw your focal reducer onto the slider's 2" female slip-ring input or, if you decided to install your fr inside the masterglide focuser's "hidden cavity," just screw a vse 2" threaded adapter (item #a2lt) directly onto the end of your slider.
the maximum true field tops out at about 55mm in 2" format.
and they'll say, "wow!
once this  object, let's say the ring nebula in lyra (m57), is centered in your parfocused  wide-field eyepiece, go to your slider or sidewinder's side pick-off port's  guiding eyepiece and parfocus that next, on an appropriately bright guide star.
celestron offered, what they called an  mfft-55 (multi-functional focal tester-55),  that would evaluate a  telescope's focal plane for focus, collimation, and curvature of field, but  have discontinued it long ago.
and today, vse creates a revolutionary product line that is "second-to-none."
following the wrong path [to an end] can disappoint many people, and discourage them from pursuing their astronomy, space exploration, and astroimaging goals.
with these procedures, your camera's image  will always be guaranteed tack sharp, and that's the bottom line, period!
you could also easily  remove the old ground glass focal plane, from underneath the prism viewfinder,  and replace it with a beattie intense screen (4 times the brightness of  conventional ground glass focal planes).
you can use any of the commercially available guiding eyepieces on the market.
your  eyepiece for your eye's sake?
some even install  spur gears on their ra shafts in conjunction with helical cut worm gears.
first we will discuss the installation of a ccd camera as your final item  in your imaging train.
after reading the above, these procedures may sound like a lot of work and a very steep learning curve for the beginner, but after you've purchased and set up your equipment and captured a few images, it'll seem like second nature.
the maximum true field tops out at about 55mm in  2" format.
betcha can't without spitting all over  yourself?
you will sacrifice those special moments in time, when you can proudly say to your friends, "i took that picture!"
i've been using  photoshop since version 2 (that's many years), and i haven't touched on many of  its features.
then, after ten years, and much coaxing from my astronomical friends, i decided to manufacture and market a production model at bfo's machine shop.
some even install spur gears on their ra shafts in conjunction with helical cut worm gears.
since your guide chip [area] is integral and fixed, your ability  to scan for an adequate guide star is diminished by a factor of ten, compared  to the slider or sidewinder's easily adjustable independent pick-off mirror.
never try to focus any imaging camera by looking through an adjacent eyepiece!
many people wear glasses to correct focus imperfections, and from year to year an eyeglass wearer needs to get his eyes examined and new glasses with a different rx, because your eye's focus point on your retina has changed.
this is accomplished by simply rotating the slider itself (z-axis).
since your 35mm camera focuses about 1.5" further in than a ccd  camera, you'll need an extension drawtube out the top slide-mirror port and the  side pick-off mirror port to parfocus your system.
installing your sidewinder understand that a standard focal reducer will not install on the  sidewinder's front input port.
there was nothing but awkward, unusable, devices on the  market back then.
if it's winter, try imaging the orion nebula at the tip of orion's sword, although it may be a little too large for ccd cameras with smaller chips.
from over a decade of imaging experience at black forest observatory,  we've found that using wide-field eyepieces for image locating in your top  port, with simple push/pull secondary focusing (on all sliders and  sidewinders) is much quicker and more efficient than any redundant helical  focusing system (all sliders offer full aperture top port mirrors for those  wide-field eyepieces).
it could even have interesting applications beyond astroimaging.
if you have a slider 2 with the side pick-off port, you  should position your camera in thevertical position which will  put the long [skinny] side of the rectangular film further away from your  pick-off mirror and lessen the vignetting on your film caused by the pick-off  mirror's protrusion into your telescope's light cone.
to  reduce this flexure, heavier tubes, truss assemblies and mounting brackets  needed to be used, adding great expense and weight to the telescope.
your eyes will be changing for the rest of your life.
it could even have  interesting applications beyond astroimaging.
say that three times real quick.
there are various pieces of equipment necessary to construct an imaging train and, whenproperly stacked together (similar to railroad cars), give you the capability to produce a quality astroimage in the least amount of time, and with as little frustration as possible.
you have just encountered unacceptable lateral image shift.
at minimum, it would be a useful, and fun, construction project.
and, thank you for considering vse products!
and you thought i  forgot expensive!
you have, or are considering the purchase of, a ccd camera with a built-in guiding chip, or a ccd camera that has an imaging chip with an area that can be dedicated to guiding, so you don't need a slider.
the second picture is bfo's control center (warm room), with three computers networked together; one for telescope positioning, one for image downloading, and the one on the far right is for general reference (included in this database is the palomar sky survey on many cd-rom's, over 100 professional astronomy books and sky catalogs, including the hubble guide star catalog).
illustration 3 illustrates a perfectly focused image, as the field instantaneously goes to  dark across the entire field of view.
of course, any power eyepiece will work in the top port.
there  are similar looking devices (like sliders) out there that indirectly imply you  can achieve critical camera focus with a high powered eyepiece in the top  flip-mirror port.
to obtain good 35mm color images, you can  just use color film, but if you want your colors to decisively stand out, you  can use a set of rgb filters, and take three separate images with b&w film.
installing a secondary focuser on your telescope the novice will think that a secondary focuser is an option he really can  do without.
the flipper and slider parfocus, from ccd to 35mm camera, by  adding drawtubes to the top port (noted in red, lower right) and side pick-off  ports (not shown), which is the most effective method to parfocus your imaging  train.
simple prime  focus is always the best way to acheive the best images, but focal reducers can  still be used effectively for wider-field imaging.
then, after you have achieved optimum focus, unscrewing the focusing device, and carefully reinstalling your 35mm camera onto your scope.
btw,  vse does offer a helical focusing drawtube insert (seeadapters link) as a  convenience accessory if you want one.
these two controls provide x/y-axis, 360  degree micro-positioning of the internal pick-off mirror and, 9 chances out of  10, this simple [exclusive to vse] procedure will acquire a usable guide star.
people think that because a product is advertised in a reputable magazine, it has to be a good, functional product.
the standard distance, from the front face of your t-ring to your slr's film plane, is precisely 55mm.
the imaging train equipment, shown in the above telescope picture from left to right, is an old sbig st-6
the only critical focus is at the camera.
until meade and celestron start building a better sct (yes, you can eliminate  the lateral image shift by simply designing and implementing a better fork-type  primary focusing arm), the astroimager must use a secondary focuser docked to  the sct's visual back to eliminate the focusing wiggles.
a 1.25" 40mm eyepiece will achieve a lower  magnification, but achieve the same true field as the 32mm eyepiece with no  increase in true field.
these new larger chips are now approaching the size of 35mm format, negating the need for a focal reducer altogether, and the optical distortions caused by shortening your light cone and passing it through all that glass.
small amounts of image shift are acceptable when casually viewing the  celestial sky through even a moderately high-power eyepiece, but when you  attach an imaging train to your sct and try to center a guide star in your  eyepiece's illuminated reticle crosshairs, etc., you find that this mild  irritation has become intolerable.
all the [what i  call] pro-space citizens we can acquire, if we are to save the planet for  future generations of yet unborn billions that need to survive on this speck of  dust in the universe (seewhy space?
you may think that this 35mm camera procedure is awkward, but it's much better than extending/wasting your profile for ccd cameras.
with a ccd camera, and the specific software that came with  your camera, you can manually focus using the software's focusing sub-routine,  or use your autofocus sub-routine in conjunction with an autofocus equipped  focuser.
when you have the smallest pixel count possible, you're ccd camera is focused and ready to take a time exposure of your deep-sky object.
you need to install it on the rear port just before your camera.
the superior slider method of parfocusing always maintains the shortest straight-through profile whether you're using ccd or 35mm cameras.
examples are: 1) separate filter wheels that waste important profile and add flexure to your imaging train; 2) critical focusing devices where none are needed; and 3) claims of pin-point focusing with the human eye which can't be done.
if you have a pec (periodic error correction) system on your scope, don't forget to calibrate that system.
for b&w films, a minus  violet filter will give you pin-point stars.
your image will begin to shift laterally around the field of view - very frustrating indeed.
it could get really ugly and messy  down there.
if it isn't exact, your images will always turn out to be mediocre,  instead of celestial masterpieces worthy of enlargement and framing.
if you have a chip that is larger than 35mm format, you really  don't need a focal reducer that adds glass and other imperfections.
of course, you need to use a separate  guiding ccd camera, or guiding eyepiece, allowing you to simply scan for a  guide star and pick & choose any usable star in or around your target  object.
the red area noted on the  lower right flipper illustrates an inserted drawtube that is needed to  parfocalize your system when using a 35mm camera, and is not needed when  imaging with a ccd camera (see lower left flipper).
besides the standard rgb (red, green, blue) filters, there are some exotic filters available for 35mm black & white films, like fine grain tri-x and plus-x, for color films (discussed above), and even ccd imaging cameras.
and you thought i forgot expensive!
but we must also consider the novice, who has no  experience whatsoever in astroimaging.
this is the capability a slider or sidewinder offers.
only the "pocket book" or the erroneous purchasing choices of the novice provide vse with any competition.
this deceptive advertising is deliberately leading the novice [want-to-be] astroimager to believe that he can simply focus his ccd or 35mm camera, using his eye and an eyepiece, at the focus of their flip-mirror device.
even if there was no  lateral image shift, sct's move their primary mirrors, which provides a  focusing ratio that is approximately 6 times as coarse as other types of common  secondary docking focusers.
we need all the [what i call] pro-space citizens we can acquire, if we are to save the planet for future generations of yet unborn billions that need to survive on this speck of dust in the universe (seewhy space?
with your sidewinder rigidly affixed to your  scope, you will [next] need to install your 35mm or ccd imaging camera, to the  rear output port of the sidewinder (discussed below).
or reprint it in your club's newsletter, in  sections (part 1, part 2, etc.) of course.
kodak's 1000asa films are quite grain-free compared  to a few years ago.
of  course, you need to use a separate guiding ccd camera, or guiding eyepiece,  allowing you to simply scan for a guide star and pick & choose any usable  star in or around your target object.
eventually, you will learn your local sky's exposure duration, before your film/chip begins to fog from background light pollution.
don't forget to pull the main  mirror out slowly and carefully, to remove the diagonal mirror that is blocking  the light cone's straight-through path to your imaging camera.
it could get really ugly and messy down there.
this converts the output to a  rock-solid 2"-24tpi male format so you can utilize all the standard,  commercially available accessories and extended imaging trains.
installing a secondary focuser on your telescope installing a focal reducer on your secondary focuser installing your slider installing your ccd or 35mm camera on your slider preparing your imaging train for astroimaging paul's pictorial parfocusing primer focal plane focusing devices for your 35mm camera (under the  knife's edge)
some good films for astrophotography are fuji print film or fujichrome (slides) 400asa, or higher.
this  is an opinion that others may disagree with.
small amounts of image shift are acceptable when casually viewing the celestial sky through even a moderately high-power eyepiece, but when you attach an imaging train to your sct and try to center a guide star in your eyepiece's illuminated reticle crosshairs, etc., you find that this mild irritation has become intolerable.
and it's specific operations, reference the questions & answers (faq) and the big metal question mark (?) link.
kodak's 1000asa films are quite grain-free compared to a few years ago.
this format was first introduced by  celestron, and meade instruments soon followed with the same fitting (almost),  which has now become an industry standard in schmidt-cassegrain telescopes.
you think it's easy to find a suitable guide star with afixed separate guide chip, or afixed chip area dedicated to guiding?
for more detailed information on specific subjects, regarding the above equipment
with your sidewinder rigidly affixed to your scope, you will [next] need to install your 35mm or ccd imaging camera, to the rear output port of the sidewinder (discussed below).
try to keep your guide star in the corner of two perpendicularly opposed illuminated lines, and use a comfortable chair/stool.
one of the most common coupling formats is the 2"-24tpi male threaded found on most sct visual backs.
a web compendium by paul b. van slyke, founder & director, black forest observatory (bfo) black forest observatory (pictured above) was colorado's largest observatory, period!
however, the sidewinder will install on the output of our microglide  coupling focuser (item #mgfco), which has a larger input and output thread,  with a 2.25" internal clear aperture.
secondary focusers are designed for the current generation of meade/celestron  schmidt-cassegrain telescopes that focus by moving their primary mirrors and  accept accessories via their standardized threaded visual backs.
you could even obtain a 4th separate image layer with an h-alpha pass filter,  to extend your red into the infrared, but you could only use 2415 high  resolution film to take advantage of this 4th image layer.
especially with an astigmatism,  which afflicts half the people in the world.
for many experienced astroimagers, correctly installing an imaging train  on a scope and using the correct procedure to capture high quality images, has  become common sense.
after you've leveled and polar aligned your scope (explained in the manual  that came with your scope), you need to decide which object you would like to  image first.
adjustable off-axis aids were then  introduced, but they too were very difficult to adjust, requiring you to loosen  thumb screws and move various mechanisms back and forth.
you can screw the docking port  ring onto your scope, then slip the sidewinder over the ring and tighten the  three set screws, if you wish.
no extension  drawtubes, 35mm = extension drawtubes with sliders.
one of the most common coupling formats is the 2"-24tpi male threaded
you need to have an old "totally manual" slr camera with a bulb setting, and definitely without auto-film advance.
after you've leveled and polar aligned your scope (explained in the manual that came with your scope), you need to decide which object you would like to image first.
first you need a good brisk, clear night with above average  "seeing" conditions.
to reiterate, helical focusing using multi-imaging portals (mips)  is completely unnecessary.
don't guide standing up, because when you lose your  equilibrium, and fall over in the dark, you really don't know what your going  to fall on in those farmers' fields.
there are similar looking devices (like sliders) out there that indirectly imply you can achieve critical camera focus with a high powered eyepiece in the top flip-mirror port.
do not focus on a  star halfway across the sky from where you plan to image.
now you have a  2" male threaded fitting available on which to screw a slider (with the  2" threaded female slip-ring input).
fyi, a field lens (sky side lens) that is the full internal diameter of  the 1.25" tube is the widest true field achievable in that specific  format.
consider the new sbig stl-11000, 11 megapixel ccd camera.
don't be fooled by claims that you can obtain quick, accurate, pin-point camera focus from a flip-mirror device using a secondary high powered, helical focusing eyepiece, because you can't.
i use photoshop 7 to create vse's display ads for sky & telescope magazine, and all those gaudy graphics you see at vse's web pages.
adjustable off-axis aids were then introduced, but they too were very difficult to adjust, requiring you to loosen thumb screws and move various mechanisms back and forth.
however, with a 35mm camera, that focuses about 1.5" further out from a  standard ccd camera, you will need an extension drawtube (item#ad22s or ad21s  for sliders) between the top port and your eyepiece (see lower right  flipper, area in red).
the above has been confirmed by conversations with dr. dale anderson, md, pc, who is an ophthalmologist and noted eye surgeon.
if not, then you can obtain a third axis adjustment (i call it the z-axis) by  rotating your slider or sidewinder in a circular motion, either by loosening  the thumb screws in your 2" focuser and rotating your slider, or rotating  the sidewinder on its threaded input docking port.
ccd camera, a vse remote controlled 2-inch [dual wheel] filter wheel, an early custom 2.75-inch flipper (with giant 2.75-inch format eyepiece, shown on right side, and real-time ccd autoguiding camera in the off-axis side port, shown on top of flipper), and finally a massive 2.75-inch remote controlled rack & pinion focuser.
focal plane focusing devices for your 35mm camera (under the knife's edge) a 35mm camera is a little more difficult to focus because what you think  is in focus, when you look through your slr camera's viewfinder (onto the  ground glass image plane), is usually out-of-focus just enough to give you a  soft or slightly fuzzy picture.
in the early days of astroimaging, guide scopes were extensively used to track stars for astrophotography, but they found that guide scopes inherently produced unacceptable system flexure that was very difficult to eliminate.
this installation would  provide comfortable right-angle viewing andcoarse focusing through your  slr's viewfinder, with or without a beattie intense screen.
it had been in existence for over 15 years (see user installations link,the story of bfo for more info).
therefore, this basic [quick and dirty] introduction to astroimaging is provided for the beginner, who is very interested in becoming an experienced astroimager, but has no idea where to begin to learn the art [and subtleties] of astroimaging, or doesn't have the time [or inclination] to read through all those "hieroglyphic" astrophotography books with all those graphs and heavy math.
another very common telescope coupling is the 2" female slide-fit [usually  a focuser input] that accepts 2" barrel-nose eyepieces and other  accessories, and is mounted on most newtonian, refractor, and some types of  cassegrain telescopes with their myriad of common optical configurations (i.e.  schmidt, classical, ritchey-chretian, maksutov, dall-kirkham, etc.).
the four  sct standards are 2"-24tpi for both meade and celestron (using a reducer  for the 10" and larger models), 3.25"-16tpi for meade (10" and  12" models), 3.29"-16tpi for celestron (11" and 14"  models), and 4"-16tpi for the meade 16" sct.
to obtain good 35mm color images, you can just use color film, but if you want your colors to decisively stand out, you can use a set of rgb filters, and take three separate images with b&w film.
an h-alpha pass filter will increase the visual range of your film into the infrared end of the spectrum.
if you are going to use a 35mm camera for imaging, just screw a t-ring adapter, that is specifically designed for your particular brand of 35mm camera (i.e. nikon, minolta, olympus, pentax, etc.), onto the slider's zpta in the rear imaging port.
if you have a pec (periodic error correction) system on your scope, don't  forget to calibrate that system.
we are only going to discuss one simple, basic imaging train, because all the different models and imaging accessories operate similarly.
a 35mm camera is a little more difficult to focus because what you think is in focus, when you look through your slr camera's viewfinder (onto the ground glass image plane), is usually out-of-focus just enough to give you a soft or slightly fuzzy picture.
it was primarily designed to support extended astroimaging trains in the days of 35mm astrophotography, but has been easily adapted to ccd astroimaging.
what you can create in your mind, you can transfer to screen/paper.
the best camera i've found, and use at bfo,  is the nikon f2 with the removable top, prism viewfinder.
let us assume that you have already gone through the effort to pin-point  focus your ccd or 35mm (using a focal plane focusing device discussed above)
people think that because a product is  advertised in a reputable magazine, it has to be a good, functional product.
once you've acquired a  usable guide star, it's quick and easy to center, or place, any star in the  slider's pick-off field in 2 seconds or less.
this action will rotate the pick-off mirror effectively providing a  perpendicular axis of adjustment.
if you have a meade/celestron schmidt-cassegrain telescope, you just screw their respective f/6.3 focal reducer onto the 2" threaded male visual back of your sct.
following the wrong path [to an  end] can disappoint many people, and discourage them from pursuing their  astronomy, space exploration, and astroimaging goals.
example: a 1.25" 40mm eyepiece doesn't have a wider true field  than a 32mm eyepiece.
you will also need to insert a very low power 2" format eyepiece (pictured is a 2" format 40mm eyepiece, see fyi below) in the slider's top slide mirror port, and a higher power 1.25" format illuminated reticle guiding eyepiece in the side pick-off port.
guiding on a boiling stellar dot, in a guide eyepiece, for long periods of time, can get quite physically fatiguing, not to mention eye strain.
you can insert a homemade block (made of soft aluminum or  hardwood) in the camera's empty rectangular viewfinder hole.
it's  also a great "bandaid" for all those low accuracy, high periodic  error worm gears that celestron/meade put in their scopes.
so, print this compendium, find a comfortable chair to go over the finer points, and enjoy the "read."
you then screw the 2" threaded barrel adapter (item #a2lt) into the female end of your focal reducer, and insert that combination into your 2" slide-fit focuser and lock down the thumb screw(s) into the recessed indent in the male tube.
let us assume that you have already gone through the effort to pin-point focus your ccd or 35mm (using a focal plane focusing device discussed above) camera on a nearby star, and have aimed your telescope at a neighboring deep sky object, after parfocusing your top port's wide-field eyepiece with your imaging camera (oh, if i forgot to mention this earlier, parfocus simply means that your camera and eyepieces are focused at the same point).
use the stl and sidewinder in combination with sbig's stv and you've assembled a dream machine that will easily create "frustration-free" professional astroimages worthy of the largest observatory on planet earth and beyond.
then insert the slider's [now] 2" barrel nose into your masterglide focuser's 2" format moving tube and apply vse's quad-lock system to the barrel-nose.
they evolved from a simple beginning.
even if there was no lateral image shift, sct's move their primary mirrors, which provides a focusing ratio that is approximately 6 times as coarse as other types of common secondary docking focusers.
consider the new starlight express sxv-h9c with the separate guiding camera that slips right into the slider 2's [1.25" format] off-axis guiding port - a marriage literally made for heavenly imaging!
once you've learned  the basics, they will apply to all the other imaging systems on the market.
a 40mm televue wide-field eyepiece has been inserted in the slider's top slide-mirror port, and a vse 25mm illuminated reticle guiding eyepiece (also discontinued because we finally ran out of military-surplus glass reticles) has been inserted in the side pick-off port.
ed byers made the lowest periodical error ra drive systems  available for commercial telescopes, because he had those very expensive, and  accurate, "tenth" milling machines ("tenth" is machine shop  slang for 1/10,000th of an inch).
the image jumps all over your image plane and field of view.
i selected the [long] discontinued micro-slider  (ms) and flipper because they are designed to parfocus "in-reverse"  of each other, which should provide you with a better concept of parfocusing  principles (oops!
you think it's easy to find a suitable guide star with a fixedseparate guide chip, or a fixed chip area dedicated to guiding?
make sure your scope has a true worm gear  drive, not a sloppy fitting spur gear system.
besides the standard rgb (red, green, blue) filters, there  are some exotic filters available for 35mm black & white films, like fine  grain tri-x and plus-x, for color films (discussed above), and even ccd imaging  cameras.
it also moves the fr closer to the sct's visual back where it was originally intended to be installed.
for more "soapbox" stuff).
once you have that star in focus, and centered in your eyepiece's field  of view, you need to focus your imaging camera.
in reality, most  secondary focusers have much more focus range (all vse masterglide focusers  provide a full inch of redundant travel and our microglide focusers provide  1/2-inch).
so, print this compendium, find a comfortable chair to go over the finer  points, and enjoy the "read."
if the object looks like it is boiling, and/or appears to have a lot of chromatic scintillation (color shifting), i would wait for an atmospherically calmer night, or you can use a bad "seeing" night to practice.
you should always use a "non-eyepiece" focusing method to  achieve final critical focus, like an after-market focal plane focusing device  (such as the ones discussed a couple of paragraphs up), or your 35mm  astroimages will typically turn out fuzzy and/or soft.
it was primarily designed for visual eyepiece observing, but has been extensively utilized to secure imaging trains because it was simply there at the time.
i would start with relatively bright summer deep sky objects, such  as the ring nebula (m57) in lyra, or the globular cluster in hercules (m13).
you need to have an old "totally manual" slr camera  with a bulb setting, and definitely without auto-film advance.
installing your ccd or 35mm camera on your slider
celestron offered, what they called an mfft-55 (multi-functional focal tester-55), that would evaluate a telescope's focal plane for focus, collimation, and curvature of field, but have discontinued it long ago.
if this statement is telling us that all telescopes focus through their  eyepieces, then i think even the novice has figured out that basic concept long  ago.
you can use any of the commercially available guiding  eyepieces on the market.
when using a ccd guiding camera,  the set-up procedure is almost identical except, when you've acquired and  centered a guide star in your guiding eyepiece, you carefully remove that  eyepiece, and replace it with the ccd guiding camera.
if you're lucky, you'll have a guide star in your guide eyepiece's field of view, and you can just center the star using the techniques explained below.
you will always have to deal with periodic errors induced by the worm, unless you don't drive with a worm.
you then screw the 2"  threaded barrel adapter (item #a2lt) into the female end of your focal reducer,  and insert that combination into your 2" slide-fit focuser and lock down  the thumb screw(s) into the recessed indent in the male tube.
this  deceptive advertising is deliberately leading the novice [want-to-be]  astroimager to believe that he can simply focus his ccd or 35mm camera, using  his eye and an eyepiece, at the focus of their flip-mirror device.
designing an imaging train around this  misconception could have [or may already have] lead you down the wrong path.
because you are not adding length to your existing straight-through profile to parfocus your system, it remains the same for either ccd or 35mm cameras.
if  it's winter, try imaging the orion nebula at the tip of orion's sword, although  it may be a little too large for ccd cameras with smaller chips.
the focal reducer used to be a necessity when imaging with ccd cameras with relatively small imaging areas, compared to 35mm formats.
every eyeglass wearer has tried looking through a telescope with, and without, his glasses.
don't be fooled by claims that you can obtain quick, accurate, pin-point  camera focus from a flip-mirror device using a secondary high powered, helical  focusing eyepiece, because you can't.
you attach a secondary focuser to your sct by simply screwing it onto your visual back(note that masterglide focusers utilize the larger, more rigid 3.25"-16tpi large format threaded visual back for meade 10" & 12" scts with a 4" adapter available for meade 16" scts, and a 3.29"-16tpi adapter for celestron c11, c14).you then insert an eyepiece or diagonal, etc. into the focuser's input as you would with any other standard focuser.
don't forget to pull the main mirror out slowly and carefully, to remove the diagonal mirror that is blocking the light cone's straight-through path to your imaging camera.
in  hindsight, no barrel-nose format should have ever been used for imaging train  applications because it wastes profile (except when inserted in a  focuser) and can't be properly secured with one or even two thumb screws,  thus the necessity to develop vse's new quad-lock system which allows the  barrel-nose format to be as rigid and secure as any threaded format.
then create layers in photoshop of each color, combine them and flatten the image into one image, and you've got a superior color image using b&w film.
all sliders are equipped with a built-in, very low profile 2"  filter slot.
once you've acquired a usable guide star, it's quick and easy to center, or place, any star in the slider or sidewinder's pick-off field in 2 seconds or less.
can easily be inserted in a masterglide or microglide focuser's moving tube and rigidly affixed using quad-lock.
a brief history of time (my time, not stephen hawking's)
that port is specifically designed for lower power field-finding eyepieces only (explained in-depth later).
there is one particular [current] misleading ad in s&t magazine that says, and i quote, "focus through your eyepiece."
when the ccd imaging industry  first came on board, the chip size wasn't much larger than a gnat's butt, and  it was almost impossible to acquire a bright star on the [microscopic] chip  area, let alone a faint deep-sky object.
you can test "seeing" by imaging a  finite solar system object or a bright star (splitting double stars is a good  test too).
now, you know better  after reading the above, don't you.
you could even obtain a 4th separate image layer with an h-alpha pass filter, to extend your red into the infrared, but you could only use 2415 high resolution film to take advantage of this 4th image layer.
1.25" filters have become obsolete because larger ccd chips and 35mm  format films are too large for the smaller filters and will vignette your  images.
you can also use an open cluster, or a brighter star field, to test your imaging system.
eyepiece guiding on a guide star we're only going to discuss manual eyepiece guiding, except for the  following brief note, because all the information you should need is usually in  the ccd guiding camera's instruction manual.
but you don't have to go through that procedure for every image, unless you move your scope to a completely different area of sky.
are you, or would you like to be, a masochist that likes guide star frustration?
all  meade/celestron f/6.3 focal reducers fit inside the masterglide focuser's  moving tube.
the homemade block  should have a 1.25" hole in the center, for the insertion of a low  power eyepiece, that has a primary focus about a half to 1-inch below the  1.25" format bottom cylinder (either a push/pull fit or set screw  would hold the eyepiece secure in the plate).
the best camera i've found, and use at bfo, is the nikon f2 with the removable top, prism viewfinder.
so how can you possibly try to achieve critical camera focus with your eye - it is literally impossible!
since your guide chip [area] is integral and fixed, your ability to scan for an adequate guide star is diminished by a factor of ten, compared to the slider's easily adjustable independent pick-off mirror.
since ccd cameras are very sensitive in the infrared, you can purchase an ir block filter to obtain more natural looking images in the visible part of the spectrum.
the upper right picture illustrates an imaging train composed of vse  components.
if you don't see a suitable guide star in your guide eyepiece, you will need to acquire a guide star out-of-field.
if you have one of those fancy "automatic" slr cameras, leave it  in the closet.
your secondary eyepieces (top port wide-field and side port guiding) can simply be "ball park" focused, because your eye doesn't need [and can't see] that critical focusing difference anyway.
you see, worms (the small diameter helical cut gear, with the drive motor attached to one end of its shaft, that drives your ra shaft's larger diameter gear, at an angle that is perpendicular to itself) can't be manufactured to be perfectly concentric or symmetrical.
providing your ccd camera's  input has female t-adapter threads, you will use vse's zero profile t-adapter  (zpta, item #azp2t) between the slider's rear port and your imaging camera.
all sliders are equipped with a built-in, very low profile 2" filter slot.
if you have a telescope with a standard 2" slide-fit focuser  that accepts 2" barrel-nose stuff, you need to purchase one of vse's  2" threaded barrel adapters (seeadapters link).
then do your x/y-axis "scan" again.
since your guide chip [area] is integral and fixed, your ability to scan for an adequate guide star is diminished by a factor of ten, compared to the slider or sidewinder's easily adjustable independent pick-off mirror.
of course, you need to use a separate guiding ccd camera, or guiding eyepiece, allowing you to simply scan for a guide star and pick & choose any usable star in or around your target object.
hopefully, your image will already be perfectly focused on the film plane in your slr camera (see above for camera focusing procedure).
there are many [adaptive]  ways to attach various accessories to different types of telescopes.
the  equipment's female threaded slip-ring attaches to its 2"-24tpi male  counterpart on the telescope's visual back, and offers a very short profile and  excellent security.
portlow power eyepiece, on a low to medium brightness star (10th  to 5th magnitude) near the object you are going to image.
because you are not adding length to your existing straight-through  profile to parfocus your system, it remains the same for either ccd or 35mm  cameras.
first, you can't achieve critical [sharp]  focus using a high powered eyepiece in any device's top flip-mirror port  (explained in the next paragraph).
35mm cameras & films for astrophotography
there  have been different types available that incorporate knife edges, split images,  double images, ronchi gratings, etc.
this type of device looks spectacular to the novice, but in reality is quite dysfunctional when trying to acquire your sky object and achieving final critical focus.
this is revision 2.6 to help promote and advance astroimaging, this how-to compendium can  be copied, reprinted, and distributed freely.
do not focus on a star halfway across the sky from where you plan to image.
you will  sacrifice those special moments in time, when you can proudly say to your  friends, "i took that picture!"
instead of  installing a focal reducer (fr) conventionally, and consuming all that  valuable profile, you install it inside the focuser's moving tube and save your  profile for other imaging train accessories.
this causes the 40mm eyepiece to seem like it is losing  apparent field compared to the 32mm eyepiece, creating a "tunnel  vision" view through the eyepiece.
the four sct standards are 2"-24tpi for both meade and celestron (using a reducer for the 10" and larger models), 3.25"-16tpi for meade (10" and 12" models), 3.29"-16tpi for celestron (11" and 14" models), and 4"-16tpi for the meade 16" sct.
and a slider using it's [free] built-in 2" format filter  slot and accomplish the same end imaging result without all those high-dollar  "bells & whistles" which are typically used for total remote  operation from observatory warm rooms, etc.
if this statement is telling us that all telescopes focus through their eyepieces, then i think even the novice has figured out that basic concept long ago.
when the ccd imaging industry first came on board, the chip size wasn't much larger than a gnat's butt, and it was almost impossible to acquire a bright star on the [microscopic] chip area, let alone a faint deep-sky object.
focus your telescope, by looking through the slider or sidewinder's top
the rgb multiple image filter array can just as easily be used with any ccd camera too.
and a slider using it's [free] built-in 2" format filter slot and accomplish the same end imaging result without all those high-dollar "bells & whistles" which are typically used for total remote operation from observatory warm rooms, etc.
try to keep your guide star in  the corner of two perpendicularly opposed illuminated lines, and use a  comfortable chair/stool.
the equipment's female threaded slip-ring attaches to its 2"-24tpi male counterpart on the telescope's visual back, and offers a very short profile and excellent security.
the second picture is bfo's control center (warm room), with  three computers networked together; one for telescope positioning, one for  image downloading, and the one on the far right is for general reference  (included in this database is the palomar sky survey on many cd-rom's, over 100  professional astronomy books and sky catalogs, including the hubble guide star  catalog).
in hindsight, no barrel-nose format should have ever been used for imaging train applications because it wastes profile (except when inserted in a focuser) and can't be properly secured with one or even two thumb screws, thus the necessity to develop vse's new quad-lock system which allows the barrel-nose format to be as rigid and secure as any threaded format.
your eyepiece for your eye's sake?
this is revision 2.6 to help promote and advance astroimaging, this how-to compendium can be copied, reprinted, and distributed freely.
vse also offers in-line filter slot  adapters, or our filter slide system (seefilter adapters link).
filters for 35mm & ccd astroimaging
the human eye simply can't  perceive and focus on that critical distance by looking at an image directly  through the eyepiece.
vse also offers in-line filter slot adapters, or our filter slide system (seefilter adapters link).
finally, taking the first exposure through your imaging train
keep this reference with your imaging  equipment until the astroimaging experience becomes a conditioned response, and  don't forget to make copies available to your astronomy club members who are  interested in astroimaging.
i want to use my expertise to save my astronomical friends and colleagues the time, expense, and frustration that can be found in astroimaging.
the focal reducer used to be a necessity when imaging  with ccd cameras with relatively small imaging areas, compared to 35mm formats.
this means that any focal reducer is not recommended.
to reiterate, helical focusing using multi-imaging portals (mips) is completely unnecessary.
this is accomplished by simply rotating the slider or sidewinder itself  (z-axis).
when you have the smallest pixel count possible, you're ccd camera is  focused and ready to take a time exposure of your deep-sky object.
he may be right, but not usually.
providing your ccd camera's input has female t-adapter threads, you will use vse's zero profile t-adapter (zpta, item #azp2t) between the slider's rear port and your imaging camera.
that puts the angled 45 degree slide mirror in the  path of your incoming light cone, and sends the cone to the top slide mirror  wide-field eyepiece.
the only  critical focus is at the camera.
your shutter lock  slips, and your camera advances to the next frame.
you're actually wasting that top port, on a function  that can't be achieved, when you could be using that top port for other  purposes.
i wish i 'd had this kind of basic information when i began my astronomy efforts, but back then, the wheel hadn't been invented yet, either.
if you're lucky, you'll have a guide star in your guide eyepiece's field of  view, and you can just center the star using the techniques explained below.
telescopically, paul van slyke, director, black forest observatory
just  name your images redm57, grnm57, blum57, etc.
this causes the 40mm eyepiece to seem like it is losing apparent field compared to the 32mm eyepiece, creating a "tunnel vision" view through the eyepiece.
however, the sidewinder will install on the output of our microglide coupling focuser (item #mgfco), which has a larger input and output thread, with a 2.25" internal clear aperture.
they even have a gas  hypering kit, so you can create your own gas hypered film.
for additional info, also see vse'simaging train configuration link.
if you have a few extension drawtubes or diagonals, they will do the job.
however, with a 35mm camera, that focuses about 1.5" further out from a standard ccd camera, you will need an extension drawtube (item#ad22s or ad21s for sliders) between the top port and your eyepiece (see lower right flipper, area in red).
now, you know better after reading the above, don't you.
it is advisable to  rotate the slider or sidewinder body only a few degrees at a time, since your  guiding eyepiece usually has less than a one degree field of view.
the simpler [and shorter] your imaging  train, the more efficient it will be, and then you're on your  "skyway" to becoming a reputable, world-class astroimager (seeastro  links to visit some of these web sites).
for  all types of astroimaging, you can get improved results by using lumicon's  exclusive deep-sky filter, that will dramatically darken the stellar  background, and help to block light pollution.
even if the thumb screw(s) come loose, the equipment  cannot detach itself from the telescope, and cause a catastrophy.
of note, meade has adopted the inferior reverse design on their flip-mirrors that extends the imaging train profile instead of the top, bottom or side mirror port profile like the sliders and sidewinders.
this field relationship applies to 2" format eyepieces too.
it doesn't get much better, or easier, than this!
however, this filter has a very severe application limitation; it only works  with b&w 2415 film.
if you have a telescope with a standard 2" slide-fit focuser that accepts 2" barrel-nose stuff, you need to purchase one of vse's 2" threaded barrel adapters (seeadapters link).
the need for practical, efficient, and effective ways to  acquire astroimages.
the 2" slip-fit barrel-nose format can be made more secure (but not more rigid) by providing a 1/2" long [or so] machined security indent in the male barrel tube.
yes, you can also rotate a ccd camera, but you are still limited to a fixed area of rotation without the necessary independent x-y axis adjustable pick-off mirror controls of the slider and sidewinder.
note bfo's 30" cassegrain through the warm room's viewing window.
once you've acquired a  usable guide star, it's quick and easy to center, or place, any star in the  slider or sidewinder's pick-off field in 2 seconds or less.
this is the  capability a slider or sidewinder offers.
conversely, the upper two  micro-sliders obtain parfocus by extending the ccd camera's straight-through  profile (again, a no-no) noted in the red area in the upper left  micro-slider image.
since your sct's primary focusing system manages all your  large focusing position changes, yoursecondary focuser need not  have more than about 0.1" of actual overall travel.
today, ccd chips have dropped  dramatically in price, and increased [literally exponentially] in area.
the illustration at right represents a too far in, too far out, and  perfectly focused image as seen through a knife edge type, focal plane focusing  device.
the telescope pictured above is bfo's computer controlled 30-inch cassegrain telescope, with 20" byers drive, set up for astroimaging.
i have tried to simply present "tried and true" logical imaging facts that, i think you will agree, are justifiably stated.
only the  "pocket book" or the erroneous purchasing choices of the novice  provide vse with any competition.
typically, with a ccd camera, you will not need an extension  drawtube using a slider or sidewinder (see lower left flipper), because most  ccd cameras are roughly parfocus with most newer standardized eyepieces.
it also moves the fr closer to the  sct's visual back where it was originally intended to be installed.
it could even wake you from your celestial nap!
the best way to make absolutely sure your 35mm camera is in perfect focus is to use an after-market focal plane focusing device (i.e knife-edge, grating, etc.), like the one pictured at left.
i would start with relatively bright summer deep sky objects, such as the ring nebula (m57) in lyra, or the globular cluster in hercules (m13).
they even have a gas hypering kit, so you can create your own gas hypered film.
remember the flexure problem discussed a couple of sections up.
the human eye simply can't perceive and focus on that critical distance by looking at an image directly through the eyepiece.
your eyes are never perfectly "in-focus."
think about this simple lesson in common sense.
[no-field] and low powered [wide-field] eyepieces to find your target object.
then, after ten years, and  much coaxing from my astronomical friends, i decided to manufacture and market  a production model at bfo's machine shop.
the homemade block should have a 1.25" hole in the center, for the insertion of a low power eyepiece, that has a primary focus about a half to 1-inch below the 1.25" format bottom cylinder (either a push/pull fit or set screw would hold the eyepiece secure in the plate).
the slider or sidewinder make great  diagonals for visual observing, when you're not trying to acquire an object to  image.
these  new larger chips are now approaching the size of 35mm format, negating the need  for a focal reducer altogether, and the optical distortions caused by  shortening your light cone and passing it through all that glass.
never  try to focus any imaging camera by looking through an adjacent eyepiece!
eventually, you will learn your local sky's exposure duration,  before your film/chip begins to fog from background light pollution.
however, this barrel nose format does allow for easy field rotation (addressed later).
a focal reducer and ccd camera combination can approach the larger field  offered by 35mm cameras without a focal reducer.
with your slider  rigidly affixed to your imaging train, you will [next] need to install your  35mm or ccd imaging camera, to the rear output port of the slider (discussed  below).
when using a ccd guiding camera, the set-up procedure is almost identical except, when you've acquired and centered a guide star in your guiding eyepiece, you carefully remove that eyepiece, and replace it with the ccd guiding camera.
to reduce this flexure, heavier tubes, truss assemblies and mounting brackets needed to be used, adding great expense and weight to the telescope.
your secondary eyepieces (top port wide-field and side port  guiding) can simply be "ball park" focused, because your eye  doesn't need [and can't see] that critical focusing difference anyway.
printing this compendium results in a 13 page document introduction properly installing an imaging train on your telescope
however, this filter has a very severe application limitation; it only works with b&w 2415 film.
and, that extra effort is a lot less  time consuming and frustrating than trying to switch between high powered
paul's pictorial parfocusing primer say that three times real quick.
this format does not easily allow for field rotation.
that way you can catch a drift almost instantly, and correct for it with your drive controls, before your imaged stars become "squiggly things."
your only limitation is photoshop's steep learning curve.
from over a decade of imaging experience at black forest observatory, we've found that using wide-field eyepieces for image locating in your top port, with simple push/pull secondary focusing (on all sliders and sidewinders) is much quicker and more efficient than any redundant helical focusing system (all sliders offer full aperture top port mirrors for those wide-field eyepieces).
designing an imaging train around this misconception could have [or may already have] lead you down the wrong path.
your scope's light cone should remain pure to achieve the best imaging results.
remember that a shorter imaging train is always preferred because it's simply more solid, eliminating system flexure problems as you move from object to object.
you'll eventually thank yourself for taking the initial time to find, and read, this compendium.
it's also a great "bandaid" for all those low accuracy, high periodic error worm gears that celestron/meade put in their scopes.
for b&w films, a minus violet filter will give you pin-point stars.
you could cut the expense to a small fraction of the  above imaging train by utilizing one of vse's less expensive focusers (i.e. m1,  m2 or mgf, etc.)
for additional info, also  see vse'simaging train configuration link.
once you've acquired and centered a suitable  guide star in your guiding eyepiece, you're ready to start the exposure (either  35mm or ccd camera).
you attach a secondary focuser to your sct by simply screwing it  onto your visual back(note that masterglide focusers utilize the larger,  more rigid 3.25"-16tpi large format threaded visual back for meade  10" & 12" scts with a 4" adapter available for meade  16" scts, and a 3.29"-16tpi adapter for celestron c11, c14).you  then insert an eyepiece or diagonal, etc. into the focuser's input as you would  with any other standard focuser.
if you would like to experiment with gas hypered films,  which increase the film's sensitivity to light and lower the film's reciprocity  failure, you can purchase that special film through lumicon, listed in the  advertiser's index in the back of any s&t magazine.
the illustration at right represents a too far in, too far out, and perfectly focused image as seen through a knife edge type, focal plane focusing device.
without a secondary focuser, a serious problem arises when you try to focus using the focusing knob protruding from the sct's visual back.
it can reduce your guiding to a minimum.
in reality, most secondary focusers have much more focus range (all vse masterglide focusers provide a full inch of redundant travel and our microglide focusers provide 1/2-inch).
yes, you can also rotate a ccd camera, but you are still limited to a  fixed area of rotation without the necessary independent x-y axis adjustable  pick-off mirror controls of the slider and sidewinder.
found on most sct visual backs.
since  your guide chip [area] is integral and fixed, your ability to scan for an  adequate guide star is diminished by a factor of ten, compared to the slider's  easily adjustable independent pick-off mirror.
the second imaging train accessory we're going to discuss is the focal reducer (pictured at right to scale, full size, depending on your monitor's resolution of course).
we'll talk further about parfocusing your slider between 35mm and ccd in "paul's pictorial parfocusing primer" below, and the subject is also discussed at the questions & answers (faq) link on vse's home page.
use the stl and sidewinder  in combination with sbig's stv and you've assembled a dream machine that will  easily create "frustration-free" professional astroimages worthy of  the largest observatory on planet earth and beyond.
sure, it's a little more effort to remove your 35mm camera from the telescope,  and screw a focal plane focusing device on to the slider or sidewinder's rear  t-adapter port.
installing your slider next, screw your focal reducer onto the slider's 2" female slip-ring  input or, if you decided to install your fr inside the masterglide  focuser's "hidden cavity," just screw a vse 2" threaded adapter  (item #a2lt) directly onto the end of your slider.
after reading the above, these procedures may sound like a lot of work and  a very steep learning curve for the beginner, but after you've purchased and  set up your equipment and captured a few images, it'll seem like second nature.
with your slider rigidly affixed to your imaging train, you will [next] need to install your 35mm or ccd imaging camera, to the rear output port of the slider (discussed below).
all modern ccd cameras, such as the sbig, starlight  express, and apogee lines of excellent ccd imaging cameras, now have a standard  42mm female t-thread input coupling,not like the old-style 1.25"  barrel-nose st-6
if you process your images in a computer, using adobe photoshop, etc., you  can usually go past your fogging limit without damaging results, because you  can process the image faults out of existence.
if you have a chip that is larger than 35mm format, you really don't need a focal reducer that adds glass and other imperfections.
it is impossible, especially when that accuracy must be  precisely 55mm, not 55mm plus or minus 1mm (which is 0.04").
also, sidewinders will not work  with any 2" format focuser, including vse masterglide and microglide  focusers.
there have been different types available that incorporate knife edges, split images, double images, ronchi gratings, etc.
we use a beattie intense screen (available through the camera merchants who advertise in the back of s&t) in bfo's nikon f2.
it was  primarily designed for visual eyepiece observing, but has been extensively  utilized to secure imaging trains because it was simply there at the time.
stiletto image focusers from sti offers many 35mm and ccd focusing devices.
next, screw your sidewinder (using  the proper docking port ring) onto your scope.
remember the flexure  problem discussed a couple of sections up.
that port is specifically designed for lower  power field-finding eyepieces only (explained in-depth later).
if not, then the true implication can only be interpreted to deceive.
there's another p-word).
larger diameter gear, at an angle that is perpendicular to itself) can't be  manufactured to be perfectly concentric or symmetrical.
our snail mail address is: van slyke engineering, 12815  porcupine lane, colorado springs, co 80908
they always end up with eccentric or asymmetric rotational errors, because even the most accurate lathes or milling machines in the world still can't eliminate the worm's imperfections.
we use a beattie intense screen  (available through the camera merchants who advertise in the back of s&t)
once you've acquired and centered a suitable guide star in your guiding eyepiece, you're ready to start the exposure (either 35mm or ccd camera).
if you have a rectangular  ccd chip, this procedure also applies.
there are various pieces of equipment necessary to construct an imaging  train and, whenproperly stacked together (similar to railroad cars),  give you the capability to produce a quality astroimage in the least amount of  time, and with as little frustration as possible.
focus your telescope, by looking through the slider or sidewinder's top portlow power eyepiece, on a low to medium brightness star (10th to 5th magnitude) near the object you are going to image.
the f/3.3 focal reducers, utilized in the masterglide's "hidden cavity," are too fast to be practical in most extended imaging train applications, unless you are simply inserting an eyepiece or camera directly into the focuser itself.
this provides a recessed section in the barrel in which the thumb screw(s) can reside.
you will  find that a properly aligned mount will nearly eliminate any drift in  declination, so correcting in dec will not be as frequent as correcting in  right ascension.
if you do this, you will need to extend out all the lateral  ports about 6" to achieve parfocus.
that puts the angled 45 degree slide mirror in the path of your incoming light cone, and sends the cone to the top slide mirror wide-field eyepiece.
if you have a few extension drawtubes  or diagonals, they will do the job.
there  is still one very high-quality device currently on the market.
now you have a 2" male threaded fitting available on which to screw a slider (with the 2" threaded female slip-ring input).
again, most of these special filters are available from lumicon.
this provides a recessed section in the barrel in which the  thumb screw(s) can reside.
the superior slider  method of parfocusing always maintains the shortest straight-through profile  whether you're using ccd or 35mm cameras.
to explain, most other flip-mirror devices on the  market extend the rear port to parfocus for ccd cameras.
they may cost a  little more, but you can use them with larger ccd chips and 35mm films.
unfortunately, many "would be" astroimagers have wasted thousands of  dollars because they simply don't research the subject, or take the time to  find [or purchase] the best products.
a 1.25" 40mm eyepiece will achieve a lower magnification, but achieve the same true field as the 32mm eyepiece with no increase in true field.
could you  imagine using an auto-advance camera for astrophotography?
then came off-axis guiding, but it was  a frustrating literal nightmare to find a suitable guide star, because the  off-axis prisms were very small and fixed.
you will also need  to insert a very low power 2" format eyepiece (pictured is a 2"  format 40mm eyepiece, see fyi below) in the slider's top slide mirror port, and  a higher power 1.25" format illuminated reticle guiding eyepiece in the  side pick-off port.
fyi, a field lens (sky side lens) that is the full internal diameter of the 1.25" tube is the widest true field achievable in that specific format.
you have, or are considering the purchase of, a ccd camera with a built-in  guiding chip, or a ccd camera that has an imaging chip with an area that can be  dedicated to guiding, so you don't need a slider.
you could also easily remove the old ground glass focal plane, from underneath the prism viewfinder, and replace it with a beattie intense screen (4 times the brightness of conventional ground glass focal planes).
more on this important focusing subject latter.
yes, you can do that.
oh, you might "get  lucky" with an image, from time to time, but is it really worth all that  effort to get lucky, or would you rather spend a little more time using an  aftermarket focusing device, and be guaranteed tack sharp super astroimages  every time?
conversely, the upper two micro-sliders obtain parfocus by extending the ccd camera's straight-through profile (again, a no-no) noted in the red area in the upper left micro-slider image.
these two controls provide x/y-axis, 360 degree micro-positioning of the internal pick-off mirror and, 9 chances out of 10, this simple [exclusive to vse] procedure will acquire a usable guide star.
ccd  camera, a vse remote controlled 2-inch [dual wheel] filter wheel, an early  custom 2.75-inch flipper (with giant 2.75-inch format eyepiece, shown on right  side, and real-time ccd autoguiding camera in the off-axis side port, shown on  top of flipper), and finally a massive 2.75-inch remote controlled rack &  pinion focuser.
you will always have to deal with periodic  errors induced by the worm, unless you don't drive with a worm.
especially with an astigmatism, which afflicts half the people in the world.
the flipper and slider parfocus, from ccd to 35mm camera, by adding drawtubes to the top port (noted in red, lower right) and side pick-off ports (not shown), which is the most effective method to parfocus your imaging train.
hopefully, your  image will already be perfectly focused on the film plane in your slr camera  (see above for camera focusing procedure).
keep this reference with your imaging equipment until the astroimaging experience becomes a conditioned response, and don't forget to make copies available to your astronomy club members who are interested in astroimaging.
illustrated at right is a partially assembled imaging train (less secondary focuser to simplify), as discussed above, docked to a meade 8" lx200's visual back, a good astroimaging entry level scope.
a focal reducer and ccd camera combination can approach the larger field offered by 35mm cameras without a focal reducer.
even with your fancy dual [fixed] chip guiding/imaging ccd camera, guide star  acquisition can still be a literal nightmare if you don't have a way of  positioning a guide star independent of your imaging target.
remember, vse products are based on functional simplicity, not a bunch of dysfunctional baubles.
our voice number is: 1-719-495-3828 our dedicated fax number is: 1-719-495-6465 our e-mail address is: vse@vsengr.com (or click on e-mail  bullet above to send message now)
even if you are diagnosed with 20-20 vision, critical camera focus is not achievable with your eye, because there is no such thing as perfect 20-20 vision.
a 40mm televue wide-field eyepiece has  been inserted in the slider's top slide-mirror port, and a vse 25mm illuminated  reticle guiding eyepiece (also discontinued because we finally ran out of  military-surplus glass reticles) has been inserted in the side pick-off  port.
don't guide standing up, because when you lose your equilibrium, and fall over in the dark, you really don't know what your going to fall on in those farmers' fields.
i've been using photoshop since version 2 (that's many years), and i haven't touched on many of its features.
it could even  wake you from your celestial nap!
first you need a good brisk, clear night with above average "seeing" conditions.
this action will rotate the pick-off mirror effectively providing a perpendicular axis of adjustment.
of note, meade has adopted the inferior reverse design  on their flip-mirrors that extends the imaging train profile instead of the  top, bottom or side mirror port profile like the sliders and sidewinders.
and don't ever try to achieve critical  focus through your slr's viewfinder (it's real hard on your neck, too).
1.25" filters have become obsolete because larger ccd chips and 35mm format films are too large for the smaller filters and will vignette your images.
your shutter lock slips, and your camera advances to the next frame.
you might find some new and useful imaging hints.
if you are going to use a 35mm camera for imaging, just screw a t-ring  adapter, that is specifically designed for your particular brand of 35mm camera  (i.e. nikon, minolta, olympus, pentax, etc.), onto the slider's zpta in the  rear imaging port.
the red area noted on the lower right flipper illustrates an inserted drawtube that is needed to parfocalize your system when using a 35mm camera, and is not needed when imaging with a ccd camera (see lower left flipper).
there is one particular [current] misleading ad in s&t magazine that  says, and i quote, "focus through your eyepiece."
it is impossible, especially when that accuracy must be precisely 55mm, not 55mm plus or minus 1mm (which is 0.04").
first we will discuss the installation of a ccd camera as your final item in your imaging train.
are you,  or would you like to be, a masochist that likes guide star frustration?
if  you don't see a suitable guide star in your guide eyepiece, you will need to  acquire a guide star out-of-field.
then create layers in photoshop of each color,  combine them and flatten the image into one image, and you've got a superior  color image using b&w film.
you have, or are considering the purchase of, a ccd camera with a built-in guiding chip, or a ccd camera that has an imaging chip with an area that can be dedicated to guiding, so you don't need a slider or sidewinder.
in fact, sbig's stl was the catalyst  for vse's mega-port sidewinder - the time had come!
they always end up with  eccentric or asymmetric rotational errors, because even the most accurate  lathes or milling machines in the world still can't eliminate the worm's  imperfections.
your image  will begin to shift laterally around the field of view - very frustrating  indeed.
if you have a rectangular ccd chip, this procedure also applies.
this converts the output to a rock-solid 2"-24tpi male format so you can utilize all the standard, commercially available accessories and extended imaging trains.
but  before you try to locate an object through your scope, push the slider's slide  mirror knob all the way in.
" consider vse's exclusive focal reducer "hidden cavity" super feature located inside the moving tube of all masterglide focusers.
the telescope pictured  above is bfo's computer controlled 30-inch cassegrain telescope, with 20"  byers drive, set up for astroimaging.
" consider vse's exclusive focal reducer "hidden cavity" super  feature located inside the moving tube of all masterglide focusers.
another very common telescope coupling is the 2" female slide-fit [usually a focuser input] that accepts 2" barrel-nose eyepieces and other accessories, and is mounted on most newtonian, refractor, and some types of cassegrain telescopes with their myriad of common optical configurations (i.e. schmidt, classical, ritchey-chretian, maksutov, dall-kirkham, etc.).
the simpler [and shorter] your imaging train, the more efficient it will be, and then you're on your "skyway" to becoming a reputable, world-class astroimager (seeastro links to visit some of these web sites).
of note, using a focal reducer should  be avoided if at all possible, unless you like to immerse yourself in a  "bag of worms.
and today, vse creates a  revolutionary product line that is "second-to-none."
they evolved from a  simple beginning.
this format was first introduced by celestron, and meade instruments soon followed with the same fitting (almost), which has now become an industry standard in schmidt-cassegrain telescopes.
the ms parfocuses, from 35mm to ccd  camera, by adding length to the straight-through imaging port (noted in red,  upper left) which is the most inefficient method of parfocusing (like the meade  flip-mirror devices) because you are increasing your imaging train's profile -  that's a no-no!
sure, it's a little more effort to remove your 35mm camera from the telescope, and screw a focal plane focusing device on to the slider or sidewinder's rear t-adapter port.
i have tried to simply present "tried and true" logical imaging  facts that, i think you will agree, are justifiably stated.
with rare exceptions, most commercial schmidt-cassegrain telescopes (scts) require a secondary focuser.
then insert the slider's  [now] 2" barrel nose into your masterglide focuser's 2" format moving  tube and apply vse's quad-lock system to the barrel-nose.
ccd camera pictured at right.
if you would like to experiment with gas hypered films, which increase the film's sensitivity to light and lower the film's reciprocity failure, you can purchase that special film through lumicon, listed in the advertiser's index in the back of any s&t magazine.
the straight-through imaging train consists of a [now discontinued] vse filter wheel (fw4) + super power focuser [also discontinued, but replaced by the masterglide m5] + slider 2 + 35mm slr camera (which could easily be substituted for a ccd camera in a matter of seconds since both camera formats now use the same t-thread fittings).
to  further reiterate, note the two lower flippers above.
for more detailed information on specific subjects, regarding the above  equipment
remember that a shorter imaging train is always preferred  because it's simply more solid, eliminating system flexure problems as you move  from object to object.
the software's capabilities are near unlimited, and the unsharp mask feature is very valuable for sharpening sky images.
and, most important, you will have bypassed most of that astroimaging frustration, and put the fun back in this wonderful celestial hobby.
you do this by simply turning the slider's little black knob (loosen the knurled lock knob first), or push/pulling the sidewinder's insert in and out, across your light cone's lateral x-axis.
since your 35mm camera focuses about 1.5" further in than a ccd camera, you'll need an extension drawtube out the top slide-mirror port and the side pick-off mirror port to parfocus your system.
after many years of beta-testing and  experimentation, the slider and flipper design was finally perfected, but for  many more years, it was only used internally at bfo.
takahashi is just now "americanizing" the refractors they import to the us (see the new toa-130 at the installations link).
if you are  one of those people who have been lead to think this, then i hope you  appreciate this basic reality check.
the only alternative was to manufacture our own multi-imaging  portals (mips) at bfo's machine shop.
illustration 1 represents a shallow focused gradient image produced by the knife edge that moves across the field from left to right.
installing a secondary focuser on your telescope installing a focal reducer on your secondary focuser installing your slider installing your sidewinder installing your ccd or 35mm camera on your slider preparing your imaging train for astroimaging paul's pictorial parfocusing primer focal plane focusing devices for your 35mm camera (under the knife's edge)
once you have that star in focus, and centered in your eyepiece's field of view, you need to focus your imaging camera.
for many experienced astroimagers, correctly installing an imaging train on a scope and using the correct procedure to capture high quality images, has become common sense.
every eyeglass wearer has tried looking through a telescope with, and without,  his glasses.
with b&w films, you scan your processsed prints (or negatives, with a slide scanner) to create a computer file of each color.
if you have one of those fancy "automatic" slr cameras, leave it in the closet.
are you, or would you like to be, a masochist that likes guide
we're only going to discuss manual eyepiece guiding, except for the following brief note, because all the information you should need is usually in the ccd guiding camera's instruction manual.
for ccd imaging, just go to your computer to start the exposure.
after many years of beta-testing and experimentation, the slider and flipper design was finally perfected, but for many more years, it was only used internally at bfo.
illustration 1 represents a shallow focused gradient image  produced by the knife edge that moves across the field from left to right.
that's why takahashi (japanese) refractors, you purchase in the us, had no back focus.
if you do this, you will need to extend out all the lateral ports about 6" to achieve parfocus.
the above has been confirmed by  conversations with dr. dale anderson, md, pc, who is an ophthalmologist and  noted eye surgeon.
also, sidewinders will not work with any 2" format focuser, including vse masterglide and microglide focusers.
understand that a standard focal reducer will not install on the sidewinder's front input port.
with b&w films, you scan your  processsed prints (or negatives, with a slide scanner) to create a computer  file of each color.
all meade/celestron f/6.3 focal reducers fit inside the masterglide focuser's moving tube.
if  this doesn't acquire an appropriate guide star, then move the y-axis lever  protruding from the top of the slider's side port, or rotate the sidewinder's  insert.
yes, you can also rotate a ccd camera, but you are  still limited to a fixed area of rotation without the necessary independent x-y  axis adjustable pick-off mirror controls of the slider.
you're actually wasting that top port, on a function that can't be achieved, when you could be using that top port for other purposes.
next, screw your sidewinder (using the proper docking port ring) onto your scope.
but before you try to locate an object through your scope, push the slider's slide mirror knob all the way in.
these  "non-meshing" worm/spur gear systems are designed only for casual  eyepiece viewing, not astroimaging.
installing a focal reducer on your secondary focuser
secondary focusers are designed for the current generation of meade/celestron schmidt-cassegrain telescopes that focus by moving their primary mirrors and accept accessories via their standardized threaded visual backs.
just name your images redm57, grnm57, blum57, etc.
example: a 1.25" 40mm eyepiece doesn't have a wider true field than a 32mm eyepiece.
we are  only going to discuss one simple, basic imaging train, because all the  different models and imaging accessories operate similarly.
simple prime focus is always the best way to acheive the best images, but focal reducers can still be used effectively for wider-field imaging.
examples are: 1) separate  filter wheels that waste important profile and add flexure to your imaging  train; 2) critical focusing devices where none are needed; and 3) claims of  pin-point focusing with the human eye which can't be done.
vse's 2" threaded barrel adapter (item # a2lt) can easily be inserted in a masterglide or microglide focuser's moving  tube and rigidly affixed using quad-lock.
you can test "seeing" by imaging a finite solar system object or a bright star (splitting double stars is a good test too).
you have, or are considering the purchase of, a ccd camera with a built-in  guiding chip, or a ccd camera that has an imaging chip with an area that can be  dedicated to guiding, so you don't need a slider or sidewinder.
then do your  x/y-axis "scan" again.
you can insert a homemade block (made of soft aluminum or hardwood) in the camera's empty rectangular viewfinder hole.
this means that any focal reducer is not  recommended.
yes, you can also rotate a ccd camera, but you are still limited to a fixed area of rotation without the necessary independent x-y axis adjustable pick-off mirror controls of the slider.
it was primarily designed to support extended astroimaging  trains in the days of 35mm astrophotography, but has been easily adapted to ccd  astroimaging.
the second imaging train accessory we're going to discuss is the focal  reducer (pictured at right to scale, full size, depending on your monitor's  resolution of course).
second, how are you going to locate your imaging target through a high powered eyepiece with no field of view?
that  picture looks like it was taken at one of the big research observatories."
you may think that this 35mm  camera procedure is awkward, but it's much better than extending/wasting your  profile for ccd cameras.
you can screw the docking port ring onto your scope, then slip the sidewinder over the ring and tighten the three set screws, if you wish.
there are many different filters available that will drastically improve  your astroimages.
the standard distance, from the front face of your  t-ring to your slr's film plane, is precisely 55mm.
in fact, sbig's stl was the catalyst for vse's mega-port sidewinder - the time had come!
i want to use my  expertise to save my astronomical friends and colleagues the time, expense, and  frustration that can be found in astroimaging.
without a secondary focuser, a serious problem arises when you try to  focus using the focusing knob protruding from the sct's visual back.
or reprint it in your club's newsletter, in sections (part 1, part 2, etc.)
bilberry extract, available at your local health food store, is said to help your night vision, and help relieve eye strain from long guiding sessions.
make sure your scope has a true worm gear drive, not a sloppy fitting spur gear system.
for 35mm camera imaging, you'll need one of those extension shutter release cables that have a built-in lock.
if this doesn't acquire an appropriate guide star, then move the y-axis lever protruding from the top of the slider's side port, or rotate the sidewinder's insert.
with the decline of 35mm imaging and the increase of ccd imaging, these devices are becoming less and less common.
for 35mm camera imaging, you'll need one of those  extension shutter release cables that have a built-in lock.
this is accomplished by simply rotating the slider or sidewinder itself (z-axis).
i selected the [long] discontinued micro-slider (ms) and flipper because they are designed to parfocus "in-reverse" of each other, which should provide you with a better concept of parfocusing principles (oops!
to further reiterate, note the two lower flippers above.
once you've acquired a usable guide star, it's quick and easy to center, or place, any star in the slider's pick-off field in 2 seconds or less.
if you have a slider 2 with the side pick-off port, you should position your camera in thevertical position which will put the long [skinny] side of the rectangular film further away from your pick-off mirror and lessen the vignetting on your film caused by the pick-off mirror's protrusion into your telescope's light cone.
then came off-axis guiding, but it was a frustrating literal nightmare to find a suitable guide star, because the off-axis prisms were very small and fixed.
it had been in existence for over 15 years (see user  installations link,the story of bfo for more info).
even if the thumb screw(s) come loose, the equipment cannot detach itself from the telescope, and cause a catastrophy.
and it's specific operations, reference the questions &  answers (faq) and the big metal question mark (?) link.
and, most important, you will have bypassed most of that astroimaging  frustration, and put the fun back in this wonderful celestial hobby.
some will have more features, and be easier to operate, and others will be  awkward and frustrating but, after reading this compendium, you will be better  equipped to discern the "good stuff" from the bad.
you could cut the expense to a small fraction of the above imaging train by utilizing one of vse's less expensive focusers (i.e. m1, m2 or mgf, etc.)
this field relationship applies to  2" format eyepieces too.
but you don't have to go through that procedure for every image, unless you  move your scope to a completely different area of sky.
an h-alpha pass filter will  increase the visual range of your film into the infrared end of the spectrum.
you will find that a properly aligned mount will nearly eliminate any drift in declination, so correcting in dec will not be as frequent as correcting in right ascension.
however,  this barrel nose format does allow for easy field rotation (addressed later).
therefore, rock-solid micro-focusing becomes a very useful upgrade even without lateral image shift.
to explain, most other flip-mirror devices on the market extend the rear port to parfocus for ccd cameras.
then came sliders and flippers (now discontinued).
then, after you have achieved optimum focus, unscrewing the  focusing device, and carefully reinstalling your 35mm camera onto your scope.
once this object, let's say the ring nebula in lyra (m57), is centered in your parfocused wide-field eyepiece, go to your slider or sidewinder's side pick-off port's guiding eyepiece and parfocus that next, on an appropriately bright guide star.
the novice will think that a secondary focuser is an option he really can do without.
you'll eventually thank yourself for taking the initial time to find,  and read, this compendium.
you need to do this because all telescopes have mechanical flexure, caused simply by gravity, that can de-focus your telescope and shift your telescope's field center by many arc seconds, to possibly a few arc minutes, as you move your telescope across the sky.
you need to install it on the rear port just  before your camera.
therefore, this basic [quick and dirty]  introduction to astroimaging is provided for the beginner, who is very  interested in becoming an experienced astroimager, but has no idea where to  begin to learn the art [and subtleties] of astroimaging, or doesn't have the  time [or inclination] to read through all those "hieroglyphic"  astrophotography books with all those graphs and heavy math.
finally, taking the first exposure through your imaging train eyepiece guiding on a guide star cameras & films for astrophotography filters for 35mm & ccd astroimaging a brief history of time (my time, not stephen hawking's) conclusion note: all caps above indicate a main section, cap on first letters  [only] indicate a sub-section introduction
the software's capabilities are near  unlimited, and the unsharp mask feature is very valuable for sharpening sky  images.
if not, then you can obtain a third axis adjustment (i call it the z-axis) by rotating your slider or sidewinder in a circular motion, either by loosening the thumb screws in your 2" focuser and rotating your slider, or rotating the sidewinder on its threaded input docking port.
anyway, i hope this section will provide you with a better understanding of parfocusingany imaging train, not just the slider used in this compendium.
my recommendation is to purchase all 2" filters.
since your sct's primary focusing system manages all your large focusing position changes, yoursecondary focuser need not have more than about 0.1" of actual overall travel.
these "non-meshing" worm/spur gear systems are designed only for casual eyepiece viewing, not astroimaging.
the straight-through imaging train consists of a [now discontinued]  vse filter wheel (fw4) + super power focuser [also discontinued, but replaced  by the masterglide m5] + slider 2 + 35mm slr camera (which could easily be  substituted for a ccd camera in a matter of seconds since both camera formats  now use the same t-thread fittings).
so how can you possibly try to achieve critical camera focus  with your eye - it is literally impossible!
even with your fancy dual [fixed] chip guiding/imaging ccd camera, guide star acquisition can still be a literal nightmare if you don't have a way of positioning a guide star independent of your imaging target.
until meade and celestron start building a better sct (yes, you can eliminate the lateral image shift by simply designing and implementing a better fork-type primary focusing arm), the astroimager must use a secondary focuser docked to the sct's visual back to eliminate the focusing wiggles.
since ccd cameras are very sensitive in the infrared,  you can purchase an ir block filter to obtain more natural looking images in  the visible part of the spectrum.
the rgb multiple  image filter array can just as easily be used with any ccd camera too.
properly installing an imaging train on your telescope
some good films for astrophotography are fuji print film or fujichrome  (slides) 400asa, or higher.
that way you can catch a drift almost instantly, and correct for it  with your drive controls, before your imaged stars become "squiggly  things."
there are many [adaptive] ways to attach various accessories to different types of telescopes.
of course, any  power eyepiece will work in the top port.
once you've learned the basics, they will apply to all the other imaging systems on the market.
vse's 2" threaded barrel adapter (item # a2lt)
the eyeglass wearer had to drastically change the telescope's  focus each time.
even with your fancy dual  [fixed] chip guiding/imaging ccd camera, guide star acquisition can still  be a literal nightmare if you don't have a way of positioning a guide star  independent of your imaging target.
therefore, rock-solid micro-focusing becomes a very  useful upgrade even without lateral image shift.
also, re-focus your imaging camera when moving to another object that is [let's say] more than 20 degrees from where you are currently imaging.
with the decline of 35mm imaging and the  increase of ccd imaging, these devices are becoming less and less common.
consider the new  sbig stl-11000, 11 megapixel ccd camera.
this is an opinion that others may disagree with.
if the object looks like it is boiling, and/or appears to have a lot  of chromatic scintillation (color shifting), i would wait for an  atmospherically calmer night, or you can use a bad "seeing" night to  practice.
the 2" slip-fit barrel-nose format can be made more secure (but not more  rigid) by providing a 1/2" long [or so] machined security indent in the  male barrel tube.
this compendium is under continuous construction/revision, so  check back once in a while.
oh, you might "get lucky" with an image, from time to time, but is it really worth all that effort to get lucky, or would you rather spend a little more time using an aftermarket focusing device, and be guaranteed tack sharp super astroimages every time?
the f/3.3 focal reducers, utilized in the masterglide's  "hidden cavity," are too fast to be practical in most extended  imaging train applications, unless you are simply inserting an eyepiece or  camera directly into the focuser itself.
this compendium is under continuous construction/revision, so check back once in a while.
anyway, i hope this section will provide you with a better  understanding of parfocusingany imaging train, not just the  slider used in this compendium.
no extension drawtubes, 35mm = extension drawtubes with sliders.
you should always use a "non-eyepiece" focusing method to achieve final critical focus, like an after-market focal plane focusing device (such as the ones discussed a couple of paragraphs up), or your 35mm astroimages will typically turn out fuzzy and/or soft.
the upper right picture illustrates an imaging train composed of vse components.
today, ccd chips have dropped dramatically in price, and increased [literally exponentially] in area.
do not use high power eyepieces in the slider's top  port when trying to image.
at minimum, it would be a useful,  and fun, construction project.
but we must also consider the novice, who has no experience whatsoever in astroimaging.
the only alternative was to manufacture our own multi-imaging portals (mips) at bfo's machine shop.
could you imagine using an auto-advance camera for astrophotography?
they may cost a little more, but you can use them with larger ccd chips and 35mm films.
the image jumps all over your image plane  and field of view.
you see, worms (the small diameter helical cut gear, with the  drive motor attached to one end of its shaft, that drives your ra shaft's
for ccd imaging,  just go to your computer to start the exposure.
betcha can't without spitting all over yourself?
finally, taking the first exposure through your imaging train eyepiece guiding on a guide star cameras & films for astrophotography filters for 35mm & ccd astroimaging a brief history of time (my time, not stephen hawking's) conclusion note: all caps above indicate a main section, cap on first letters [only] indicate a sub-section
fyi, guide scopes are still extensively used in japan and the orient, one of the world leaders in amateur astrophotography per capita.
the best way to make absolutely sure your 35mm  camera is in perfect focus is to use an after-market focal plane focusing  device (i.e knife-edge, grating, etc.), like the one pictured at left.
many people wear glasses to correct focus  imperfections, and from year to year an eyeglass wearer needs to get his eyes  examined and new glasses with a different rx, because your eye's focus point on  your retina has changed.
fyi, guide  scopes are still extensively used in japan and the orient, one of the world  leaders in amateur astrophotography per capita.
ed byers made the lowest periodical error ra drive systems available for commercial telescopes, because he had those very expensive, and accurate, "tenth" milling machines ("tenth" is machine shop slang for 1/10,000th of an inch).
even if you are diagnosed with 20-20 vision,  critical camera focus is not achievable with your eye, because there is no such  thing as perfect 20-20 vision.
this type  of device looks spectacular to the novice, but in reality is quite  dysfunctional when trying to acquire your sky object and achieving final  critical focus.
unfortunately, many "would be" astroimagers have wasted thousands of dollars because they simply don't research the subject, or take the time to find [or purchase] the best products.
illustration 2represents a deep focused gradient image produced by the  knife edge that moves across the field from right to left.
all modern ccd cameras, such as the sbig, starlight express, and apogee lines of excellent ccd imaging cameras, now have a standard 42mm female t-thread input coupling,not like the old-style 1.25" barrel-nose st-6 ccd camera pictured at right.
you need to do this because all  telescopes have mechanical flexure, caused simply by gravity, that can de-focus  your telescope and shift your telescope's field center by many arc seconds, to  possibly a few arc minutes, as you move your telescope across the sky.
in the early days of astroimaging, guide scopes were extensively used to  track stars for astrophotography, but they found that guide scopes inherently  produced unacceptable system flexure that was very difficult to eliminate.
it is advisable to rotate the slider or sidewinder body only a few degrees at a time, since your guiding eyepiece usually has less than a one degree field of view.
the eyeglass wearer had to drastically change the telescope's focus each time.
some will have more features, and be easier to operate, and others will be awkward and frustrating but, after reading this compendium, you will be better equipped to discern the "good stuff" from the bad.
the slider or sidewinder make great diagonals for visual observing, when you're not trying to acquire an object to image.
you do this by simply turning the slider's  little black knob (loosen the knurled lock knob first), or push/pulling the  sidewinder's insert in and out, across your light cone's lateral x-axis.
your  scope's light cone should remain pure to achieve the best imaging results.
if you are one of those people who have been lead to think this, then i hope you appreciate this basic reality check.
if it isn't exact, your images will always turn out to be mediocre, instead of celestial masterpieces worthy of enlargement and framing.
and, that extra effort is a lot less time consuming and frustrating than trying to switch between high powered [no-field] and low powered [wide-field] eyepieces to find your target object.
the need for practical, efficient, and effective ways to acquire astroimages.
btw, vse does offer a helical focusing drawtube insert (seeadapters link) as a convenience accessory if you want one.
guiding on a boiling  stellar dot, in a guide eyepiece, for long periods of time, can get quite  physically fatiguing, not to mention eye strain.
if you have a meade/celestron schmidt-cassegrain telescope, you just screw  their respective f/6.3 focal reducer onto the 2" threaded male visual back  of your sct.
our world wide web site is: http://www.observatory.org
consider the new  starlight  express sxv-h9c with the separate guiding camera that slips right into the  slider 2's [1.25" format] off-axis guiding port - a marriage  literally made for heavenly imaging!
of note, using a focal reducer should be avoided if at all possible, unless you like to immerse yourself in a "bag of worms.
i wish i 'd had this kind of  basic information when i began my astronomy efforts, but back then, the wheel  hadn't been invented yet, either.
illustration 2represents a deep focused gradient image produced by the knife edge that moves across the field from right to left.
do not use high power eyepieces in the slider's top port when trying to image.
first, you can't achieve critical [sharp] focus using a high powered eyepiece in any device's top flip-mirror port (explained in the next paragraph).
takahashi is just now  "americanizing" the refractors they import to the us (see the new  toa-130 at the installations link).
preparing your imaging train for astroimaging illustrated at right is a partially assembled imaging train (less  secondary focuser to simplify), as discussed above, docked to a meade 8"  lx200's visual back, a good astroimaging entry level scope.
typically, with a ccd camera, you will not need an extension drawtube using a slider or sidewinder (see lower left flipper), because most ccd cameras are roughly parfocus with most newer standardized eyepieces.
that picture looks like it was taken at one of the big research observatories."
you can also  use an open cluster, or a brighter star field, to test your imaging system.
instead of installing a focal reducer (fr) conventionally, and consuming all that valuable profile, you install it inside the focuser's moving tube and save your profile for other imaging train accessories.
bilberry extract, available at  your local health food store, is said to help your night vision, and help  relieve eye strain from long guiding sessions.
camera on a nearby star, and have aimed your telescope at a neighboring deep  sky object, after parfocusing your top port's wide-field eyepiece with your  imaging camera (oh, if i forgot to mention this earlier, parfocus simply means  that your camera and eyepieces are focused at the same point).
with rare exceptions, most  commercial schmidt-cassegrain telescopes (scts) require a secondary focuser.
this installation would provide comfortable right-angle viewing andcoarse focusing through your slr's viewfinder, with or without a beattie intense screen.
there are many different filters available that will drastically improve your astroimages.
i use photoshop 7 to create  vse's display ads for sky & telescope magazine, and all those gaudy  graphics you see at vse's web pages.
we'll talk further about  parfocusing your slider between 35mm and ccd in "paul's pictorial  parfocusing primer" below, and the subject is also discussed at the  questions & answers (faq) link on vse's home page.
this is accomplished by simply rotating  the slider itself (z-axis).
don't forget to pull the slider's mirror knob out so your imaging cone is redirected straight-through to your imaging chip.
and don't ever try to achieve critical focus through your slr's viewfinder (it's real hard on your neck, too).
the ms parfocuses, from 35mm to ccd camera, by adding length to the straight-through imaging port (noted in red, upper left) which is the most inefficient method of parfocusing (like the meade flip-mirror devices) because you are increasing your imaging train's profile - that's a no-no!
illustration 3 illustrates a perfectly focused image, as the field instantaneously goes to dark across the entire field of view.