with a typical 3000-lb vehicle, the weight and cost of the battery is significant because you need a big expensive battery to haul around a lot of mass that really doesn’t add to the utility of the vehicle.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
even with their drawbacks, i expect plug-in cars will find at least a small market, for a number of reasons that i will explain in this post.
i recognized that the plug-in was a less effective use of battery resources than a hybrid.
setting aside solutions other than personal automobiles, your analysis of  various vehicle options is right on.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:01 am i agree.
now my friend who lives in  indiana and drives 50+ miles per day decided to go for a prius.
the cost problem with plug-in electric automobiles a major issue is the high front-end cost of plug-in electric autos.
(i’m retired in small town slidell, la, so a tank  last me for over a month.
so why pay more for something that costs more to own, even if it does use less fuel?
pm why be smug at smugness?
i truly love france, but  trying to manage a bike on a high speed train is not much fun.
he states that electric vehicles will use the same amount of energy per household as our refrigerators.
better batteries will be invented.
a canadian company recently found a big rare earth  deposit in nebraska.
hi gail, in a perfect scenario (most doubtful) we would conserve high energy sources (liquid fuel or big batteries) just for those activities that really need them.
strange a blog called finite world wouldnt realize that cars, and the machinations of corporations and governments to keep them rolling along,are what are draining the world.
aside from that tiny bit of optimism, i’m trying to understand what scenarios are possible/probable in the next few decades.
but i didn’t consider the local manufacture of chains.
it sounds neat enough, but i am not sold on the idea.
countries cannot be expelled, but sovereign states could choose to secede.
i think your model of  thinking, “zeroing out” trips could become a cultural phenomena for  drivers of this (and like designed) vehicles.
will plug-in cars be a success?
i’ve often been fascinated about the subject of a “sustainable  bike”.
the financial system is also likely to be  affected.
the economic cost is, in many ways, the least of the concerns investors should have about a break-up.
compareing the cost of a pih@25.1 cents p/m, then saying an ‘efficent’ gas-burner comes in a 19.6 cents.
for those who find these suggestions unpalatable for economic reasons,  personal reasons or what-have-you – then it would seem to be your  responsibility to suggest how the laws of physics can be dealt with as oil  depletes, the planet warms, the oceans acidity, deserts spread, aquifers  deplete, species extinction rates increase, millions of humans starve in  africa, human population grows, etc.
even  small economy cars such as the nissan versa (122hp), the ford fiesta (120hp)  and the chevrolet cruze (136hp) have engines as powerful as the base engines  offered with the full-size gas-guzzlers of the 1950s such as the 1952 ford  customline (110hp) and the 1954 chevrolet bel air (123hp).
i also appreciate the use of numbers (facts and figures) so much of the energy debate is assertions with no information content.
the real test would be whether the  electrical system could be kept operating–if there would be enough spare  parts.
us imports of petroleum products, based on eia data.
i agree that it is not likely that battery powered vehicles will  create any significant in-roads if one assumes that the mass of current  vehicles remains the same.
no matter how much they insult us for not getting in line and wasting our money on an image.
i’m not saying that peak oil won’t be a big crisis.
the leaf is of comparable weight to a base model and stripped down camry.
according to the wsj article high battery cost curbs electric cars . . .
for the home, you are going to have lots of small legacy solar, like d.lights and sunwize systems for a little bit of lighting, and then some standalone pv homes that will have electricity for decades during the day, but not at night (unless you can manufacture sulfuric acide and refurb batteries).
as with everything in this descent (or step function down for a true doomer), working towards “local” xyz, community sufficiency, and very reduced expectations on comfort (i wear a real coat, gloves and a hat driving it in the winter), is what we should be doing now for ourselves and to help other people make that transition.
it sounds neat  enough, but i am not sold on the idea.
throughout the  northeast there were plenty of manufacturers using water power to run machines  in the 19th century, all of those sites still exist, i don’t even  remember much of the tooling being steel, most seemed made of iron, but i could  be wrong.
hi david, back in the good old days (maybe bad) when we jumped on a plane in blissful ignorance to go cycling in europe, we used trains in ireland and france.
comments are closed.
he told me that after ww2, it was an even slower  lifestyle.
what we need are trains that work as well as they did pre-ww2.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:11 am
however, even if cars were made marginally …..cleaner, i cant bring myself to call them green, b/c that would be a lie, none of the other problems created by personal, private 1 person per 4000 pound metal and plastic box get resolved-not one.
the conventional  body-on-frame construction is simpler to repair and to service, and parts  probably cost less.
we will be poorer in the future than we are today, but we  won’t disappear anytime soon.
those ge motors ran for decades inside a hot concrete  building.
it trumps everything else.
there might be a nice integration there  to deal with peak solar power during the day.
philip says: september 8, 2011 at 8:22 am chris i believe i’ve read that the additional charging and  discharging would cause the batteries to wear out more quickly.
coal transport depends on oil.
they worked well enough.
there is also the issue of whether people would be happy, if when they go  to drive the car, the battery has been drained to help supply needed  electricity elsewhere.
minorities i know in the bay can’t stand prius drivers either.
but we all won’t be riding bicycles next  decade.
no doubt some will want to argue that renault have got their sums wrong, but for customers the answers are in.
this actually a response to gail and “low energy”.
all that thanks to technologies which make a lot  of personal meetings aspects obsolete).
for example (us centric): national max speed 35 mph with mandatory  governors, elimination of half the public roadways, no new parking facilities,  significant tax increases for private vehicle weight, etc.
first, you need to take into account that this is a multi-variable  problem.
i have read that that is one of the issues.
i want to take my 75 year old mother to her doctor’s  appointment in the nev.
this would be no different than inspecting the engine on a gasoline car before resale.
even the prius  can carry over 800 pounds (though it is sold as a five-seater).
in spain there has been a yearly growth in electric cars sold of 1,031% !!
and more  than just transportation is involved, but the same vision still applies.
the real test would be whether the electrical system could be kept operating–if there would be enough spare parts.
given  the battery supply constraint (which you mention) there’s no point in  nissan trying to increase volume with lower prices, since battery supply is not  very elastic.
making goods usually has to be done in a factory.
making goods usually has to be done in a  factory.
the one scenario i don’t find likely is one in which we worry about buying family vehicles that provide for 200,000 miles of motoring about in any manner that resembles today’s paradigm.
renault reckon that by the  time they hit around 500,000 – 1 million electric vehicle sales of all  types they will be able to sell for the same price as the diesel without the  subsidy.
a camry engine is going to take the impact for you because it’s in front of you.
| our finite world | fresh green world it is no longer necessary to guess or estimate the costs of running an electric car, maintenance, battery costs etc as the figures are available on the renault website for vehicles you can actually order, together with a maintenance contract, and conveniently the batteries are leased to the cost shows separately and covers depreciation.
no jobs there, no air travel and (or very little and highly expensive), no jobs there, related industries shrinking or collapsing also.
people here are very happy with  hybrids, the taxi drivers specially like the prius.
these reasons include the following: save money on fuel.
bicycle dave says: september 9, 2011 at 8:58 am hi schoff, can you provide a link to the vehicle you own?
if they can only run a few hours at a time, that is better than nothing.
since your  house circuit breakers won’t endure 466 amperes, you have to throttle  down the amperes and take longer than 1 hour.
i think of the american  bikes of the 30′s and 40′s and the modest means of the  family’s that owned them, they didn’t have gears.
if i can charge it on my solar panels then in my mind it is a free trip.
i did everything with that vehicle from firewood to towing a 25 foot boat on a trailer (carefully and sometimes with the heater on in the summer to keep the engine cool).
nev-hpv for local travel  combined with public transportation for the rest.
if this is correct, it would mean that more batteries would have to be produced, and this would necessitate additional resource consumption.
figuring out a low-tech bicycle should be a high priority.
it is going to be a slower world, we will try to do less.
marianne says: september 15, 2011 at 4:25 pm it would be far better to store electrical energy in hot water heaters
with all of the vehicles, there is a problem of integrating them into the  mix that is currently available.
the general idea  being to totally eliminate the current private automobile paradigm over the  next 20 years or so.
interestingly, back in the 1930′s and 1940′s, mexican railroads worked well; back in the bad old days of the porfirio díaz dictatorship, mexican railroads were world class.
what is relevant (again in the absence of a larger action) is how best i can make use of the remaining driving infrastructure.
| our finite world | articles about the world pingback: will plug-in automobiles be a success?
my father following his day of work and my little league practice (in our small town), thought nothing of sitting on his front porch swing drinking a beer and talking to the neighbors who were passing by, or on their own porches.
interest rates may also be higher.
it’s an exciting time for invention.
most water treatment systems have storage at various stages, including the final product stage (various municipalities around pennsylvania seem to have a couple of days worth of treated water).
when i think of long lasting, low energy consumption goods, i think of things like wheel barrows, and pots and pans, and looms for cloth that can be operated without electricity.
don’t write off the electric car.
i also appreciate the use of numbers (facts and figures) so much of  the energy debate is assertions with no information content.
is there a name for someone else swooping in to consume the resource that someone else saved?
at another angle, with the availability of a number of electric motorcycles, i wonder when someone will simply use the trike angle and build an enclosed electric one.
the elites who purchase the new plug-in vehicles will then have some (a little) financial incentive to support this program and the poor would benefit.
i can envision widespread international trade even following a complete  collapse of industrial civilization.
if i understand the data correctly  12millionish (wsj) light vehicles is a rather dramatic decrease in the 21st  century.
you incur that risk for the joyous privilege of charging up a battery 10+ hrs to get 1 hour of use at a price 25% higher than a conventional vehicle, to extend oil supply a few days.
what would cost improvements do to resale values of the  first-generation cars?
it is never going to work if we have to share the road with 70 mph, 3,000 lb steel boxes operated by people who may or may not be competent and not distracted.
as jk might say, efforts to maintain “happy motoring” are  just incredulous!
now my friend who lives in indiana and drives 50+ miles per day decided to go for a prius.
fiscal confederation, not break-up our base case with an overwhelming probability is that the euro moves  slowly (and painfully) towards some kind of fiscal integration.
for example, a small-scale steel mill may be set up, in a town where there is available coking coal and scrap iron, making products such as steel tubing for bicycle frames.
the problem here it that the technology is likely not easily downward scalable.
and furthermore, the oil we would have used stays in the world supply, to be used elsewhere.
a lot of folks have their heads in the  clouds, thinking we can all drive electric plug in vehicles, with 300 mile  ranges, and buy them for $15,000 a piece.
gail, sorry for the ot, but how is the book coming along?
i am not sure that we can expect to have vehicles, for precisely this reason.
downtothelastcookie says: september 8, 2011 at 2:32
i  also don’t like to goto church sweaty.
the idea has clearly been around since bible times.
there is also the possibility that the us’s debt problems (or those of the uk, or some other large power) could lead to payment problems among nations.
as for cars, i simply don’t understand the hp mind set there at all.
the nissan leaf would use electricity estimated at 2 cents a mile, or $20, so the cost of the nissan leaf lease, plus its fuel costs would be $369 month.
if someone is going to run a day care, it can’t be done long distance (but it can be done in the home).
i can also be reached at (407) 443-0505.
the number of charge /  discharge cycles is important.
in this way, it is argued, the improved efficiency in the electricity  system will be adequate to totally energise those cars without needing any  augmented sources of power.
c’mon – we can live without that just fine.
it is no longer necessary to guess or estimate the costs of running an  electric car, maintenance, battery costs etc as the figures are available on  the renault website for vehicles you can actually order, together with a  maintenance contract, and conveniently the batteries are leased to the cost  shows separately and covers depreciation.
if sales prices remain at their current levels, and the government is not able to keep up subsidies, monthly payments to buy the cars will put the cars out of reach for many buyers.
so the actual costs for more amerikans is undoubtably not as good  as 19 cents.
but neither bikes or nevs will ever be put into widespread use until  they are safe to use for nearly all purposes.
he told me that after ww2, it was an even slower lifestyle.
green energy has come a long way in the last decade, it will only continue to grow in the future.
if debt were completely interest free, and buyers valued a dollar today the same as a dollar 20 years from now, theoretically an average fuel cost of $6.75 over the life of the vehicle would balance costs out (since this would imply a gasoline cost of 22.5 cents per mile).
if we use bicycles, we need ones that won’t need new tires, or some other important part, that you and your neighbors can’t put together quickly with local materials.
gail, that’s an incredibly thorough and well-connected evaluation of plug-in vehicles.
either the current structure will have to change, or the current membership will have to change.
without 1 and  2, there is little hope of 3 having much effect.
john petersen's list of vehicle configurations and fuel savings.
gail, international trade worked before there was an effective international finance system.
i am pretty sure you are right.
there is no way to find a lot of minerals without drilling a hole and knowing what is coming out of it.
sure gas is makeing a colossal mess of everything too, but governments love oil and oil companies, and looks the other way at the damage they do.
with expensive batteries, it just means a return to smaller and lighter cars which in the end will provide the same utility as current large vehicles.
natural gas and coal used to run power plants are mostly fuels from us sources.
i would argue that this is a primary reason for both plug-in autos and for higher mileage standards for cars in general.
you make an important point using natural gas to make electric to drive cars allows us to deplete both oil and natural gas by driving.
but you are right–it is hard to get very excited about something that is supposed to last of 200,000 miles, when we are hitting limits right now.
the purchase price, insurance and taxes for many suvs and pickups are very much the same as for smaller, fuel efficient cars.
much like your ranger, no crash protection, no ac, no power windows, or anything that adds weight or uses extra energy.
a related purpose might be “to have the latest electronic toy.”
| our finite world | articles about the world
the bus stop (for between towns) went away in the 60′s, but interesting returned last year at least for going to the big city (of 45,000).
especially in view of the fact that a turbo charged diesel vehicle ends up arguably emitting less pollution whilst maintaining all the advantages of the traditional petrol engined car.
it can still work, on a more limited scale, with more controls.
if i can charge it on my solar  panels then in my mind it is a free trip.
philadelphia is not, lose the grid for an extensive period
schoff says: september 14, 2011 at 10:46 am there are a couple of groups that are focused on 3rd world bikes that  don’t break.
and what might these changes look like?
allow individual drivers to drive longer.
whether or not the vehicles are really scalable, will save co2, or will help detroit automakers, i think this is a major reason for plug-in electric vehicles.
the ford model t was the worlds most popular car for more  than a decade a century ago, and it had all of 22 horsepower.
or better yet, no fossil fuel use for passenger vehicle transportation.
in  china, we hear about companies with fraudulent financial statements.
but of course no one does.
people may buy them with this view, but i would argue that there is no point in subsidizing costs if this is the purpose–owners will get their reward, if there is a reward of this sort.
a spoked wheel also does not seem to be a huge challenge – although i wonder what kind of simple technology might be used to create a basic rubber tire (or something functionally equivalent).
that will save a lot of money to use to  buy the car.
am hi dave, in our finite world of oil, your “national max speed of 35 mph with  mandatory governors” done worldwide could kick the shortage problem down  the road a good hundred years.
even gm can see the logic of this approach: the turbodiesel chevrolet cruze  is expected in 2013 and will probably be even cheaper than the the vw.
human bungling, cupidity and incompetence, whether governmental or private enterprise, is infinitely renewable and inexhaustible.
a few years ago we of the chicago branch of my wife’s extended family traveled to and from philadelphia, for a major family event, via amtrak.
while it is possible that there will be no cars at all in a total doomer  world, in descent i would say that there will be cars, and it will be what he  described to me in the 30′s and 40′s.
a lot of folks have their heads in the clouds, thinking we can all drive electric plug in vehicles, with 300 mile ranges, and buy them for $15,000 a piece.
very expensive delivery services (medical, materials, maintenance, goods)  seem to be needed – and would this way be shared by many and use much  less oil compared to our current regular driving to shopping sprees)… to me this looks like a potential way to decompress slowly.
the cheapest toyota prius is $24565, and the cheapest vw jetta tdi is $24401.
in this way, it is argued, the improved efficiency in the electricity system will be adequate to totally energise those cars without needing any augmented sources of power.
i  hope i’ve added value to the discussion.
especially in view of the  fact that a turbo charged diesel vehicle ends up arguably emitting less  pollution whilst maintaining all the advantages of the traditional petrol  engined car.
renault reckon that by the time they hit around 500,000 – 1 million electric vehicle sales of all types they will be able to sell for the same price as the diesel without the subsidy.
first, most amerikans dont own or want to own efficent gas-burners, some to be sure, but not many.
i think a big part of our problem is that we can’t get any kind of agreement as to how we need to change.
speaking of which, a battery inspection program should become a routine  part of any plug-in vehicle resale.
but how many people will want to buy a four-year old car for $19,600, knowing that they may have to buy a new battery for the car for $10,000 or $15,600 (or a refurbished one, for a little less)?
(getting past the south end of lake michigan was like a kafka novel illustrated by hieronymus bosch.)
so we need to  be planning farther ahead, if we want to be prepared.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:45 am i have read that that is one of the issues.
i think your model of thinking, “zeroing out” trips could become a cultural phenomena for drivers of this (and like designed) vehicles.
it should be noted though that the first service occurs after a year or  12,000 miles, with services thereafter only at 25,000 mile intervals.
i suggest that we try to analyze the most likely way that humans will move about the face of the earth in 20 or 30 years.
for those who find these suggestions unpalatable for economic reasons, personal reasons or what-have-you – then it would seem to be your responsibility to suggest how the laws of physics can be dealt with as oil depletes, the planet warms, the oceans acidity, deserts spread, aquifers deplete, species extinction rates increase, millions of humans starve in africa, human population grows, etc.
she just hated  the gasoline station and wasting her money she said.
20 amp breakers are typical for  residences, but rewiring the house might double that.
if you get 100% efficiency in the  battery in and out, that’s the target number for a camry equivalent  vehicle running 1 hour.
perhaps we can learn from this experience about  what is most important for a utilitarian bike.
i think lev’s and nev’s offer an opportunity to get out of the detroit mentality that everything that you drive must be like an ice vehicle.
i am guessing what we should be using most of the solar panels for is pumping water for the cities that don’t have gravity fed sources.
the power use just isn’t large enough to make a difference.
many people who comment here have expressed the idea that we have already missed the opportunity to avoid some manner of collapse in the next few decades or so.
breakdown of nissan leaf battery costs according to wall street journal
furthermore, many people  will eliminate them completely, because they don’t meet their  family’s transportation needs.
a third  view is that we need to plan on riding horses, or horse driven carts, but where  would we raise all of the horses, and what would we feed them.
how many buyers can afford this high a monthly payment?
a spoked wheel also does not seem to be a huge  challenge – although i wonder what kind of simple technology might be  used to create a basic rubber tire (or something functionally equivalent).
the government cannot possibility afford to pay subsidies to a large number of auto owners, and auto companies cannot expect to offer cut-rate deals, once they are selling very many of the vehicles.
i suspect that chains and gears can be salvaged from  millions of unused bikes for the next 50 years or so.
the second problem comes on resale of the vehicle.
with a typical 3000-lb vehicle, the weight and cost  of the battery is significant because you need a big expensive battery to haul  around a lot of mass that really doesn’t add to the utility of the  vehicle.
in the same period this year they sold 6,467 hybrids and more than 500.000 fuel vehicles and that in spite of a severe economic crisis and 20% unemployment
i don’t think i can find a link, though.
all that thanks to technologies which make a lot of personal meetings aspects obsolete).
i truly love france, but trying to manage a bike on a high speed train is not much fun.
for $10,999, $2700 more than the gas version, it seems a reasonable premium for something that draws 1kw when charging, an easy load on my solar panels.
to convert the transportation portion of our economy to one driven by slower and lower cost public transportation (forget high speed trains).
even if we restrict it to currently available (in the u.s.) vehicles you have the vw jetta tdi which uses a bit more fuel than the volt but carries about 50% more weight (and can tow a 1000 pound trailer) while costing slightly over 50% as much (base price about $22,500).
in the north, where freezing and thawing is an issue, the roads will need to be  repaired, regardless of how little traffic they have.
no car industry, whether electric or conventional – simply not needed.
i think all of the emphasis on high tech (use more coal and natural gas) solutions has kept people from thinking about solutions at a human scale level, that can really be maintained for the long term.
he is of the opinion that there is potential to increase the energy density by a factor of three in the immediate future, ~10 years.
will resale markets of plug-in vehicles work out as planned?
here is the renault fr website for those comfortable in french: http://www.renault-ze.com/fr-fr/gamme-z.e./renault-kangoo-express-z.e./presentation-15.html and here is the full pdf of the prices for battery hire and so on for renault uk: http://www.renault.co.uk/resources/pdf/brochures/ze_pg.pdf a bit of calculation shows that off-setting battery hire and electricity against petrol in an urban environment and allowing 3 miles per kwh to cover the extra draw from heating etc and using £1.33/litre the petrol price at maybe 8 miles/litre or so you are several hundred pounds a year better off with the electric vehicle, enough very roughly to cover the excise duty payable on petrol, so in the us it would be pretty well a wash.
concluding thoughts
if international finance doesn’t  “work,” international trade becomes much more cumbersome.
remember that there was trade between europe and china (the silk road) over 2000 years ago.
this concept is becoming obsolete on many fronts.
two things to consider  though.
two things to consider though.
the current nissan leaf’s base list price (before subsidies) is $35,200, which includes the cost of a 24 kwh battery estimated to cost $15,600 (or $650 per kwh).
the  cheapest toyota prius is $24565, and the cheapest vw jetta tdi is $24401.
it would be difficult to run the international companies without air travel.
the original vw beetle made do with 34 horsepower, even when first sold in the  u.s.a. even the original ford v8 of the 1930s, praised by clyde barrow for its  performance escaping from police, had only 65 horsepower.
there are no cars, but the countryside can be canvassed to hire one for these  critical trips.
i am not sure that we can expect to have vehicles, for precisely this  reason.
air travel for exotic vacation or to meet people in person?
i did the math and they were prohibitively expensive
but resources ($, productivity, energy) flowing into other, new and yet to emerge industries which would provide the alternatives/similars.
marianne says: september 15, 2011 at 4:50 pm it would be better to make more high occupancy vehicle (hov) lanes than  push ev too hard imho.
researchers such as mr. whitacre, the national academies of science and even some car makers aren’t convinced [the high cost of batteries will come down], mainly because more than 30% of the cost of the batteries comes from metals such as nickel, manganese and cobalt.
but it might be reasonable for there to be neighborhood vehicles or only one vehicle per household.
even the prius can carry over 800 pounds (though it is sold as a five-seater).
i wonder what it would take to strip down something like this  nissan versa and put in a 30 mph electric system with something like an 80 mile  range.
there may be other low tech approaches that would work as well, more barges, and upgrades to these.
hi gail, as much as i love bikes, i think we need the glorified golf carts (nev) for a variety of reasons: weather, disability, old age, babies and infants, etc.
the issue is that none of these things will last  longer than the electric grid, and that may not be all that long.
using smart metering than electric cars even considering the costs of the  batteries in cars.
not really needed for most of the workers, only old fashioned management styles keeps that concept alive http://www.teleworkresearchnetwork.com/outdated-management-practices-block-telework-and-flexible-work-styles/6127 (this is not so much fantasy, i and many folks i know can now work from anywhere – choosing home most often; i do not commute any more.
even though i think the gem nev’s are  ugly, what stops me ultimately from buying its flatbed truck version is its  reliance on high quality toads.
as jk might say, efforts to maintain “happy motoring” are just incredulous!
c’mon – we can live without that
i want to take my 75 year old mother to her doctor’s appointment in the nev.
the small market is gone, as is the truck farming that supported it (they are now all dairy).
there were  thieves back then, as there are now.
also, what are the legal issues?
while  the cruze is smaller than the vw jetta, it is still larger (inside) than the  volt, and carries a larger load.
santaluciae says: september 12, 2011 at 11:53 am
gail appreciate the thought on the subject.
this concept is becoming obsolete on many  fronts.
but none of  them in my mind as low 2 wheel drive vehicles be able to survive what i believe  the road will look like in 10 years.
i can tell you that everyone who is not in the far far leftist club in  the bay area jokes about all the prius drivers and other hybrid and electric  car drivers being smug, self absorbed types who are rude drivers.
in the absence of any measures to incentivize the most effective  distribution of limited battery resources, what should an individual buyer do?
the leaf and volt are both awesome science experiments, both culturally, and technologically.
gail: why do you see a shut-down in imports as a likely possibility (which would be the death-knell for any technological “solutions”)?
if you want to run the car using 3/4 its power (150 hp) for 1 hour,  that’s 150 x 745 = 112,000 watt hours.
no matter how much they  insult us for not getting in line and wasting our money on an image.
as with everything in this descent (or step function down for a true  doomer), working towards “local” xyz, community sufficiency, and  very reduced expectations on comfort (i wear a real coat, gloves and a hat  driving it in the winter), is what we should be doing now for ourselves and to  help other people make that transition.
honestly in the flat parts of africa i’ve been in, who needs gears.
from what i can perceive (if we ignore for a moment that maintaining private transport as the primary means of travel is in big trouble, no matter how we try to do it) full-electric plug-in vehicles have so many disadvantages that they won’t make it in the market place.
the used ones won’t sell for $40,000.
at some point, it is necessary to check up on workers in person.
but it is hard to write a post, unless i have  something more favorable to offer than this.
the economic cost is, in many  ways, the least of the concerns investors should have about a break-up.
and people aren’t  going to throw away their used electric cars.
i think we all know of your thoughts on continued economic growth and the debt based economy.
of course, if we simply compare the emissions of plug-in cars to emissions of cars with internal combustion engines (ice), there will be appear to be appear to be a co2 emission savings per car, with the amount depending on what fuel is used for electricity (coal, natural gas, nuclear, wind, etc.).
for instance no water for philly in a place which has water is different than no water for la in a place that is a desert.
for instance nyc is essentially gravity fed, as is  harrisburg’s.
i don’t think it would permit our current bau lifestyle, though.
i think working with india would be the same.
allow more people to drive vehicles, and drive them further.
nev-hpv for local travel combined with public transportation for the rest.
other bike  parts like brakes and cables seem to be less of a challenge in a low tech world.
let me start with a glimmer of hope, before i move on to the grim reality: there are reports the nissan leaf battery costs nissan much less than you state in your article: http://gas2.org/2010/05/05/report-nissan-leafs-battery-costs-a-staggeringly-cheap-375kwh-to-produce/ this article puts the cost of the leaf battery at $375/kwh.
these big, overpowered vehicles waste vast  amounts of gasoline.
if the real issue is saving gasoline, it may be that use of cars such as today’s prius provide more “bang for the buck,” and are also be more salable to second-hand vehicle buyers.
the analysis of mpg, cost of ownership, affordability, status symbols, etc  strikes me as a bit odd for a blog called “our finite world”  – more like a consumer’s report analysis.
i would argue that for some people, a major motivation for buying a plug-in vehicle today is to be first in the neighborhood with such a car.
in china, we hear about companies with fraudulent financial statements.
hi dave, in our finite world of oil, your “national max speed of 35 mph with mandatory governors” done worldwide could kick the shortage problem down the road a good hundred years.
no car industry, whether electric or  conventional – simply not needed.
without the electrical system, it is hard to transport oil (pipelines  use electricity, pumps use electricity) and to refine oil.
second, there is technology advancement in battery technology that will provide 400 mile range probably sooner rather than later.
you said  back in march: “i have signed a contract with springer to write a short  (125 page) book, tentatively called “beyond hubbert: how limited oil  supplies cause economic crises.”
chris harries says: september 8, 2011 at 1:23 am hi gail, here in australia a popular rationale for plug-in cars argues this: a very  large numbers of plug-in cars can act as a giant sponge (electricity can be  charged and discharged from them into the grid depending on the time of day or  night) and via this means peaks in the larger electricty system can be ironed  out and the power system can thus operate much more efficiently.
that’s the little169
the issue is really one of making whatever we do have go farther (which is next on my list of reasons).
one of these reasons is that many people believe that plug-in automobiles will reduce co2 emissions.
and people aren’t going to throw away their used electric cars.
the  reasons are the ones you have discussed.
if you buy into the idea of trains being compatible with bikes, there are more important considerations than 150 mph.
fuel costs even for these “monsters” are a trivial part of the cost of owning and running them unless you are putting a lot of miles on them.
it would be nice if the system got fixed.
now your talking wet pants schoff says: september 8, 2011 at 9:21 pm dave, i agree the happy motoring model seems to be scheduled for some  reduction in the near term, and a lot of reduction in the medium term.
the chances of the whole thing working seem  pretty remote.
without 1 and 2, there is little hope of 3 having much effect.
slow travel; our passenger train was repeatedly shunted onto a siding so the lordly freight trains could take priority.
of course, this begs the question then why the leaf is still so expensive.
ofw is asking a pointless question.
les d. says: september 7, 2011 at 12:39 pm gail, one point you haven’t touched on is how poor electric vehicles are at  carrying loads.
the chevy volt, for example, has a load capacity of a little over 700 pounds.
first,  most amerikans dont own or want to own efficent gas-burners, some to be sure,  but not many.
the number of charge / discharge cycles is important.
for $10,999, $2700 more than the  gas version, it seems a reasonable premium for something that draws 1kw when  charging, an easy load on my solar panels.
how will financing of the high cost vehicles be achieved, and at what interest rates?
just saying you missed my reducing the horsepower to 3/4 maximum for typical driving.
the vast majority of cars on the road today are far more powerful than they need to be to get a few people (and often only one person) from one place to another.
my entire town of 45,000  people is either 25 or 35mph and the rule of law operates there as well.
bicycle dave says: september 7, 2011 at 10:23 pm hi gail, although the use of bicycles on the ho chi minh trail has been somewhat  romanticized and exaggerated, never-the-less, bikes moved a lot of material  under very adverse conditions.
my concern is about the connectedness of the international financial system.
in ireland – slow and funky.
these costs will be shared very unequally among owners, with the early owners paying a disproportionate share of the costs.
schoff says: september 14, 2011 at 11:00 am
this lower battery requirement keeps the cost of the vehicle lower, and keeps the replacement cost of the battery lower.
if there is a bike like with lots of regular bikes, and not too many electrics, i can see this would be a problem.
i see no compelling reason for high speed trains.
a nissan versawould lease for $200 month, with a $1999 initial payment.
sadoway also  doesn’t foresee there to be an issue with regards to power generation.
my father argues that the rest of the world depends upon exporting goods to the united states.
the book “plan c” goes into a lot more detail on this subject.
i agree that it is not likely that battery powered vehicles will create any significant in-roads if one assumes that the mass of current vehicles remains the same.
i think the giant sponge idea has been disproved as impractical, and also  that the quantity of storage would be too small.
| our finite world |  articles about the world pingback: will plug-in automobiles be a success?
according to the calculator i used, the market value of the (originally $35,000 car) after 4 years will be $19,600.
the used ones won’t  sell for $40,000.
if we are entering into a period of fuel shortages, this might be a major reason for electric vehicles, if the price of electric vehicles can be brought down low enough.
the cost of installing the system for what i expect would be a fairly small number of users would seem to be prohibitively high as well.
so reducing battery costs may be a challenge.
hi gail: excellent post.
that said, the immense subsides the us has historically lavished on oil  companies are probably not going anywhere, but i think its worth considering  gas is only ‘cheap’ because amerikan and world taxpayers subsidize  it so heavily in the first place.
but resources ($, productivity, energy) flowing into other,  new and yet to emerge industries which would provide the alternatives/similars.
on a different administrative subject, the “star” rating on  posts are currently messed up, (although i noticed some stars for this post  suddenly appeared this afternoon).
but we live in a world market for oil.
thus, the monthly cost would be $48 higher with a nissan leaf compared to a versa at a fuel cost of $3.63 month.
the gem, polaris, and others who have been working in or towards those  regulations may make that class more of a reality, but it is going to take more  entrants with different designs (i think the gem is incredibly ugly for  instance), and different price points.
for example, a small-scale steel mill may be  set up, in a town where there is available coking coal and scrap iron, making  products such as steel tubing for bicycle frames.
a hospital stay can buy truck loads of gasoline.)
the electric vehicle in cheaper in europe, likely comparable in the us, and as subsidies reduce there are good prospects of being able to still remain competitive whilst shouldering their full share of taxation, and low maintenance costs are thrown in as a freebie.
in addition, many people, like me, are driving gas guzzeling monsters (2000 expedition) because they like, and can still afford, big vehicles, or because they drive little, or got them used at a low price.
a wealthy individual  benefits from a fuel efficient car much less than a poor individual does.
i think with this new prius plug in will help me give up on certain retail experiences and settle on closer solutions for pizza, milk, 2×4′s, whatever.
my argument is as follows: world oil production is basically maxed out.
i would argue that oil imports will decline, regardless of what we do.
join 557 other followers send me an e-mail at gailtverberg at comcast dot net.
carpool more, and 3) use more efficient modes of transportation.
the frame is really not an issue as bamboo is quite adequate  (probably other woods also).
a few days ago, i read about a research group that invented a new gel lithium battery, which they claim will be better and cheaper to produce than the current ones.
and you get to pay 25% more for the opportunity to endure all that.
bottom line is, amerikan gas is at least 1/2 or maybe even a 1/3 if what is should be.
gailtheactuary says: september 7, 2011 at 1:00 pm good point!
since your house circuit breakers won’t endure 466 amperes, you have to throttle down the amperes and take longer than 1 hour.
it is hard to add a new class of  vehicles, for this reason.
massless cars are deathtraps in an crash.
people don’t pay more for a car than the loan officer will approve for a loan, plus their available down payment.
a watt is 1 volt x 1 ampere.
this influences what kind of  nev/lev plugins that i am interested in, we own a prius which i’ve  contemplated giving to my step daughter, and buying something  “better”, either the new prius hybrid or leaf/volt.
better lubricants, manufacturing methods, and materials make a big difference in durability.
as you say: “we can’t get any kind of agreement as to how we  need to change”.
1 lousy hour in a camry massed car takes 10 hrs to charge up, if you rewire your house, and if you have a non existent 100% efficient in/out battery.
personally, i like to think that there are still some opportunities to mitigate the worst consequences of peak everything.
for gem that is probably why  they focused their initial marketing on campus’s, military bases, places  like that.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:43 am
pumping it into the city itself).
the alternative fuel-saving option is an efficient internal combustion engine.
mass production, using ever more complex robots, can lower  production cost.
hi owen, maybe everything you state above is true, if one drives there 200 hp camry full throttle 100% of the time.
compareing the cost of a pih@25.1 cents p/m, then saying an  ‘efficent’ gas-burner comes in a 19.6 cents.
road maintenance and repairs average about 3 cents a mile or $30 month for 1,000 miles of travel, based on a comparison ofhighway and public street construction costs to vehicle miles traveled.
there are limits as to what governments can do.
sure gas is makeing a  colossal mess of everything too, but governments love oil and oil companies,  and looks the other way at the damage they do.
the cost of fuel will be 12.1 cents per mile, at today’s price of $3.63 gallon, making the total cost (excluding interest on loans and vehicle maintenance) 19.6 cents per mile.
so don’t expect advancements either in using car batteries and smart grid to even out utility loads.
if you buy into the idea  of trains being compatible with bikes, there are more important considerations  than 150 mph.
however, if as a society, you have sunk everything into long lasting, low energy consumption goods, your decline will be that much less painful as the rest of the world realigns with a resource constrained future.
will there really be enough electricity for plug-in vehicles, 10 or 20 years from now?
only a few people realize the high cost of car-dependency  does not lie strictly in the price of gas, or what a barrel of oil will go for  in 10 years, but all the other costs of maintaining a car-dependant system are  whats really going to drag us down.
a step in the right direction.. first shot, miss.
there are a whole class of people and many situations where a nev makes good  sense.
unfortunately, social and political factors prevent such an efficient  deployment of battery resources.
← natural gas: the squeeze at the bottom of the  resource triangle european debt crisis and sustainability → 75 responses to will plug-in automobiles be a success?
they  just found an enormous copper deposit right near the southern alaska coast.
in the north, where freezing and thawing is an issue, the roads will need to be repaired, regardless of how little traffic they have.
i even used them where it was hilly.
the regulatory framework almost exists here in  the federal nev and lev regulations, what is missing in the regulations is  35mph, it is currently capped at 25mph.
there is also the issue of whether people would be happy, if when they go to drive the car, the battery has been drained to help supply needed electricity elsewhere.
he  states that electric vehicles will use the same amount of energy per household  as our refrigerators.
in spite of aid from the government of up to 6,000 euros per car, in a fund  of 76 million euros.
however, they do  contribute green feel goodness and less guilt in a civilization where the  misery index in rapidly escalating, so maybe that is worth something.
if you want electricity for those sites as well, i think the ability to make a generator out of millions of spare alternators should be pretty simple.
there is quite a bit of local work that can’t be done long-distance.
all you would need is a single battery cycle test and a certified test result, much like a smog check, which is routine in california.
japan and german are taking nuclear off line now.
first, there are more efficient modes than personal vehicles, which  require the transport of 3000 pounds of car to move 150-300 pounds of payload  (1 or 2 passengers).
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:44 pm i think a big part of our problem is that we can’t get any kind of  agreement as to how we need to change.
vehicles are often confused with hybrid vehicles which run  on a combination of a gasoline engine and electric motor.
at this point, i personally would not make a push for plug-in vehicles, but i can understand why some people might want to do so, especially if they are of the belief that costs can come down substantially in the future.
schoff says: september 19, 2011 at 3:34 pm i miss my 2.8l 4×4 extended cab 1985 s10 pickup, it had 110 hp.
i grew up using bikes without gears.
i also wonder how much difference there is between winter and summer use of water for various municipalities.
we have a saying about walk before we run; regarding trains, we should try skootch before we crawl.
it is never going to work if we  have to share the road with 70 mph, 3,000 lb steel boxes operated by people who  may or may not be competent and not distracted.
slightly off topic: i see high-speed trains as an expensive distraction.
bill simpson says: september 19, 2011 at 4:20 am the vast majority of cars on the road today are far more powerful than they  need to be to get a few people (and often only one person) from one place to  another.
i think with this new prius plug in will  help me give up on certain retail experiences and settle on closer solutions  for pizza, milk, 2×4′s, whatever.
if there was a system in place to encourage efficient distribution of battery resources, i would gladly participate in and support in.
in fact, inspecting a battery  should be easier than inspecting a more complicated gasoline engine.
some people drive large cars.
i did the math and they were prohibitively expensive and it just did not make sense.
(getting past the south end of lake michigan was  like a kafka novel illustrated by hieronymus bosch.)
of course, we all benefit when  the poor have access to affordable transportation to get them to work.
but is a 2 seater, appropriate for hauling groceries, materials, and going to  doctor’s appointments, no ac, no heat.
some people believe that oil prices will rise to $20 a gallon (and the economy won’t collapse at the same time).
if you want electricity for those sites as well, i think the ability  to make a generator out of millions of spare alternators should be pretty  simple.
the inevitability of your conclusion there is relentless.
a camry engine is going to take the impact for you because it’s  in front of you.
of course, this is a socialist idea that would never gain traction in the u.s. a (slightly) more acceptable alternative might be to give incentives to lower income buyers of second-hand plug-in vehicles.
second, amerika heavilty sudsidizies both the production and  consumption of fossil-fuels in ways to numerous to list.
i think lev’s and nev’s  offer an opportunity to get out of the detroit mentality that everything that  you drive must be like an ice vehicle.
i am afraid we need to wait until everything falls apart, and then we use whatever is available, which may not be much at all.
perhaps this is an issue i am overly worried about.
the real question is whether or not we start soon enough to create new transportation models to serve our basic needs in a power-down future.
i can envision widespread international trade even following a complete collapse of industrial civilization.
commuting to a job site?
these big, overpowered vehicles waste vast amounts of gasoline.
there is also most certainly the issue of uniform distribution  of mass.
or look at  somalia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/economy_of_somalia) where trade  flourishes in a country with no finance or government in the conventional sense.
you incur that risk for the  joyous privilege of charging up a battery 10+ hrs to get 1 hour of use at a  price 25% higher than a conventional vehicle, to extend oil supply a few days.
at another angle, with the availability of a number of electric  motorcycles, i wonder when someone will simply use the trike angle and build an  enclosed electric one.
for example (us centric): national max speed 35 mph with mandatory governors, elimination of half the public roadways, no new parking facilities, significant tax increases for private vehicle weight, etc.
i would imagine that the downtown environments of california like  mountainview would work just fine as well since the speed limit of 25mph and  the “rule of law” both operate there.
plug-in cars wont succeed,even if they appear to, because the problem with cars, as it turns out, is cars themselves.
in africa i see this for the clinic and funeral all the time.
but you are quite right about the ridiculous amount of power today’s
i know that in china, there have been problems with electric bicycles going too fast relative to regular bicycles, and there being accidents.
if you or i don’t use a model with a gasoline engine, and instead buy a plug-in model, admittedly there will be a reduction in the gasoline that you or i would use.
i’d like to believe that i could drive them now in my town without problems; however, i will wait another five or so years of descent when half the traffic is gone….
to convert the  transportation portion of our economy to one driven by slower and lower cost  public transportation (forget high speed trains).
no doubt some will want to argue that renault have got their sums wrong,  but for customers the answers are in.
anything that allows what liquid fuel supply we have to go farther, such as supplementing oil powered cars with cars powered by electricity, allows more people to drive cars, and to drive them further.
we have a saying about walk before we  run; regarding trains, we should try skootch before we crawl.
like it or not, private cars will be part of the transport mix for the next umpteen years, but it seems that, unless there are incredible advances in electric technology, super efficient fossil fueled engines, coupled with downsizing of vehicle weight, will easily win the day.
very expensive delivery services (medical, materials, maintenance, goods) seem to be needed – and would this way be shared by many and use much less oil compared to our current regular driving to shopping sprees)… to me this looks like a potential way to decompress slowly.
i don’t think it would  permit our current bau lifestyle, though.
even if i’m wrong about the time frame (say 100 years instead of 20), what kind of morality supports the idea that today’s generation of humans has the right to degrade the biosphere of our planet and deprive many future generations of a livable planet.
either the current structure will have to change, or the current  membership will have to change.
stravinsky7 says: september 9, 2011 at 10:11 pm the leaf and volt are both awesome science experiments, both culturally,  and technologically.
i’m not saying that peak oil won’t be a big  crisis.
he is of the opinion that there is potential to increase the energy  density by a factor of three in the immediate future, ~10 years.
if one needs to account for interest issues, the average cost per gallon would need to be much higher than $6.75–perhaps be double this amount, depending on the interest rate.
the idea has clearly been around  since bible times.
we may have to go back to what people did before–ride animals, or have animals pull carts.
they just found an enormous copper deposit right near the southern alaska coast.
of course, one might ask whether bicycles might not work just as  well, for the short distances under discussion.
taking all factors into account, the best solution would be to equip the  most needy people with the least expensive vehicles.
hi gail, given your research and analysis skills i’ve no doubt about what you have presented in this post.
a grandniece was badly burned by leaning against a wall by her  seat; the heating system had gone postal.
the chevy volt has a base price of $40,280, which includes a 16 kwh batteryestimated to cost $10,000 (or $625 per kwh).
i don’t see us going back to 17.
another small factory might  be set up near a rubber plantation to make bicycle tires.
the small  market is gone, as is the truck farming that supported it (they are now all  dairy).
the theory certainly appeals to those who think there is a free lunch.
they are tied to one political ideological  group and more specifically one class within that political ideological group  (upper middle class and wealthy liberals…generally far left liberals  which come across as smug to everyone else…south park did an excellent  critique on this) and it turns off everyone else who isn’t in their camp,  pretty hard core.
i could see glorified golf carts a lot more easily.
only 2% of businesses consider buying evs after studying their problems, and specially the resale value, next to nothing.
the frame is really not an issue as bamboo is quite adequate (probably other woods also).
while it is going to be a few more miles than that (15), i think the prius plug in could be a game changer over the next five years.
but i get the  general idea.
cheap fuel is nonrenewable and in increasingly short supply.
under the current structure and with the current membership, the euro does not work.
where we have railroad tracks, there may be  simpler systems that could be used on the rail tracks, as long as these can be  maintained.
i see water being the real issue, and something you might want to consider  by muncipality.
pm ice is here to stay, agreed.
we had a talk here in seattle by mit professor donald sadoway on emerging battery technology last year.
what is relevant (again in the  absence of a larger action) is how best i can make use of the remaining driving  infrastructure.
it may be that electricity supplies are as constrained as oil supplies.
lease comparison calculations–for those interested: a nissan leaf leases for $349 month, after taking full credit for the $7,500 rebate and a $1999 initial payment.
it would make an interesting table, taking  the top 50 municipalities in this context and then their setting.
as i’ve said before, it is very hard to have effective solutions when the problem itself is not understood.
sadoway also doesn’t foresee there to be an issue with regards to power generation.
i considered buying a hybrid or electric vehicle a few years ago when looking at buying a car.
prices for these metals, which are set on commodities markets, aren’t expected to fall with increasing battery production—and may even rise as demand grows, according to a study by the academies of science released earlier this year and engineers familiar with battery production.
regarding the enclosed motorcycle, i think part of it may have to do with when a vehicle becomes too close to something that is regulated by crash-worthy tests.
where we have railroad tracks, there may be simpler systems that could be used on the rail tracks, as long as these can be maintained.
unfortunately, social and political factors prevent such an efficient deployment of battery resources.
last year in the same period they’d sold 16 evs.
other bike parts like brakes and cables seem to be less of a challenge in a low tech world.
in  addition, many people, like me, are driving gas guzzeling monsters (2000  expedition) because they like, and can still afford, big vehicles, or because  they drive little, or got them used at a low price.
gailtheactuary says: september 10, 2011 at 5:11 pm it would be possible to cut back, but there are limits.
my concern is about the connectedness of the international financial  system.
the ford model t was the worlds most popular car for more than a decade a century ago, and it had all of 22 horsepower.
people will be willing to pay for the value they get, and the small load capacity reduces the value of the vehicles.
in his home  town, the 1500 square foot slaughter house doesn’t exist.
apart from these issues, it seems like there are several other reasons why some people will choose to buy plug-in vehicles or will argue that subsidies should be used, to encourage greater use by many drivers.
yes, i probably should have written about green feel-goodness too, but that would have offended some.
solutions has kept people from thinking about solutions at a human scale level,  that can really be maintained for the long term.
we would no longer be looking for a “steady stream of new products”, but we could still get a steady stream of simple and durable products which are beyond the capabilities of local sources.
the gem, polaris, and others who have been working in or towards those regulations may make that class more of a reality, but it is going to take more entrants with different designs (i think the gem is incredibly ugly for instance), and different price points.
how they are powered is almost  becomeing irrelevent.
the lifetime cost of a chevy volt is similar, if we include the cost of an extra battery.
once enought of them are manufactured, a used vehicle market will develop.
many work trips will be able to be accomplished without using any gasoline or diesel.
it’s all silly and is going to kill people in car wrecks even before  it kills people wasting energy on a non viable solution.
these are to some extent covered by gasoline costs, but are not included in the electric pricing.
for instance nyc is essentially gravity fed, as is harrisburg’s.
i think this is a big part of the push for plug-in automobiles.
if there was a system in  place to encourage efficient distribution of battery resources, i would gladly  participate in and support in.
hi gail, here in australia a popular rationale for plug-in cars argues this: a very large numbers of plug-in cars can act as a giant sponge (electricity can be charged and discharged from them into the grid depending on the time of day or night) and via this means peaks in the larger electricty system can be ironed out and the power system can thus operate much more efficiently.
repairs will also need to follow major storms, with or without much traffic on the roads.
.zero-emission vehicles are eco-friendly vehicles such as electric vehicles evs and fuel-cell vehicles fcvs that have no tailpipe emissions of co2 or other gases..
it  would be nice if the system got fixed.
the monthly gasoline cost of the nissan versa (assuming 1,000 miles of travel, a fuel cost of $3.63 gallon, and 30 miles per gallon for the nissan versa) would be $121, and the lease cost plus fuel cost would be $321.
a third view is that we need to plan on riding horses, or horse driven carts, but where would we raise all of the horses, and what would we feed them.
or look at somalia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/economy_of_somalia) where trade flourishes in a country with no finance or government in the conventional sense.
wonhyo says: september 11, 2011 at 12:06 pm gail, that’s an incredibly thorough and well-connected evaluation of  plug-in vehicles.
2011 data is for the partial year.
the general idea being to totally eliminate the current private automobile paradigm over the next 20 years or so.
i probably wouldn’t have written the post, except that some of the oil drum staff members had been discussing some related material behind the scenes, so i tried to work through the details, trying to figure out what the issues really were (rather than focusing on, say, whether better batteries could fix some perceived problem).
allow politicians to look like they are doing something.
although i would say a modest battery with 5 mile range would be useful for zeroing out gasoline consumption for most small trips.
i am an actuary  interested in finite world issues - oil depletion, natural gas depletion, water  shortages, and climate change.
taking all factors into account, the best solution would be to equip the most needy people with the least expensive vehicles.
bill, unfortunately, gas-guzzling monsters are still the logical choice for many americans.
gm needs to develop products that have the same cost structure and profit margins as their current vehicles and so they develop an expensive gas/plug-in electric hybrid vehicle which can maintain their profit margins and corporate structure.
my father argues that the rest of the world depends upon exporting goods to  the united states.
they can be rewound without the need for much  additional copper being mined.
only a few people realize the high cost of car-dependency does not lie strictly in the price of gas, or what a barrel of oil will go for in 10 years, but all the other costs of maintaining a car-dependant system are whats really going to drag us down.
i think i was an adult, living on my  own, before i had a bike without gears.
i would put the likelihood of breakup higher than the report suggests, especially over, say, a two year time frame.
allow business as usual (bau) to continue longer.
also, long slow charging seems to be better for batteries than the quick charge approach.
the theory certainly appeals to those  who think there is a free lunch.
the risk case,  of break-up, is considerably more costly and close to zero probability.
again, thanks for committing your thorough and systematic analysis into a  well-written article, and thanks to the readers who post insightful comments.
we have biked in a retirement  community in florida that allows nevs but only within the city limit –  plus some other restrictions.
and, how we might actually transition to more sustainable modes of  transportation.
to those of us that follow the peak oil literature, it is  well-understood that electric or hybrid cars neither help the oil depletion nor  the atmospheric co2 problem and probably make them worse.
wind and solar pv are mostly one-time investments, that don’t require much ongoing fuel supply (except for maintenance).
those ge motors ran for decades inside a hot concrete building.
consequently it is probably more likely  that a company like tata or a golf cart manufacturer with lower overhead costs  will be the successful electric car manufacturer.
another small factory might be set up near a rubber plantation to make bicycle tires.
gailtheactuary says: september 14, 2011 at 9:03 am
i would put the likelihood of breakup higher than the report suggests,  especially over, say, a two year time frame.
however, they do contribute green feel goodness and less guilt in a civilization where the misery index in rapidly escalating, so maybe that is worth something.
bottom line is,  amerikan gas is at least 1/2 or maybe even a 1/3 if what is should be.
i think that is part of the  problem…….
in the same period this year  they sold 6,467 hybrids and more than 500.000 fuel vehicles and that in spite  of a severe economic crisis and 20% unemployment
gailtheactuary says: september 13, 2011 at 1:05 pm regarding the enclosed motorcycle, i think part of it may have to do with  when a vehicle becomes too close to something that is regulated by crash-worthy  tests.
it still works in places where there is no effective  international finance system: as an example, look at iran, where even with most  trade theoretically prohibited, foreign goods are widely available.
i don’t think i can find  a link, though.
i’m also of the opinion that companies like gm are subject to the  innovator’s dilemma.
more likely, it just lets someone  else use the oil, that would be pumped regardless of whether it was you or  someone else using it.
people here are very happy with hybrids, the taxi drivers specially like the prius.
for the home, you are going to have lots of small legacy solar, like  d.lights and sunwize systems for a little bit of lighting, and then some  standalone pv homes that will have electricity for decades during the day, but  not at night (unless you can manufacture sulfuric acide and refurb batteries).
chris i believe i’ve read that the additional charging and discharging would cause the batteries to wear out more quickly.
if you want to run the car using 3/4 its power (150 hp) for 1 hour, that’s 150 x 745 = 112,000 watt hours.
metals can be discovered and recycled.
while there is some merit in this argument, it also seems  rather rooted in the 1950′s and ignores a declining dollar, competing  economies, and increasing finance difficulties.
ideally, the poorest car buyers should get the largest subsidies to purchase  the most efficient cars.
electric motors can be easily replaced.
the rails were in  miserable shape.
equipping everyone  with priuses that get double the average fuel efficiency does nothing if  consumers use that to double the miles driven.
my complaints are really with the idea that we can keep bau going with electric cars.
in spite of aid from the government of up to 6,000 euros per car, in a fund of 76 million euros.
they can be rewound without the need for much additional copper being mined.
i think that is part of the problem…….
these types of things definitely deter people like me and more moderates and conservatives from every joining the prius or other hybrid club.
for gem that is probably why they focused their initial marketing on campus’s, military bases, places like that.
only 2% of businesses consider buying evs after studying  their problems, and specially the resale value, next to nothing.
and, how we might actually transition to more sustainable modes of transportation.
i will refrain from flogging my theory about why we  are unable to understand the problem.
the most efficient concept in urban environments is  personal rapid transit (prt), which uses a 1500 pound pod on an electrified  monorail to carry up to 6 passengers, a ratio of 250-1500 pounds of vehicle per  pound of passenger (“v/p”), compared to 750-300 v/p for a typical  passenger automobile.
all you  would need is a single battery cycle test and a certified test result, much  like a smog check, which is routine in california.
these costs, according to my calculations, amount to about 3 cents a mile.
view all posts by gail tverberg → this entry  was posted inalternatives to oil, energy policy and tagged carbon emissions,  electric vehicles, plug-in automobiles, plug-in vehicles.
air travel for exotic vacation or  to meet people in person?
you make some good points.
food costs will skyrocket – but that also will probably drive folks to  try growing stuff close to home.
some people had them in the family or whatever, and you borrowed them for the critical trip to the hospital, a medical specialist, or a relative’s death or a very very special event.
how they are powered is almost becomeing irrelevent.
while the cruze is smaller than the vw jetta, it is still larger (inside) than the volt, and carries a larger load.
an electric world | scoop.it factoids: toyota camry is 170 horsepower in the base model.
the  insurance on the ford is probably less than either of the fuel efficient  vehicles because it will cost a lot less to repair if it is in an accident, and  any mechanical repairs for the ford will cost much less.
to greatly encourage and provide safety for neighborhood  electric vehicles (nev) which are basically weatherized golf carts and human  powered vehicles (hpv) such as velo-mobiles, bikes and trikes.
now people can get 200,000 miles, or more, out of them.
if we use  bicycles, we need ones that won’t need new tires, or some other important  part, that you and your neighbors can’t put together quickly with local  materials.
we believe the potential for zero-emission vehicles is extremely  promising.
the cost would be reasonable.
they are tied to one political ideological group and more specifically one class within that political ideological group (upper middle class and wealthy liberals…generally far left liberals which come across as smug to everyone else…south park did an excellent critique on this) and it turns off everyone else who isn’t in their camp, pretty hard core.
the point would be $$$ to rewire your house for 240 v (or higher) and 40  amp wires (you can’t just pound amperage through thin wires; they melt)  as well as breakers, all so you can wait 10+ hours to have enough get up and go  for 1 lousy camry equivalent hour.
pingback: will plug-in automobiles be a success?
hi schoff, thanks for the link.
and it just did not make sense.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 9:16 am
but it is hard to see  how we would get the steady stream of new products and replacement parts that  we now depend upon.
for example, i can estimate  that if i either rode a bike or commuted with my friend using her car that i  could save at most $1000 a year in fuel costs.
with all of the vehicles, there is a problem of integrating them into the mix that is currently available.
although i agree that small amounts of fuel saved by individual actions are pretty futile, it seems to me that dramatic/extensive changes in public policy could make a real difference.
the chances of the whole thing working seem pretty remote.
although i would say a modest battery with 5 mile range  would be useful for zeroing out gasoline consumption for most small trips.
the real power and glory of a bike comes from chains and gears (please – no rants from unicyclists).
schoff says: september 11, 2011 at 3:13 pm you have raised an interesting point which is part of my thinking, i  don’t assume that the driving infrastructure will remain at its current  quality (high), that it will decline dramatically.
there are huge additional questions: 1.
gailtheactuary says: september 7, 2011 at 8:53 pm you make some good points.
perhaps this idea of individual transportation (aka cars, air travel) is all we would have to say good by to?
the insurance on the ford is probably less than either of the fuel efficient vehicles because it will cost a lot less to repair if it is in an accident, and any mechanical repairs for the ford will cost much less.
remember that there was trade between  europe and china (the silk road) over 2000 years ago.
st. roy says: september 7, 2011 at 2:12 pm hi gail: excellent post.
i am unaware if that rationale has hit the us, but would be interested if the argument is based on solid logic or wishful thinking.
your article questions the lifetime cost-efficiency of a plug-in, but given  that the driving infrastructure is unlikely to last the life of a new car, the  lifetime cost-efficiency becomes irrelevant.
the high cost of plug in vehicles is not just the batteries–it is the cost of the cars themselves.
much of our discussion here focuses on the notion that depleting oil supplies (along with many other resource/environmental issues) will lead to a collapse of bau unless drastic changes are implemented.
on a  strictly dollars and cents basis, gas-o-line would be a clear loser on anything  like an even playing field.zthis is not to say i think pih are a good idea,  they are not.
if someone is going to run a day care, it can’t be done long distance  (but it can be done in the home).
i find it strange that we have comments here that view this issue through the prism of political ideology or elitism.
he also was arguing that things might get much better,  cost-wise.
loan terms for a used cars are shorter than for new cars (often 36 months), putting the financing of expensive used cars out of the range of less well-off buyers, as well.
one condition of this second hand purchase incentive program should be that a government or independent agency inspect the battery for all vehicles resold under this program, to ensure that the second-hand buyer gets a battery in reasonably good shape.
a grandniece was badly burned by leaning against a wall by her seat; the heating system had gone postal.
millions of people drive pick-ups who never haul a thing.
i used to live next to a sewer lift station.
a more average engine (operative word average) at 200 hp will add, as will the typical automatic transmission, so the “typical” camry will weigh more (and carry more, so “curb weight” is probably the wrong comparison) than a leaf, but not a ton, as it were, more.
instead, the price of oil may drop by a tiny bit, and the oil will be bought by someone else.
there are no cars, but the countryside can be canvassed to hire one for these critical trips.
if a vehicle owner buys a 30 mile a gallon car for $15,000, and it also lasts for 200,000 miles, the cost of vehicle ownership will be 7.5 cents per mile.
optimal strategy is to suppress competing consumption  militarily.
the train station is gone, as are the tracks, but the bed is still  there.
we may have to go back to what people did before–ride animals, or  have animals pull carts.
i think roads will last much longer and need less maintenance (except from vegetation) if we only use them for nevs and hpvs.
it would be possible to cut back, but there are limits.
perhaps we  can differentiate between home energy and commercial energy.
but being smug about people being smug will not solve the transportation problem.
i find it strange that we have comments here that view this issue through  the prism of political ideology or elitism.
a recent ubs publication says: the euro should not exist (like this) under the current structure and with the current membership, the euro does  not work.
so we would be at  risk of losing the oil (and probably natural gas) systems as well.
minorities i know in the bay can’t stand prius drivers  either.
i disagree with the assessment, however.
is the purpose of plug-in vehicles to give the small number of people who are rich enough to purchase them the chance to save money on fuel, if they keep their cars long enough?
green energy says: september 9, 2011 at 9:03 pm green energy has come a long way in the last decade, it will only continue  to grow in the future.
1 lousy hour in a camry massed car takes 10 hrs to charge up, if you rewire  your house, and if you have a non existent 100% efficient in/out battery.
the chevy volt, for example, has a load capacity of a little  over 700 pounds.
i don’t think this is a reasonable expectation.
even gm can see the logic of this approach: the turbodiesel chevrolet cruze is expected in 2013 and will probably be even cheaper than the the vw.
the problem here it that the technology is  likely not easily downward scalable.
chris harries says: september 12, 2011 at 5:51 pm from what i can perceive (if we ignore for a moment that maintaining  private transport as the primary means of travel is in big trouble, no matter  how we try to do it) full-electric plug-in vehicles have so many disadvantages  that they won’t make it in the market place.
but many people do not make the comparison i make, and will want to purchase plug-in vehicles, on the assumption that because of the efficiency of electric engines, there is at least a small savings in co2, relative to ices, even with coal as a source of electricity.
i need to check into the situation, and maybe do some rewriting.
gail, one point you haven’t touched on is how poor electric vehicles are at carrying loads.
the optimistic thought is that nissan is just exploiting its uniquely low battery cost, pricing relative to the competition, and reaping the additional profit.
but being smug about people being smug will not  solve the transportation problem.
let me start with a glimmer of hope, before i move on to the grim reality:  there are reports the nissan leaf battery costs nissan much less than you state  in your article: http://gas2.org/2010/05/05/report-nissan-leafs-battery-costs-a-staggeringly-cheap-375kwh-to-produce/ this article puts the cost of the leaf battery at $375/kwh.
the world will extract as much oil from the ground as it is able.
the total cost is $50,280, or 25.1 cents per mile.
setting aside solutions other than personal automobiles, your analysis of various vehicle options is right on.
a few years ago  we of the chicago branch of my wife’s extended family traveled to and  from philadelphia, for a major family event, via amtrak.
fuel costs even for these “monsters” are  a trivial part of the cost of owning and running them unless you are putting a  lot of miles on them.
great comments from readers, too.
i don’t expect to be able to make use of any car for more than about  5-10 years, but during that time, having a plug-in maximizes the chances of my  being able to make use of the car.
not everyone will see things this way, however, and the people who believe differently will want to purchase what they think will help for the long term.
jb says: september 9, 2011 at 1:37 pm gail, sorry for the ot, but how is the book coming along?
bicycle dave says: september 8, 2011 at 10:32 pm hi gail, in a perfect scenario (most doubtful) we would conserve high energy sources  (liquid fuel or big batteries) just for those activities that really need them.
slow travel; our  passenger train was repeatedly shunted onto a siding so the lordly freight  trains could take priority.
this is soon going to become a bottleneck and maybe a show stopper for vehicle sales other than old trucks.
we would no longer be looking for a “steady stream of new  products”, but we could still get a steady stream of simple and durable  products which are beyond the capabilities of local sources.
food transport would be a major concern.
panama corporation says: september 18, 2011 at 12:13 pm .zero-emission vehicles are eco-friendly vehicles such as electric vehicles  evs and fuel-cell vehicles fcvs that have no tailpipe emissions of co2 or other  gases..
downtothelastcookie says: september 8, 2011 at 1:46 am hi owen, maybe everything you state above is true, if one drives there 200 hp camry  full throttle 100% of the time.
also, long slow charging seems to be better for  batteries than the quick charge approach.
electric  motors can be easily replaced.
the chevy volt will likely prove to  fall into this situation.
it is based on this though: http://www.polarisindustries.com/en-us/atv-ranger/mid-size-utility-vehicles/ranger-ev/pages/overview.aspx?wt.si_n=orv-fromfamily-model-r12rc08g-2012_rgr_ev&wt.si_x=1
gailtheactuary says: september 7, 2011 at 3:15 pm
even if the whole thing of storage could be  worked out (and leave the person with electricity to drive the car when  needed), adding and subtracting electricity would wear out the battery more  quickly, and there would be an electrical loss in the round-trip.
and the huge monster may keep me out of intensive care if someone on the cell phone hits me.
i think you also have a problem with these cars  now that they have an image problem.
while there is some merit in this argument, it also seems rather rooted in the 1950′s and ignores a declining dollar, competing economies, and increasing finance difficulties.
i miss my 2.8l 4×4 extended cab 1985 s10 pickup, it had 110 hp.
they have a cab kit to enclose the vehicle and make it more  weather friendly.
in france – very fast and modern.
on a strictly dollars and cents basis, gas-o-line would be a clear loser on anything like an even playing field.zthis is not to say i think pih are a good idea, they are not.
schoff says: september 11, 2011 at 3:05 pm
a more average engine (operative word  average) at 200 hp will add, as will the typical automatic transmission, so the  “typical” camry will weigh more (and carry more, so “curb  weight” is probably the wrong comparison) than a leaf, but not a ton, as  it were, more.
interestingly, back in the 1930′s and 1940′s,  mexican railroads worked well; back in the bad old days of the porfirio  díaz dictatorship, mexican railroads were world class.
however, i’d like to suggest a different  approach to the subject: what is the likely continuance (say for the next 20  years) of private vehicle ownership that even remotely supports the current car  culture?
my v6 190hp tacoma 4×4 is definitely too much for the  firewood, trailering, and towing that i do, except that when i get on the  thruway they really expect me to go to 75mph.
gailtheactuary says: september 15, 2011 at 7:13 pm i am pretty sure you are right.
i’d like to believe that i could drive them now in my town without  problems; however, i will wait another five or so years of descent when  half the traffic is gone….
electric motors can last decades.
this is because gasoline has been very cheap for the last 80 years.
be the first to like this post. about gail tverberg my name is gail tverberg.
| our finite world |  articles about the world bicycle dave says: september 7, 2011 at 6:29 pm hi gail, given your research and analysis skills i’ve no doubt about what you  have presented in this post.
so the actual costs for more amerikans is undoubtably not as good as 19 cents.
i think we all know of your thoughts on continued economic growth and the  debt based economy.
undoubtedly it is hard.
to have a 200 hp camry equivalent electric car requires 150,000 watts.
after that, it remains to be seen if these two items can be locally produced at reasonable cost with low-tech methods – i tend to think this is quite possible.
i see it  here in pennsylvania with the disappearance of suburbans, big trucks,  expeditions, etc as everyday vehicles.
bilateral trade between two such enterprises would be logical, and could be carried out by small sailing ships using practically no fossil fuel.
but we all won’t be riding bicycles next decade.
however, i’d like to suggest a different approach to the subject: what is the likely continuance (say for the next 20 years) of private vehicle ownership that even remotely supports the current car culture?
so don’t expect advancements either in using car  batteries and smart grid to even out utility loads.
bicycle dave says: september 7, 2011 at 10:04 pm hi david, back in the good old days (maybe bad) when we jumped on a plane in blissful  ignorance to go cycling in europe, we used trains in ireland and france.
so why pay more for something that costs more to own, even if it does use  less fuel?
some people had them in the  family or whatever, and you borrowed them for the critical trip to the  hospital, a medical specialist, or a relative’s death or a very very  special event.
if a car is driven 12,000 miles a year and gets 30 miles to a gallon, it will use 400 gallons of fuel a year.
well perhaps local air quality *might* marginally improve  over time, but even that is in doubt since imo, car-culture will collpse long  before any of the benefits of so called plug-ins even become detectable.
from a  cyclist perspective, i loved the trains in ireland – just roll your bike  on the train with no extra preparation and no rush.
thats whats really crippling us, not ‘how’ the cars are powered.
however, even if cars were made marginally …..cleaner, i cant bring  myself to call them green, b/c that would be a lie, none of the other problems  created by personal, private 1 person per 4000 pound metal and plastic box get  resolved-not one.
stravinsky7 says: september 14, 2011 at 6:30 am oh, gail.
it would be far better to store electrical energy in hot water heaters using smart metering than electric cars even considering the costs of the batteries in cars.
this is a considerable saving, and renault should you choose to go for a maintenance contract do it for 80% of the diesel price.
gm needs to develop products that have the same cost  structure and profit margins as their current vehicles and so they develop an  expensive gas/plug-in electric hybrid vehicle which can maintain their profit  margins and corporate structure.
i expect that using plug-in cars will raise co2 emissions.
i think you also have a problem with these cars now that they have an image problem.
second, amerika heavilty sudsidizies both the production and consumption of fossil-fuels in ways to numerous to list.
in addition, the nissan leaf will need to buy electricity over the life of the car, currently estimated to cost 2 cents per mile–probably more than this in the future, if electricity prices rise, in response to higher fossil fuel prices.
both nissan and chevy have put together better than market leasing arrangements for their new leaf and volt, in which they apply the full $7,000 rebate to the three-year lease term, and assume generous residual values.
is the purpose of plug-in electric vehicles to provide those who have enough foresight to buy the plug-in electric vehicles a chance to motor around, when others are unable to, because gasoline is unavailable?
plug-in works for a different class, call it 2 seater, 35 miles,  35mph using lead acid batteries.
i suspect that chains and gears can be salvaged from millions of unused bikes for the next 50 years or so.
there is no way to find a lot of minerals without drilling a hole and knowing  what is coming out of it.
if we don’t have enough fuel for gasoline vehicles, perhaps electric vehicles will solve our problems, and we can continue to motor along for the next 50 or 100 years.
i can remember a comment by an engineer in about 1952 (i wish i could remember who it was): “any car with over 100hp is either too big or overpowered.”
so using 40 amps, you can  put 1 hour of camry driving into a battery over a period of 466 / 40 = over 10  hours.
andrew in the bay area says: september 7, 2011 at 1:19 pm i considered buying a hybrid or electric vehicle a few years ago when  looking at buying a car.
that said, the immense subsides the us has historically lavished on oil companies are probably not going anywhere, but i think its worth considering gas is only ‘cheap’ because amerikan and world taxpayers subsidize it so heavily in the first place.
now your talking wet pants dave, i agree the happy motoring model seems to be scheduled for some reduction in the near term, and a lot of reduction in the medium term.
i hope i’ve added value to the discussion.
one hundred and eighty one sold between january and july in a country with more than 20 million personal cars.
there are more sophisticated ways of doing this too–tax structure, for example, can take from one group, to give to another.
clearing roads (snow or whatever) and plowing fields being prime candidates.
this is how i remember the 60′s.
harvard business professor clayton christensen has written about how dominant companies can be displaced by disruptive technology because they are incapable of developing and nurturing less capable technology that competes with their current products.
schoff says: september 8, 2011 at 9:28 pm agreed.
no jobs there, no air travel and (or  very little and highly expensive), no jobs there, related industries shrinking  or collapsing also.
dave: i cannot avoid agreeing with your vision, as implied in your 4th (penultimate) paragraph, although i might see a different approach.
some people take the local bus.
i can remember a  comment by an engineer in about 1952 (i wish i could remember who it was):  “any car with over 100hp is either too big or overpowered.”
you have a pretty strong point on fuel costs.
http://www.nissanusa.com/versa-sedan/?next=header.vlp.postcard.picture.thumbnail .
les d. says: september 8, 2011 at 11:43 am gail, international trade worked before there was an effective international  finance system.
given the insecurity of petroleum based transportation, the  plug-in vehicle gives me transportation security that a conventional hybrid  does not.
you said back in march: “i have signed a contract with springer to write a short (125 page) book, tentatively called “beyond hubbert: how limited oil supplies cause economic crises.”
the purchase price, insurance and taxes for many suvs and  pickups are very much the same as for smaller, fuel efficient cars.
i’ve been driving fuel efficient vehicles since 1998, hybrids since 2000, and a plug-in since this year.
even if i’m wrong about the time  frame (say 100 years instead of 20), what kind of morality supports the idea  that today’s generation of humans has the right to degrade the biosphere  of our planet and deprive many future generations of a livable planet.
is there a name for someone else swooping in to consume the resource that  someone else saved?
my entire town of 45,000 people is either 25 or 35mph and the rule of law operates there as well.
i suggest that we try to analyze  the most likely way that humans will move about the face of the earth in 20 or  30 years.
keep up the good work.
one hundred and eighty one sold between january and  july in a country with more than 20 million personal cars.
if they  can only run a few hours at a time, that is better than nothing.
a lot of people seem to think of electric cars, wind turbines, and energy star refrigerators that can be operated with a little less electricity than last year’s model.
i need to check into the situation, and maybe do  some rewriting.
you make an important point using natural gas to make  electric to drive cars allows us to deplete both oil and natural gas by  driving.
cars and trucks have.
there might be a nice integration there to deal with peak solar power during the day.
it can  still work, on a more limited scale, with more controls.
if we can use these instead of imported oil to power vehicles, the argument goes, it will reduce our dependence on imported oil.
i see water being the real issue, and something you might want to consider by muncipality.
the risk case, of break-up, is considerably more costly and close to zero probability.
there are more sophisticated ways of doing  this too–tax structure, for example, can take from one group, to give to  another.
better lubricants, manufacturing methods, and materials make a big difference  in durability.
if by success, we mean “sell lots of vehicles” the answer is probably “no” unless the price comes down a lot–say 50% from today’s prices, so that price is in line with what common people can afford.
as you say: “we can’t get any kind of agreement as to how we need to change”.
after that, it remains to  be seen if these two items can be locally produced at reasonable cost with  low-tech methods – i tend to think this is quite possible.
one  condition of this second hand purchase incentive program should be that a  government or independent agency inspect the battery for all vehicles resold  under this program, to ensure that the second-hand buyer gets a battery in  reasonably good shape.
that  type of battery would make for a better hybrid that can get some range from the  electric grid, especially if coupled to night time recharging using a simple  charge timer when electrical power is generally dumped into resistors.
i would imagine that the downtown environments of california like mountainview would work just fine as well since the speed limit of 25mph and the “rule of law” both operate there.
europe’s “soft power” influence internationally would cease (as the concept of “europe” as an integrated polity becomes meaningless).
many work trips will be able to be accomplished  without using any gasoline or diesel.
bilateral trade  between two such enterprises would be logical, and could be carried out by  small sailing ships using practically no fossil fuel.
owen says: september 8, 2011 at 5:16 pm i am going to back off a bit from the massless deathtrap thing, but only a  bit.
unless there is a fairly large drop in price, there will be no drop in world oil production and consumption.
in the absence of any measures to incentivize the most effective distribution of limited battery resources, what should an individual buyer do?
the conventional body-on-frame construction is simpler to repair and to service, and parts probably cost less.
if the leaf owner had to pay for road maintenance costs in addition, the total cost of the leaf would be $78 higher.
but there are few motor vehicles currently sold in the u.s. with less than  100 horsepower (the smart fortwo, with 70hp is the only one i know of).
i can see, though, that my wording is probably too strong for a very  “green” audience, that is hoping for plug-ins to save them.
and now you have really uncovered an interesting possibility.
soooo….how would a world look like in which the individual  transportation concept has collapsed?
i’m sure most will find my suggestions to be totally crazy unless you buy into the basic thesis of peak everything.
that will save a lot of money to use to buy the car.
it will cause a financial mess as it destroys a lot of demand by  decreasing disposable income.
but none of them in my mind as low 2 wheel drive vehicles be able to survive what i believe the road will look like in 10 years.
there may be other low tech approaches that would work as well, more  barges, and upgrades to these.
if your house is uses 240 volts to charge  that’s 112,000 watt-hours / 240 volts =
i  think roads will last much longer and need less maintenance (except from  vegetation) if we only use them for nevs and hpvs.
i think  working with india would be the same.
wars were fought, and treasure carried back.
with the latest materials and coatings, the body of a car, in places where salt wasn’t used on the roads, could be built to last for 30 years.
aside  from that tiny bit of optimism, i’m trying to understand what scenarios  are possible/probable in the next few decades.
plug-in works for a different class, call it 2 seater, 35 miles, 35mph using lead acid batteries.
like many people, i try to  organize trips to make a number of stops, and if i run out of milk,  2×4′s, or whatever, i simply don’t go back out for that until  i have another trip of multi-stops.
i checked on the wordpress tech support  blog, and there were a large number of people complaining about rating stars on  their blogs disappearing, for many older posts as well as current posts.
more likely, it just lets someone else use the oil, that would be pumped regardless of whether it was you or someone else using it.
there is a common belief that if there are two options, option a and option b, buyers will choose option a if the cost of option a is less than that of option b. this is true up to a point.
a hospital stay can buy truck loads  of gasoline.)
gailtheactuary says: september 14, 2011 at 1:14 pm i am guessing what we should be using most of the solar panels for is  pumping water for the cities that don’t have gravity fed sources.
hi schoff, can you provide a link to the vehicle you own?
the  real power and glory of a bike comes from chains and gears (please – no  rants from unicyclists).
furthermore, many people will eliminate them completely, because they don’t meet their family’s transportation needs.
perhaps we can differentiate between home energy and commercial energy.
even if the whole thing of storage could be worked out (and leave the person with electricity to drive the car when needed), adding and subtracting electricity would wear out the battery more quickly, and there would be an electrical loss in the round-trip.
it still works in places where there is no effective international finance system: as an example, look at iran, where even with most trade theoretically prohibited, foreign goods are widely available.
yes, i probably should have written about green feel-goodness too, but that  would have offended some.
but i think the focus on recreating the ice experience is the problem, and this is due to the detroit mentality and its inability to bring out a different class of vehicles (at least since the mini-van).
the most efficient concept in urban environments is personal rapid transit (prt), which uses a 1500 pound pod on an electrified monorail to carry up to 6 passengers, a ratio of 250-1500 pounds of vehicle per pound of passenger (“v/p”), compared to 750-300 v/p for a typical passenger automobile.
quite a bit of health care has to be done in person.
i think things are kind of stalled–too many issues with summer vacations of critical people.
even though i think the gem nev’s are ugly, what stops me ultimately from buying its flatbed truck version is its reliance on high quality toads.
my v6 190hp tacoma 4×4 is definitely too much for the firewood, trailering, and towing that i do, except that when i get on the thruway they really expect me to go to 75mph.
given the constrained battery material supply, it’s much more effective to equipment many people with conventional hybrids than to equip a few people with all-battery plug-ins.
the real question is whether or not we start soon enough to create new  transportation models to serve our basic needs in a power-down future.
even if we restrict it to currently available (in the u.s.) vehicles  you have the vw jetta tdi which uses a bit more fuel than the volt but carries  about 50% more weight (and can tow a 1000 pound trailer) while costing slightly  over 50% as much (base price about $22,500).
i mentioned the cost of maintaining roads, but didn’t say much about  it because the post was getting long as it was.
but i think the focus on recreating the ice  experience is the problem, and this is due to the detroit mentality and its  inability to bring out a different class of vehicles (at least since the  mini-van).
like many people, i try to organize trips to make a number of stops, and if i run out of milk, 2×4′s, or whatever, i simply don’t go back out for that until i have another trip of multi-stops.
if i understand the data correctly 12millionish (wsj) light vehicles is a rather dramatic decrease in the 21st century.
however, popular discussion of the break-up option considerably underestimates  the consequences of such a move.
you have raised an interesting point which is part of my thinking, i don’t assume that the driving infrastructure will remain at its current quality (high), that it will decline dramatically.
if there are 96 kwh of batteries available to reduce fuel consumption (the amounts are scalable): thus, if high battery costs present a problem from the point of view of automobile salability, or if battery supply is constrained, it would seem to make more sense to use batteries in prius-style hybrids, rather than in plug-in vehicles.
with expensive batteries, it just means a return to smaller and  lighter cars which in the end will provide the same utility as current large  vehicles.
the core of the solution has to be behavioral changes that transform our culture into one that requires very little energy-consuming activity in the first place, even before we start looking to efficiency.
i would argue that what electric cars do is allow us to raise our demand for other sources of energy (mostly coal and natural gas–sources of supply which are more elastic), so that we end up burning those sources faster, in an attempt to allowmore people to have cars, without exhausting our liquid fuel supply, or to allow people who have carsto drive them further.
because world oil production is now virtually flat (inelastic), regardless of oil price, the fact that we save oil doesn’t really make any difference in the whole scheme of things.
jeff berner says: september 8, 2011 at 1:15 am gail appreciate the thought on the subject.
a recent ubs publication says: the euro should not exist (like this)
at least we’re using the catapult.
why be smug at smugness?
bicycle dave says: september 8, 2011 at 7:33 pm hi gail, as much as i love bikes, i think we need the glorified golf carts (nev) for  a variety of reasons: weather, disability, old age, babies and infants, etc.
they likely will need cost decreases, just to be able to keep sales prices at their current levels, if they are to earn a reasonable profit.
gailtheactuary says: september 13, 2011 at 8:30 am the oil drum has more or less said they will not publish the post.
however, if as a society, you have sunk everything into long lasting, low  energy consumption goods, your decline will be that much less painful as the  rest of the world realigns with a resource constrained future.
it’s like the law of supply and demand.
while it is going to be a few more miles than that (15), i think the prius  plug in could be a game changer over the next five years.
i checked on the wordpress tech support blog, and there were a large number of people complaining about rating stars on their blogs disappearing, for many older posts as well as current posts.
but in the real world, this is not the case.
your article questions the lifetime cost-efficiency of a plug-in, but given that the driving infrastructure is unlikely to last the life of a new car, the lifetime cost-efficiency becomes irrelevant.
that’s not enough to carry four average american males (who weight 195 pounds unclothed) even with an empty fuel tank.
of course, we all benefit when the poor have access to affordable transportation to get them to work.
sylvia says: september 10, 2011 at 2:05 pm perhaps this idea of individual transportation (aka cars, air travel) is  all we would have to say good by to?
schoff says: september 13, 2011 at 3:44 pm that is a good point.
but there are few motor vehicles currently sold in the u.s. with less than 100 horsepower (the smart fortwo, with 70hp is the only one i know of).
gailtheactuary says: september 9, 2011 at 4:56 pm i think things are kind of stalled–too many issues with summer  vacations of critical people.
if saving gasoline is a goal non plug-in hybrids, such as today’s non-plug in toyota prius, require much less batter capacity than plug-ins–about 1.5 kwh compared to 16 kwh for the chevy volt, and 24 kwh for the nissan leaf.
many potential used car buyers don’t have garages for their cars, making charging more difficult if there is not a commercial charging location near-by.
perhaps this is an issue i am  overly worried about.
but it is hard to see how we would get the steady stream of new products and replacement parts that we now depend upon.
the batteries would be the only thing that would need to be exchanged.
the regulatory framework almost exists here in the federal nev and lev regulations, what is missing in the regulations is 35mph, it is currently capped at 25mph.
if this is  correct, it would mean that more batteries would have to be produced, and this  would necessitate additional resource consumption.
this influences what kind of nev/lev plugins that i am interested in, we own a prius which i’ve contemplated giving to my step daughter, and buying something “better”, either the new prius hybrid or leaf/volt.
basically they had mirrors, turn signals and such on top of the ev ranger.
the cars have other drawbacks–like limited range and the possible need for expensive battery replacement long after the warranty has expired–further cutting back on the marketability of the cars.
the difference is that electric vehicles require no gas have no tailpipe and therefore are free from emissions..
this is how i  remember the 60′s.
marianne says: september 19, 2011 at 3:31 pm you have a pretty strong point on fuel costs.
much like your ranger, no crash protection, no ac, no power windows, or  anything that adds weight or uses extra energy.
however my polaris lev will, in fact i  still use more offroad then onroad.
what we really need is things that will last a long, long time.
for example, i can estimate that if i either rode a bike or commuted with my friend using her car that i could save at most $1000 a year in fuel costs.
to greatly encourage and provide safety for neighborhood electric vehicles (nev) which are basically weatherized golf carts and human powered vehicles (hpv) such as velo-mobiles, bikes and trikes.
strange a blog called finite world  wouldnt realize that cars, and the machinations of corporations and governments  to keep them rolling along,are what are draining the world.
i’m sure most will find my  suggestions to be totally crazy unless you buy into the basic thesis of peak  everything.
one of the current issues is the ability of the euro to stay together, because the current structure isn’t working (in part, because of rising energy prices and recession).
soooo….how would a world look like in which the individual transportation concept has collapsed?
the rails were in miserable shape.
this would be no different than inspecting  the engine on a gasoline car before resale.
the efficiency arguments given earlier would suggest that non-plug-ins should be given preference, but if batteries can be made cheaply and total vehicle costs can be brought down, this difference may not be an issue.
and it is not just battery costs that are high–it is the rest of the car cost that is high-priced as well, especially for the volt, which runs on either gasoline or electricity (but only for 35 miles on electricity).
many people believe that plug-in automobiles will reduce co2 emissions, and will buy the cars, with this belief.
other reasons for wanting plug-in vehicles
to bring the versa cost up to the cost of the leaf, a person would need a price of an average gasoline price of $5.07 during the three-year period, not including road maintenance costs, or $5.97 including road maintenance costs.
i recognized that the plug-in was a less  effective use of battery resources than a hybrid.
even small economy cars such as the nissan versa (122hp), the ford fiesta (120hp) and the chevrolet cruze (136hp) have engines as powerful as the base engines offered with the full-size gas-guzzlers of the 1950s such as the 1952 ford customline (110hp) and the 1954 chevrolet bel air (123hp).
perhaps we can learn from this experience about what is most important for a utilitarian bike.
i am going to back off a bit from the massless deathtrap thing, but only a bit.
one thing  you missed in your post is the cost of maintaing roads.
to have a 200 hp camry equivalent electric car  requires 150,000 watts.
while it is possible that there will be no cars at all in a total doomer world, in descent i would say that there will be cars, and it will be what he described to me in the 30′s and 40′s.
people won’t buy either option a or option b, if neither is affordable, or if the option won’t fit with their current lifestyle.
that’s not enough to carry four average american males  (who weight 195 pounds unclothed) even with an empty fuel tank.
david f collins says: september 7, 2011 at 8:18 pm dave: i cannot avoid agreeing with your vision, as implied in your 4th  (penultimate) paragraph, although i might see a different approach.
i used to live next to a  sewer lift station.
a few days ago, i read about a  research group that invented a new gel lithium battery, which they claim will  be better and cheaper to produce than the current ones.
but i get the general idea.
without the electrical system, it is hard to transport oil (pipelines use electricity, pumps use electricity) and to refine oil.
i can see, though, that my wording is probably too strong for a very “green” audience, that is hoping for plug-ins to save them.
of course, this is a socialist idea that would never  gain traction in the u.s. a (slightly) more acceptable alternative might be to give incentives to  lower income buyers of second-hand plug-in vehicles.
an electric world |  scoop.it owen says: september 7, 2011 at 11:25 pm factoids: toyota camry is 170 horsepower in the base model.
looking forward to it.
i wonder what it would need to  cost in a bare bones configuration (as opposed to the high priced nissan leaf  – bau type of car)?
we know that metals costs are closely related to oil costs, because oil is used in their extraction.
but even at these prices, the cost of the lease plus the electricity for the nissan leaf is more than the cost of a nissan versa (the corresponding non-plug in electric car) plus the cost of gasoline, unless gasoline costs average higher than $5.07 per gallon over the three-year period (or $5.97 per gallon, if the leaf owner has to pay the cost of road repairs, in addition to electricity).
schoff says: september 10, 2011 at 4:45 pm it is going to be a slower world, we will try to do less.
europe’s  “soft power” influence internationally would cease (as the concept  of “europe” as an integrated polity becomes meaningless).
my father  following his day of work and my little league practice (in our small town),  thought nothing of sitting on his front porch swing drinking a beer and talking  to the neighbors who were passing by, or on their own porches.
it is  also worth observing that almost no modern fiat currency monetary unions have  broken up without some form of authoritarian or military government, or civil  war.
so total costs (ignoring maintenance and other costs) are about 30 cents a mile, plus interest payments on debt.
but it might be  reasonable for there to be neighborhood vehicles or only one vehicle per  household.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 2:27 pm
it is hard to even imagine what we would do in such a  situation–hopefully, things would hold together for a while, but there  are so many connected pieces.
that would be a much better use for the panels than running someone’s dishwasher or clothes washer (neither of which would do much without water).
we really do need 200,000 mile vehicles, if we expect to have vehicles.
20 amp breakers are typical for residences, but rewiring the house might double that.
bau will stop for whatever reason it stops–perhaps financial reasons.
we should have college level competition to produce a low tech bike –  maybe this is already being done?
there are a range of environmentally-friendly technologies  available today including efficient internal-combustion engines clean diesels  hybrids electric cars and fuel cell vehicles.
can we expect plug in automobiles to reduce co2emissions?
i wonder what it would take to strip down something like this nissan versa and put in a 30 mph electric system with something like an 80 mile range.
i don’t know if there is a name for someone else swooping in to consume the resource that someone else saved.
speaking of which, a battery inspection program should become a routine part of any plug-in vehicle resale.
it seems to me that this may be what is in the back of some people’s minds.
philadelphia is not, lose the grid for an extensive period and it is over (note this is not about treating the water, this is about pumping it into the city itself).
furthermore, at current pricing,it is doubtful that auto manufacturers are making money on the cars.
the analysis of mpg, cost of ownership, affordability, status symbols, etc strikes me as a bit odd for a blog called “our finite world” – more like a consumer’s report analysis.
the oil drum has more or less said they will not publish the post.
upscale 250 hp. 1 horsepower is 745 watts.
a wealthy individual benefits from a fuel efficient car much less than a poor individual does.
ideally, the poorest car buyers should get the largest subsidies to purchase the most efficient cars.
i enjoyed your post.
the cost is definitely rising.
i don’t expect to be able to make use of any car for more than about 5-10 years, but during that time, having a plug-in maximizes the chances of my being able to make use of the car.
use of plug-ins falls into category 3.
second, there is technology advancement in battery technology that  will provide 400 mile range probably sooner rather than later.
given the battery supply constraint (which you mention) there’s no point in nissan trying to increase volume with lower prices, since battery supply is not very elastic.
they have a cab kit to enclose the vehicle and make it more weather friendly.
for example, if a person starts with a $35,000 car and a $5,000 down payment (or a $40,000 car and a $10,000 down payment), the amount to be financed will be $30,000.
although i agree that small amounts of fuel saved by individual  actions are pretty futile, it seems to me that dramatic/extensive changes in  public policy could make a real difference.
i am afraid that the scenario we will be hitting is that we will lose most  imported goods, and this could cause things to screech to a halt very quickly.
today’s high price puts plug-ins out of the price range for most people unless there are huge government subsidies–subsidies that governments cannot afford.
vehicles are often confused with hybrid vehicles which run on a combination of a gasoline engine and electric motor.
first, there are more efficient modes than personal vehicles, which require the transport of 3000 pounds of car to move 150-300 pounds of payload (1 or 2 passengers).
optimal strategy is to suppress competing consumption militarily.
do you have a release date yet?
i also wonder how much difference  there is between winter and summer use of water for various municipalities.
given the insecurity of petroleum based transportation, the plug-in vehicle gives me transportation security that a conventional hybrid does not.
providing subsidies (based on taxes of people less well off than the drivers of these vehicles) would seem silly if this is the main purpose for at least some of the cars.
“change” is in the realm of “solutions”.
so using 40 amps, you can put 1 hour of camry driving into a battery over a period of 466 / 40 = over 10 hours.
i also don’t like to goto church sweaty.
the alternative fuel-saving option is an efficient internal combustion  engine.
thats whats really  crippling us, not ‘how’ the cars are powered.
however my polaris lev will, in fact i still use more offroad then onroad.
like it or not, private cars will be part of the transport mix for the next  umpteen years, but it seems that, unless there are incredible advances in  electric technology, super efficient fossil fueled engines, coupled with  downsizing of vehicle weight, will easily win the day.
the monthly payment will be $753.87 (assuming 6% sales tax on $35,000; 6% interest on loan, and 4 year term).
only that gas has been made arftically cheaper than it ought to be.
metals can be  discovered and recycled.
as i’ve  said before, it is very hard to have effective solutions when the problem  itself is not understood.
keep up the good  work.
my complaints are really with the idea that we can keep bau going with  electric cars.
the electric vehicle in cheaper in  europe, likely comparable in the us, and as subsidies reduce there are good  prospects of being able to still remain competitive whilst shouldering their  full share of taxation, and low maintenance costs are thrown in as a freebie.
but you are right–it is hard to get  very excited about something that is supposed to last of 200,000 miles, when we  are hitting limits right now.
i think all of the emphasis on high tech (use more coal and natural gas)
so we would be at risk of losing the oil (and probably natural gas) systems as well.
this is the real problem and it stems from the fact that we can’t agree upon the nature of the “problem” itself.
perhaps it extends oil supply a few days.
i looked on polaris’ web site and i see their version of a nev – but, that does not seem like what you have?
and the huge monster may keep me out of intensive  care if someone on the cell phone hits me.
human  bungling, cupidity and incompetence, whether governmental or private  enterprise, is infinitely renewable and inexhaustible.
i don’t know if there is a name for someone else swooping in to  consume the resource that someone else saved.
bicycle dave says: september 11, 2011 at 9:45 pm hi schoff, thanks for the link.
i will refrain from flogging my theory about why we are unable to understand the problem.
low emission vehicles (lev) seems to cover a pretty broad range but  i’ve not actually drilled down on this – probably should.
unless these costs can be brought down, the use of batteries with lower capacity to recapture braking energy and to provide an acceleration boost, similar to the way today’s prius does today, may be a better choice, and is likely to produce a car which is salable to a wider range of potential buyers.
in the absence of such a system, i can only act in my own personal best interest, which was to buy the plug-in.
it would be better to make more high occupancy vehicle (hov) lanes than push ev too hard imho.
and it is over (note this is not about treating the water, this is about
on a different administrative subject, the “star” rating on posts are currently messed up, (although i noticed some stars for this post suddenly appeared this afternoon).
dc says: september 8, 2011 at 2:38 am plug-in cars wont succeed,even if they appear to, because the problem with  cars, as it turns out, is cars themselves.
of course, this glimmer of hope does little to alter the conclusion of your article: there are plenty of other factors lined up to limit or negate any large-scale social benefit of plug-in vehicles.
in fact, if we save money by buying electricity instead of oil, we may ourselves use the leftover money to buy something else that uses oil.
consequently it is probably more likely that a company like tata or a golf cart manufacturer with lower overhead costs will be the successful electric car manufacturer.
of course, this glimmer of hope does little to alter the conclusion of your  article: there are plenty of other factors lined up to limit or negate any  large-scale social benefit of plug-in vehicles.
pingback: 63 peugeot ion vendidos, qué birria | armando bronca pingback: will plug-in automobiles be a success?
i’ve often been fascinated about the subject of a “sustainable bike”.
but is a 2 seater, appropriate for hauling groceries, materials, and going to doctor’s appointments, no ac, no heat.
if there is a bike like with lots of regular bikes, and not  too many electrics, i can see this would be a problem.
the long-term trend is probably up, because of high oil costs and lower number  of private passenger autos relative to trucks, as the economy goes down hill.
bookmark the permalink .
and i do not need to travel a lot either although in my job a couple years ago one would travel >50% of their time.
(i’m retired in small town slidell, la, so a tank last me for over a month.
i mentioned the cost of maintaining roads, but didn’t say much about it because the post was getting long as it was.
shunyata says: september 8, 2011 at 6:32 am gail: why do you see a shut-down in imports as a likely possibility (which would  be the death-knell for any technological “solutions”)?
others think that maybe glorified golf cars would be the way to go, but how to clear the roads for them.
i am afraid that the scenario we will be hitting is that we will lose most imported goods, and this could cause things to screech to a halt very quickly.
the cost of a nissan leaf over a lifetime of 20 years (200,000 miles) is the cost of the vehicle, plus the cost of a second battery, for a total cost of $50,800, or a cost of 25.4 cents per mile.
but for really dystopian railroad transportation (freight or passenger),  there is mexico.
what would cost improvements do to resale values of the first-generation cars?
i think i was an adult, living on my own, before i had a bike without gears.
more recently, the original vw beetle made do with 34 horsepower, even when first sold in the u.s.a. even the original ford v8 of the 1930s, praised by clyde barrow for its performance escaping from police, had only 65 horsepower.
once enought of them are  manufactured, a used vehicle market will develop.
the bus stop (for between towns) went away in the 60′s, but  interesting returned last year at least for going to the big city (of 45,000).
with the latest materials and coatings, the body of a car, in places  where salt wasn’t used on the roads, could be built to last for 30 years.
and more than just transportation is involved, but the same vision still applies.
we have biked in a retirement community in florida that allows nevs but only within the city limit – plus some other restrictions.
we believe the potential for zero-emission vehicles is extremely promising.
assuming we can first accomplish 1  and 2, the discussion of how best to switch to more efficient modes becomes  relevant.
the core of the solution has to be behavioral changes that transform our  culture into one that requires very little energy-consuming activity in the  first place, even before we start looking to efficiency.
assuming we can first accomplish 1 and 2, the discussion of how best to switch to more efficient modes becomes relevant.
i can tell you that everyone who is not in the far far leftist club in the bay area jokes about all the prius drivers and other hybrid and electric car drivers being smug, self absorbed types who are rude drivers.
personally, i like to think that there are still  some opportunities to mitigate the worst consequences of peak everything.
i’ve looked at them from time to time for africa.
given the constrained battery material  supply, it’s much more effective to equipment many people with  conventional hybrids than to equip a few people with all-battery plug-ins.
millions of people drive  pick-ups who never haul a thing.
to those of us that follow the peak oil literature, it is well-understood that electric or hybrid cars neither help the oil depletion nor the atmospheric co2 problem and probably make them worse.
looking  forward to it.
here is the renault fr website for those comfortable in french: http://www.renault-ze.com/fr-fr/gamme-z.e./renault-kangoo-express-z.e./presentation-15.html and here is the full pdf of the prices for battery hire and so on for  renault uk: http://www.renault.co.uk/resources/pdf/brochures/ze_pg.pdf a bit of calculation shows that off-setting battery hire and electricity  against petrol in an urban environment and allowing 3 miles per kwh to cover  the extra draw from heating etc and using £1.33/litre the petrol price at  maybe 8 miles/litre or so you are several hundred pounds a year better off with  the electric vehicle, enough very roughly to cover the excise duty payable on  petrol, so in the us it would be pretty well a wash.
gailtheactuary says: september 14, 2011 at 1:12 pm i grew up using bikes without gears.
i wonder what it would need to cost in a bare bones configuration (as opposed to the high priced nissan leaf – bau type of car)?
i did  everything with that vehicle from firewood to towing a 25 foot boat on a  trailer (carefully and sometimes with the heater on in the summer to keep the  engine cool).
it is a big planet with a lot of minerals still to be discovered.
one reason given (by one of the staff members) was that resale value shouldn’t be brought up, because it isn’t an engineering issue.
les d. says: september 19, 2011 at 2:08 pm bill, unfortunately, gas-guzzling monsters are still the logical  choice for many americans.
and i do  not need to travel a lot either although in my job a couple years ago one would  travel >50% of their time.
it would be difficult to run the international companies without air  travel.
when i was a kid back in the stone age, cars were junk after 100,000 miles.
a lot of people seem to think of electric cars, wind turbines, and energy  star refrigerators that can be operated with a little less electricity than  last year’s model.
their website is a bit hard to navigate
so we need to be planning farther ahead, if we want to be prepared.
it should be noted though that the first service occurs after a year or 12,000 miles, with services thereafter only at 25,000 mile intervals.
just saying september 8, 2011 at 2:00 pm you missed my reducing the horsepower to 3/4 maximum for typical driving.
according to john peterson, there are five generic vehicle configurations, each with a typical fuel savings: figure 2.
i’ve long advocated the  most important solutions to transportation emissions are: 1) drive less, 2)
of course, this  begs the question then why the leaf is still so expensive.
first, you need to take into account that this is a multi-variable problem.
most water treatment systems have storage at various stages, including the  final product stage (various municipalities around pennsylvania seem to have a  couple of days worth of treated water).
it is hard to even imagine what we would do in such a situation–hopefully, things would hold together for a while, but there are so many connected pieces.
much of our discussion  here focuses on the notion that depleting oil supplies (along with many other  resource/environmental issues) will lead to a collapse of bau unless drastic  changes are implemented.
the cost of installing the system for what i expect would be a fairly small  number of users would seem to be prohibitively high as well.
fragmentation of the euro would incur political costs.
the chevy volt will likely prove to fall into this situation.
or better yet, no fossil fuel use for passenger  vehicle transportation.
(lithium makes up only a small portion of the metals in the batteries.)
i agree that trade would go on in the way you describe–bilateral trade, using small sailing ships, for example.
marianne says: september 15, 2011 at 4:14
apartment building owners could theoretically add charging capability, and put in the capability to bill the costs back to the appropriate owner, but unless there are a lot of potential plug-in buyers looking for this service, it is difficult to see this happen.
pingback: will plug-in automobiles be a success?
mass production, using ever more complex robots, can lower production cost.
but neither bikes or nevs will ever be put into widespread use until they are safe to use for nearly all purposes.
however, popular discussion of the break-up option considerably underestimates the consequences of such a move.
i’ve long advocated the most important solutions to transportation emissions are: 1) drive less, 2) carpool more, and 3) use more efficient modes of transportation.
in my view, this belief is false–but this belief, as well as a number of other hopes and fears, are likely to lead a steady interest in plug-in automobiles by those wealthy enough to afford them, as well as support by politicians who want to appear to be doing something useful.
for  example, i can get a brand new ford f-150 truck in houston for $21166.
again, thanks for committing your thorough and systematic analysis into a well-written article, and thanks to the readers who post insightful comments.
i own a lev (from polaris), it used lead batteries, and gets me where i  need to go in rural pa, and could do the same in suburban (minus the law).
in his home town, the 1500 square foot slaughter house doesn’t exist.
that type of battery would make for a better hybrid that can get some range from the electric grid, especially if coupled to night time recharging using a simple charge timer when electrical power is generally dumped into resistors.
i probably wouldn’t have written the post, except that some of the  oil drum staff members had been discussing some related material behind the  scenes, so i tried to work through the details, trying to figure out what the  issues really were (rather than focusing on, say, whether better batteries  could fix some perceived problem).
but you are quite right about the ridiculous amount of power today’s cars and trucks have.
these energy and transportation problems are not easy ones and each person the does something to aid this frail system is likely benefitting others in their community.
we only have the figures for the  kangoo van at the moment, and unfortunately that does not qualify for a subsidy  in the uk, so the purchase price is around 5,000 euros more than the equivalent  diesel but in france they are about the same.
the long-term trend is probably up, because of high oil costs and lower number of private passenger autos relative to trucks, as the economy goes down hill.
there are a range of environmentally-friendly technologies available today including efficient internal-combustion engines clean diesels hybrids electric cars and fuel cell vehicles.
a canadian company recently found a big rare earth deposit in nebraska.
the power use just  isn’t large enough to make a difference.
rss - posts rss - comments enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
in the absence of such a system, i can only act  in my own personal best interest, which was to buy the plug-in.
i see it here in pennsylvania with the disappearance of suburbans, big trucks, expeditions, etc as everyday vehicles.
we really do need 200,000 mile vehicles, if we expect to have  vehicles.
i know that in china, there have been problems  with electric bicycles going too fast relative to regular bicycles, and there  being accidents.
there are many versions of the problem.
honestly in the flat  parts of africa i’ve been in, who needs gears.
one thing you missed in your post is the cost of maintaing roads.
it is also worth observing that almost no modern fiat currency monetary unions have broken up without some form of authoritarian or military government, or civil war.
for instance  no water for philly in a place which has water is different than no water for  la in a place that is a desert.
if international finance doesn’t “work,” international trade becomes much more cumbersome.
we don’t have the choice of using more ices though–our other choice is to “do without.”
there are a whole class of people and many situations where a nev makes good sense.
everything else makes the problem worse.
but  i didn’t consider the local manufacture of chains.
it’s all silly and is going to kill people in car wrecks even before it kills people wasting energy on a non viable solution.
.(section on economic cost skipped)
want 2 hours travel, charge it up over 24 hrs.
of course, one might ask whether bicycles might not work just as well, for the short distances under discussion.
that would be  a much better use for the panels than running someone’s dishwasher or  clothes washer (neither of which would do much without water).
i’m also of the opinion that companies like gm are subject to the innovator’s dilemma.
join 557 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
it is hard to add a new class of vehicles, for this reason.
there is also the possibility that  the us’s debt problems (or those of the uk, or some other large power)  could lead to payment problems among nations.
there are other problems from the point of used car buyers.
she just hated the gasoline station and wasting her money she said.
even after a collapse  some parts of the world will want goods from another part, and have some other  goods with which to pay for them.
the reasons are the ones you have discussed.
from a cyclist perspective, i loved the trains in ireland – just roll your bike on the train with no extra preparation and no rush.
the issue is that none of these things will last longer than the electric grid, and that may not be all that long.
certainly we aren’t going to see the two to three  cars per household that we’ve seen in the past because we all just  aren’t going to have the same degree of material wealth.
i looked on polaris’  web site and i see their version of a nev – but, that does not seem like  what you have?
equipping everyone with priuses that get double the average fuel efficiency does nothing if consumers use that to double the miles driven.
the difference is  that electric vehicles require no gas have no tailpipe and therefore are free  from emissions..
repairs will also need to  follow major storms, with or without much traffic on the roads.
the book “plan c”  goes into a lot more detail on this subject.
even after a collapse some parts of the world will want goods from another part, and have some other goods with which to pay for them.
food costs will skyrocket – but that also will probably drive folks to try growing stuff close to home.
for example, i can get a brand new ford f-150 truck in houston for $21166.
this is soon going to  become a bottleneck and maybe a show stopper for vehicle sales other than old  trucks.
want 2 hours travel,  charge it up over 24 hrs.
certainly we aren’t going to see the two to three cars per household that we’ve seen in the past because we all just aren’t going to have the same degree of material wealth.
schoff says: september 13, 2011 at 12:22
all those roads, bridges, traffic cops, accidents, deaths, sudsides to oil and auto-makers.
we will be poorer in the future than we are today, but we won’t disappear anytime soon.
the train station is gone, as are the tracks, but the bed is still there.
these types  of things definitely deter people like me and more moderates and conservatives  from every joining the prius or other hybrid club.
i am afraid we need to wait until everything falls apart, and then we use  whatever is available, which may not be much at all.
many people who comment here have expressed the idea  that we have already missed the opportunity to avoid some manner of collapse in  the next few decades or so.
if we don’t buy the oil,the oil will not be left in the ground.
the problem is rebuilding what was there that allowed for this.
the one scenario i don’t  find likely is one in which we worry about buying family vehicles that provide  for 200,000 miles of motoring about in any manner that resembles today’s  paradigm.
people will be willing to pay for the value they get, and the  small load capacity reduces the value of the vehicles.
harvard business professor clayton christensen has  written about how dominant companies can be displaced by disruptive technology  because they are incapable of developing and nurturing less capable technology  that competes with their current products.
that is a good point.
schoff says: september 14, 2011 at 1:31 pm i agree gail.
the optimistic  thought is that nissan is just exploiting its uniquely low battery cost,  pricing relative to the competition, and reaping the additional profit.
the elites who purchase  the new plug-in vehicles will then have some (a little) financial incentive to  support this program and the poor would benefit.
in fact, inspecting a battery should be easier than inspecting a more complicated gasoline engine.
in  ireland – slow and funky.
if your house is uses 240 volts to charge that’s 112,000 watt-hours / 240 volts =
ice is here to stay, agreed.
there were thieves back then, as there are now.
throughout the northeast there were plenty of manufacturers using water power to run machines in the 19th century, all of those sites still exist, i don’t even remember much of the tooling being steel, most seemed made of iron, but i could be wrong.
i think of the american bikes of the 30′s and 40′s and the modest means of the family’s that owned them, they didn’t have gears.
we only have the figures for the kangoo van at the moment, and unfortunately that does not qualify for a subsidy in the uk, so the purchase price is around 5,000 euros more than the equivalent diesel but in france they are about the same.
but for really dystopian railroad transportation (freight or passenger), there is mexico.
only that gas has been made arftically cheaper than it ought to  be.
hi gail, although the use of bicycles on the ho chi minh trail has been somewhat romanticized and exaggerated, never-the-less, bikes moved a lot of material under very adverse conditions.
others think that maybe glorified  golf cars would be the way to go, but how to clear the roads for them.
one of the current issues is the ability of the euro to stay together,  because the current structure isn’t working (in part, because of rising  energy prices and recession).
i think the giant sponge idea has been disproved as impractical, and also that the quantity of storage would be too small.
peterson makes the following comparison.
i’ve been driving fuel efficient vehicles since 1998, hybrids since 2000,  and a plug-in since this year.
that means “want a death trap?”.
| our finite world | fresh  green world david martin says: september 17, 2011 at 12:15 pm
but it is hard to write a post, unless i have something more favorable to offer than this.
last year in  the same period they’d sold 16 evs.
if you get 100% efficiency in the battery in and out, that’s the target number for a camry equivalent vehicle running 1 hour.
all those roads, bridges, traffic cops,  accidents, deaths, sudsides to oil and auto-makers.
the point would be $$$ to rewire your house for 240 v (or higher) and 40 amp wires (you can’t just pound amperage through thin wires; they melt) as well as breakers, all so you can wait 10+ hours to have enough get up and go for 1 lousy camry equivalent hour.
the leaf and volt are heavy cars, with the big batteries.
gailtheactuary says: september 8, 2011 at 12:34 pm i agree that trade would go on in the way you describe–bilateral  trade, using small sailing ships, for example.
it will cause a financial mess as it destroys a lot of demand by decreasing disposable income.
one  reason given (by one of the staff members) was that resale value  shouldn’t be brought up, because it isn’t an engineering issue.
there are a couple of groups that are focused on 3rd world bikes that don’t break.
these energy and transportation problems are  not easy ones and each person the does something to aid this frail system is  likely benefitting others in their community.
when i was a kid back in the stone age, cars were junk  after 100,000 miles.
it would make an interesting table, taking the top 50 municipalities in this context and then their setting.
prius has had very good “lasting power” with its nimh battery, with batteries said to last up to 180,000 miles, but it is not as clear that lithium-ion batteries will last that long,according to this article.
low emission vehicles (lev) seems to cover a pretty broad range but i’ve not actually drilled down on this – probably should.
we had a talk  here in seattle by mit professor donald sadoway on emerging battery technology  last year.
it will stop, whether we have used our electric vehicles for their full lifetimes or not.
i own a lev (from polaris), it used lead batteries, and gets me where i need to go in rural pa, and could do the same in suburban (minus the law).
he also was arguing that things might get much better, cost-wise.
ed pell says: september 7, 2011 at 2:56 pm i enjoyed your post.
if this is their concern, and they can afford the high cost of a plug-in vehicle, they may choose a plug-in auto, even if the price is high relative to other cars.
schoff says: september 17, 2011 at 3:20 pm
this  is a considerable saving, and renault should you choose to go for a maintenance  contract do it for 80% of the diesel price.
if plug-in vehicles get to be any reasonable share of the total vehicles, governments will need to find a way to tax the owners to collect fees for road construction and maintenance.
fiscal confederation, not break-up our base case with an overwhelming probability is that the euro moves slowly (and painfully) towards some kind of fiscal integration.
there is also most certainly the issue of uniform distribution of mass.
we should have college level competition to produce a low tech bike – maybe this is already being done?
the cost would be  reasonable.
not really needed for most of the workers, only  old fashioned management styles keeps that concept alive http://www.teleworkresearchnetwork.com/outdated-management-practices-block-telework-and-flexible-work-styles/6127 (this is not so much fantasy, i and many folks i know can now work from  anywhere – choosing home most often; i do not commute any more.
and you get to pay 25% more for the  opportunity to endure all that.
the leaf battery is under your seat.
i am unaware if that rationale has hit the us, but would be interested if  the argument is based on solid logic or wishful thinking.
well perhaps local air quality *might* marginally improve over time, but even that is in doubt since imo, car-culture will collpse long before any of the benefits of so called plug-ins even become detectable.
when i think of long lasting, low energy consumption goods, i think of  things like wheel barrows, and pots and pans, and looms for cloth that can be  operated without electricity.
i need to trailer 1000 lbs of feed from time to time.
this is the real problem and it stems from the fact that  we can’t agree upon the nature of the “problem” itself.