terms and conditions including exclusions apply and you need to ensure you are familiar with your policy wording.
registered office: stansted house, rowlands castle, hampshire po9 6dx.
the obvious answer is to bookcar  hire for your arrival in your destination.
labels: flying, travel insurance, travelling through europe // posted by jess @ 13:40 subscribe to posts [atom] << home † price based on an individual aged 18-54 taking out a 'last minute' single trip policy excluding baggage cover for 3 days in europe.
24/7 travel insurance is not responsible for the content  of those sites and cannot guarantee that these sites will not change without  our knowledge.
if you travel by car in europe you will also need to make sure your insurance covers you for all the countries you are travelling through and that you are aware of any local regulations, such as carrying a first aid kit or warning triangle.
home | travellers checklist | making a claim | why 24/7 | blog | privacy policy | sitemap
travelling further afield than  europe by coach is not really practical.
travelling long distances by car can be stressful as you are responsible for navigating and arriving at your destination on time.
coaches do not offer much chance to stretch your legs.
travelling further afield than europe by coach is not really practical.
links this website contains links to sites containing other products and services that are not owned and/or maintained by 24/7 travel insurance.
travelling  long distances by car can be stressful as you are responsible for navigating  and arriving at your destination on time.
if you are travelling by car through europe you will need to remember to drive on the right hand side of the road and that signs will be in different languages as you travel through the mainland countries.
coaches do  not offer much chance to stretch your legs.
if you are afraid of flying then coach travel obviously gets around the concerns of flying, however, if you are travelling long distances coach travel can be time consuming, often with many connections needed and uncomfortable seats which you will be sitting in for long periods.
the option of travelling by air can mean that you arrive at your destination much quicker than by other means of travel.
however, they are still not as quick as air  travel and you can often have long periods where you are waiting for connecting  trains.
if you are travelling by car through europe you will need to  remember to drive on the right hand side of the road and that signs will be in  different languages as you travel through the mainland countries.
previous posts - scenic journey through france - budget travel guide - a guide to a driving holiday in the usa - bargain holidays - glamping in the uk - cruise safely - on and off the ship - driving holiday through europe - travel insurance - check your cancellation limits - where to go for a skiing holiday in europe - are you going skiing without travel insurance?
you can travel by train further afield than  europe, however, it is very time consuming with many connections and can be  costly.
although trains do offer you the chance to stretch your legs, some trains are sleeper trains and offer you the chance to lie down whilst travelling, a good option for those who need to be fresh on arrival at their destination.
if you pre-book your travel  arrangements you will be covered for cancellation costs.
trains also offer buffet cars so you can arrive at your destination well fed and rested.
travelling by coach, train or air does, however, have drawbacks of how do you  get around when you reach your destination.
travel insurance is a necessary purchase when booking your holiday.
if you travel by car in europe you  will also need to make sure your insurance covers you for all the countries you  are travelling through and that you are aware of any local regulations, such as  carrying a first aid kit or warning triangle.
j hayman & company limited who are authorised and regulated by the financial services authority (fsa register number 497103).
links this website contains links to sites containing  other products and services that are not owned and/or maintained by 24/7 travel  insurance.
so which is the  best option?
the obvious answer is to bookcar hire for your arrival in your destination.
get a quote 24/7 travel insurance is a trading name of travel insurance specialistp
travelling throughout europe by coach has advantages and disadvantages.
air travel can be very relaxing and  stress free with the majority of flights now offering in flight entertainment.
the option of travelling  by air can mean that you arrive at your destination much quicker than by other  means of travel.
if you are afraid of flying then coach travel obviously gets  around the concerns of flying, however, if you are travelling long distances  coach travel can be time consuming, often with many connections needed and  uncomfortable seats which you will be sitting in for long periods.
there are many travel options available if you are travelling within the uk or europe or further afield including plane, train, car or bus.
tweet when you are going on holiday the question of which is better travelling by air or other means often arises.
when you are going on holiday the  question of which is better travelling by air or other means often arises.
the inclusion of a web link does not imply 24/7 travel  insurance’s endorsement of that site.
backpackers insurance - winter sports more information get a quote policy wordings hints and tips - sports & activities more information get a quote policy wording adventure travel insurance - cruise more information get a quote policy wording - faq's - about us - other contact
backpackers insurance winter sports more information get a quote policy wordings hints and tips sports & activities more information get a quote policy wording  adventure travel insurance cruise more information get a quote policy wording faq's other contact why 24/7 how we compare activities included blog 24/7 travel insurance blog friday, 30 march 2012 to fly or not to fly?
labels: flying, travel insurance, travelling through europe //  posted by jess @ 13:40 subscribe to posts [atom] << home † price based on an individual aged 18-54 taking out a 'last minute'  single trip policy excluding baggage cover for 3 days in europe.
trains are a good choice for travel throughout europe.
if you pre-book your travel arrangements you will be covered for cancellation costs.
there are many travel options available if you are travelling within the uk or  europe or further afield including plane, train, car or bus.
travel insurance is a  necessary purchase when booking your holiday.
travelling by car does, however, give you flexibility when you arrive in your destination as you have your own transport.
however, they are still not as quick as air travel and you can often have long periods where you are waiting for connecting trains.
air travel often does not require any connections and you can normally fly direct to most destinations.
you can travel by train further afield than europe, however, it is very time consuming with many connections and can be costly.
travelling by coach, train or air does, however, have drawbacks of how do you get around when you reach your destination.
air travel can be very relaxing and stress free with the majority of flights now offering in flight entertainment.
single trip more information get a quote policy wording travelling last  minute instant travel insurance annual multi-trip more information get a quote policy wording travelling  worldwide multi-trip travel insurance backpacker & longstay more information get a quote policy wording
air travel often does not require any connections and you can  normally fly direct to most destinations.
travelling further than europe by  car is not very practical and although it can be done it will take a long time.
travelling further than europe by car is not very practical and although it can be done it will take a long time.
travelling throughout europe by coach has advantages and  disadvantages.
they are faster than cars and coaches and offer a more relaxing form of transport.
although trains do offer you the chance to stretch your legs, some  trains are sleeper trains and offer you the chance to lie down whilst  travelling, a good option for those who need to be fresh on arrival at their  destination.
- home - single trip more information get a quote policy wording travelling last minute instant travel insurance - annual multi-trip more information get a quote policy wording travelling worldwide multi-trip travel insurance - backpacker & longstay more information get a quote policy wording going on a gap year?
the inclusion of a web link does not imply 24/7 travel insurance’s endorsement of that site.
archives - july 2007 - august 2007 - september 2007 - october 2007 - november 2007 - december 2007 - january 2008 - february 2008 - march 2008 - april 2008 - may 2008 - june 2008 - july 2008 - august 2008 - september 2008 - october 2008 - november 2008 - december 2008 - january 2009 - february 2009 - march 2009 - april 2009 - may 2009 - june 2009 - july 2009 - august 2009 - september 2009 - october 2009 - november 2009 - december 2009 - january 2010 - february 2010 - march 2010 - april 2010 - may 2010 - june 2010 - july 2010 - august 2010 - september 2010 - october 2010 - november 2010 - december 2010 - january 2011 - february 2011 - march 2011 - april 2011 - may 2011 - june 2011 - july 2011 - august 2011 - september 2011 - october 2011 - november 2011 - december 2011 - january 2012 - february 2012 - march 2012
trains also offer buffet cars so you can arrive at your  destination well fed and rested.
why 24/7 how we compare activities included blog 24/7 travel insurance blog get a quote competitive prices various policy options instant quote & cover single trips from £5.55† friday, 30 march 2012 to fly or not to fly?
they are faster than cars and coaches and offer a  more relaxing form of transport.
trains are a good choice for  travel throughout europe.
terms and conditions  including exclusions apply and you need to ensure you are familiar with your  policy wording.
so which is the best option?
24/7 travel insurance is not responsible for the content of those sites and cannot guarantee that these sites will not change without our knowledge.
travelling by car does, however, give you flexibility when you arrive in your  destination as you have your own transport.