e-learning is about activities
however, one should keep in mind that "e" resources do not lead  to learning if there is no associated and relevant practice for which at least  some feedback is available somewhere, whether online or not (consider how  effective can be the fact that my sister tells me whether my interpretation of  the guitar tune watched on youtube is "good" and what she suggests i  should improve, whether she is a guitar expert or not).
dokeos offers e-learning consulting based on the analysis of experience and best practices.
i  should better describe things this way : "they should be able tolist main meeting management theories" (because listing is an action and i can  build activities with that) or probably "they should be able tomanage a meeting" (and then imagine a role play game or any real-life based  situation to practice).
and the feedback should be on how the learner piloted the  flight simulator: providing information on why he "crashed" the plane  and how to avoid such a mistake.
some observations since internet and multimedia boomed in the nineties, intellectual practice  has evolved.
how will we design the relevant activity in a course like: one might suggest that the relevant activities should be as close as possible to real-life situations: (1) might lead to some group activities or role play.
insists on the fact learning can be particularly effective when the learner is  invited to produce something; (7) illustrates a very primitive way of  learning: by imitation (didn't bach learn music by copying vivaldi scores?); (8) is considered by some the most accomplished e-learning method; (9)  deals with how children learn first, but does not provide us with a criteria of  what is the educative part in a game; (10) alludes to a common intellectual  activity in most professional organizations and points out that there is most  often some learning in it; (11) gives an example of m-learning or  mobile learning that we can decide to include in the generic namee-learning .
today, the vast majority of e-learning takes place on the web through a web browser (internet explorer, firefox, safari...).
here is an attempt to define e-learning the empirical way and  propose a synthetic table of possible online learning activities.
truth  is seldom simple but only simple ideas are usable.
let's try to analyze things deeper.
(1) reminds us that e-learning is not necessarily an online activity; (2) informs us that e-learning can exist even if no dedicated course content  was developed; (3) suggests that e-learning does not mean nobody sees  nobody; (4) says that e-learning can exist when theory is online and  practice is offline (and we can reasonably imagine the reverse situation); (5) describes something pretty obvious: many of us learn everyday in  google® without even noticing it or calling itlearning; (6)
the article was originally published onknol.
to start with a simple approach, let's suppose we all are behaviorists and consider that learning means become able to do something new.
what is the difference betweenlearning and reading for instance?
we are granted (2) with the opportunity to act so as to practice and improve on these skills.
here is an attempt to define e-learning the empirical way and propose a synthetic table of possible online learning activities.
e-learning starts when i switch from "i published my course online" to "my coursetakes place online".
internet-based, cd-rom based,  telephone-based, video-based learning activities should all be considered as  e-learning.
e-learning  starts when i switch from "i published my course online" to "my  coursetakes place online".
some clarifications : e-learning is a rich and complex field of activity.
today, the vast majority of e-learning takes place on the web  through a web browser (internet explorer, firefox, safari...).
publishing slides,  pdf e-books, encyclopaedia articles does not mean i produce e-learning, as the  criteria for e-learning does not lie in the resources i publish but in the  activities i organize for the learners around these resources.
typically,  e-learning designers would consider this table and decide for a cell when  building an activity for a dedicated learning topic.
i should better describe things this way : "they should be able tolist main meeting management theories" (because listing is an action and i can build activities with that) or probably "they should be able tomanage a meeting" (and then imagine a role play game or any real-life based situation to practice).
some will search google and  read only.
just because i would not fly in a plane whose pilot learned this way.
in the following table, we attempt to formalize a table of some 40 possible  activities types.
but the advantage of the behaviorist definition is that it focuses on activities and feedback, hence suggesting a method for e-learning design.
the relevant activity here will probably be closer to pilot a  flight simulator.
the most complex part of e-learning is due to the fact that "learning" is something complex, whether "e" or not.
(2) might include  interpretation questions, categorizing questions, memory questions.
he would not get the skills.
consider also: mechanics,  history of art, and more generally all disciplines dealing with visual supports conclusion e-learning is a rich and complex field of activity.
scalise k. & gifford b., "computer-based assessment in e-learning: a framework for constructing intermediate constraint questions and tasks for technology platforms", the journal of technology, learning, and assessment", volume 4, number 6 · june 2006.
the most complex part  of e-learning is due to the fact that "learning" is something  complex, whether "e" or not.
otherwise we would call it "e-teaching".
login or register to post comments thu, 02/02/2012 - 11:24  — hari123 this bes information which this bes information which really helps and guides many wishing to know  more about the what is e-learning?
i m really impressed with this .
typically, e-learning designers would consider this table and decide for a cell when building an activity for a dedicated learning topic.
de praetere t., "the dokeos e-learning project management guide", a dokeos white paper, dokeos, 2008.
designing relevant activities to drive learners from passive reading,  viewing or listening to dynamically improving their skills is not an easy job.
and it is not obvious that the most sophisticated e-learning designs  produce the most effective learning (consider how effective can be the simple  fact that you imitate somebody playing your favorite guitar tune on youtube).
an empirical approach dokeos offers e-learning consulting based on the analysis of experience and  best practices.
a third problem of the behaviorist definition is that it does not give a clear recognition to intellectual skills likeknowing history or becoming wise.
don't we say  "john reads in oxford" for "john is a student at the oxford  university"?
if i train on meeting management, i am not allowed to define my objectives by "they wouldknow what meeting management is" or they would "get familiar with meeting management", because "knowing" is a mental skill : i cannot check it, i cannot propose activities to improve that, i cannot give feedback on how theyknow it.
© thomas de praetere, dokeos, nov. 2008.
i must first be able to describe the objectives of the course in terms of action.
people: learn alone in online courses or cd-roms through a combination of theory  and practice; collaborate remotely on wikipedia to write a collective paper on a  dedicated topic; alternate face-to-face contacts and online interaction with a trainer or  coach; read online tutorials and practice alone;
the name for it suggests that the person who learns, "the  learner", is at the center of the process.
and it is not obvious that the most sophisticated e-learning designs produce the most effective learning (consider how effective can be the simple fact that you imitate somebody playing your favorite guitar tune on youtube).
a third problem of the behaviorist definition is that it does not give a  clear recognition to intellectual skills likeknowing history or becoming wise.
the 5 columns organize activities from the most simple to the most complex ones (although this classification remains vague and subjective).
if i train on how to pilot a plane, multiple choice is not an option.
(3) might provide the learner with listening comprehensions, fill-in the gaps etc.
i think however that saying "i am not a behaviorist" means "i am more than a behaviorist" - it does not necessarily mean you do not accept this minimal framework.
and  somebody or "something automatic" (a machine) tells us (3) whether  the skills are acquired or not.
the article  was originally published onknol.
some others, with the same search information, will take notes, summarize, draw a mind map, produce something, explain to others etc.
since internet and multimedia boomed in the nineties, intellectual practice has evolved.
people: although in variable extension, all these activities can be described as e-learning because they provide some learning experience through cd-roms or internet or telephones or any electronic device.
truth is seldom simple but only simple ideas are usable.
only the learner can decide to enter e-learning activities.
this bes information which really helps and guides many wishing to know more about the
the 5 columns organize activities from the most simple to the most complex  ones (although this classification remains vague and subjective).
when an activity belongs to "e-" but not to "learning" or belongs to "learning" but not to "e-", it should not be considered as e-learning.
and the feedback should be on how the learner piloted the flight simulator: providing information on why he "crashed" the plane and how to avoid such a mistake.
references de praetere t., "the dokeos e-learning project management guide", a dokeos white paper, dokeos, 2008.
don't we say "john reads in oxford" for "john is a student at the oxford university"?
the behaviorist minimal psychology framework suggest that any  information is directly or indirectly connected to the project of an action and  implies that the learning process includes: information on how to do something but also practice opportunities and feedback we get (1) bits of information on how to do something.
and somebody or "something automatic" (a machine) tells us (3) whether the skills are acquired or not.
another difficulty is that some of us will not consider themselves as behaviorists.
there are certainly much more than that and the organization could be different.
of course the criteria is a difficult one as a certain part of the  intellectual activity is not immediately visible.
publishing slides, pdf e-books, encyclopaedia articles does not mean i produce e-learning, as the criteria for e-learning does not lie in the resources i publish but in the activities i organize for the learners around these resources.
the 8 lines go from the most closed types of questions (easier for automatic correction) to the most open ones (the most open ones can only be corrected manually by the coach).
designing relevant activities to drive learners from passive reading, viewing or listening to dynamically improving their skills is not an easy job.
(3)  might provide the learner with listening comprehensions, fill-in the gaps etc.
some clarifications : alternate choice means multiple choice with 2 options certainty degree means : a multiple choice or true/false + a  subsidiary question "how much are you sure?
(2) might include interpretation questions, categorizing questions, memory questions.
please consider this as a draft proposal for discussion.
another difficulty is that some of us will not consider themselves as  behaviorists.
the topic, but also the level of the audience and the available media and e-learning softwares will help the e-learning author design the relevant questions.
although in variable extension, all these activities can be described as  e-learning because they provide some learning experience through cd-roms or  internet or telephones or any electronic device.
the topic, but also the level of the audience and the available media and  e-learning softwares will help the e-learning author design the relevant  questions.
of course the criteria is a difficult one as a certain part of the intellectual activity is not immediately visible.
our clients often ask what e-learning is and what can be considered true e-learning.
what e-learning is not when an activity belongs to "e-" but not to "learning" or belongs to "learning" but not to "e-", it should not be considered as e-learning.
the 8 lines go from the most closed types of questions (easier for  automatic correction) to the most open ones (the most open ones can only be  corrected manually by the coach).
this definition excludes from e-learning all activities where there  is mainly information: reading, searching, viewing, listening.
this definition excludes from e-learning all activities where there is mainly information: reading, searching, viewing, listening.
the name for it suggests that the person who learns, "the learner", is at the center of the process.
if i train on meeting management, i am not allowed to define my  objectives by "they wouldknow what meeting management is" or  they would "get familiar with meeting management", because  "knowing" is a mental skill : i cannot check it, i cannot propose  activities to improve that, i cannot give feedback on how theyknow it.
some will search google and read only.
look for the answer to their questions in google®; write blogs and try to clarify their own mind with the help third party  comments; practice guitar by imitating youtube® guitar experts videos; participate in sophisticated online training scenarios that take place in  learning management systems (lms) where a coach accesses tracking data on their  progress and helps them improve their skills through relevant feedback; play video games, serious games, online games, individually or  collectively; send their productions to remote colleagues by email and expect feedback  and corrections from them using for instance ms-word or open office correction  features; listen to corporate management conferences podcasts on their mobile phone  in the train.
some others, with the same search information, will take notes,  summarize, draw a mind map, produce something, explain to others etc.
" yes/no with explanation combines two questions in one : "yes  because of a", "yes because of b", "no because of c",  "no because of a".
when i read the news, am i learning or am i just grasping some new information?
let's consider e-learning from the author's perspective.
categorizing means matching where one of the two sets contains less  elements than the other.
only the learner can decide to enter e-learning  activities.
learning is a little bit more difficult to define.
otherwise we would call it  "e-teaching".
internet-based, cd-rom based, telephone-based, video-based learning activities should all be considered as e-learning.
deeper analysis let's try to analyze things deeper.
the behaviorist minimal psychology framework suggest that any information is directly or indirectly connected to the project of an action and implies that the learning process includes: we get (1) bits of information on how to do something.
however, one should keep in mind that "e" resources do not lead to learning if there is no associated and relevant practice for which at least some feedback is available somewhere, whether online or not (consider how effective can be the fact that my sister tells me whether my interpretation of the guitar tune watched on youtube is "good" and what she suggests i should improve, whether she is a guitar expert or not).
just  because i would not fly in a plane whose pilot learned this way.
fox m., "learning design and e-learning", an epic white paper , epic group plc, 2007.
he would not  get the skills.
elearning solutions mumbai login or register to post comments scorm 2004 ® | open  source ™ | copyright ©
what is the  difference betweenlearning and reading for instance?
there are certainly much more than that and the organization  could be different.
i must first be able to describe the objectives of the course in terms of  action.
when i read the news, am i learning or am i just grasping  some new information?
instructional design how will we design the relevant activity in a course like: meeting management; history of art; english as a second language?
(1) reminds us that e-learning is not necessarily an online activity; (2) informs us that e-learning can exist even if no dedicated course content was developed; (3) suggests that e-learning does not mean nobody sees nobody; (4) says that e-learning can exist when theory is online and practice is offline (and we can reasonably imagine the reverse situation); (5) describes something pretty obvious: many of us learn everyday in google® without even noticing it or calling itlearning; (6) insists on the fact learning can be particularly effective when the learner is invited to produce something; (7) illustrates a very primitive way of learning: by imitation (didn't bach learn music by copying vivaldi scores?); (8) is considered by some the most accomplished e-learning method; (9) deals with how children learn first, but does not provide us with a criteria of what is the educative part in a game; (10) alludes to a common intellectual activity in most professional organizations and points out that there is most often some learning in it; (11) gives an example of m-learning or mobile learning that we can decide to include in the generic namee-learning .
elearning solutions mumbai
we are granted (2)  with the opportunity to act so as to practice and improve on these skills.
one might suggest that the relevant activities should be as close as  possible to real-life situations: (1) might lead to some group activities or role play.
sequencing is a matching where elements of the first set are named  "first step", "second step", third step" fill-in-form is similar to fill-in-blanks but adds some graphical  design to look like an existing form so as to simulate a real-life situation lab simulation can be a flash animation whose behaviour changes  when user modifies some settings delineate zones on an image is noticeably relevant in medicine:  delineate a cancer on a radiography for instance.
but the advantage of the behaviorist definition is that it focuses on  activities and feedback, hence suggesting a method for e-learning design.
scalise k. & gifford b., "computer-based assessment in e-learning:  a framework for constructing intermediate constraint questions and tasks for  technology platforms", the journal of technology, learning, and  assessment", volume 4, number 6 · june 2006.
i think however that saying "i am not a behaviorist"  means "i am more than a behaviorist" - it does not necessarily mean  you do not accept this minimal framework.
the relevant activity here will probably be closer to pilot a flight simulator.
in the following table, we attempt to formalize a table of some 40 possible activities types.