but i don't think either interpretation would stop the aircraft taking off.
yes i agree to disagree on this, after all, very  minor thing.
some can, like helicopters  and harriers.
the trick is 180 ralgha: slamclick and i have said that many times.
the picture doesn't want to display.
225 mph is a very common speed limit for air 48 a346dude: whoops, i meant to say take-off roll, not landing roll.
i feel like i've done that many here alone.
749 iwok: i still think the only plausible reasons the plane would take off are: 1)
if that  'ground' acts negatively on the forward motion in any way then you reduce the  effect of the thrust.
you are not dealing with a real world situation here.
i think its abssurd that i am even responding to this but its like saying if a rocket was lau 579 starlionblue: he can't lock it now.
the wheels will stay still and the whole aircraft will move with the conveyor belt.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: hmmm interesting.
look at the skateboard on the moving walkway in reply 210.
let's assume you're only  going up to light speed 830 boeingonfinal: i'm gonna hate myself for  bringing back this thread, but here it goes: discovery channel - mythbusters  click: mythbusters -> uncut -> plane on a tread 831 hawk21
i think after 860 posts, we all need to accept that it's  qu 864 starlionblue: if you set the brakes, sure.
ther 26 saintsman: rubbish.
the very slick treadmill which could allow a certain amo 750 david l: yes, that's what was agreed.
it seems to me that it's assumed that the helicopt 934 sjc4me: i say we all gang up on sovietjet and beat the crap out of him for bringing this up.
the wheels on an  aircraft are just freewheeling at takeoff, with forward thrust provided by the  engines but the traction and forward motion is still a component of the  wheel/ground interaction.
people have been giving examples to prove their points but none of the examples are comparabl 197 virginflyer:
it was a theoretical problem that had some  theoretical conditions.
thus causing it to accelerate and not remain stationary?
sudden: am not  totally with you on that one.
the trolley would do a triple sulko,  shoot off to the 127 ralgha: you're both trying to explain  something that won't happen.
quoting sovietjet (thread starter): the conveyer belt is  designed to exactly match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in  the opposite direction of rotation.
the wheels would simply  spin faster and the plane would still take 913
quoting sovietjet (thread starter): the conveyer belt is designed to exactly match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the opposite direction of rotation.
kinda lik 166 ralgha: no, there are two types of friction, static and dynamic.
652 ralgha: good lord are you people seriously still arguing about this?
this is no different to running on a treadmill.
the same mystical force that  propells the treadmill is propelling this thread on to infinity...
deletion quote selected text _
i was just assuming the very edge of the tire 736  airframeas: i feel the same way, too.
you have to look at the  overall scheme of things.
what, not peter max? 587 iwok: ambit: noun; "the scope, extents or bounds of something" it seems $5 words are required in this thread.
862 kbfispotter: i am begining to wonder if the mythbusters used a conveyor belt as a catapult to launch the aircraft into the air...
your feet propel you when you run.
in the case of an  aircraft, the reaction of the engines is that of forward motion, against  whatever medium it is stationary.
ba from united states of  america, joined may 2000, 11095 posts,rr: 69 reply 3, posted  tue nov  29 2005 07:49:59
but maybe the op has now had the chance to see the difference and has converted to "classic"?
then i understood the point of the free spinning wheels, making it able to take off.
i didn't think it all the way through before p 97 md-90: there is a fundamental difference between airspeed and groundspeed...
sorry my friend given the condition of the  original question (which is actually a puzzle), "the conv 255  darkblue: here's my two cents...
but the ground the aircraft is sitting on in this case is not stationary, its providing an exactly cancelling force pushing the aircraft back.
i don't think the plane would have any momentum remotely considera 937 david l: that would be option 3, the "magic" one, which i dissociated myself from.
tdscanuck: it's the forum equivalent of a car crash...you want to see just how bad it can actually get.
if the belt moves in the 32 kay: folks, if it was a free rotating conveyor belt, then yes, we could argue that eventhough it would make it difficult for the plane to move forward, and 33 a346dude: the answer to the question is, of course, absolutely not.
this is why i suggested the windtunel 659 vikkyvik: disclaimer: i haven't read all the replies since probably reply 150 or so....
just for the record, i  was considering the various speeds thus: ground speed = aircraft speed relative 608 darkblue: must... not... let... thread... die...
in a 'realistic' setting ... i.e. real physics  and no 'magic' ... the plan will fly, and it will gain airspeed.
if you wanted to prove that 739 wpiaeroguy: what if the plane was full of a load of pigeons and they all took off, then would it be possile?
but here's what i concluded...
i looked but could not find anything about an airplane, just a video with excuses about why they didn't air conveyor belt episode.
(in other words by retarding  and stopping rotation)
let's make this real  simple...
running  is an activity where the wheels (your feet) propel the vehicle.
start the conveyor moving without the engines on.
i think after 860 posts, we all need to accept that it's qu 864 starlionblue: if you set the brakes, sure.
then the sk 212 chksix: it stands still relative to you if you are also standing on the conveyor.
@slamclick and everyone else, i'm not sure
let's make this real simple...
just because the wheels are  turning doesnt mean the aircraft is moving with them!
ht from germany, joined may 2005, 6274 posts,rr: 32 reply 21, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:50:58 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read 32767 times:
keep in mind, that today is the first  day of the rest of your life !
a tunnel will not do the trick.
do not delete this thread.
890 david l: simpsons already did it that was  covered way back in the thread somewhere.
picture an airplane at 100 mph on the  takeoff roll.
and still counting...
the last thing i need is a wind tunnel manager telling me i'm  talking rubbish about... wind.
there is no force being exerted backwards  on the plane.
i assumed it was my prior post that had clouded the issue.
i say your tires would burst  first, followed by the destruction/melting of the hub/axle, an 714  david l: the available options need to be updated: "real" options:  a1.
just one question, how is a plane supposed to land, if  the runway is just one big conveyor belt?
if you dont like it, dont read it.
and the take off speed will still be  quite 668 david l: i didn't really want to go there but, since you  mention it...
if you build a belt that goes faster th 936 flexo: not sure if it is smart to enter this discussion at the 935th post, but here i go:
the wheels are spinning infinitely fast too.
why would the wheels be rotating at 300  knots (/mph - whatever)?
having rushed through the posts, i was so
even if it did, there'd be 918 starlionblue:
(i still say a tailwheel helo would lift off as long as 930 jetlagged: obviously real tyres will operate some way above their rated speed, and most of the arguments on this thread assumed no friction so no tyre burst or 931 starlionblue: i watched a recording like.
imagine a plane is sat on the beginning of a massive  conveyor belt/travelator type arrangement, as wide and as long as a runway, and  intends to take off.
doing so would  flat-spot the tires before blowing them out and 234 david l: yeah.
surely a nuclear aircraft carrier has the power to install a treadmill that  accelerates from zero to whatever in the 119 ralgha: no, they don't.
the episode is on wednesday, and the plane takes off.
okay, before i  get accused of hijacking the thread let me answer: the way i phrase that  question only makes it more difficult to answer.
the wheels are are a dependent factor in the problem.
the wheels will stay still and the  whole aircraft will move with the conveyor belt.
763 mandala499: in that case the aircraft will move forward and reach the required airspeed and take off (just don't forget to apply the brakes before retracting the 764 iwok :
it explains the physics perfectly: a thought experiment commonly cited in discussions of this question is to ima 920jetlagged:
if turing in 915 starlionblue: it all depends on the speed of the turntable.
in order for them to  prove this wrong the expe 842 midex216: ok, i don't care who sees  this, who agrees, i'm sticking with this; it can not work!
there is no way to test the original problem of the b 899 boston92: i don't believe that was the original question or the mystery.
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts, rr: reply 12, posted  tue nov  29 2005 09:59:00
then a.netters in years to come can see 582 superstring: well this topic is one of the longest i have ever seen, however i think to discuss also very "strange" questions is never wrong: it is illuminating be 583 david l: i think the number of responses indicates the level of interest.
177 bond007: i guess the clear explanation that i haven't seen (or probably missed), is that a jet engine, or a piston prop even, acts on the air around it, which 178 ppvra:
however, the bottom surface of each 73 kay: no man.
which, unless he has gum 708 airframeas:  right.
you are the one arguing that there is some motion the conveyor belt would have that could affect the movement of the airplane.
hey all,  something that i feel hasn't been brought up is this: we are all here talking  about the wheels being free-standing.
and  helicopter pilots will tell you the rotor remains stationary and the world
yes, because ice is not frictionless.
i guess you can say the thrust of the a/c is pushing against the air, and would therefore propel it forward, regardless if the conveyor belt was matching the speed of the wheels or not.
increasing the  relative airflow past the aircrat would.
the most patronising  perhaps...
um, what "infinite  thrust"?
896 a346dude: i don't get discovery channel...
so p 672 bae146qt: why don't you just tell him to take some ketamine  and curl up in the corner?
the plane will not take off nor  will the plane not take off.
ad choices | aircraft data | search | community | terms of use | privacy policy | contact us partner sites: aviation videos | aviation photo gallery photos sitemap | forums sitemap ©copyright 2012 demand media, inc.
i didn't really get  involved with option 3
if you held the brakes on ice, and firewalled the throttle, you would still move forward, even though your wheels are not.
sovietjet from bulgaria, joined mar 2003, 2187 posts,rr: 14 posted tue nov 29 2005 07:30:34
so  i'm watching from the control tower and for every one foot my airplane moves  forward, the runway magically moves backward one foot ....wh 168 jean  leloup: and this has no effect on the motion of the plane; it simply means that  the wheels will be spinning twice as fast.
anybody want to place wagers on when this thread hits 1000 posts?
the wheels will  spin at an infinite speed, but this will not push the aircraft back, the force  of the engines will move the aircraft forward and it will eventually take off  normally.
quoting joness0154 (reply 6): i guess you can say the  thrust of the a/c is pushing against the air, and would therefore propel it  forward, regardless if the conveyor belt was matching the speed of the wheels  or not.
it would rotate, but a 201 nav20: meeting myself coming back here!
if the conveyor belt exactly cancelled out the motion of the wheels, then as others on this thread have said, there would be no air movement over the wings and thus no lift produced.
i think it's worth a reminder that proponents of option 1 argue that, in "real lif 851 bok269: bad phrasing on my part...what i meant to say was that unless you have extremely strong headwinds, or a converyor belt that can move air as well, you 852 kcrwflyer: this thread is still alive?
i think the actual op was a highly complex question, and the poster  knew how difficulty the instantaneous issue would add.
anyways, in a perfect world physically, when the conveyor belt moved, the wheels would turn (freewheel) and the pl 28 sudden: a valid point, and also rather logical.
the problem  doesn't specify whether the belt matches the wheel's speed in rpm, tangential  speed 189 nav20: i have read the thread, jean leloup.
i was simply clarifying that some people were pursuing that option and it was getting interwoven and confused with 594 jetlagged: more than that, it is not even necessary to fully comply with the conditions of the op.
that's a new "what's the point of that?" scenario.
by islipwn what would happen on a  plane if every jumped at same time posted tue sep 16 2003 09:56:52 by  qantas747-438 pilots:
just wanted to be post 945 blue 945 viscount724:
all the treadmill can do is increase or decrease the rpm of the wheels.
the wheels do need to turn in order to takeoff - and bef 161 ralgha: true, however there is nothing preventing the wheels from making forward movement, which is the flaw in your understanding.
my point was that a  car's wheels losing grip would af 648 iwok: not to nit pick, but the  loss of grip could affect the aircraft's ability to show a negative  acceleration i.e. braking, which is exactly what would b 649  silvercomet: w00t w00t the beast has been revived?
the reaso 782 david l: it's a decent summary.
we still need to add:  fric 883 shyflyer: if a plane took off a conveyor belt...in the  forest...and no one was around to see it...does it have to comply with the  noise abatement procedure?
that is to keep the 122 ariis: it is sliding against the belt (although hovering).
but i also think there are others who do interpret the wording of the problem as dic 597 darkblue: your comments go both ways....
for anyone who doesn't know what the phrase  "begging the question" really means, this is a classic example.
considering the man 946 starlionblue: combine that with rule 3 and it  might just collapse the universe.
in reality, however... 631 keta: while there's a forward motion, the side speed also plays a role in the flow.
probably the longest thread on tech/ops till date.
885 airfoilsguy: have you not read every single post in this thread?
heck this thread is even slowing down my computer, and my computer ain't no  slouch either 801 kpwmspotter: hehe...not that i'm trying to re-open  debate, but apparently the mythbusters will attempt to settle this once and for  all in a little more than a week 802 starlionblue: i'm  sorry.
but maybe the op has now had the chance to see the difference and has converted  to "classic"?
565 bond007: no, quite the opposite.
am i talking about a car  or something?
think of  how a tail wind affects an aircraft on takeoff - it reduces the lift produced  by the wing and can prove to be costly as now you need to either go faster to  lift off, or climb slower.
but this particular thread is now such an academic curiosity that, for the sake of science and posterity, it must be allowed to conti 875 boston92: i do hope y'all know that even after the mythbusters prove the airplane flies, there will still be the idiots who don't get it, and say they screwed u 876 david l: true, for option 1.
the  aircraft will move.
this is no different to  running on a treadmill.
i define the belt speed relative 607 david l: another example of where confusion can arise.
853 starlionblue: it is moving forward.
no one said the thing is tied down.
how  about the aircraft i 609 starlionblue: you answered your own question.
b/r 251 ralgha: sorry slam, i've been sleeping and working so i wasn't here to back you up.
i think i am going to have to send an e-mail to myth busters and tell them to read 806 res: won't take off - no question about it.
the one thing that we're all agreed on is that we aren't all agreed on anything.
i agree with you so i've goofed somewhere.
t 80 a346dude: hehe, i suppose this discussion has become a little heated.
hoping that everyone is cool too...
the wheels don't drive the  airplane.
the  wheels are just along for the ride.
the thrust of the engines will push the aircraft forward, and the conveyor belt will rotate the wheels in the opposite direction.
if you're referring to 746 ralgha: there are a few...otherwise this  wouldn't be post 745.
whether the wind is blowing, or the engines pushing the plane forward, air is moving over the wings to provide lift.
noteably, the surface of the belt is slick due to  rain/snow.
the airplane is travelling at 150 knots, so the wheels shou 70 cph757: first i didn't think the plane would take off.
its hard to 717 slamclick: you don't get it!
i  immediately thought of a runner on a treadmill which lead to my post and later  realised the true 209 darrenthe747: so far i think slamclick has hit  the nail on the head.
the belt is only trying to catch up to  the speed of the wheels (which 140 david l: i was saying that this,  which shows how it would take off, is a good analogy: then i was attempting to  show how this, which attempts to show that it 141 david l: i'm sorry,  i just don't see where infinite speed comes into it .
the same mystical force that propells the treadmill is propelling this thread on to infinity...
"generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less than you need." - khalil gibran user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 2, posted tue nov 29 2005 07:42:07 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago) and read 32767 times: no, the plane will not takeoff.
jimbo 592 jetlagged: apologies for my sense of humour, iwok.
well, i'm glad there was at least one decent reason for me  to re-open this t 586 starlionblue:
slight problem with that.
703 slamclick: truth is, i was thinking about what steven hawking said in the acknowledgements of "a brief history of time" that someone told him that each equation 704 slamclick:
it doesn't apply to option 2, as the wheels don't turn at all in 626 xt6wagon:
you have a perception problem user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest
darkblue : actually it might be quite humurous to see them try to build the imaginary option 3 machine.
i was actually a physics major for 3 years.
the wheels are free spinning, that's the whole idea of a wheel, it allows the object to which the wheels are attached (which includes t 165 ppvra: wait a second - the wheels will be spinning fast, really fast.
585 vikkyvik: i think that needs to be nominated for the tech/ops "quote of the week"?
showing how you can drive along the conveyor with  power to the wheels, or push with your hand (aircraft engine) with free 943 sovietjet: the episode is on youtube...search for mythbusters conveyor  or something like that.
this  question, again, is quite farcical.
byomegous can a plane really take off from a steep slope?
if you secure the airplane to the  ground such that the ground speed can't exceed 0mph, you can still take off.
you would need a rocket powerful enough to br 43 pmn:
the problem is all in the way the original question was formulated (yes, i have  read all of the posts down to here...i'm bored at work).
those of us unfortunate enough to have our minds  set in the "real world" were clinging to the hope that the question  had been in 245 vsivaries:
i can't see any correlation between the speed of the wheels and  getting airborne....
if that 'ground' acts negatively on the forward motion in any way then you reduce the effect of the thrust.
an aircraft at takeoff is never going faster than the rotation speed of the wheels.
perhaps we should split the "real" scenarios from the "magic" scenarios thus: 728 wpiaeroguy:
wink aim for the sky!
of course 732 wpiaeroguy: davidl, i think we're saying the same things just putting different names on them.
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 9, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:44:33
in the case of an aircraft, the reaction of the engines is that of forward  motion, against whatever medium it is stationary.
the conveyor belt speed is set to cancel the speed of the wheels  turning, not the forward movement of the aircraft.
-mir 611 david l: hmm...
however, one forge 71 kay: the reason is, guys, that a conveyor like this is something that doesn't exist, and cannot be pictured in our heads, really!
it w 808 stealthz: of  course it will!!
925  hawk21m: any link?
the plane would not take off but for a reason i've not seen mentioned.
ex 578 access-air: i cant believe that ancflyer has not locked this thread.
i certainly wasn't about to do any calculations!
ad  choices  | aircraft data | search | community | terms of use | privacy policy |  contact us partner sites: aviation videos | aviation photo gallery photos sitemap | forums sitemap ©copyright 2012 demand media, inc.
belt opposes aircraft's ground-speed, not its "belt-speed" ("classic" scenario) a2.
even my puny little a-320 has fifty-four thousand pounds of thrust.
so if you place a wheel spinning at 150 knots on it, it will 77fokker lover: i'm amazed that a website for aviation enthusiasts has so many  people that don't understand how an airplane works, yet they will argue to  their last b 78 slamclick: the tires are not trying to turn.
i  guess you can say the thrust of the a/c is pushing against the air, and would  therefore propel it forward, regardless if the conveyor belt was matching the  speed of the wheels or not.
[edited 2007-09-17 13:33:10] 788 kay: why is this topic still on?
with due respect to flexo, three of us criticised his statement,  but all missed one significant word which makes it true.
yes but mythbusters did the "classic" scenario where the belt matches the aircraft ground speed.
this is exactly, what, i believe, navymidn is trying to  tell you.
this 158 ralgha: which is why slamclick and i have both stated the correct phrasing of the question.
a word of advice  to a.netters living on the west coast, if you don't want the 892
however the thrust is provided, the actual motion is set against whatever the aircraft is sitting on at the time.
if it's the one i think you're  addressing, i think you have 600+ posts to review - hint: the wheels don' 678
i define the belt speed relative 607  david l: another example of where confusion can arise.
regds mel 618 vatveng: did you stop reading at this line?
thrust acts accordingly to newtons third law of motion - every action has an equal and opposite reaction.
do you have  a diff 841
groundspeed 172 no1racer:
this is why i suggested the windtunel 659 vikkyvik: disclaimer: i  haven't read all the replies since probably reply 150 or so....
159 a346dude: keta, a really good summary of the fundamental problem that i think is responsible for the size of this thread.
posted mon may 21 2007 10:18:12 by sovietjet if a plane flies for a long time...
simplify the question: "if a plane  can be kept from moving will it take off?
in a perfect world (since we dont know anything other than the question, we  have to assume perfection), the plane will sit still because the wheels will  freewheel backward.
jetlagged: iwok uses the word "treadmill" rather than "conveyor belt" which betrays his mindset about the effect it has on the aircraft.
in this case the plane would take off.
we can do a  vs. b. -------
right, i overlooked the "might be" part... 163 bond007: yes, the conveyor moving in the opposite direction at the same speed is doing that - that's the whole purpose of this conveyor!
proof: they put your 662 david l: i think you're on to something there.
as the rotat 880 tdscanuck: i think that was covered by outcome 3: tom.
the argument that an external force pulling the t 134 ariis: this is all probably because of incostintency in how one understands the initial post, in terms of the 'design' of the conveyor.
picture an airplane at 100 mph on the takeoff roll.
i had the same thought.
and by aircrafts  speed do you mean wheel speed?
951 replies: all unread, showing first 25: user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _
862 kbfispotter: i  am begining to wonder if the mythbusters used a conveyor belt as a catapult to  launch the aircraft into the air...
kinda lik 166 ralgha: no, there are two types of  friction, static and dynamic.
239 leanofpeak: also an easy question.
conveyor  belt + plane =
well its tricky and tied to the magical treadmill which is designed to rotate in the same rate but negative to the wheels.
(crunch, can't support the force from the catapult)
highly unlikely, but i think the soviets tried it 765 russianjet: it's like being on a runnning machine - you're running but  not going anywhere, which is also why you don't feel the wind in your face.
on further reflection, as i was trying to get to sleep, i hadn't taken into account th 623 xt6wagon:
another would be to avoid having conveyor belt runways that move sideways at the same rate as the aircraft's moving forward 642 starlionblue: for those who can't see the picture, it's an aircraft carrier.
i think you're  missing the point.
richardprice from , joined  dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 16, posted  tue nov 29 2005 10:31:12 utc  (6  years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: wheres the lift coming from in order for the aircraft to take off?
the wheel speed and conveyor speed can totally  be neglected.
hence the plane  cannot mov 602 jetlagged: because if you want to match the  speeds they must have the same frame of reference, otherwise the whole thing is  meaningless.
can the plane take off?
with the amount of rubber needed to construct a conveyor belt as wide and as long as the average runway you would need 697 tdscanuck:
with this description, the a/c will not move relative to the surrounding.
i'm sure there's someplace on ebay where you purchase so 571 anitix87: i just basically wrote what the opening poster wrote, i'll  leave the theories up to them, so as not to bias their opinionis.
assuming the tires are not  slipping, the have two problems here.
ok, seriously you have to assume that  the wheelbearings are frictionless, have an infinite speed capacity, or simply  admit that the plane taking off o 624 chksix: in your scenario, it  will drive off the belt runway in a relative position 45 degrees from it's  starting point and then keep on accelerating on the gr 625 david l:  yes, that was assumed for option 1, where the wheels turn at twice the normal  speed.
user profile send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ hawk21m from india, joined jan 2001, 29867 posts, rr: 62 reply 10, posted   tue nov 29 2005 09:52:39
- photo upload faq - photo re-upload - airliners.net rejection guide - editing in photoshop - airliners.net photographers - photographer's corner - user created photo albums - aviation photography forum - photo index - advanced search - photo usage requirements - new photos added today - top views > - today - one year or older - one month or older - one week or older - 48 hours or older - recently reuploaded shots - forums - aviation forums > - civil aviation - military aviation & space - technical/operations - aviation photography - travel, polls & prefs - trip reports - aviation hobby - non-aviation - site related - live chat!
the  mystery was if you have a plane with engines pushing the plane forward at  (normall 900 mqtmxguy: (i know it has been beat to death over and  over and over but...)
at first i thought of it  your way richard, but after thinking about it for a while and the physics side  of things it will be possible for the aircraft to build speed.
slamclick: there is another possible  "real" scenario that might shed some light on the rest.
check that 834 835 starlionblue: there  have been a few in civ-av no? 9/11 and some of the other crash ones i believe.
if it  were true, then both the wheels and conveyer speeds would approach infinity,  howe 784 chksix:
i can't prove the  answer either.
but isnt  going anywhere, it has to be in motion to develop lift.
if itslcy, good luck, but edwards air force base might just be long  enough...
the problem with the hovercraft analogy is  that it violates the teachings of sovietjet who specified that the treadmill  must go backwards at a speed 758 airfoilsguy: isn't there someone  with access to a sim that could put this thread to rest?
unfortunately, without the slick conveyor belt or the wind tunnel, the plane will not take off.
to say  the conveyor belt matches th 781 iwok: unless the treadmill is  somewhat slick of course.
now put on a pair of roller skates  and put your foot o 230 leanofpeak: ok, let's go with the  roller-skates analogy.
919 starlionblue: i found this analogy floating around.
now, the conveyor belt is totally still.
cheers 685 david l: and still some haven't noticed  there were at least 6 different scenarios discussed, only one of which involved  "magic".
does that mean the floatplanes that take our northern friends fish 722 david l: hang on a minute.
yes, the boat would move.
the belt would not work as a break as it's just a  substitue for the rwy.
the tests,  animations and "science content" were very good.
there's a reason that most wind tunnels are closed loops.
which, unless he has gum 708 airframeas: right.
(reply 12): then, by your account, an aircraft would never fly.
yes i agree to disagree on this, after all, very minor thing.
that's the tricky part, and there' 805 iwok: unless its slick of course and the wheels never actually turn....
assuming we are on earth, and friction is a factor, the wheels will never make  forward movement.
also, i posted this in another thread but thought it might be useful here if anyone wants to debate it 903 david l: isn't that the basis for option 3, the one that requires magic forces... and stuff?
what  he says is if t 921 david l: yes, we need an option 3 for the  helicopter on a turntable.
i'd hate to see the high school physics scores of 59 a346dude: no, it isn't!
i have never  seen a post with 833 posts.
that'll teach you 25 pmn: surely the conveyor belt wouldn't really make a difference.
user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text sovietjet from bulgaria,  joined mar 2003, 2187 posts,rr: 14 posted  tue nov 29 2005 07:30:34
i guess they could just close the airport.
ariis: why do you think that i think so?
see, everyone  changes their mind people, whether the wheels spin or not, the plane will still  move forward, because nothing is hindering it.
your  feet propel you when you run.
if you wanted to prove that 739  wpiaeroguy: what if the plane was full of a load of pigeons and they all took  off, then would it be possile?
fine, its a  giant supermarket checkout belt, but how do you make it *exactly* match the  wheels' speed?
the no fly arguments are becoming even more circular than the conveyor belt.
a word of advice to a.netters living on the west coast, if you don't want the 892
but the ground the aircraft  is sitting on in this case is not stationary, its providing an exactly  cancelling force pushing the aircraft back.
no no no...this principal of flight only applies to  military helicopters.
why would the wheels be rotating at 300 knots (/mph - whatever)?
138 slamclick: i took this as meaning that your opion was no it would not take off and you were lining up quotes in support of that.
if that motion is retarded by the ground moving backward at the same speed as the forward motion, then you are never going to get air movement over the wing.
i've moved airplanes with the wheels not turning at all - on ice.
a helicopter on a giant turntable...does it take off?
let me take another  look at what i said.
what he says is if t 921 david l: yes, we need an option 3 for the helicopter on a turntable.
good fun to watc 246 slamclick: obviously you are overthinking it.
in the meantime... option 1 was supposed to be the classic scenario, where the belt s 700 slamclick: this is the 700th post.
798  david l: we gave him plenty of opportunities but he wouldn't change his mind.
855 kcrwflyer: are you talking about the conveyor belt actually moving the direction the plane is moving?
the most patronising perhaps...
what you are arguing is  that the plane could be sitting perfectly stationary, with the conveyor 65 jean leloup: this is definitely the new pigeon thread.
111 a346dude: and  furthermore, it has no practical applications since even in the best case  scenario it lengthens the take-off roll by a little bit.
that's  the fundamental idea behind calculating the speed of a person walking on a  train.
and i  have read the thread, 868 jetlagged: everyone who has posted here  understands how an aircraft produces lift.
in the op's  question though he said implying that its the wheel spe 733 david l:  yes, hence the reason option 1 came about for those who wanted to talk about  the "classic" scenario in terms of physics, rather than having a  philoso 734 slamclick: there are a couple of mental challenges
think about it, that one would wo 863 david l: and i could say the same about hundreds of other threads that seem far more stupid to me.
it was said many, many times that the wheels were not 'driving' the aircraft, but not too clear why it w 184 navymidn: a historic moment: i swallow my pride and admit that the aircraft will take off.
i'd hate to see the high school physics  scores of 59 a346dude: no, it isn't!
ht from germany, joined may 2005, 6274 posts,rr: 32 reply 21, posted  tue  nov 29 2005 10:50:58 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read  32767 times:
in a perfect world (since we dont know anything other than the question, we have to assume perfection), the plane will sit still because the wheels will freewheel backward.
this problem has always had a certain condition: to consider that condition you have to make a certain number of assumptions mainly dealing with speed 242 darrenthe747: ok guys, i have been thinking about this all day!!!!!
surely that coin can only repre 778 boeingonfinal: that is  true, and i'll try to explain:
well it's allowed to move, just in infinitesimal amounts.
perhaps we should split the "real" scenarios  from the "magic" scenarios thus: 728 wpiaeroguy: in that  case every real scenario should have the plane taking off.
but then i realized that it's not that easy.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting joness0154 (reply 9): think about a plane taking off on ice, with all the wheels locked
exactly how are you defining wheel speed, because as has been  pointed out the speed of the wheel re 761 mandala499:
(i hope you got the point ?!).
user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 11, posted  tue nov 29 2005 09:55:20
stand just beyond one end of the walkway with a rope attached to the skateboar 216 david l: i didn't notice that it was you who asked the original  question!
its all in what the conveyor belt is moving in relation to, and whether you measure the conveyor belt speed at the point of the 227 david l: assuming we're going with the "silly" version, i see the point about the wheels needing to rotate at half the speed i was thinking of (i.e. slipping) 228 kay: they will not spin as fast as you are saying, but only as a result of the wheel struts wanting to move forward, they will want to spin, but the turni 229 david l: the wheel strut is not in contact with the conveyor belt.
its not even moving the aircraft, its simply spinning the  wheels.
if the speed of the conveyor belt is exactly equal and  opposite to the speed of the wheels, 34 pmn:
airplanepics from united kingdom, joined jun 2003, 2724 posts,rr: 51 reply 7, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:28:50 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: i think we have another "how many pigeons would it take to lift a 747" thread!
yes, as slamclick pointed out, but the aircraft would still accelerate in the desired direction, which is really the point.
one of the two original scenarios, the "hampster wheel" scenario or the cross-runway conveyor belt scenario?
this is assuming the 675 slamclick: remarkable.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read  32767 times: quoting joness0154 (reply 9): think about a plane taking off on  ice, with all the wheels locked
what some have misunderstood,  including you it seems, is the effect of the co 869 starlionblue:  ironically, then you post this: and that's not how the conveyor would work.
ralgha: i'm quite aware of that.
this is a  great th 581 jetlagged: don't delete it, just lock it now the no fly  arguments are becoming even more circular than the conveyor belt.
it does not affect the motion of the fuselage and wings at all.
it i 247 slamclick: okay, i've been rereading some of the arguments regarding the specific language of the thread-starter question.
i still like slamclick's idea of i 799 iwok: not so sure yet.
this problem has always had a certain condition: to  consider that condition you have to make a certain number of assumptions mainly  dealing with speed 242 darrenthe747: ok guys, i have been thinking  about this all day!!!!!
m: i guess it will continue till its concluded that  the aircraft will lift off,will not lift off & not sure differences exist.
it is not a quantity, it  can not be compared as a quantity.
people tend to fall asleep about halfway through my first sentence!
there is a  key point to this theoretical problem: q 243 leanofpeak: the only  context in which i've heard that problem posed with star trek is that there are  two tribes on a planet, one 100% truthful and one 100% decei 244  david l: we're way past that.
this is a great th 581 jetlagged: don't delete it, just lock it now
the problem with the hovercraft analogy is that it violates the teachings of sovietjet who specified that the treadmill must go backwards at a speed 758 airfoilsguy: isn't there someone with access to a sim that could put this thread to rest?
simon - london-aviation.com user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text _ joness0154 from united  states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 8, posted   tue nov 29 2005 09:40:12 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and  read 32767 times: think about a plane taking off on ice, with all the wheels locked the plane would still accelerate, even though the wheels are not moving.
thus i agree in that the engines will generate thrust, however if the wheels are "fi 658 xt6wagon:
lol ok.....flat conveyor belt in aircraft terminal.....
keep in mind, that today is the first day of the rest of your life !
the friction 167 bond007: hmmmm....
right, which would never happen sufficiently in this case, because as the op states, the conveyer would move at the same speed as the wheels.
tdscanuck: it's the forum  equivalent of a car crash...you want to see just how bad it can actually get.
posted tue nov 29 2005 11:22:55 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting sovietjet (thread starter): as long as a runway that would not be enough to get up to rotation speed.
its a similar situation if you can visualize it.
138 slamclick: i took this as meaning that your  opion was no it would not take off and you were lining up quotes in support of  that.
okay if finally occurs to me that there is a  language trap in the way the problem is being posed.
i wonder who the other two are.
i didn't really get involved with option 3
what  you're basically saying is that you would in fact 772 boeingonfinal:  quoting russianjet (reply 771):
however, if the belt isn't allowed to move, how can we say it's trying to 712 david l: um, actually it has been discussed
the airplane is travelling at 150 knots, so the wheels  shou 70 cph757:
m: im surprised that this ebate is carrying on still.
it  would rotate, but a 201 nav20: meeting myself coming back here!
115 ariis: i absolutely  agree, just in case i sound otherwise.
my point was that a car's wheels losing grip would af 648 iwok: not to nit pick, but the loss of grip could affect the aircraft's ability to show a negative acceleration i.e. braking, which is exactly what would b 649 silvercomet: w00t w00t the beast has been revived?
but still....the relative wind  over the wing is still needed to provide lift.
759  mandala499: iwok, the relevance of the treadmill and the hovercraft is only on  the "resistance" offered by the wheel and the river in the case of  the hovercraft.
you have to look at the overall scheme of things.
i don't know how to explain this any better than i have.
you  would need a rocket powerful enough to br 43 pmn:
sovietjet: what if there were snakes on the plane?
that's the fundamental idea behind calculating the speed of a person walking on a train.
i'm running out of ways to picture this - as you sa 232 buckfifty: i think people still don't get it, haha.
aircraft are just big road vehicles until they move quick enough to generate lift.
i don't contend that the belt will prevent the 792 wpiaeroguy: the same way every physics problem never takes friction into account and occurs in a perfect vacuum, and how every shape you will ever use is a spher 793 david l: correct.
the one thing that just needs to b 878 sovietjet : i still believe this is the most plausible answer.
you need forward  movement (which the belt does not really provide.)
the op's intent is impossib 753
but then again, maybe you should pay attention to what the professionals have to say, or a 101 ralgha: i'm not reading this whole thread, but everyone who thinks the airplane will not take off has the same basic misunderstanding of airplanes that plague 102 slamclick:
sovietjet: i'd like to know how mythbusters will be able to instantaneously match the wheel speed with the belt....
time for the thread to be locked - getting too silly & off topic top of page change forum...
yes, the  boat would move.
he stated that pihero had the correct answer.
if you are on a treadmill on roller skates, your roller-skate wheels have a speed with respect to the tre 231 david l: i "get your drift" but i'm still not convinced that this is the same as having the brakes locked.
all it would cause, in my narrow mind, 203  nav20: not by any means sure myself, sudden.
104 matt72033: ok....ive joined this late, but i thought i'd throw my analogy in for the hell of it!
magic enough for you?
i still smile 599 david l: i  have nightmares about that football match!
an aircraft moves by applying a force, from its engines, on the  surrounding air (accelerates it rea 775 boeingonfinal: q&a&w  (question & answer & why) imagine a coin (or a wheel if you please),  and place it on a conveyor belt.
the only traction issues  woul 647 david l: but notice i said "if a car's wheels skidded  sideways" - i didn't say they would skid sideways.
in my first post i said "equivilant" since the actual rpm will depend on the diameter of the wheel.
yes i've  seen this topic on many places online.
utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1  day 14 hours ago)
but still....the relative wind over the wing is still needed to provide lift.
thinking on it  more, you could take off with the "magic force" treadmill that keeps  the groundspeed of the aircraft at 0.
by the airframe propelled by it's engines, moving  forward in the still air.
infinity > infinity infinity http://www.salon.com/tech/col/smith/...t215/ "for good measure, the treadmill itself, as described, could never be built.
because the wind is calm, we are assuming, the  thrust from the engines will work against it, therefore propelling the plane  forward in relation to the air.
we a 718 vikkyvik: eh, instead of typing a new post, i'll just quote myself (david, you can feel free to figure out which option i am replying to, since i don't know no 719 vzlet: i'd explain that, but then i'd have to kill you.
ba from united states of america, joined may 2000, 11095 posts,rr: 69 reply 3, posted tue nov 29 2005 07:49:59
the only  way the aircraft does not fly is if there is a "magic force" to hold  it stationary, 825 sovietjet: this is the key, an instantaneous  reaction to a change in velocity of the tires would mean that the tires and  conveyor would be playing "catch up" un 826 iwok: i still  say there is a third option.
civil aviation travel, polls & prefs tech/ops aviation hobby aviation photography photography feedback trip reports military av & space non-aviation site related live chat
if you start the conveyor with plane on it at 100 knots 824 jetlagged: many, many people have observed this would be the case.
then, by your account, an aircraft would never fly.
this can be found  on tons of forums across the internet, most of them not even aviation related.
anyone have a model airplane and a treadmill?
will you reach terminal velocity?
jimbo 592 jetlagged: apologies for  my sense of humour, iwok.
so is this law 1a????
civil aviation travel, polls  & prefs tech/ops aviation hobby aviation photography photography feedback  trip reports military av & space non-aviation site related live chat my starred topics | profile |  new topic | forum index | help | search if a plane took off a conveyor belt...
that means the plane on the belt cannot move, except for the wheels.
in addition to the reason you gave, there's also the fact that entirely different interpretations were being discuss 874 tdscanuck: ordinarily, no.
until take off, the forward motion is a component of the wheel/ground interaction and since you are removing this component then the aircraft cannot go forward.
if the aircraft moves forward down the runway, the wheels rotate clockwise, ie backwards.
that'll teach you user profile send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
if the aircraft 191 jean leloup: nav20, the conveyor is not neutralising engine thrust.
it is most definitately possible, and there are several scenarios which are possible and which meet the principles of the original post.
if that 'ground' acts negatively on the forward motion in any way  then you reduce the effect of the thrust.
the 3 men are paying nine dollars to  the hotel, as well as the bellh 822 iwok: that is correct, but  everyone seems to ignore that fact that its indeed possible for the plane to  move with locked wheels under slick or even dry con 823 boston92:
btw the myth 574 sovietjet: i can't believe  this is still going, and that mythbusters havent tried this yet.
its just not possible.
- home - photos - photo search engine - upload your photos! >
what you are arguing is that the plane could be sitting perfectly stationary, with the conveyor 65 jean leloup: this is definitely the new pigeon thread.
since conveyor belt is somehow designed this way (assumption), the wheels will never move an inch.
the thread starter and fans of the "magic" belt might argue  that discussion of 796 airfoilsguy: ok, after 795 posts i will let  you in on a secret.
by islipwn what would happen on a plane
then that problem will  be solve 639 starlionblue: they already did that.
81 fokker lover: but we are talking about free turning wheels, and that is why your argument is totally and completely wrong.
i understand both sides of the story.
689 airframeas : maybe the conveyor belt is off.
157 keta: lol at first when i saw the question i thought "what a  silly question, how can there be 100+ posts?"
although i consider this more of the result of the relationship of  speeds and not the definition.
yes that's more or less what it seems.
yes, unfortunately that makes a debate much more difficult when people throw in incorrect assumptions and inappropriate analogies.
it would require a rwy that is veeeeery long.
and read 32767 times: it's not about how fast you can make the wheels spin.
jetlagged, well  in that case, do you take into account wheel axle resistance?
yes, but i have to assume we're talking about the same aircraft as we were in options 1, 2 and 3 (assuming it actually had wheels)
the last thing i need is a wind tunnel manager telling me i'm talking rubbish about... wind.
what we are  talking about here is a perfectly negative frictional surface, a surface that  provides exactly the opposite friction to the wheels and thus an opposite force  to the forward thrust of the engines.
if the conveyor were just a fraction of a se 90 kay:
the correct half of the reasoning that leads to the impression that this  is an unresolvable vicious ci 240 david l: you've ruined star trek.
that means the center of each axle is going 50 mph.
this is just friction between the block and the surface.
so the plane will go.
and i have read the thread, 868 jetlagged: everyone who has posted here understands how an aircraft produces lift.
if you are stationary on a conveyor belt, there is  absolutely no wind moving over the wings, and hence no lift.
when in doubt, flat out!
whichever way the experiment goes, the  losing side will be arguing even more over the experimental technique, most  obviously that 804
if the conveyor is set to prevent the wheels 146
sudden he didnt specify which  runway...
some can, like helicopters and harriers.
user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text
unless the wheels slide down the belt, the aircraft will never take o 118 slamclick:
the bottom line is that the question as stated isn't nearly as interesting to discuss as a lot of us thought it was.
thrust acts accordingly to newtons third law of  motion - every action has an equal and opposite reaction.
i think someone should  start the "do engines push or pull the aircraft" thread now!!
for other interpretations and scenarios, see replies 3 to 600+  i was referring to these opt 692 slamclick: we agree on this.
it would be like running across a runni 634 david l: if the runway heading is north, the aircraft will be thrusting itself northwards and the belt will be moving, let's say, eastwards.
the friction between the wheels and conveyor belt  is not even an issue since the tires are free to rotate.
this possibility doesn't require magic force to stop the plane from acce 820 jamincan: strictly speaking that's not correct, the tire-conveyor interface is a lot more complicated than that.
whatever your options are ... if you believe in physics ...
925 hawk21m: any link?
i was only using sc's analogy to disprove the theory of the "driven conveyor"; in other words if the ground the cat is on is muddy, th 752 ralgha: the op's intent is impossible, and the question was restated as it was intended a few posts in (somewhere less than 100).
and yet you still feel the primal need to post here not to open up a can-o-worms, but you might want to check out the theories that have been develop 867 pwm2txlhopper: i was posting here because i saw the commercial and didn't realize somebody else had posted the same info moments before.
anyone  have a model airplane and a treadmill?
and the conveyor is a backward motion, however, it only makes the wheels spin.
mandala499 762 jetlagged: doesn't matter, in the scheme of things rolling friction is  a low force compared to thrust and drag.
if the helicopter is sitting on the turntable the anti-torque rotor can't scrape th 916 mqtmxguy: phffft, i'm using a uh-60, duh 917 david l: and most of those concern the classic problem involving a conveyor belt that tries to oppose the aircraft's speed.
i suppose 673 replies are hard to wade through, but i'm amazed there  are still posts like this.
yes, that's option 1, the classic version.
the way the question is proposed makes it an impossi 195kay:
photos | forums | articles | site wide sponsor message: change forum...
the belt can try all it wants to stop the wheels  from making forward progress, but it can' 128 slamclick: let's put to  rest a side issue that is not part of the question.
apologies user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text _ joness0154 from united  states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 19, posted   tue nov 29 2005 10:47:27 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and  read 32767 times: i originally saw it like you did, but i changed my  mind also.
don't think of the contact pa 67 micorazonazul:
if the wings are generating  enough lift, the plane will lift into the air.
so the plane will roll along but  never lift off.
my favorites are the personal flying machine (plans on ebay) and  all the 100mpg devices.
some  people watch too many cartoons 807 hawk21
and it was decided to ignore it because the central issue was to explain that an aircraft on a conveyor belt behav 713 wpiaeroguy:
okay it is time for me  to settle this.
happy new year everyone.
regds mel 933 david l:
i think that this paradox was thought  up by someone who accidentally misunderstood the pr 236 david l: ...
but then i realized that  it's not that easy.
you know, tomcats, hornets, etc .
okay if finally occurs to me that there is a language trap in the way the problem is being posed.
put a  tonka truck on a treadmill and turn it on.
associated with that question alone.
the wheels are therefore turning at the appropriate revolutions for that speed.
to do with being a pilot.
absolutely the  aircraft would take off as normally.
considering the man 946 starlionblue: combine that with rule 3 and it might just collapse the universe.
and yes, you are correct that its a  question of can 627 david l: while i didn't say so  explicitly, i believe that's what i implied...
i think this thread is like halley's comet, it re- 667fredt:
i didn't think the plane would be carried  sideways by the belt, in which case, there would be a crosswind.
then i  understood the point of the free spinning wheels, making it able to take off.
there are three  engineers in the world who have common sense.
user profile send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
837 starlionblue: afaik, they don't really consider that until there has been at least one suggestion for deletion.
it explains the physics perfectly: a thought  experiment commonly cited in discussions of this question is to ima 920jetlagged:
so what you're  saying is if the plane is running on a treadmill.
but if you're willing to go shady the entire episode is most likely available on torrent sites.
um, what "infinite thrust"?
a plane does not have gears, the plane has wheels that are  free-rolling.
there is a key point to this theoretical problem: q 243 leanofpeak: the only context in which i've heard that problem posed with star trek is that there are two tribes on a planet, one 100% truthful and one 100% decei 244 david l: we're way past that.
but i believe  the original mystery was if the belt matches the speed of the plane and not the  speed of the wheels.
i am replying to, since i don't know no 719  vzlet: i'd explain that, but then i'd have to kill you.
in that case, the front wheels would have a higher  rotational speed than the rear wheels.
however, we separated the conveyor belt into two types: one that  "magically" matches the aircraft's speed instantaneousl 751  iwok:
(i still say a  tailwheel helo would lift off as long as 930 jetlagged: obviously  real tyres will operate some way above their rated speed, and most of the  arguments on this thread assumed no friction so no tyre burst or 931  starlionblue: i watched a recording like.
quoting joness0154 (reply 6): i guess you can say the thrust of the a/c is pushing against the air, and would therefore propel it forward, regardless if the conveyor belt was matching the speed of the wheels or not.
just as the fact that some folks think the a/c will take off!?
here's 613 david l: on reflection, it's quite likely that there would come a time when the aircraft would find itself going past the vertical with insufficient energy to 614 mir: not if it were going fast enough.
i think we've all agreed that just can't happen.
could it the black hole be countered by  the black hole from the conveyor belt running in the opposite direction and  hence opposite e 800 fly2hmo: 800 posts... 800!!!!
thus forward motion can be generated and thus also lift.
i think there is an easy way to visualize this.
it's akin to the problem of "if a tree falls in the forest, and no o 233 leanofpeak: davidl, you are exactly correct.
for anyone who doesn't know what the phrase "begging the question" really means, this is a classic example.
now that's remarkable.
760 jetlagged: no more unlikely than the magic conveyor, surely?
in  order to take off friction between the tire and belt must be brok 52 slamclick: nonsense.
everyone who knows how to draw a free-body  diagram dies a little everytime 898
it  doesn't 196 saintsman: as others have mentioned, it is an impossible  situation.
the plane will take of.
in this case, theres no  air movement because the air is technically acting as a tail wind in exactly  the same proportion as the forward motion of the aircraft.
move one step  toward the real 699 david l: ok, i'm going to have to think about  that.
sovietjet: damn and you guys missed the 2 year anniversary of this thread 814 evan767: i wonder how the hell mythbusters is going to have a conveyer belt big enough for this.
but somehow i doubt that it will be.
it i 247 slamclick:  okay, i've been rereading some of the arguments regarding the specific language  of the thread-starter question.
in a 'non-rea 566 david l: assuming option 1 or option 2, this part bothers me: the speed of rotation of the wheels does not depend solely on the speed of the aircraft, it depe 567 anitix87: after more discussion with my colleagues, many of which disagree with one opinion or the other, i'm starting to see why my opinion is wrong, and why 568 starlionblue:
the plane is a bae harrier.
yes that's what we have been saying since long ago.
160 bond007: that's it right  there.
in order 27 joness0154: you didn't  read the original post.
the conveyor belt speed is set to cancel the speed of the wheels turning, not the forward movement of the aircraft.
right: but the 0 ground 645 david l: but they  wouldn't be dragging in the fore and aft direction, i.e. in the direction the  aircraft's trying to go so the thrust wouldn't be competing wi 646  xt6wagon: even a car would not really notice, the acceleration the tires see  would be at a 45 to the direction the car is facing.
it is most definitately  possible, and there are several scenarios which are possible and which meet the  principles of the original post.
even the no-fly g 677 david l: it sure is.
so, the speed of the wheels could be  equivalent to, say, 100mph, but the airplane could actually be going 300mph, or  have a 200mph relative wind.
if you look back in the posts, you will find i understood the question a lot sooner than you did, mister.
i think you're missing the point.
either the w 151 slamclick:  exactly!
or  get directv, like me!
i  first of all thought that the aeroplane would stand still.
while i am decidedly with the 'it will take off' group, you are making one fatal mistake with this analogy.
if the force exterted backward  on the aircraft is the same as the force exterted forward by the engines, then  theres going to be no lift.
let me give you an  example: three guys check into a 176 ralgha: no, this is discounting  air friction.
we already made it to 70 posts arguing the first question!
i assumed people  would u 147 david l: no, slamclick, it was my dumb!
but a jet engine, or propellor, produces forward movement relative  to the air around it, not relative to th 214 slamclick: i have to  take my dog to the vet or i would address some of the last twenty or so posts.
all the  treadmill can do is increase or decrease the rpm of the wheels.
hence, no airflow 709slamclick: what force is retarding the forward motion?
qfa380 user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ sudden from sweden, joined jul 2001, 3912 posts,rr: 8 reply 23,
if itslcy, good luck, but edwards air force base might just be long enough...
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts,rr: 47 reply 24, posted tue nov 29 2005 11:28:30 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting sudden (reply 24): that would not be enough to get up to rotation speed.
it's impossible for the belt to negate the movement; when the belt accelerates to catch the wheels' speed, the w 207 pihero: my two cents : 1/ aircraft/wheels/belt do not form a closed system as in the theory, the only force considered comes from the engine thrust, and we mi 208 cosmiccruiser: first let me say i should have stayed out of this.
gonna bust thru 700 and then some if you consider reply 2 as the  correct answer.
881 starlionblue: well put.
the wheel is trying to turn because that is the  only way it knows for moving forward.
so i'm stuck with ie 812
right: but the 0 ground 645 david l: but they wouldn't be dragging in the fore and aft direction, i.e. in the direction the aircraft's trying to go so the thrust wouldn't be competing wi 646 xt6wagon: even a car would not really notice, the acceleration the tires see would be at a 45 to the direction the car is facing.
so how does that work?
ex 578 access-air: i cant believe  that ancflyer has not locked this thread.
since conveyor  belt is somehow designed this way (assumption), the wheels will never move an  inch.
i 'lost it' at  the point where people said that 'relative wind' would be generated.
the or 756 mandala499:
t 149 ralgha: [edited 2005-11-30 02:33:17] 150 david l:
we know that vtire = vaircraft - vconveyor ass 821 jamincan: umm, if by violating the properties of math you mean making a stupid math error.
https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/1419.
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts, rr: 47 reply 14,  posted  tue nov 29 2005 10:16:26 utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours  ago) and read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 14):
in the meantime... option 1 was supposed to be the  classic scenario, where the belt s 700 slamclick: this is the 700th  post.
a  helicopter on a giant turntable...does it take off?
takes off with wheels spinning at infinity.
paul 35 a346dude: after considering the problem further, i  am going to have to amend my answer.
jan 30th will have the myth: what happens if you p 849 hawk21m: finally.a conclusion by then or a further debate regds mel 850 david l: but presumably they will only be examining option 1, not option 3.
you are not grasping the fact that airplanes do not depend at all on the ground  for propulsion or flight.
http://videos.streetfire.net/player....e964d9-38db-4efd-be8d-d6ba1a43a06b 94 joness0154: and an avweb article http://www.avweb.com/news/columns/191034-1.html 95 petertenthije: already on their site http://community.discovery.com/group...ms/a/tpc/f/9701967776/m/7451937218 maybe someone can send them the "flying birds in 747" 96 jbirdav8r : upon closer examination, doing a little calculus, and actually playing with a treadmill, you're right.
the aircraft will move.
assuming the tires are not slipping, the have two problems here.
jan 30th will have the myth: what happens if  you p 849 hawk21m: finally.a conclusion by then or a further debate  regds mel 850 david l: but presumably they will only be examining  option 1, not option 3.
in addition to the reason you gave, there's also the fact that entirely  different interpretations were being discuss 874 tdscanuck:  ordinarily, no.
the 748 ralgha: yep, i said  basically the same thing about 600 posts ago, but that's ok it bears repeating  again!
after reading the replies in this thread, i would think that in an ideal case (zero friction), the 99 a346dude: couldn't you at least entertain the possibility that we do?
the answer to the question is not "yes"
the fra 774 david l: the method of propulsion makes a huge difference.
so comments from b 938 starlionblue: david l already handled your objections.
sovietjet: i too  am a convert, i originally thought it won't take off and then i realized it  will(this was before mythbusters) but with the tires spinning at inf 910 kelpkid: congratulations on your 10 minutes of fame on tv (even if they  didn't mention you at all-were it not for you, none of this ever would have  happened)
for the record, i'd just  like to note that the 4 laws of airplane conveyors (tm) are david l's, not  mine.
yes, unfortunately  that makes a debate much more difficult when people throw in incorrect  assumptions and inappropriate analogies.
i say your tires would burst first, followed by the destruction/melting of the hub/axle, an 714 david l: the available options need to be updated: "real" options: a1.
106 cosmiccruiser: i couldn't bring myself to read all these posts so forgive me if i'm repeating something already said.
then yes, it will not fly as it is not physically moving forward.
the 3 men are paying nine dollars to the hotel, as well as the bellh 822 iwok: that is correct, but everyone seems to ignore that fact that its indeed possible for the plane to move with locked wheels under slick or even dry con 823 boston92:
th 145 chksix: strange  thread.....
sovietjet: exactly, remember...the belt has to  instantaneously match the speed of the wheels....not the airspeed of the plane.
adam's demonstration 923 david l: i haven't seen it yet but perhaps it's just something he's never thought about before and he had to rush to a conclusion?
user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 17, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:41:56 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: i don't think you're seeing the full picture.
anyone think of doing a part 2, 3, or 4?
thegeek: on david l's possibility 3, the plane crashes due to all the tyres exploding.
dreamliner - embraer erj-170/175/190/195 - honda ha-420 hondajet - antonov an-38 - community - not a member?
there is no force being exerted backwards on the plane.
run for your sanity ppl!!
we a 718 vikkyvik: eh, instead  of typing a new post, i'll just quote myself (david, you can feel free to  figure out which option
so you're saying that after a certain speed the friction with  the surface will increase?
are you only applying thrust if the belt doesn't move and not  applying thrust if it does move?
good fun to watc 246 slamclick: obviously you are  overthinking it.
when i first read that post i assumed 248 slamclick: besides, i'm not going to waste my five thousandth post on this thread.
as long as that air is calm, the thrust will propel the plane forward, which will produce airflow over the wings.
am i talking about a car or something?
yes, when you exert a  force greater than the opposite motion, of course it will move forward.
this is a great thread; reminds me of that one about airplane filled with pigeons, the one someon 116 ariis : that is known as 'catapult', by the way.
if you secure the airplane to the ground such that the ground speed can't exceed 0mph, you can still take off.
this problem is not valid in many ways, and that is probably why it has been so many speculations.
so there will not be any air flowing over the wing thus no lift is produced.
printer friendly format similar topics: more similar topics...
haha maybe one day they will invent a rotating airport where 2  or more runways turn on a turntable to face the wind..
each is a constant, which the dynamic being less  (much less often) than static.
there is no opposite force being exerted on the aircraft.
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 18, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:43:58 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: ok, after all my arguing against the aircraft taking off, im going to swallow my pride and change my stance
if the belt were spinning infinitely fast, it wouldn't match the speed o 137 david l:
okay, now that i am back from class, i will be able to  say more on this subject.
that, although you could obviously get the engines  to generate an airflo 669 jetlagged: i'm not disagreeing, i just  thought it was tempting fate to say so though.
if you put a car on a treadmill, and s 40 chrisba777er:
sudden when in doubt, flat out!
civil aviation travel, polls & prefs tech/ops aviation hobby aviation photography photography feedback trip reports military av & space non-aviation site related live chat forum index this topic is archived and can not be replied to any more.
the thrust of the engine will s 93 joness0154: the video that  solves it all!!!
the mystery was if you have a plane with engines pushing the plane forward at (normall 900 mqtmxguy: (i know it has been beat to death over and over and over but...)
signed, steve austin  (astronaut, amba) 720 david l: i feel your pain.
so, the speed of the wheels could be equivalent to, say, 100mph, but the airplane could actually be going 300mph, or have a 200mph relative wind.
its not even moving the aircraft, its simply spinning the wheels.
i still hold, however, that 49 ariis: this is the key to the answer.
real crosswind limits are much lower than that 150 kts i took "theoretically" to mean "you can ig 633 oly720man: not true since the action of the belt would only be on the tyres, there'd be no wind loading on the fuselage.
threads are rarely locked up as new discussions can go  on being added.
but if you're willing to go shady the  entire episode is most likely available on torrent sites.
without getting into equations that never "prove" a 694 david l: before someone else chips in without reading the rest of the thread, it's probably worth a reminder that we agreed that failure of the bearings and/o 695 bond007: correct.
it can't  "ex 562 anitix87: i cannot believe we're this far into the  thread and it's still going.
the wheel rotation 51 nighthawk: the key  here being that it was on ice..the wheels were sliding over the surface.
without getting into equations that never "prove"  a 694 david l: before someone else chips in without reading the rest  of the thread, it's probably worth a reminder that we agreed that failure of  the bearings and/o 695 bond007: correct.
aim fo 223 bond007: so do those who say, yes it will takeoff, agree that the wheels must be going faster than the conveyor in order to get forward motion, and therefore 224 a346dude: absolutely not.
701 wpiaeroguy: before i throw this out there i just want to say that i agree with everything that slamclick has been saying about infinite speeds, and if i had an ac 702 david l: given the history of this thread, there will now follow a further 50-odd posts disputing that.
except we've been discussing 3 scenarios (option 4 doesn't really warrant discussion).
kari was talking and i was distracted.
when i first read the original post i was convinced it would not move.
user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
yes, when you exert a force greater than the  opposite motion, of course it will move forward.
i just spoke with  a colleague of mine.
if you  build a belt that goes faster th 936 flexo: not sure if it is smart  to enter this discussion at the 935th post, but here i go: i don't think the  plane would have any momentum remotely considera 937 david l: that  would be option 3, the "magic" one, which i dissociated myself from.
so the plane will roll along but never lift off.
so what you're saying is if the plane is running on a treadmill.
here are the four laws again: 870 david l: maybe for you option 3 merchants.
byomegous can a plane really take off from a steep  slope?
the wheels don't drive the airplane.
ah yes, sorry kay,  i missed the all important smile!
simplify the question: "if a plane can be kept from moving will it take off?
imagine a  gargantuan convey belt 98 mir: would you like a vs. b?
only in tech-ops 683 zak: its not about facts and  figures, its about that fetish this thread here kind of proves the  proliferation of the "magic fantasy wonderland" plane feti 684stealthz:
if the aircraft 191 jean leloup:  nav20, the conveyor is not neutralising engine thrust.
utc  (6  years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago)
times: i think we have another "how many pigeons would it take to lift a  747" thread!
then  the sk 212 chksix: it stands still relative to you if you are also  standing on the conveyor.
it appears to me 588 stealthz:
to scare you all, i saw the previews for next weeks mythbusters, apparently they read the forums...
regds mel 908 a346dude: the real answer is the plane  will take off regardless of belt speed.
this is amazing that you can keep going on about this!
sorry my friend given the condition of the original question (which is actually a puzzle), "the conv 255 darkblue: here's my two cents...
essentially, the plane could take off 817
i think the actual op was a highly complex question, and the poster knew how difficulty the instantaneous issue would add.
signed, steve austin (astronaut, amba) 720 david l: i feel your pain.
e =  mc^2 little manipulation gives us m=e/c^2
from tha 731 david l: no, the aircraft's speed.
you have a perception problem user profile send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
so, in other words, if you're sticking to your guns about the conditions, the situat 217 nav20: i agree, bond007, that in real life the engines would move the aeroplane, the conveyor wouldn't be able to cope, and the wheels would skid until the 218 nav20: very little to do with the subject, slamclick, but i also recall him telling us about his squadron being sent to malta in 1941.
you still think  the wheels are pushing the airplane.
it was not  asked, but i'll volunteer it.
m: i guess it will continue till its concluded that the aircraft will lift off,will not lift off & not sure differences exist.
605 jetlagged: right, but you also said the belt would move (backwards) at the same speed as the relative speed between it and the wheels.
yes, if there's somebody to hear it rather than see it 888 dabuzzard: dang, thought i had read them all.....musta missed mind you, i don't think it even makes it to rotation.
just one question, how is a plane supposed to land, if the runway is just one big conveyor belt?
so if you place a wheel spinning at 150 knots on it, it will 77fokker lover: i'm amazed that a website for aviation enthusiasts has so many people that don't understand how an airplane works, yet they will argue to their last b 78 slamclick: the tires are not trying to turn.
n 593 david l: neither do i, it's not my option!
with due respect to flexo, three of us criticised his statement, but all missed one significant word which makes it true.
t 149 ralgha: [edited  2005-11-30 02:33:17] 150 david l:
790 kay: dmmoore, i think this "complex, super intelligent, magic" conveyor belt is not what is commonly refered to in the conveyor belt problem that we are t 791 hangarrat:
it looked like they had a cub or  something set up to try 860 pwm2txlhopper: i see this thread and wish  it would just die!
newagebird: remarkable the same  blokes arguing about this for months, clearly im not in the loop.
the fra 774 david l: the method of propulsion makes a huge  difference.
but i'm going on the 'terms of reference' as stated in the thread-starter:- so more thrust equals more 'speed' - 204 a346dude: it seems like just as everyone has agreed that the aircraft will take off, someone new enters and says it won't.
what, not peter max? 587 iwok: ambit: noun; "the scope, extents or bounds of something" it  seems $5 words are required in this thread.
put a tonka truck on a treadmill and turn it on.
the test was fine because it doesn't matter how  instantaneously the belt matches the 901 hawk21m: any link to the  clip?
the wheel is trying to turn because that is the only way it knows for moving forward.
and read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 10):
my  physics calculations show that it does take off......... 68
after years on here, it's by far the most stupid and  ridiculous thread i've ever seen.
when it comes to high thrust 617 hawk21m: you are forgetting  about relative airflow over the control surfaces.
(the plane will take off) 650 david l: aaargh...
if no thrust is applied to  compensate for the movement of the belt, the a/c would naturally move with the  bel 29 alessandro: nicked from ad.com... 30 nighthawk: i  agree entirely, the spinning of the wheels is irrelevent, it does not excert  any physical force on the aircraft, they mearly spin.
hmmm... been a while since my last physics class.
i think that this paradox was thought up by someone who accidentally misunderstood the pr 236 david l: ...
no problem - this is a hypothetical scenario.
then i imagined it  'gaining' on the conveyor, and theref 202
the belt would not work as a break as it's just a substitue for the rwy.
the 748 ralgha: yep, i said basically the same thing about 600 posts ago, but that's ok it bears repeating again!
i watched it yesterday...the pilot of that plane  shouldn't be a pi 944
well, i'm glad there was at least one decent reason for me to re-open this t 586 starlionblue:
so have the rope run throug 120 david l:  i've joined this too late, too.
so; what is consensus here?
wh 573 starlionblue: they try that kind of stuff on a regular basis.
i'm thinking the black  hole forms the instan 889 airfoilsguy: there is an interesting  aspect, what if we take wheels out of the equation and replace them with skis  on an iced conveyor?
i don't have any other ideas!
949 vikkyvik: you bastard.
e = mc^2 little manipulation gives us m=e/c^2
i'm done here, its too confusing,  and too many variables 45 saintsman: something for you to ponder  upon.
the treadmill in the question is 'designe 88 falcon84: has anet sunk to this?
yeah, i suppose any aircraft with a thrust-to-weight ratio greater than 1.0 would be able to accomplish the full circle.
of course 732 wpiaeroguy: davidl, i think  we're saying the same things just putting different names on them.
in a 'non-rea 566 david l: assuming option 1 or option 2, this part bothers me: the  speed of rotation of the wheels does not depend solely on the speed of the  aircraft, it depe 567 anitix87: after more discussion with my  colleagues, many of which disagree with one opinion or the other, i'm starting  to see why my opinion is wrong, and why 568 starlionblue:
in that case every real scenario should have the plane taking off.
before starting, i think it is very important to describe the frame of reference here, and the words i am going to use, to avoid any confusion: a) whe 198 ariis: unless airplane slides, the wheels must turn.
which option are you addressing?
so have the rope run throug 120 david l: i've joined this too late, too.
since we all 786 dmmoore: the  original problem stated: "the conveyer belt is designed to exactly match  the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the opposite directi 787 david l: that would be option 2.
if you're a runne 107 matt72033: i suggest you read the  posts!
if the belt were  spinning infinitely fast, it wouldn't match the speed o 137 david l:
it was not asked, but i'll volunteer it.
there's going to be plenty of airflow over the control surfaces once the plane starts skidding on the bloody stump 619 david l:
i think it's worth a reminder that proponents of option  1 argue that, in "real lif 851 bok269: bad phrasing on my  part...what i meant to say was that unless you have extremely strong headwinds,  or a converyor belt that can move air as well, you 852  kcrwflyer: this thread is still alive?
the only way the aircraft does not fly is if there is a "magic force" to hold it stationary, 825 sovietjet: this is the key, an instantaneous reaction to a change in velocity of the tires would mean that the tires and conveyor would be playing "catch up" un 826 iwok: i still say there is a third option.
sorry but this is not slam's day to cut any  slack.
okay, i've read the entire thread (there are some hours of my  life i'll never get back) and after much thought, i can picture each of the two  question 577 david l: correct - that would be option 3.
when i first read the original post i was convinced it  would not move.
the statement is a lie.
i think my brain is about to explode from this topic.
fine, its a giant supermarket checkout belt, but how do you make it *exactly* match the wheels' speed?
surely a nuclear aircraft carrier has the power to install a treadmill that accelerates from zero to whatever in the 119 ralgha: no, they don't.
but a thrust to weight ratio of "just over"1 would only allow it to crawl up to the vertical.
no one said the engines aren't running.
but the engines are acting on the air, which is stationary, so the engines by newtons theory will still produce forward thrust, moving the aircraft forward relative to the air.
jamie even said h 905 flexo: that is very true and i believe also the reason why this thread got so many posts as people mix up theory and real world.
first silent plane takes off!
we know that vtire = vaircraft -  vconveyor ass 821 jamincan: umm, if by violating the properties of  math you mean making a stupid math error.
the plane would not fly.
so i'm watching from the control tower and for every one foot my airplane moves forward, the runway magically moves backward one foot ....wh 168 jean leloup: and this has no effect on the motion of the plane; it simply means that the wheels will be spinning twice as fast.
873 david l: one of the main reasons, i  said.
alright, i've been lurking the thread for too long without adding to it.
its just not  possible.
could it the black hole be countered by the black hole from the conveyor belt running in the opposite direction and hence opposite e 800 fly2hmo: 800 posts... 800!!!!
i assumed people would u 147 david l: no, slamclick, it was my dumb!
the plane will not take off.
249 vsivaries: slam you are normally right on most things esp.
you can all discuss whether the belt can match the speed of the wheels, etc.
this possibility doesn't require magic force to stop the plane from acce 820 jamincan: strictly speaking that's not correct, the tire-conveyor  interface is a lot more complicated than that.
educated people who persist in believing that the wheels are somehow driving  the airplane.
that is the "exactly  match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the o
i guess it's j 112 slamclick: ah, but it it does work then we could just reverse the direction of the treadmill and all the airliners would get a free takeoff to start them on the 113 mir: if you mean that the treadmill would be running in the same direction as the airplane, then the airplane would take off after the 6000' of travel wit 114 a346dude: true enough, but the wheels would of course have to be locked!
posted mon oct 23 2006 07:32:52 by  united777atgu 20 years til
in option 1, the limiting factor would be the wheels rotating much faster than they were designed to do, not the mi 871 boeingonfinal: no, that is not why the thread is so long.
- airliners.net rules > - search forum - forum help - aviation news - top stories
what you're basically saying is that you would in fact 772 boeingonfinal: quoting russianjet (reply 771):
having read what you actually said, it's clear that my initi 148 slamclick: the wheels don't drive the airplane.
again, i would have to disagree.
if it were true, then both the wheels and conveyer speeds would approach infinity, howe 784 chksix:
the question is tricky, so people interpret it 813
894 a346dude: in this case, the instant the conveyor belt starts moving, the snakes will devour the thousands of pigeons inside the plane, which (as we all know) m 895 miller22: now that it took the mythbusters to teach us basic aerodynamics, can we please let this one die?
anyways, in a perfect world physically, when the  conveyor belt moved, the wheels would turn (freewheel) and the pl 28
do we really  want 584 airfoilsguy: i dub this the new super thread!!!!
right, i overlooked the "might be" part... 163 bond007: yes, the conveyor moving in the opposite direction at the  same speed is doing that - that's the whole purpose of this conveyor!
but if your loking for a real answer, it's still yes.
yes that's what  we have been saying since long ago.
it's the new, improved option 1 mark ii.
hangarrat: just about  four hours to go here on the east coast until the big moment.
238 fly2hmo: i would happily volunteer to fly my remote  controlled airplane off a conveyor if somebody is willing to build a conveyor  for it.
yes, there was a time when i was interested to know if the plane would finall 674 newagebird : longest thread ever!
although it would be kind of hard to realistically pull off a conveyo 575 bond007 : there is a simple way, and it's called basic physics ... which says the plane will move.
proponents of option 3 are, of course, entitled to believe that but then option 3 doesn't need any scientific backing.
that's where  the crosswind limit comes in.
and you could do the same with the belt but  in the opposite direction for the new, improve 741 keta: can't  believe it, we're gonna make it over 1000!
here i go again:: no-one has stepped up and  responded to why everyone reads the original question as a conveyor that will  accelerate to infinity inste 785 iwok:
jetlagged, well in that case, do you take into account wheel axle resistance?
to  all the people who argue that the question as worded at the beginning o 252 david l: no, i know the one you mean but this was a  different one.
see it the other way ´round: your build a really big ventilator and place it in front of the a/c. you apply the brakes of the a/c and then turn on your very big ventilator producing a stable wind at 200 knots.
687 slamclick: without explaining what force is holding the plane  back.
that was quite a good demo.
like i  said, it wasn't obvious to me anyway.
moving the plane 144 fokker lover: stick with computers.
we still need to add: fric 883 shyflyer: if a plane took off a conveyor belt...in the forest...and no one was around to see it...does it have to comply with the noise abatement procedure?
i know what the answer is.
in order 27 joness0154: you didn't read the original post.
i think the mythbuster episode proves that a plane can indeed take off on a conveyor belt.
if the belt moves without any thrust to  the aircraft, then the plane will remain statio 564 david l: is this  option 1, option 2 or the magical option 3 you're talking about?
m: im surprised that this  ebate is carrying on still.
i'm having great  difficulty reconciling this... (in other words, there's nothing stopping the  aircraft from gaining airspeed) with 721 stealthz: if rotation of the  wheels in the direction of travel is a requirement for take off?
see, everyone changes their mind people, whether the wheels spin or not, the plane will still move forward, because nothing is hindering it.
thanks fo 780 hangarrat: i can't believe i'm posting in this thread, but here goes...
873 david l: one of the main reasons, i said.
but i doubt that  the mythbusters have the sort of budget that would require.
how can a plane takeoff if its not moving forward...?
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting nighthawk (reply 5): the wheels will spin at an infinite speed, but this will not push the aircraft back the conveyor belt in the question is not designed to push the aircraft back, just match the rotation speed of the wheels.
it just shifts the vents of the pegasus engine and it flies away safely...regardless of conveyor belt.
well, they already did the "pigeons flying in a truck" myth.
index this topic is archived and can not be replied to any more.
aircraft generate lift from airspeed, not groundspeed.
the airplane will move  forward.
you could stick a million jet engines behind the aircraft, but it must be moving forward to generate lift and if the conveyor belt cancels out that forward motion then the aircraft isnt going anywhere.
either the w 151 slamclick: exactly!
i have to confess it did take a while for my brain to get into gear on  this one.
if the belt moves without any thrust to the aircraft, then the plane will remain statio 564 david l: is this option 1, option 2 or the magical option 3 you're talking about?
and read 32767 times: hey guys there is a huge debate over at another forum concerning this question...
which of the many scenarios discussed are you referring to - one of the "magical" ones or one of the realistic 811 fly2hmo: i have firefox but some of my school's websites don't really like it
the tests, animations and "science content" were very good.
even if it did, there'd  be 918 starlionblue:
that pretty much sums up this thread.
for completeness, there 754 david l: ah... oops.
i 55 slamclick: because the only way the moving surface could affect the speed of the mass of the airplane is if the wheels were driving the plane.
the wheels and landing gear have one purpose, and one purpose only.
if we assumes brakes are off and the wheels are on the conveyor belt, the conveyor belt will impart little moti 857 david l: we're talking about all of these, and more... 858iwok:
utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1  day 11 hours ago)
it allows a tab in ff to actually be embedded ie.
the convayor belt isnt  moving the air!
the point is, even though the conveyo 205
if the conveyor belt exactly cancelled  out the motion of the wheels, then as others on this thread have said, there  would be no air movement over the wings and thus no lift produced.
i watched it yesterday...the pilot of that plane shouldn't be a pi 944
at first i thought of it your way richard, but after thinking about it for a while and the physics side of things it will be possible for the aircraft to build speed.
if no thrust is applied to compensate for the movement of the belt, the a/c would naturally move with the bel 29 alessandro: nicked from ad.com... 30 nighthawk: i agree entirely, the spinning of the wheels is irrelevent, it does not excert any physical force on the aircraft, they mearly spin.
thus it stays stationary.
the wheels on an aircraft are just freewheeling at takeoff, with forward thrust provided by the engines but the traction and forward motion is still a component of the wheel/ground interaction.
like that  other piece of logic, the six million dollar man keeping a helicopter from  taking off by hanging onto the skid - while standing fla 705  wpiaeroguy: the weakest point would be the contact between him and the ground.
that would be nice, except that producing... ... which meets  the op's requirements in matching instantaneously, not even allow 783  ralgha: iwok, you do not understand why the ops premise is impossible.
it's about how fast the air moves over the wings.
do not confuse the cause and the result.
kay: hmm, i will throw in the following: since the  belt is rotating at the same speed as the wheels, then, sorry, but yes, there  is a force stopping the ai 42 nighthawk: in order to move forward the  tires would need to skid forward along the conveyor belt, losing friction.
proof: they put your 662 david l: i  think you're on to something there.
or was thinking about a conveyor belt which moves at an equal and opposite speed to that of the aircraft, like all the same discussions elsewhere 237 david l: little did i realise at the time how much the question resembles that routine.
i didn't think it all the way through before p 97 md-90: there is a fundamental difference between airspeed and  groundspeed...
132 slamclick: well bring them on!
it's akin to the problem of "if a tree  falls in the forest, and no o 233 leanofpeak: davidl, you are exactly  correct.
there's going to be plenty of  airflow over the control surfaces once the plane starts skidding on the bloody  stump 619 david l:
there are three engineers in the world who have common sense.
having read what you actually said,  it's clear that my initi 148 slamclick: the wheels don't drive the  airplane.
the thrust of the engines  will push the aircraft forward, and the conveyor belt will rotate the wheels in  the opposite direction.
thus forward motion can be  generated and thus also lift.
the thing is, if the conveyor exactly matched the speed of the wheels, the wheels would not turn, period.
they were flown off f 219 bond007: the  only thing in this scenario that would stop the jet engine from moving the  plane forward would be friction between the wheels and the conveyor.
utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day  14 hours ago)
if you held the brakes on ice, and firewalled the  throttle, you would still move forward, even though your wheels are not.
your comment proves my fault: i have not expressed myself clearly  enough.
yes i've seen this topic on many places online.
regds mel 622 david l: excellent.
well there is another argument.
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts, rr: reply 12, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:59:00
the 56 kay: the way i see it is that the concept  of having a conveyor belt designed to spin exactly the same speed as the  wheels, is like having a hand come out o 57 amy: even if the aircraft  was moving forwards at rotation speed, if the conveyor belt was moving  backwards i think the gear asssembly would reach maximum r 58  jbirdav8r: the sheer fact that this thread has gone on as long as it has is,  quite frankly, pretty disturbing.
posted thu jul 26 2007 13:38:00 by britmiddc9 if a plane is involved in an accident...
for those that believe that it will regds mel 832 starlionblue : notice how the pilot in the mythbusters clip doesn't know what he's talking  about... 833 motopolitico: d'oh.
and the conveyor is a backward motion,  however, it only makes the wheels spin.
once it got past  the vertical, the thrust would no long 620 keta: doing some  calculations, i ended up wit the different situations the aircraft would face,  quite interesting ones.
however,  that ignored the fact that early on it would quite possibly find itself having  gone 1/3 of the w 616 darkblue:
all it would cause, in my narrow mind, 203 nav20: not by any means sure myself, sudden.
767 david l: sorry, russianjet, but there are a  few hundred posts above explaining why that is not the case with an airliner.
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts, rr: 47 reply 5,  posted  tue nov 29 2005 09:15:22
if you are doing engine runs on an aircraft, with the brakes on you can  go to full power.
strap a rocket  to your back and get on a treadmill and tell me what ha 64 a346dude:  kay, i think you've run into a circular argument here.
thrust acts in relation to the air, not anything on  the ground.
in this case the  plane would take off.
if the wheels are inducing the motion.
759 mandala499: iwok, the relevance of the treadmill and the hovercraft is only on the "resistance" offered by the wheel and the river in the case of the hovercraft.
even my puny little a-320  has fifty-four thousand pounds of thrust.
adam's demonstration 923 david l: i haven't seen it yet but perhaps it's just something  he's never thought about before and he had to rush to a conclusion?
you are not grasping the fact that airplanes do not depend at all on the ground for propulsion or flight.
that is to keep the 122 ariis: it is sliding against the belt  (although hovering).
no, they will not spin at higher rpm, read the assumption.
nighthawk from uk -  scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts,rr: 47 reply 20, posted  tue nov  29 2005 10:47:33 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read  32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 17):
just because the wheels are turning doesnt mean the aircraft is moving with them!
just think of this that you have a tail wind that always matches the speed of the aircraft.
i was actually a physics major  for 3 years.
it would be possible, but it would take a longer distance than a regular runway due to lack of friction.
try and ski down a slope in a vacuum...
slamclick: there is another possible "real" scenario that might shed some light on the rest.
posted thu may 27 2004 18:38:38 byezyairbus how does a plane take off?
76 a346dude: no, no,  no!
i 723hawk21m: where is the relative wind generated from in this case.
this is a great thread; reminds me of  that one about airplane filled with pigeons, the one someon 116 ariis : that is known as 'catapult', by the way.
how many times does that have to be said?
btw the myth 574 sovietjet: i can't believe this is still going, and that mythbusters havent tried this yet.
that means the center of each  axle is going 50 mph.
its a very confusing problem to envision, but i had to  change sides too welcome to the darkside...
i  think anyone with the slightest interest in aviation should come to terms with  the reality that if a converyor belt that 789 stealthz: no one else  has, and you have not, explained how or why the conveyor cancels the aircrafts  movement!
this is 836 stratosphere: when are the mods going to lock down this thread?
after rotat 797 kay: you have a point.
740 david l: that would do it.
703 slamclick: truth is, i was thinking about what steven hawking  said in the acknowledgements of "a brief history of time" that  someone told him that each equation 704 slamclick:
speaking as a proponent of the "classic" belt scenario, i agree but...
yes, but  i have to assume we're talking about the same aircraft as we were in options 1,  2 and 3 (assuming it actually had wheels)
posted thu jul 26 2007 13:38:00 by britmiddc9 if a  plane is involved in an accident...
one of the two original scenarios, the "hampster  wheel" scenario or the cross-runway conveyor belt scenario?
hmmm... been a while since my last  physics class.
my opinion has changed.. 210 nav20: look at it  another way, guys.
and you don't think the 773 russianjet:
slamclick: that would only be true if the plane was driven through the wheels  like a car.
its  philospophical only if you assume that its a magic belt keeping the wheels  stationary.
i will say that  the post of yours i replied to didn't talk about wheel constraints the way your  later defens 939 iwok: i do agree with you for sure.
thats all you need to work out.
initially i was convinced that it  wouldn't take off but slamclick changed my mind (check rply 56, cable &  winch analogy) & i agree with bond007, the k 183 bond007:
in option 1, the limiting factor would be the wheels rotating much  faster than they were designed to do, not the mi 871 boeingonfinal:  no, that is not why the thread is so long.
this will cancel out all forward  motion, totally and utterly.
but, it would if the belt were slick.
infinity means infinity.
i'm having great difficulty reconciling this... (in other words, there's nothing stopping the aircraft from gaining airspeed) with 721 stealthz: if rotation of the wheels in the direction of travel is a requirement for take off?
and read 32767 times: no, the plane will not takeoff.
76 a346dude: no, no, no!
then i imagined it 'gaining' on the conveyor, and theref 202
ba from united states of america, joined may 2000, 11095 posts,rr: 69 reply 1,posted  tue nov 29 2005 07:39:49
however, given the question asked, until  tracti 221 chksix: so if the tarmac refuses to budge, the aircraft  can never start to taxi....
thanks for clearing that up.
planes make lift by air moving over the wings.
in this case, theres no air movement because the air is technically acting as a tail wind in exactly the same proportion as the forward motion of the aircraft.
jetblueguy22: mythbuster busted it so that good enough for me!
aircraft engines move air, so it doesn't matter how fast you spin 843 starlionblue: you're just trying to explain the laws of physics.
the plane would still accelerate, even though the wheels are not moving.
move one step toward the real 699 david l: ok, i'm going to have to think about that.
another would be to avoid having conveyor  belt runways that move sideways at the same rate as the aircraft's moving  forward 642 starlionblue: for those who can't see the picture, it's  an aircraft carrier.
the wheels would simply spin faster and the plane would still take 913
a plane is not a car.
(my dog understands, by the way, that the plane would take of 215 david l: agreed!
but i thought the conclusion was that it couldn't move,  by defi 887 keta:
the belt can try all it wants to stop the wheels from making forward progress, but it can' 128 slamclick: let's put to rest a side issue that is not part of the question.
if you are doing engine runs on an aircraft, with the brakes on you can go to full power.
for those that believe that it will regds mel 832 starlionblue : notice how the pilot in the mythbusters clip doesn't know what he's talking about... 833 motopolitico: d'oh.
904gregarious119: i gotta admit, i was pretty impressed with the conditions  they made for the test - doesn't get much more straight forward then that.
paul 35 a346dude: after considering the problem further, i am going to have to amend my answer.
but i believe the original mystery was if the belt matches the speed of the plane and not the speed of the wheels.
airplanepics from united  kingdom, joined jun 2003, 2724 posts,rr: 51 reply 7, posted  tue nov 29  2005 09:28:50 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767
855 kcrwflyer: are you talking about the conveyor  belt actually moving the direction the plane is moving?
the  wheels are spinning infinitely fast too.
m: i'm referring to relative wind over the wings to generate lift regds mel 727 david l: i've been thinking again about the grouping of the different scenarios.
but consider 779 russianjet: that does not necessarily imply any element of 'catching up' with the wheels - it says match.
hence even if the wheels are locked, the plane will 827 starlionblue: there is an easy fix: the ie tab add-on.
688 slamclick: actually every solution permitted infinity to be used, as if it was a real option.
mir: i think this is one of the reasons why people are having trouble visualizing this (the other being the difference between the wheels moving the plane 144 fokker lover: stick with computers.
there are a few situations in which the wheels could be moving slower than the aircraft.
there'd be no way out of that hole for me.
thrust acts in relation to the air, not  anything on the ground.
which of the  many scenarios discussed are you referring to - one of the "magical"  ones or one of the realistic 811 fly2hmo: i have firefox but some of  my school's websites don't really like it
anyone else who got an email from a none a.net member by name tom laprise?
but are you pro-classic or pro-magic?
177 bond007: i guess the clear explanation that i haven't seen (or  probably missed), is that a jet engine, or a piston prop even, acts on the air  around it, which 178 ppvra:
as i  understand it, 135 slamclick: i think i don't understand which side  of this you are arguing.
noteably, the surface of the belt is slick due to rain/snow.
the aircraft will take off.
in a 'realistic' setting ... i.e. real physics and no 'magic' ... the plan will fly, and it will gain airspeed.
794 kay: i think the  problem posted by the op does not present alot of relevance physically.
if the airplane takes off (as y 123 david l: apparently  not...
this 158 ralgha: which is why slamclick and i  have both stated the correct phrasing of the question.
the wheels are free spinning, that's the whole  idea of a wheel, it allows the object to which the wheels are attached (which  includes t 165 ppvra: wait a second - the wheels will be spinning  fast, really fast.
if you're a runne 107 matt72033: i suggest you read the posts!
that's a new "what's the point  of that?" scenario.
125 david l: sure did!
that'll teach you user profile send
the conveyor is never slower!
i am 206 keta: that's where you  fail to understand.
you could stick a million jet engines behind the  aircraft, but it must be moving forward to generate lift and if the conveyor  belt cancels out that forward motion then the aircraft isnt going anywhere.
it is this: explain this.
the other solution is zero of course.
it's slow loading for me, but no performance issues.
it seems to me that it's assumed that the helicopt 934 sjc4me: i say we all gang up on sovietjet and beat the crap out of him for  bringing this up.
160 bond007: that's it right there.
i think a person's take on this issue might tell us something about them: if you get it right the first time you might be a sailor.
it is not necessary (or desirable) to lock the wheels.
924 starlionblue: you are so kind.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: it's not about how fast you can make the wheels spin.
by the airframe propelled by it's engines, moving forward in the still air.
people still jump on here believing that  they could possibly offer an opinion or "facts" that have not already  been considered, disputed, 676 jetlagged: oh, well, that settles it  then.....
so what if you filled the tires with water and then tried to take off from a conveyor belt?
think of how a tail wind affects an aircraft on takeoff - it reduces the lift produced by the wing and can prove to be costly as now you need to either go faster to lift off, or climb slower.
there is 37 nighthawk: actually, i am going to alter my oppinion slightly: ive posted this to another forum (http://www.gamedev.net/community/forums/topic.asp?topic_id=36097 38 flyingbabydoc:
all of you claiming it will work are overlooking one fairly major point: the thread starter said that the conveyor belt moved backwards to match the forward speed of the wheels at all times.
it's been more  than 2 days since the last post, soooooo, let's change the question....
as slamclick has already indicated (i'm sure many more times than he would have liked to!), wheel rotation is not required to get for 225 leanofpeak: however, getting forward motion without wheel rotation requires that the traction of the tires be broken (now we're getting somewhere).
when it comes to high thrust 617 hawk21m: you are forgetting about relative airflow over the control surfaces.
904gregarious119: i gotta admit, i was pretty impressed with the conditions they made for the test - doesn't get much more straight forward then that.
106 cosmiccruiser: i couldn't bring myself to read all these posts so  forgive me if i'm repeating something already said.
twin... - antonov an-225 mriya - atr atr-42 - airbus a319 - airbus a321 - airbus a300b2/b4 - airbus a310 - new entries > - boeing 787-8
the engines add an additional thrust component to  the equation, which is not affected by the conveyor.
sudden: this theory works totally the other way around for me.
if the helicopter is sitting on the turntable the anti-torque rotor can't  scrape th 916 mqtmxguy: phffft, i'm using a uh-60, duh 917  david l: and most of those concern the classic problem involving a conveyor  belt that tries to oppose the aircraft's speed.
i don't have any other  ideas!
it doesn't matter a damn if there is an airplane or a  skateboard attached to those wheels.
regds mel 590 david l: given that option 3 is not a real world scenario, i think it's fair to say the aircraft cannot move simply because of the wording of the problem.
seriously though, before people respond with their opinion they really need to read and understand da 818 boston92: if an egg weighs 2oz plus a half an egg, what does an egg and a half weigh?
qfa380 from australia, joined jul 2005, 1795 posts, rr: 2 reply 22, posted tue nov 29 2005 11:09:57 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read 32767 times:
wheels (dragged by the aircraft) move at 150 kts in one direction, the belt moves at 150 kts in the opposite direction - ground 124 a346dude: you just had to get that out, didn't you.
911 sjc4me: have you googled this topic?
everyone who knows how to draw a free-body diagram dies a little everytime 898
if, by whatever magic laws we're assuming his feet are not permitted to leave the 706 david l: sounds like a "magic" version of option 2 with extra conditions: however, i should repeat that options 1 and 2 weren't meant to have any magic coupli 707 slamclick: only by increasing the diameter of the axle to equal that of the wheel.
on a treadmill the place where your foot lands on  the belt is constantl 109 ariis: no, they will not spin at higher  rpm, read the assumption.
as i understand it, 135 slamclick: i think i don't understand which side of this you are arguing.
"i am just going outside and may be some time..."
680 david l: which one?
utc   (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago)
it is no such thing unless you want to apply real numbers to it and that is not necessary to find the answer.
until take off, the forward motion is a component of the wheel/ground  interaction and since you are removing this component then the aircraft cannot  go forward.
then, by your  account, an aircraft would never fly.
it's position is remaining fixed the entire time.
i'm sure it won't have  a difference.
i say it's not taking off.
747 fredt: the only thing the conveyor belt can  do is to impart a force on the tyre contact patch, in this context in the  negative x direction (rearwards).
running is an activity where the wheels (your feet) propel the vehicle.
stratosphere: when are the mods going to lock down this thread?
the relative motion problem says that  wheels turning at x mph on a tre 194 keta: uh you still arguing...
thinking on it more, you could take off with the "magic force" treadmill that keeps the groundspeed of the aircraft at 0.
if  i'm on a train that's crawling along at 5km/hr (relative to the ground) and i  walk backwards at 5 km/hr (relative to the train), i 604 starlionblue : 602 posts later...
i 55 slamclick: because the only way the moving surface could  affect the speed of the mass of the airplane is if the wheels were driving the  plane.
but yes that may be so. .
the spinning wheels are not the cause, they are the result of 199 david l:
that'll teach you user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 15, posted  tue nov 29 2005 10:26:40 utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1  day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 14): to the laws of physics  gentlemen, the aircraft will be moving forward at take off speed, but since an  opposite force is being exerted on the aircraft, it isnt actually going  anywhere.
even the no-fly g 677 david l:  it sure is.
if you tag the luggage to go to the airport it's already at and put it into the hold, the aircraft would have t 663midex216:
no  airflow over 766 stealthz:
doing so would flat-spot the tires before blowing them out and 234 david l:
into your own argument.
how does  a plane 'take off?'
the wheels would wobble all over the place.
do you have a diff 841
688 slamclick: actually every solution permitted infinity to be  used, as if it was a real option.
585 vikkyvik: i think that needs to be nominated for the tech/ops "quote  of the week"?
what the op is suggesting c 906 jetlagged: the belt can go faster than the tyres and the aircraft will still take off (subject to the usual caveats about tyres overheating, etc).
the 56 kay: the way i see it is that the concept of having a conveyor belt designed to spin exactly the same speed as the wheels, is like having a hand come out o 57 amy: even if the aircraft was moving forwards at rotation speed, if the conveyor belt was moving backwards i think the gear asssembly would reach maximum r 58 jbirdav8r: the sheer fact that this thread has gone on as long as it has is, quite frankly, pretty disturbing.
besides, no other thread deserves to be tainted with the 948 starlionblue: ok.
jetblueguy22: mythbuster busted it so that  good enough for me!
i didn't think the plane would be carried sideways by the belt, in which case, there would be a crosswind.
you just added new data!
i assumed that the airplane starts 621 hawk21m :
bybeg2iah what if a plane loses electrical power?
until  everyone grasps the simple truth that the airplane will take off unless  something stops the motion of the center of the axl 133 david l:  well, assuming you could find one that behaves, i think the shopping trolley  analogy is a good one.
i think its abssurd that i am even  responding to this but its like saying if a rocket was lau 579  starlionblue: he can't lock it now.
all rights reserved 25
umm i **think** you misunderstood the question.
real crosswind limits are much lower than that  150 kts i took "theoretically" to mean "you can ig 633  oly720man: not true since the action of the belt would only be on the tyres,  there'd be no wind loading on the fuselage.
it doesn't 196 saintsman: as others have mentioned, it is an impossible situation.
763 mandala499: in that case  the aircraft will move forward and reach the required airspeed and take off  (just don't forget to apply the brakes before retracting the 764 iwok :
newagebird: remarkable the same blokes arguing about this for months, clearly im not in the loop.
or a sailboat can't sail if the water don't push  it?
or a sailboat can't sail if the water don't push it?
an  aeroplane (as opposed to 190 buckfifty: the belt matching the speed  of the wheels...hmmm.
i think its a clear and reasonable solution to this problem.
jetlagged: 600 up, doesn't time fly![edited 2007-06-05 19:19:32] 601 iwok:
no one has put forward a half plausible argument why the plane will not move forward relative to a point on the ground or in the stil 589 hawk21
so i'm stuck with ie
just to cover myself, this is to assume that there is minim 845 gospelle: the conveyor does not move the air.
you, the plane and the belt will be accelerating at the aircraft t/o power a 213 bond007: that is what i was originally thinking....
it's hard for somebody who just arrived to read 600+ posts, so 742 ralgha: wait...isn't it a given that we can?
also, i posted this in another thread but thought it might be  useful here if anyone wants to debate it 903 david l: isn't that the  basis for option 3, the one that requires magic forces... and stuff?
if the belt was on, and t 690 stealthz: you have not explained why the plane is not moving, have you forgotten the only role the wheels play on an aircraft is to stop the gear struts scrapi 691 david l: that deals with one interpretation of one of the options.
its philospophical only if you assume that its a magic belt keeping the wheels stationary.
the turning of the wheels will not excert any force on  the aircraft, so it will continue to move forward.
the turning of the wheels will not excert any force on the aircraft, so it will continue to move forward.
the point is,  even though the conveyo 205
nighthawk from uk -  scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts,rr: 47 reply 24, posted  tue nov  29 2005 11:28:30 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read  32767 times: quoting sudden (reply 24): that would not be enough to get up  to rotation speed.
you need forward movement (which the belt does not really provide.)
767 david l: sorry, russianjet, but there are a few hundred posts above explaining why that is not the case with an airliner.
in the op's question though he said implying that its the wheel spe 733 david l: yes, hence the reason option 1 came about for those who wanted to talk about the "classic" scenario in terms of physics, rather than having a philoso 734 slamclick: there are a couple of mental challenges associated with that question alone.
because it is so close to a very common and intuitive problem (pu 795 david l :
it wont take off, aircraft produces thrust
the test was fine because it doesn't matter how instantaneously the belt matches the 901 hawk21m: any link to the clip?
and by aircrafts speed do you mean wheel speed?
right, which would never happen sufficiently in this case,  because as the op states, the conveyer would move at the same speed as the  wheels.
we already  made it to 70 posts arguing the first question!
[edited 2005-11-29 07:51:02] "generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less than you need." - khalil gibran user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ diamond from united states of america, joined apr 2004, 3279 posts, rr: 75 reply 4,posted tue nov 29 2005 08:54:41
i don't know how to explain this any  better than i have.
the problem is all in the way the original question was formulated (yes, i have read all of the posts down to here...i'm bored at work).
http://videos.streetfire.net/player....e964d9-38db-4efd-be8d-d6ba1a43a06b 94 joness0154: and an avweb article  http://www.avweb.com/news/columns/191034-1.html 95 petertenthije:  already on their site  http://community.discovery.com/group...ms/a/tpc/f/9701967776/m/7451937218 maybe  someone can send them the "flying birds in 747" 96 jbirdav8r : upon closer examination, doing a little calculus, and actually playing with a  treadmill, you're right.
an aircraft doesnt just leap into the air and its off.
we assumed  still air so airspeed would equal the aircraft's speed relative to the ground  (not the conveyor belt).
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts,rr: 47 reply 20, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:47:33 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times:
your comment proves my fault: i have not expressed myself clearly enough.
a former work colleague of  mine managed to burn his back quite badly in an alcohol-related t-shirt  incident.
the conveyer belt is designed to exactly match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the opposite direction of rotation.
but i also  think there are others who do interpret the wording of the problem as dic 597 darkblue: your comments go both ways....
the wheels do need to turn in order to takeoff - and bef 161 ralgha:  true, however there is nothing preventing the wheels from making forward  movement, which is the flaw in your understanding.
the wheel rotation 51 nighthawk: the key here being that it was on ice..the wheels were sliding over the surface.
the wheels are not connected to the motor as in a car.
therefore, unless the aircraft is moving forward relative to the earth, you won't tak 847 stealthz: wrong, the aircraft does not have to be moving relative to the earth it only has to be moving relative to the air.
the plane is stand still, again, except for the wheels.
the one thing that we're all agreed on is that we aren't all  agreed on anything.
yeah, classic black hole or magic black hole?
so there will not be any air  flowing over the wing thus no lift is produced.
and yes, you are correct that its a question of can 627 david l: while i didn't say so explicitly, i believe that's what i implied...
you are the one  arguing that there is some motion the conveyor belt would have that could  affect the movement of the airplane.
i'm sure it won't have a difference.
people tend to fall asleep about  halfway through my first sentence!
increasing the relative airflow past the aircrat would.
given a long tunnel of minimum area the jet engines are plenty capible of generating a hell of a huge m 665 david l: that would option 3 above.
after reading the replies in this thread, i would think that in  an ideal case (zero friction), the 99 a346dude: couldn't you at least  entertain the possibility that we do?
a train is traveling at 100 km/hr in one dire 596 david l:
that is the "exactly match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the o 129 slamclick: that would only be true if the plane was driven through the wheels like a car.
regds mel 618  vatveng: did you stop reading at this line?
even with the most powerful jet engines out there rig 660 zak : come on, you cant be serious.
how can a plane takeoff if its not  moving forward...?
that'll teach you user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 6, posted  tue nov 29 2005 09:26:22 utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1  day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: hmmm interesting.
although it  would be kind of hard to realistically pull off a conveyo 575 bond007 : there is a simple way, and it's called basic physics ... which says the plane  will move.
because  it is so close to a very common and intuitive problem (pu 795 david l :
and i have said that many times.
i looked but could not find anything about an airplane, just a  video with excuses about why they didn't air conveyor belt episode.
in order to take off friction between the tire and belt must be brok 52 slamclick: nonsense.
speaking as a proponent of the "classic" belt scenario, i agree  but...
anybody want to place wagers on when  this thread hits 1000 posts?
in order for the plane to reach takeoff speed it needs to over come the friction of the air and the tires and inertia.
that would be option 3.
quoting joness0154 (reply 12): again,  i would have to disagree.
surely that coin can only repre 778 boeingonfinal: that is true, and i'll try to explain:
sovietjet: i too am a convert, i originally thought it won't take off and then i realized it will(this was before mythbusters) but with the tires spinning at inf 910 kelpkid: congratulations on your 10 minutes of fame on tv (even if they didn't mention you at all-were it not for you, none of this ever would have happened)
darkblue : actually it might be quite humurous to see them try to build the imaginary  option 3 machine.
lol you lot  crease me up.
if the conveyor is set to prevent the wheels 146 ralgha: i'm quite aware of that.
if the conveyor were just a fraction of a se 90 kay: i browsed their whole website, couldn't figure out how to just submit an idea, their forum isn't a formal channel, and there's only an application to 91slamclick:
666 jetlagged: dangerous ground.
ah, i think i know what the problem was.
157 keta: lol at first when i saw the question i thought "what a silly question, how can there be 100+ posts?"
743 slamclick: i've come to believe that one reason we've come this far with people still disputing the obviously correct answer is a little matter than man has str 744 hawk21m: true its debatable & would need an entirely different thread regds mel 745 wpiaeroguy: who still doesn't agree it won't take off?
or get directv, like me!
which is what i'v been saying all along!
i 'lost it' at the point where people said that 'relative wind' would be generated.
the axle of the whee 735 wpiaeroguy: slamclick, you're incorporating velocity vectors and using the ground/runway as your frame of reference.
hangarrat: just about four hours to go here on the east coast until the big moment.
an aircraft at takeoff is never going faster than the  rotation speed of the wheels.
the engines could be generating 100% thrust but if theres no forward motion because its cancelled out by the moving ground then the aircraft will never get into the air.
user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _
this is tricky because you'd get all sorts of relativistic effects trying to get to infinite speeds.
just pulling your le 222 sudden: i give it a rest here.
but i don't think either interpretation  would stop the aircraft taking off.
thust doesnt produce some magical component  that makes aircraft fly, it needs to produce forward motion.
let me give you an example: three guys check into a 176 ralgha: no, this is discounting air friction.
i suppose... kind of...
if you're referring to 746 ralgha: there are a few...otherwise this wouldn't be post 745.
the very slick treadmill which could  allow a certain amo 750 david l: yes, that's what was agreed.
let's think about it this way.
if the force exterted backward on the aircraft is the same as the force exterted forward by the engines, then theres going to be no lift.
i think just abou 187 sovietjet: how can the wheels spin faster than the belt though....if they are both equal the plane will never move no matter how much thrust(assuming no slippage 188
636 oly720man:  misinterpretation from me then.
would the plane take off?
in my first post i said "equivilant"  since the actual rpm will depend on the diameter of the wheel.
i'm surprised that this thread is still going after all this time!
the relative motion problem says that wheels turning at x mph on a tre 194 keta: uh you still arguing... that's the problem.
he stated  that pihero had the correct answer.
so  i watched the mythbusters episode: - the result was no surprise.
but a thrust to weight ratio of "just  over"1 would only allow it to crawl up to the vertical.
my favorites are the personal flying machine (plans on ebay) and all the 100mpg devices.
it is a fantasy for those who want to be able to find a way t 595 darkblue: uhhh, why not?
and the take off speed will still be quite 668 david l: i didn't really want to go there but, since you mention it...
the belt could 693 slamclick:  disagree with you on this one point: i was thinking along this line too then i  realized something.
181 ralgha: the friction is constant, the force imparted by that friction is dependent on the speed of the object.
sovietjet: the skateboard analogy doesn't work....
like that other piece of logic, the six million dollar man keeping a helicopter from taking off by hanging onto the skid - while standing fla 705 wpiaeroguy: the weakest point would be the contact between him and the ground.
670 aauzou: the plane  will indeed lift into the air, that is if the indicated air speed is equal to  that which it would usually have at vr, however the engines mu 671  silvercomet:
i think that's true in some cases
airplanes do not move fast enough when on the ground for this effect to occur (if indeed we are thi 174 ppvra:
or was thinking about a conveyor belt which moves at an equal and opposite  speed to that of the aircraft, like all the same discussions elsewhere 237 david l: little did i realise at the time how much the question resembles  that routine.
i'm  surprised that this thread is still going after all this time!
haha maybe one day they will invent a rotating airport where 2 or more runways turn on a turntable to face the wind..
yes,no & confused regds mel 816 ifemaster:  there is an incredibly easy way to test this.
what if you have a bad day?
perhaps they record what the instantaneous velocity is supposed to be,  and then try to spool up the belt but overshoot the speed a little so that the 859 kbfispotter: i just saw a preview for next weeks episode of  mythbusters, and they are tackling this!!!!!!
the plane will take off, however the  landing roll will be slightly longe 36 joness0154:
threads are rarely locked up as new discussions can go on being added.
let's continue on the crazy subject...
if the belt moves  in the 32 kay: folks, if it was a free rotating conveyor belt, then  yes, we could argue that eventhough it would make it difficult for the plane to  move forward, and 33 a346dude: the answer to the question is, of  course, absolutely not.
the a/c will not move an inch, and also not rotate as  there is no airflow over the wings.
the wheels are  therefore turning at the appropriate revolutions for that speed.
(in other words by retarding and stopping rotation)
if the  tail rotor is working, the 940 starlionblue: i have "heard"  of this thing called bittorrent.
the wheels are not physically connected to the engine, so the speed they move at is irrelevent to the speed of the actual aircraft itself.
quoting richardprice (reply 10): an aircraft at takeoff is never going faster than the rotation speed of the wheels.
let me take another look at what i said.
sudden: am not totally with you on that one.
traditional answers from the "it will move" group: 1- a plane is not a car.
you have a perception problem user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion
heck this thread is even slowing down my computer, and my computer ain't no slouch either 801 kpwmspotter: hehe...not that i'm trying to re-open debate, but apparently the mythbusters will attempt to settle this once and for all in a little more than a week 802 starlionblue: i'm sorry.
proponents of option  3 are, of course, entitled to believe that but then option 3 doesn't need any  scientific backing.
thust doesnt produce some magical component that makes aircraft fly, it needs to produce forward motion.
regds mel 926 dabuzzard: just because the sidewall says 160 mph max speed does not mean it won't spin any faster, it's not like there are brakes inside the tire that apply wh 927 david l: well, i'm reminded of the mess i made in an earlier thread about birds flying inside an aircraft - not the one from a couple of years ago but one sho 928 tdscanuck:
737 david l: that's why most of the 700+ posts exist.
people have been giving examples to prove their points but none of  the examples are comparabl 197 virginflyer:
"aircraft do not 768 russianjet: i know  that, but the aircraft is still dependent on the air flow to get lift, doesn't  matter what causes the wheels to move or how fast they're going 769  russianjet: it's a forward motion, regardless of whether it's caused by engine  thrust or wheel drive (which in aircraft, believe it or not, i understand it is  no 770 wpiaeroguy:
i just spoke with a colleague of mine.
sovietjet: i'd like to know how mythbusters will be able  to instantaneously match the wheel speed with the belt....
798 david l: we gave him plenty of opportunities but he wouldn't change his mind.
to address the subject of the belt moving at the exact same speed  as the wheels, this is much like the idea of an un-movable object meeting and  unstop 664 xt6wagon: very serious.
it allows a tab in ff to  actually be embedded ie.
that means there will be less friction that the engines have  to overcome, no?
it's  the new, improved option 1 mark ii.
760 jetlagged: no more unlikely than the magic  conveyor, surely?
if the airplane takes off (as y 123 david l: apparently not...
i am 206 keta: that's where you fail to understand.
the more that i think about it, the more i think it could happen.
anyways, i see  you're at purdue....as am i. 62 kay: not this engineer.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago) and read 32767 times: oops, i think i misunderstood your question sovietjet... i thought you were stating if the conveyor built is run at a high enough speed to propel the aircraft up to lift speed, but i just noticed you meant running the conveyor belt in theopposite direction, while the aircraft moves forward at that same exact speed.
i guess its about time, don't think this situation has been mentioned yet, if 711 david l: ah, i see what you mean.
because the wind is calm, we are assuming, the thrust from the engines will work against it, therefore propelling the plane forward in relation to the air.
the  aircraft is moved forward by the engines, not the wheels as in the case of a  car.
it doesnt matter how fast the wheels spin, the aircraft will still move forward as the engines push against the air and generate thrust.
from the op: 698slamclick: in other words - magic.
however the thrust is  provided, the actual motion is set against whatever the aircraft is sitting on  at the time.
cheers 725 david l: i'm becoming deeply  suspicious that some people are picturing an un-powered aircraft remaining  stationary on a running conveyor belt, hence the notion 726 hawk21
posted sat apr 24  2004 13:12:14
i assume it took  off?
i  guess its about time, don't think this situation has been mentioned yet, if 711 david l: ah, i see what you mean.
seriously  though, before people respond with their opinion they really need to read and  understand da 818 boston92: if an egg weighs 2oz plus a half an egg,  what does an egg and a half weigh?
837  starlionblue: afaik, they don't really consider that until there has been at  least one suggestion for deletion.
they 84 fokker lover: here's a simple experiment that everyone can do.
thanks fo 780 hangarrat: i can't believe i'm posting in this thread,  but here goes...
the plane will generate lift the old fashioned way, as the engines pul 192 matt72033: lol you are quite correct, but, my logic was, we're talking  about a 10,000 foot or whatever conveyor belt here, if we've got one of those,  im sure we 193 leanofpeak: uhhh, folks...
the plane would take off but you would not be able to guess  where it was going to end up.
while i don't want to wade knee-deep into the debate, i'm reminded of the old saying "you know you've landed gear-up when it takes full power to taxi 171 md-90: holy cow.
569 david l: as long as you only suggest option 1 and/or option 2.
but a jet engine, or propellor, produces forward movement relative to the air around it, not relative to th 214 slamclick: i have to take my dog to the vet or i would address some of the last twenty or so posts.
educated people who persist in believing that the wheels are somehow driving the airplane.
etc. 696 nema: just done a quick calculation.
if you are on a treadmill on roller skates, your  roller-skate wheels have a speed with respect to the tre 231 david l:  i "get your drift" but i'm still not convinced that this is the same  as having the brakes locked.
the wheel speed and conveyor speed can totally be neglected.
diamond from united states of america, joined apr 2004, 3279 posts, rr: 75 reply 4,posted  tue nov 29 2005 08:54:41
you are, in fact, correct, but that doesn't seem to be enough on this thread or on mythbusters.
yes (i did allude to this interpretation earlier).
a  plane is not a car.
jl 169 ralgha: no, from  your vantage point in the tower, the takeoff would look completely normal.
636 oly720man: misinterpretation from me then.
its really hard to explain it.
speed does not equal forc 162 ralgha:
incidentally, while slamclick's contributions were immens 655zak: hilarious thread, shows the amount of hot air between the ears present, sadly.
it was said many, many times that the  wheels were not 'driving' the aircraft, but not too clear why it w 184 navymidn: a historic moment: i swallow my pride and admit that the aircraft  will take off.
and it contributes as much as any other post to our understanding of this issue.
"generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less than you  need." - khalil gibran user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 2, posted  tue nov 29 2005 07:42:07
better 950 kelpkid: if  the friction were high enough, the water within would eventually turn to steam,  and then if it found the slightest weak point, you could have a st 951 vc-10:
wheels have a  limited speed range and after exceeding it they will explode eventually.
the  airplane is moving forward just as normal, only the wheels are 170  turnit56n:
it can't "ex 562 anitix87: i cannot believe we're this far into the thread and it's still going.
i 856 starlionblue: the conveyor belt was never "useful".
and relative wind over the  wing.
i think there is a differ 72 slamclick: okay, related question: a train is going fifty miles per hour.
normal helicopters don't fly either...they just beat the  air into submissio 929 mqtmxguy: of course, they taught us that way  back in amt101, how amature of me (stupid!stupid!stupid!)
anything else means breaking these fundamental rules.
and relative wind over the wing.
just wanted to know what you guys thought about it.
regds mel 730 slamclick: please, please read a few of the other posts.
2- replace floor with belt moving at 150  backwards, then wheels will run at 300 and plane will take off at 15 74 md-90: everyone needs to listen to slamclick, because he's got it right.
all of you  claiming it will work are overlooking one fairly major point: the  thread starter said that the conveyor belt moved backwards to match the forward  speed of the wheels at all times.
would the plane  take off?
so the magnitude of belt 606 darkblue:    yep,  agreed.
strap a rocket to your back and get on a treadmill and tell me what ha 64 a346dude: kay, i think you've run into a circular argument here.
are we talking theoretical - the tires are completely filled with water, balanced, and won't burst?
anyone  else who got an email from a none a.net member by name tom laprise?
if you are stationary on a conveyor belt, there is absolutely no wind moving over the wings, and hence no lift.
if  you put a car on a treadmill, and s 40 chrisba777er:
regds mel 590 david l: given  that option 3 is not a real world scenario, i think it's fair to say the  aircraft cannot move simply because of the wording of the problem.
just to cover myself, this is to assume that there is  minim 845 gospelle: the conveyor does not move the air.
you c 828 jetlagged: no need to test that.
instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 11, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:55:20
let me ask you for a one-word answer.
there is no force counteracting the thrust of the aircraft, therefore, the  thrust would propel the aircraft forward.
the aircraft is moved forward by the engines, not the wheels as in the case of a car.
and read 32767 times: quoting nighthawk (reply 5): the wheels will spin at an  infinite speed, but this will not push the aircraft back the conveyor belt in the question is not designed to push the aircraft back,  just match the rotation speed of the wheels.
if i clamp a toy car in a vise w 53 a346dude: whoa - now that would be something to see!
okay it is time for me to settle this.
looking forward to having a go at the conveyor-belt-gripping-the-axles idea, 121 fokker lover: listen, slamclick and i are both telling you the same thing.
okay, i've read the entire thread (there are some hours of my life i'll never get back) and after much thought, i can picture each of the two question 577 david l: correct - that would be option 3.
given a long tunnel of minimum area the jet engines are plenty capible of  generating a hell of a huge m 665 david l: that would option 3 above.
a346dude, you have a huge mistake in your analysis: the belt spins at a speed equal to the *wheels* not equal to the aircraft as y 63 slamclick: hello!
hey all, something that i feel hasn't been brought up is this: we are all here talking about the wheels being free-standing.
wh 573 starlionblue: they try that kind of stuff on a  regular basis.
- about airliners.net - airliners.net photographers - membership support > - upgrade your membership - membership faq - contact us - first class email - daily industry newsletter - member fun > - airliners.net photo widget - electronic aviation postcards - see a random photo - aviation photo quiz - aviation polls - airliners.net wap - airliners.net on your home page - find a member - buy gift certificates - login | sign up - color: blue white purple classic: classic 265 users checked-in sign up now for photo tracker!
you have made the leap from the  conveyor belt moving at a speed that is exactly equal and opposite to the speed  of the wheels, to the a 60 navymidn:
238 fly2hmo: i would happily volunteer to fly my remote controlled airplane off a conveyor if somebody is willing to build a conveyor for it.
initially i was convinced that it wouldn't take off but slamclick changed my mind (check rply 56, cable & winch analogy) & i agree with bond007, the k 183 bond007:
so yes, i change my mind.
color: blue white purple     classic: classic sign up now for photo  tracker!
the trolley would do a triple sulko, shoot off to the 127 ralgha: you're both trying to explain something that won't happen.
as the rotat 880 tdscanuck: i think that  was covered by outcome 3: tom.
670 aauzou: the plane will indeed lift into the air, that is if the indicated air speed is equal to that which it would usually have at vr, however the engines mu 671 silvercomet:
i immediately thought of a runner on a treadmill which lead to my post and later realised the true 209 darrenthe747: so far i think slamclick has hit the nail on the head.
my starred topics | profile | new topic | forum index | help | search
"everything" discussed in this thread doesn't all relate to one big scenario.
so the magnitude of belt 606 darkblue: yep, agreed.
read the 650 or so p 672 bae146qt: why don't you just tell him to take some ketamine and curl up in the corner?
if, by whatever magic laws we're assuming his feet are not permitted to leave  the 706 david l: sounds like a "magic" version of option 2  with extra conditions: however, i should repeat that options 1 and 2 weren't  meant to have any magic coupli 707 slamclick: only by increasing the  diameter of the axle to equal that of the wheel.
well, if i have one person who agrees, there is hope left for this  world haha, very nice.
i couldn't remember the details but apparently it's from episode 41, "i, mudd": "the landin 253 keta:
having read all the  good points by all participants (includi 110 jean leloup:  unfortunately, airplanes are not runners.
like i said, it wasn't obvious to me anyway.
the airflow going through the wings  won't be straight, it will come at 632 david l: exactly.
i was simply clarifying  that some people were pursuing that option and it was getting interwoven and  confused with 594 jetlagged: more than that, it is not even necessary  to fully comply with the conditions of the op.
q 776 keta: that video is pretty amazing!
the belt is only trying to catch up to the speed of the wheels (which 140 david l: i was saying that this, which shows how it would take off, is a good analogy: then i was attempting to show how this, which attempts to show that it 141 david l: i'm sorry, i just don't see where infinite speed comes into it .
poster about 200+ posts back started on the right track to an explanation...
yes that won't  work.
this is a huge thread!
(my dog understands, by the way, that the plane would take of 215  david l: agreed!
i think you covered most of them.
or perhaps they get broken up.
looking forward to having a go at the conveyor-belt-gripping-the-axles idea, 121 fokker lover: listen, slamclick and i are both telling you the  same thing.
hawk21m from india, joined jan 2001, 29867 posts, rr: 62 reply 10, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:52:39
the plane will take off, however the landing roll will be slightly longe 36 joness0154:
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago)
imagine a gargantuan convey belt 98 mir: would you like a vs. b?
i 856 starlionblue: the  conveyor belt was never "useful".
but consider 779  russianjet: that does not necessarily imply any element of 'catching up' with  the wheels - it says match.
recall  jamie saying how if the wheels on that model car wer 942 starlionblue :
are we talking theoretical - the tires are completely  filled with water, balanced, and won't burst?
last 48 hours > - show of spirit inspires a new frontier airlines - southwest effect helps upstate airport - aer lingus apology over language tests for passenger - aircraft machinists fear for future of aveos - crystal cathedral congregation in calif relocating - the week in lego: big airports and even bigger surger... - dubai airport could become 3rd biggest in world this ... - all aviation industry news - airliners.net news - aviation industry newsletter - aviation articles - latest articles > - beauty and awesome power: the storm - a murderous hijacker in baltimore - are airlines on the right track?
user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ qfa380 from australia, joined jul 2005, 1795 posts, rr: 2 reply 22, posted   tue nov 29 2005 11:09:57 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and  read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 13): aircraft are just big road  vehicles until they move quick enough to generate lift.
nothing at all like being  on a running machine!
if you held the brakes on  ice, and firewalled the throttle, you would still move forward, even though  your wheels are not.
i think a person's take on this issue might tell us something about  them: if you get it right the first time you might be a sailor.
701 wpiaeroguy: before i throw this out there i just want to  say that i agree with everything that slamclick has been saying about infinite  speeds, and if i had an ac 702 david l: given the history  of this thread, there will now follow a further 50-odd posts disputing that.
of course it will fly, slamclick > tecops 656 david l: in which scenario?
815 hawk21m: just three types of opinions
i can't prove the answer either.
81  fokker lover: but we are talking about free turning wheels, and that is why  your argument is totally and completely wrong.
if you put it down on a conveyor belt, with all its wei 563 anitix87: oops.
i assume it took off?
-mir 615 david l: i think i covered that in my first attempt.
etc. 696 nema: just done a quick  calculation.
that, although you could obviously get the engines to generate an airflo 669 jetlagged: i'm not disagreeing, i just thought it was tempting fate to say so though.
i  browsed their whole website, couldn't figure out how to just submit an idea,  their forum isn't a formal channel, and there's only an application to 91slamclick:
anyways, this problem is obviously pretty difficult to visualize.
the tires will only turn as a byproduct of the motion of the plane above the surface on which it r 79 kay: i don't know why but i had to laugh when i read your reaction
assuming we are on earth, and friction is a factor, the wheels will never make forward movement.
a plane does not have gears, the plane has wheels that are free-rolling.
you are, in fact, correct,  but that doesn't seem to be enough on this thread or on mythbusters.
i can't see any correlation between the speed of the wheels and getting airborne....
to say the conveyor belt matches th 781 iwok: unless the treadmill is somewhat slick of course.
the thrust of the engine will s 93 joness0154: the video that solves it all!!!
if you mean the wheels as 200 sudden: am really surprised that this thread is still alive and  kicking!
user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _ richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts, rr: reply 13, posted  tue nov  29 2005 10:05:23 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read  32767 times: quoting joness0154
(i  hope you got the point ?!).
it cannot  change the acce 92 fokker lover: ok, the conveyor will match the  speed of the wheels.
quoting richardprice (reply 10): an  aircraft at takeoff is never going faster than the rotation speed of the wheels.
it has been designed to rotate backwards at exactly the speed of the wheel!
it's been more than 2 days since the last post, soooooo, let's change the question....
and read 32767 times: yes the aircraft would take off, the conveyor belt will cause the  wheels to spin in the opposite direction of movement, but eventually the thrust  from the engines will counter the push of the conveyor belt.
okay, now that i am back from class, i will be able to say more on this subject.
no airflow over 766 stealthz:
i think the mythbuster  episode proves that a plane can indeed take off on a conveyor belt.
well, in this case, due to the curvature of the hamster wheel, the aircraft  will transfer a slightly larger (but still quite small) tangential 612 vatveng:
besides, no other thread deserves to be tainted with the 948  starlionblue: ok.
it is not a quantity, it can not be compared as a quantity.
my comments were relevant to the cross-runway conveyor belt (p 651 superstring:
momentum would keep the plane heading at the 45 degrees to  the direction its facing for a while.
951 replies: all unread, showing first 25: user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
(i'll admit, i'm no physics expert, so it's a genuine  question).
235 md-90: obviously, this is  a calculus problem, and there is a limit.
but i thought the conclusion was that it couldn't move, by defi 887 keta:
i  understand both sides of the story.
125 david l: sure  did!
249 vsivaries:  slam you are normally right on most things esp.
this is exactly, what, i believe, navymidn is trying to tell you.
those of us unfortunate enough to have our minds set in the "real world" were clinging to the hope that the question had been in 245 vsivaries:
check that 834 835 starlionblue: there have been a few in civ-av no? 9/11 and some of the other crash ones i believe.
666 jetlagged:  dangerous ground.
if you tag the luggage to go to the airport  it's already at and put it into the hold, the aircraft would have t 663midex216:
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago)
i'm thinking the black hole forms the instan 889 airfoilsguy: there is an interesting aspect, what if we take wheels out of the equation and replace them with skis on an iced conveyor?
the fact that wheels aren't being turned by the engine is irrelevant.
so, just because the engin 46 chrisba777er: ...
momentum would keep the plane heading at the 45 degrees to the direction its facing for a while.
hence the plane cannot mov 602 jetlagged: because if you want to match the speeds they must have the same frame of reference, otherwise the whole thing is meaningless.
a jet engine moves alot of air.
its a similar situation if you  can visualize it.
aircraft are just big road vehicles until they move quick  enough to generate lift.
however, one forge 71 kay: the reason is, guys, that a conveyor like  this is something that doesn't exist, and cannot be pictured in our heads,  really!
see it the other way  ´round: your build a really big ventilator and place it in front of  the a/c. you apply the brakes of the a/c and then turn on your very big  ventilator producing a stable wind at 200 knots.
890 david l: simpsons already did it that was covered way back in the thread somewhere.
people who instinctively  jumped into the "fly group" at some point realize that the there is a  problem with the wordin 598 darkblue:
and yet you still feel the primal need to post here not to open up a  can-o-worms, but you might want to check out the theories that have been develop 867 pwm2txlhopper: i was posting here because i saw the commercial  and didn't realize somebody else had posted the same info moments before.
there are  several different sc 738
so this beast of a thread  is dangerously close to braking 700 replies, yet the correct answer was given  in reply 2.
it does not affect the motion of the  fuselage and wings at all.
regds mel 724 stealthz:
imagine a plane is sat on the beginning of a massive conveyor belt/travelator type arrangement, as wide and as long as a runway, and intends to take off.
the friction between the wheels and conveyor belt is not even an issue since the tires are free to rotate.
and yet no decision reached.
however, we separated the conveyor belt into two types: one that "magically" matches the aircraft's speed instantaneousl 751 iwok:
the plane will generate lift the old fashioned way, as the engines pul 192 matt72033: lol you are quite correct, but, my logic was, we're talking about a 10,000 foot or whatever conveyor belt here, if we've got one of those, im sure we 193 leanofpeak: uhhh, folks...
damn, don't believe i got dragged into this again 809 mir: yes, but returning us to the original problem.....in a parallel universe.
theroretically, there is still a forward motion (from the 630 david l: then it wouldn't make a difference only theorectically.
recall jamie saying how if the wheels on that model car wer 942 starlionblue :
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 16, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:31:12 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: wheres the lift coming from in order for the aircraft to take off?
here i go again:: no-one has stepped up and responded to why everyone reads the original question as a conveyor that will accelerate to infinity inste 785 iwok:
it  appears to me 588 stealthz:
if the aircraft starts to  move at 5 kts, the belt will start to move at 5 kts in the 142 david l :
however, how do planes st 173 ralgha: true, and also not influenced at all by the belt.
yes, but (originating post) -
i think anyone with the slightest interest in aviation should come to terms with the reality that if a converyor belt that 789 stealthz: no one else has, and you have not, explained how or why the conveyor cancels the aircrafts movement!
i didn't think they allowed 865 posts?
i first of all thought that the aeroplane would stand still.
i've moved airplanes with the wheels not  turning at all - on ice.
well it's  allowed to move, just in infinitesimal amounts.
and there would be no debate about that question.
when i first read that post i assumed 248 slamclick: besides, i'm not going to waste my five thousandth post on this  thread.
note "transition", not "suddenly change".
just think of this that you have a tail wind that  always matches the speed of the aircraft.
then that problem will be solve 639 starlionblue: they already did that.
simply use some tons of glue and put the aircraft into the glue on the conveyor belt, 654 david l: for one option of one of the three different scenarios, yes, but what about the later ones?
gonna bust thru 700 and then some if you consider reply 2 as the correct answer.
a346dude, you  have a huge mistake in your analysis: the belt spins at a speed equal to the  *wheels* not equal to the aircraft as y 63 slamclick: hello!
heh my personal record on this thread is like 250 posts or so in a day.
815 hawk21m: just three  types of opinions
russianjet: i know that, but the aircraft is still dependent on the air flow to get lift, doesn't matter what causes the wheels to move or how fast they're going 769 russianjet: it's a forward motion, regardless of whether it's caused by engine thrust or wheel drive (which in aircraft, believe it or not, i understand it is no 770 wpiaeroguy:
here are the four laws again: 870 david l: maybe for you option 3  merchants.
this time it's a long-lost uncle of mine who was an 'erk' (aircraftsman) during th 186 jean leloup: nav20; you seem not to have read the thread, as the examples you bring up (biking and treadmill) have been brought up and dismissed.
the reason for that is that the forward motion is not supplied by the wheels (like a car/train), but by the jet engines.
an aeroplane (as opposed to 190 buckfifty: the belt matching the speed of the wheels...hmmm.
richardprice from , joined  dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 9, posted  tue nov 29 2005 09:44:33
the wheels don't start to turn  until the 82 kay:
a former work colleague of mine managed to burn his back quite badly in an alcohol-related t-shirt incident.
can the aircraft move down the runway?
it would  require a rwy that is veeeeery long.
to scare you all, i saw the previews for next weeks mythbusters,  apparently they read the forums...
utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours  ago)
643 nz107: boy would i love to see an a380 being  catapulted off it!
what we are talking about here is a perfectly negative frictional surface, a surface that provides exactly the opposite friction to the wheels and thus an opposite force to the forward thrust of the engines.
each is a constant, which the dynamic being less (much less often) than static.
in order for them to prove this wrong the expe 842 midex216:
it's about how  fast the air moves over the wings.
and that should be the end of the discussion.
the problem doesn't specify whether the belt matches the wheel's speed in rpm, tangential speed 189 nav20: i have read the thread, jean leloup.
for other interpretations and scenarios, see replies 3 to 600+ i was referring to these opt 692 slamclick: we agree on this.
true, the plane is not a car.
i was just assuming the very edge of the tire 736 airframeas: i feel the same way, too.
the correct half of the reasoning that leads to the impression that this is an unresolvable vicious ci 240 david l: you've ruined star trek.
i suppose 673 replies are hard to wade through, but i'm amazed there are still posts like this.
111 a346dude: and furthermore, it has no practical applications since even in the best case scenario it lengthens the take-off roll by a little bit.
nothing at all like being on a running machine!
do we really want 584 airfoilsguy: i dub this the new super thread!!!!
and you could do the same with the belt but in the opposite direction for the new, improve 741 keta: can't believe it, we're gonna make it over 1000!
there  are a few situations in which the wheels could be moving slower than the  aircraft.
i see this thread as rather like the "police squad" or "airplane!" movies, or even like demolition derby.
ralgha: i'm not reading this whole thread, but everyone who thinks the airplane  will not take off has the same basic misunderstanding of airplanes that plague 102 slamclick:
the wheels won't turn, the conveyor won't  turn.
okay, before i get accused of hijacking the thread let me answer: the way i phrase that question only makes it more difficult to answer.
people still jump on here believing that they could possibly offer an opinion or "facts" that have not already been considered, disputed, 676 jetlagged: oh, well, that settles it then.....
it w 808 stealthz: of course it will!!
they did it on mythbusters jan 30.
yesterday, quite windy at a local 848  mark5388916:
however, how do planes st 173  ralgha: true, and also not influenced at all by the belt.
the convayor belt isnt moving the air!
to the laws of physics  gentlemen, the aircraft will be moving forward at take off speed, but since an  opposite force is being exerted on the aircraft, it isnt actually going  anywhere.
743 slamclick: i've  come to believe that one reason we've come this far with people still disputing  the obviously correct answer is a little matter than man has str 744  hawk21m: true its debatable & would need an entirely different thread regds  mel 745 wpiaeroguy: who still doesn't agree it won't take off?
2- the wheels can rotate freely.
this is tech ops forum.
an aircraft doesnt just  leap into the air and its off.
the thing is,  if the conveyor exactly matched the speed of the wheels, the wheels would not  turn, period.
first you build two l 629 nz107 :
935 flexo: spin faster than what?
i understood the question a lot sooner than you did, mister.
if the wings are generating enough lift, the plane will lift into the air.
wheels (dragged by the aircraft) move at 150 kts in one direction,  the belt moves at 150 kts in the opposite direction - ground 124  a346dude: you just had to get that out, didn't you.
mir: i think this is one of the reasons why people are having  trouble visualizing this (the other being the difference between the wheels
it is  this: explain this.
imagine  a 3km long aircraft carrier made 644 iwok: this scenario is one of  the more realistic options (aside from the aircraft carrier ).
i don't really know how to put it into words though.
instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 15, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:26:40 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 14): to the laws of physics gentlemen, the aircraft will be moving forward at take off speed, but since an opposite force is being exerted on the aircraft, it isnt actually going anywhere.
civil aviation  travel, polls & prefs tech/ops aviation hobby aviation photography  photography feedback trip reports military av & space non-aviation site  related live chat forum
i don't contend that the belt will prevent the 792  wpiaeroguy: the same way every physics problem never takes friction into  account and occurs in a perfect vacuum, and how every shape you will ever use  is a spher 793 david l: correct.
i have never seen a post with 833 posts.
an aircraft moves by applying a force, from its engines, on the surrounding air (accelerates it rea 775 boeingonfinal:
well its tricky and tied to the magical treadmill which is  designed to rotate in the same rate but negative to the wheels.
while i am decidedly with the 'it will take off' group, you are making one  fatal mistake with this analogy.
except we've been discussing 3 scenarios (option 4  doesn't really warrant discussion).
my physics calculations show that it does take off......... 68
in other forums when postings get  to the 200 or so mark it goes to part 2 etc.
-mir 611 david l: hmm... well, in this case, due to the curvature of the hamster wheel, the aircraft will transfer a slightly larger (but still quite small) tangential 612 vatveng:
the airplane would move forward in relation to the solid ground even though it is on the conveyor belt.
as this head wind is greater  than the rotating speed of the aircraft, the wings will produce enough lift to  let the a/c take off from the ground - but only as long as it is within the  produced currents and the relative airspeed is maintained: this will require  the a/c to be kept on a leash, making this a 100 ton-kite ...
652 ralgha: good lord are you people seriously still  arguing about this?
stand just beyond one end of the walkway with a rope attached to the skateboar 216 david l: i didn't notice that it was you who asked the original question!
i'm sure there's someplace on ebay where you purchase so 571 anitix87: i just basically wrote what the opening poster wrote, i'll leave the theories up to them, so as not to bias their opinionis.
however, i guess 861 boston92:
yes, excellent summary...
but this particular thread is now such an academic curiosity  that, for the sake of science and posterity, it must be allowed to conti 875 boston92: i do hope y'all know that even after the mythbusters prove  the airplane flies, there will still be the idiots who don't get it, and say  they screwed u 876 david l: true, for option 1.
657  deltaamtrak058: lift is generated by the wings, the engine just pulls it  forward.
before starting, i think  it is very important to describe the frame of reference here, and the words i  am going to use, to avoid any confusion: a) whe 198 ariis: unless  airplane slides, the wheels must turn.
how does a plane 'take off?'
now all i need is for someone to come out with old "everyt 126 david l: misunderstanding of basic shopping trolley physics.
the aircraft would have  considerable momentum by the time the wheels rea 922 starlionblue:
as long as that air is calm, the thrust will propel the plane  forward, which will produce airflow over the wings.
i don't have  an attitude problem.
as for my 'vote'  (not that it's really up to popular decision, of course), the plane will  definitely take of 66 slamclick: it is absolutely staggering!
sovietjet: well, i actually agree that it will take off...and that it won't.
jetlagged: iwok uses the  word "treadmill" rather than "conveyor belt" which betrays  his mindset about the effect it has on the aircraft.
posted mon oct 23 2006 07:32:52 by united777atgu 20 years til
think about it, that one would wo 863 david l: and i could say the same about hundreds of other threads that seem  far more stupid to me.
are you only applying thrust if the belt doesn't move and not applying thrust if it does move?
but your  point is valid.
with this description,  the a/c will not move relative to the surrounding.
it is a fantasy for those who  want to be able to find a way t 595 darkblue: uhhh, why not?
if the aircraft starts to move at 5 kts, the belt will start to move at 5 kts in the 142 david l :
you still think the wheels are pushing the airplane.
finally we have a visual proof don't quite understand what that scary* face is, though *replace with a more suitable ad 777 russianjet:
569 david  l: as long as you only suggest option 1 and/or option 2.
if you g 152 ralgha: if you factor in bearing friction, you could eventually get to a speed that would prevent the airplane from moving forward since the rotational frict 153 ralgha: i must disagree, i've tried to explain it to many "normal" people who were never convinced.
there's a reason that most wind  tunnels are closed loops.
i guess it's j 112 slamclick: ah, but it it does work then we could just reverse the  direction of the treadmill and all the airliners would get a free takeoff to  start them on the 113 mir: if you mean that the treadmill would be  running in the same direction as the airplane, then the airplane would take off  after the 6000' of travel wit 114 a346dude: true enough, but the  wheels would of course have to be locked!
as slamclick has already indicated (i'm sure many  more times than he would have liked to!), wheel rotation is not required to get  for 225 leanofpeak: however, getting forward motion without wheel  rotation requires that the traction of the tires be broken (now we're getting  somewhere).
there are several different sc 738
no one said  the engines aren't running.
posted sun jan 20 2008  20:39:09 byjawed what is the angle of this plane @ takeoff posted thu dec  13 2007 17:18:27 bysusej772 home | photos | forums | news | articles | advertise |
that'll teach you user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _
sudden: a valid point, and also rather logical.
the friction that the tires cau 131 david l: strictly speaking, it's the friction of the wheel bearings - tyres are designed to provide as much friction as possible.
you said: 1- plane goes at 150,
846 bok269: correct.
but the engines  are acting on the air, which is stationary, so the engines by newtons theory  will still produce forward thrust, moving the aircraft forward relative to the  air.
conveyor belt + plane = plane took off.
the airplane would move forward in  relation to the solid ground even though it is on the conveyor belt.
well, they  already did the "pigeons flying in a truck" myth.
apologies user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 19, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:47:27 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: i originally saw it like you did, but i changed my mind also.
now here's the next question....
the only traction issues woul 647 david l: but notice i said "if a car's wheels skidded sideways" - i didn't say they would skid sideways.
b/r 251 ralgha:  sorry slam, i've been sleeping and working so i wasn't here to back you up.
if we assumes brakes are off and  the wheels are on the conveyor belt, the conveyor belt will impart little moti 857 david l: we're talking about all of these, and more... 858iwok:
yes (i did allude to this  interpretation earlier).
however, given the question asked, until tracti 221 chksix: so if the tarmac refuses to budge, the aircraft can never start to taxi....
but the ground the aircraft is sitting on in  this case is not stationary, its providing an exactly cancelling force pushing  the aircraft back.
yes, if there's somebody to hear it rather than see  it 888 dabuzzard: dang, thought i had read them all.....musta missed  mind you, i don't think it even makes it to rotation.
it looked like they had a cub or something set up to try 860 pwm2txlhopper: i see this thread and wish it would just die!
- three generations of physics teachers 69a346dude: that doesn't make sense.
there is no force counteracting the thrust of the aircraft, therefore, the thrust would propel the aircraft forward.
it is not able to do so.
belt speed is 907 hawk21
the engines add an additional thrust component to the equation, which is not affected by the conveyor.
since we all 786 dmmoore: the original problem stated: "the conveyer belt is designed to exactly match the speed of the wheels at any given time, moving in the opposite directi 787 david l: that would be option 2.
235 md-90: obviously, this is a calculus problem, and there is a limit.
even if the conveyor was coupled in 729 hawk21m: the conveyor belt moving will turn the wheels not generate the  relative airflow to the extend to serve bernoulli's principle.
that means there will be less friction that the engines have to overcome, no?
and read 32767 times: as long as the aircraft is moving at lift speed regardless of how it  is moving at that speed, it can take-off.
it's position is remaining  fixed the entire time.
the plane would still accelerate,  even though the wheels are not moving.
i wish i hadn't thought of it.
quoting richardprice (reply 13): aircraft are just big road vehicles until they move quick enough to generate lift.
how about the aircraft i 609 starlionblue: you answered your own question.
the question is tricky, so people interpret  it 813
if you mean the wheels as 200 sudden: am really surprised that this thread is still alive and kicking!
posted sun jan 20 2008 20:39:09 byjawed what is the angle of this plane @ takeoff posted thu dec 13 2007 17:18:27 bysusej772 home | photos | forums | news | articles | advertise |
jl 169 ralgha: no, from your vantage point in the tower, the takeoff would look completely normal.
even if the conveyor was coupled in 729 hawk21m: the conveyor belt moving will turn the wheels not generate the relative airflow to the extend to serve bernoulli's principle.
just wanted to  know what you guys thought about it.
cheers 175 slamclick:
if the speed of the conveyor belt is exactly equal and opposite to the speed of the wheels, 34 pmn:
the wheels won't turn, the conveyor won't turn.
you  are not dealing with a real world situation here.
kay 83 petertenthije :
quoting richardprice (reply 17): if the force exterted backward on the aircraft is the same as the force exterted forward by the engines, then theres going to be no lift.
the wheels don't start to turn until the 82 kay:
the reaso 782 david l: it's a  decent summary.
then yes, it  will not fly as it is not physically moving forward.
in that case, the front wheels would have a higher rotational speed than the rear wheels.
every possible argument for why the airplane will not take off has been shredded by eithe 653 superstring: well we could construct a situation where the aircraft wont fly.
try and ski down a slope  in a vacuum...
its a very confusing problem to envision, but i had to change sides too welcome to the darkside...
no.[edited 2005-1 136 david l: why should the belt accelerate any faster than the aircraft (or its wheels)?
perhaps they record what the instantaneous velocity is supposed to be, and then try to spool up the belt but overshoot the speed a little so that the 859 kbfispotter: i just saw a preview for next weeks episode of mythbusters, and they are tackling this!!!!!!
902 sjc4me: get a grip.
totally stupid and you are free to 679 airframeas: it wont fly.
sudden: this theory works totally the  other way around for me.
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts, rr: 47 reply 14, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:16:26 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting richardprice (reply 14):
i'm  pretty sure everyone agrees it will.
the argument that an external force pulling the t 134 ariis: this is all probably because of incostintency in how one  understands the initial post, in terms of the 'design' of the conveyor.
qfa380 user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text _ sudden from sweden, joined  jul 2001, 3912 posts,rr: 8 reply 23, posted  tue nov 29 2005 11:22:55  utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 10 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting sovietjet (thread starter): as long as a runway that would not be enough to get up to rotation speed.
now put on a pair of roller skates and put your foot o 230 leanofpeak: ok, let's go with the roller-skates analogy.
the plane would take off but you would not be able to guess where it was going to end up.
m:  i'm referring to relative wind over the wings to generate lift regds mel 727 david l: i've been thinking again about the grouping of the  different scenarios.
imagine a 3km long aircraft carrier made 644 iwok: this scenario is one of the more realistic options (aside from the aircraft carrier ).
if you put it down on a  conveyor belt, with all its wei 563 anitix87: oops.
so what if you filled the tires with water and then tried to  take off from a conveyor belt?
yeah, i suppose any aircraft with a  thrust-to-weight ratio greater than 1.0 would be able to accomplish the full  circle.
it cannot change the acce 92 fokker lover: ok, the conveyor will match the speed of the wheels.
posted sat apr 24 2004 13:12:14
but then again, maybe you  should pay attention to what the professionals have to say, or a 101
jamie even said h 905 flexo: that is very true and i believe also the  reason why this thread got so many posts as people mix up theory and real  world.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: if you can generate that speed on the belt & have the engines at t/o thrust at the same time regds mel think of the brighter side!
life is too short to waste your time !
if the tail rotor is working, the 940 starlionblue: i have "heard" of this thing called bittorrent.
nighthawk from uk - scotland, joined sep 2001, 4807 posts, rr: 47 reply 5, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:15:22
once it got past the vertical, the thrust would no long 620 keta: doing some calculations, i ended up wit the different situations the aircraft would face, quite interesting ones.
the tires will only turn as a byproduct of the motion of the plane  above the surface on which it r 79 kay: i don't know why but i had to  laugh when i read your reaction
to address the subject of the belt moving at the exact same speed as the wheels, this is much like the idea of an un-movable object meeting and unstop 664 xt6wagon: very serious.
hang on a minute, the w 603 darkblue:
incidentally, while slamclick's contributions were immens 655zak: hilarious thread, shows the amount of hot air between the ears present,  sadly.
every possible argument for why the airplane will not take  off has been shredded by eithe 653 superstring: well we could  construct a situation where the aircraft wont fly.
it doesn't matter a damn if there is an airplane or a skateboard attached to those wheels.
wheels have a limited speed range and after exceeding it they will explode eventually.
the more that i think about it, the more i think it  could happen.
in the real world of aviation the axles are pulled forward by the rest of the plane.
749 iwok: i still think the only plausible reasons the plane  would take off are: 1)
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago) and read  32767 times: oops, i think i misunderstood your question sovietjet... i  thought you were stating if the conveyor built is run at a high enough speed to  propel the aircraft up to lift speed, but i just noticed you meant running the  conveyor belt in theopposite direction, while the aircraft moves forward  at that same exact speed.
quoting joness0154 (reply 12): again, i would have to disagree.
this topic is hilarious now 87
lol ok.....flat conveyor belt in  aircraft terminal.....
the conveyor belt does not affect the plane's ability to do this.
2- replace floor with belt moving at 150 backwards, then wheels will run at 300 and plane will take off at 15 74 md-90: everyone needs to listen to slamclick, because he's got it right.
i think someone should start the "do engines push or pull the aircraft" thread now!!
once you turn them on, they will exert forwar 155 a346dude:
therefore, unless the aircraft is moving  forward relative to the earth, you won't tak 847 stealthz: wrong, the  aircraft does not have to be moving relative to the earth it only has to be  moving relative to the air.
i think i posted it somewhere  above, but it got largely ignored.
the  wheels would wobble all over the place.
thrust acts in relation to the air, not anything on the ground.
the truck moves with the belt and 85 nighthawk: heres a thread about this on a physics forum: http://forum.physorg.com/index.php?showtopic=2417&st=0 16 pages worth, and im guessing an answer was nev 86 joness0154: mythbusters anyone?
exactly how are you defining wheel speed, because as has been pointed out the speed of the wheel re 761 mandala499:
posted tue  aug 13 2002 07:17:24
ok, air friction - right?
yes, that's one solution.
q&a&w (question & answer & why) imagine a coin (or a wheel if you please), and place it on a conveyor belt.
yes but the brakes will be off otherwise its going backwards!
what some have misunderstood, including you it seems, is the effect of the co 869 starlionblue: ironically, then you post this: and that's not how the conveyor would work.
the airplane will move forward.
and the pitch down moment,since the wheels are not present.
if the belt was on, and t 690 stealthz: you have not explained why the plane is not moving, have you  forgotten the only role the wheels play on an aircraft is to stop the gear  struts scrapi 691 david l: that deals with one interpretation of one  of the options.
yes, when you exert a force greater than the opposite motion, of course it will move forward.
i don't have an attitude problem.
it is because those who actually is competent enough to figure out this ridiculously easy question can't f 872 starlionblue: guilty!
[edited 2005-11-29 07:51:02] "generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less  than you need." - khalil gibran user profile  send instant msg add to resp members  suggest deletion quote selected text _
thrust acts accordingly to  newtons third law of motion - every action has an equal and opposite reaction.
instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _
it doesnt matter how fast the wheels spin, the aircraft will  still move forward as the engines push against the air and generate thrust.
quote selected text _
"everything"  discussed in this thread doesn't all relate to one big scenario.
whether or not it 'orig 912 starlionblue: respect to both of you!
showing how you can drive along the conveyor with power to the wheels, or push with your hand (aircraft engine) with free 943 sovietjet: the episode is on youtube...search for mythbusters conveyor or something like that.
anyways, i see you're at purdue....as am i. 62 kay: not this engineer.
the conveyor belt  runs the opposite way to that which you are probably assuming.
sudden he didnt specify which runway...
thus causing it to  accelerate and not remain stationary?
the wheels are not physically connected to the  engine, so the speed they move at is irrelevent to the speed of the actual  aircraft itself.
first i didn't think the plane would take off.
th 145 chksix: strange thread.....
so this beast of a thread is dangerously close to braking 700 replies, yet the correct answer was given in reply 2.
884 starlionblue: for the record, i'd just like to note that the 4 laws of airplane conveyors (tm) are david l's, not mine.
well, that is why i said "might be."
if every jumped at same time posted tue sep 16 2003 09:56:52 by qantas747-438 pilots:
but your point is valid.
but isnt going anywhere, it has to be in motion to develop lift.
i think i posted it somewhere above, but it got largely ignored.
cheers 725 david l: i'm becoming deeply suspicious that some people are picturing an un-powered aircraft remaining stationary on a running conveyor belt, hence the notion 726 hawk21
user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text _
and then the thread has to really go off the  rails.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: yes the aircraft would take off, the conveyor belt will cause the wheels to spin in the opposite direction of movement, but eventually the thrust from the engines will counter the push of the conveyor belt.
687 slamclick: without explaining what force is holding the plane back.
right, but wouldn't moving forward make having a conveyor belt useless  in the first place?
however, that ignored the fact that early on it would quite possibly find itself having gone 1/3 of the w 616 darkblue:
the airflow going through the wings won't be straight, it will come at 632 david l: exactly.
imagine your foot was a wheel strut.
whether the wind is  blowing, or the engines pushing the plane forward, air is moving over the wings  to provide lift.
919 starlionblue: i found this  analogy floating around.
this is because the conv 61 joness0154:
aircraft has forward momentum.
the friction that the tires cau 131 david l: strictly speaking, it's the friction of the wheel  bearings - tyres are designed to provide as much friction as possible.
cheers 685 david l: and still some haven't noticed there were at least 6 different scenarios discussed, only one of which involved "magic".
takes off with wheels  spinning at infinity.
ba from united states of america, joined may 2000, 11095 posts,rr: 69 reply 1,posted tue nov 29 2005 07:39:49
i think i am going to have to  send an e-mail to myth busters and tell them to read 806 res: won't  take off - no question about it.
i couldn't remember the details but apparently it's from episode  41, "i, mudd": "the landin 253 keta:
they were flown off f 219 bond007: the only thing in this scenario that would stop the jet engine from moving the plane forward would be friction between the wheels and the conveyor.
the belt could 693 slamclick: disagree with you on this one point: i was thinking along this line too then i realized something.
you have a perception problem user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _
airplanes do not move  fast enough when on the ground for this effect to occur (if indeed we are thi 174 ppvra:
action = opposite equal reaction  airspeed does not necessarily =
cheers alex 39 joness0154:
as this head wind is greater than the rotating speed of the aircraft, the wings will produce enough lift to let the a/c take off from the ground - but only as long as it is within the produced currents and the relative airspeed is maintained: this will require the a/c to be kept on a leash, making this a 100 ton-kite ...
the aircraft would have considerable momentum by the time the wheels rea 922 starlionblue: so i watched the mythbusters episode: - the result was no surprise.
why has this gone on for over 800 posts??
914 mqtmxguy: of course, the helicopter will still be ugly, thus the earth will still repel it.
on a treadmill the place where your foot lands on the belt is constantl 109 ariis:
in the case of an aircraft, the reaction of the engines is that of forward motion, against whatever medium it is stationary.
i still smile 599 david l: i have nightmares about that football match!
the statement is a  lie.
simon - london-aviation.com user profile send instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 8, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:40:12 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 12 hours ago) and read 32767 times: think about a plane taking off on ice, with all the wheels locked
this will cancel out all forward motion, totally and utterly.
the aircraft woul 635 david l: forgot this one...
heh my personal  record on this thread is like 250 posts or so in a day.
how have i missed this thread all this time???
as the wheel rotates faster, it has more energy (e gets larger).
the reason for that is that the forward motion is not  supplied by the wheels (like a car/train), but by the jet engines.
t 80 a346dude: hehe, i suppose  this discussion has become a little heated.
here's 613 david l: on reflection, it's quite likely that there would  come a time when the aircraft would find itself going past the vertical with  insufficient energy to 614 mir: not if it were going fast enough.
if that motion is  retarded by the ground moving backward at the same speed as the forward motion,  then you are never going to get air movement over the wing.
the plane will not take off nor will the plane not take off.
the  plane is stand still, again, except for the wheels.
while i don't want to wade knee-deep into the debate, i'm reminded  of the old saying "you know you've landed gear-up when it takes full power  to taxi 171 md-90: holy cow.
i think there is a differ 72 slamclick: okay, related  question: a train is going fifty miles per hour.
-mir 810 david l: i guess you didn't read many of them .
we can do a vs. b. -------
the wheels are just along for the ride.
yes but mythbusters  did the "classic" scenario where the belt matches the aircraft ground  speed.
yesterday, quite windy at a local 848 mark5388916:
the engines  could be generating 100% thrust but if theres no forward motion because its  cancelled out by the moving ground then the aircraft will never get into the  air.
how is the air acting as a tailwind?
aim fo 223 bond007: so do those  who say, yes it will takeoff, agree that the wheels must be going faster than  the conveyor in order to get forward motion, and therefore 224  a346dude: absolutely not.
this is tricky because you'd get all sorts of  relativistic effects trying to get to infinite speeds.
it  takes guts to admit you were wrong.
and then the thread has to really go off the rails.
the  episode is on wednesday, and the plane takes off.
let's assume you're only going up to light speed 830 boeingonfinal: i'm gonna hate myself for bringing back this thread, but here it goes: discovery channel - mythbusters click: mythbusters -> uncut -> plane on a tread 831
this problem is not valid in many ways, and that  is probably why it has been so many speculations.
although i consider this more of the result of the relationship of speeds and not the definition.
airplane tires have a speed limit.
to all the people who argue that the question as worded at the beginning o 252 david l: no, i know the one you mean but this was a different one.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 14 hours ago) and read 32767 times: as long as the aircraft is moving at lift speed regardless of how it is moving at that speed, it can take-off.
no one has put forward a  half plausible argument why the plane will not move forward relative to a point  on the ground or in the stil 589 hawk21
no.[edited 2005-1 136 david l: why should the belt  accelerate any faster than the aircraft (or its wheels)?
but i doubt that the mythbusters have the sort of budget that would require.
on further reflection, as i was trying to get to sleep, i hadn't taken  into account th 623 xt6wagon:
thus i agree in that the engines will generate thrust, however if the  wheels are "fi 658 xt6wagon:
posted thu may 27  2004 18:38:38 byezyairbus how does a plane take off?
after years on here, it's by far the most stupid and ridiculous thread i've ever seen.
you, the plane and the belt will be accelerating at  the aircraft t/o power a 213 bond007: that is what i was originally  thinking....
if you pull on the rope to  make it go faster the conveyor will go faster in the opposite direction.
605 jetlagged: right, but you also said the belt  would move (backwards) at the same speed as the relative speed between it and  the wheels.
aircraft generate  lift from airspeed, not groundspeed.
610 mir: i was going to respond to that, but i think it might be more productive to post this: breakfast time....
there is no way to test the original problem of the b 899  boston92: i don't believe that was the original question or the mystery.
(reply 12): then, by your account, an  aircraft would never fly.
- non stop to havana: better to be lucky than smart - worth the wait - the shortest distance between two points is through e... - new technology can dramatically enhance security and ... - a forgotten tragedy in iran - article index - publish your article - aircraft data - aircraft data and history - updated entries > - de havilland canada dhc-6
i think just abou 187 sovietjet: how can  the wheels spin faster than the belt though....if they are both equal the plane  will never move no matter how much thrust(assuming no slippage 188
just for the record, i was considering the various speeds thus: ground speed = aircraft speed relative 608 darkblue: must... not... let... thread... die...
however, the bottom surface of each 73 kay: no  man.
some people watch too many cartoons 807 hawk21
any aircraft taking off on skis shows it could be done with locked wheels on ice.
what propels an aircraft is air, either compressed and heated by a turbine or simply 75 a346dude: why must you torment us slamclick??
people who instinctively jumped into the "fly group" at some point realize that the there is a problem with the wordin 598 darkblue:
no no no...this principal of flight only applies to military helicopters.
if you look back in the posts, you will find
yes,no & confused regds mel 816 ifemaster: there is an incredibly easy way to test this.
in other forums when postings get to the 200 or so mark it goes to part 2 etc.
lol you lot crease me up.
now before you all gasp at this absurd combination of statemen 256 ralgha: you do not understand infinity.
the airplane is moving forward just as normal, only the wheels are 170 turnit56n:
posted tue aug 13 2002 07:17:24
richardprice from , joined  dec 1969, posts,rr: reply 18, posted  tue nov 29 2005 10:43:58 utc  (6  years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: ok, after all my arguing against the aircraft taking off, im going to  swallow my pride and change my stance
that would be nice, except that producing... ... which meets the op's requirements in matching instantaneously, not even allow 783 ralgha: iwok, you do not understand why the ops premise is impossible.
you have made the leap from the conveyor belt moving at a speed that is exactly equal and opposite to the speed of the wheels, to the a 60 navymidn:
i have to confess it did take a while for my brain to get into gear on this one.
boat sails work on the principle of lift.
108 slamclick: perhaps you should have read some of them.
i still hold,  however, that 49 ariis: this is the key to the answer.
the aeroplane is travelling at 90 knots.
(i'll admit, i'm no physics expert, so it's a genuine question).
richardprice from , joined dec 1969, posts, rr: reply 13, posted tue nov 29 2005 10:05:23 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and read 32767 times: quoting joness0154
and read 32767 times: hey guys there is a huge debate over at another forum concerning this  question...
right, but wouldn't moving forward make having a conveyor belt useless in the first place?
that's the tricky part, and there' 805 iwok: unless its slick of  course and the wheels never actually turn....
the aircraft will continue to move forward at takeoff speed, but the  wheels may well be spinning at 1000+ mph.
610 mir: i was going to respond to that, but i think it might be more  productive to post this: breakfast time....
yes, as slamclick pointed out, but the aircraft would still accelerate  in the desired direction, which is really the point.
yes that's more or less what it  seems.
instant msg add to resp members suggest deletion quote selected text _ joness0154 from united states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts, rr: 0 reply 6, posted tue nov 29 2005 09:26:22
no air resistance, you'd  probably bur 757 iwok:
i assumed it was  my prior post that had clouded the issue.
as the wheel rotates faster, it has  more energy (e gets larger).
if it's the one i think you're addressing, i think you have 600+ posts to review - hint: the wheels don' 678
i was only using sc's analogy to disprove the theory of  the "driven conveyor"; in other words if the ground the cat is on is  muddy, th 752 ralgha: the op's intent is impossible, and  the question was restated as it was intended a few posts in (somewhere less  than 100).
if i'm on a train that's crawling along at 5km/hr (relative to the ground) and i walk backwards at 5 km/hr (relative to the train), i 604 starlionblue : 602 posts later...
belt opposes aircraft's ground-speed, not its "belt-speed"  ("classic" scenario) a2.
the aircraft will continue to move forward at takeoff speed, but the wheels may well be spinning at 1000+ mph.
ok, i don't care who sees this, who agrees, i'm sticking with this; it can not work!
the answer to the question is not "yes" neither  "no".
this can be found on tons of forums across the internet, most of them not even aviation related.
my opinion has changed.. 210 nav20: look at it another way, guys.
894 a346dude: in this case, the instant the  conveyor belt starts moving, the snakes will devour the thousands of pigeons  inside the plane, which (as we all know) m 895 miller22: now that it  took the mythbusters to teach us basic aerodynamics, can we please let this one  die?
in  reality, however... 631 keta: while there's a forward motion, the  side speed also plays a role in the flow.
whichever way the experiment goes, the losing side will be arguing even more over the experimental technique, most obviously that 804 sovietjet: exactly, remember...the belt has to instantaneously match the speed of the wheels....not the airspeed of the plane.
normal helicopters don't fly either...they just beat the air into submissio 929 mqtmxguy: of course, they taught us that way back in amt101, how amature of me (stupid!stupid!stupid!)
104 matt72033: ok....ive joined this late, but i thought i'd  throw my analogy in for the hell of it!
infinity > infinity infinity http://www.salon.com/tech/col/smith/...t215/ "for good  measure, the treadmill itself, as described, could never be built.
you can all discuss whether the belt can  match the speed of the wheels, etc.
139 ariis: i said 'the belt and the wheels'.
it would be  possible, but it would take a longer distance than a regular runway due to lack  of friction.
sorry but this is not slam's day to cut any slack.
it would be like running across a  runni 634 david l: if the runway heading is north, the aircraft will  be thrusting itself northwards and the belt will be moving, let's say,  eastwards.
i think my  brain is about to explode from this topic.
with the amount of rubber needed to construct a conveyor belt as  wide and as long as the average runway you would need 697 tdscanuck:
after many tests, i have determined that either way the belt is  turni 185 nav20: when you get to my age the oddest things stir  memories of long ago.
slamclick : "show your work."
(what you'll actually see is "people ten 143
643 nz107: boy would i love to see an a380 being catapulted off it!
regds mel 926 dabuzzard: just because the sidewall  says 160 mph max speed does not mean it won't spin any faster, it's not like  there are brakes inside the tire that apply wh 927 david l:  well, i'm reminded of the mess i made in an earlier thread about birds flying  inside an aircraft - not the one from a couple of years ago but one sho 928 tdscanuck:
some of the condition 250 vsivaries: just read post 248.
that's where the crosswind limit comes in.
it also has a theoretical answer.
however the thrust is provided, the actual motion  is set against whatever the aircraft is sitting on at the time.
the thrust of th 31nighthawk: i think the logic here is flawed?
thegeek:  on david l's possibility 3, the plane crashes due to all the tyres exploding.
it's slow  loading for me, but no performance issues.
100 fokker lover: well, if  that's how you see it, i guess it's settled then.
why is this one different?
sovietjet: damn and you guys missed the 2 year anniversary of  this thread 814 evan767: i wonder how the hell mythbusters is going  to have a conveyer belt big enough for this.
the thread starter and fans of the "magic" belt might argue that discussion of 796 airfoilsguy: ok, after 795 posts i will let you in on a secret.
if you g 152 ralgha: if you factor in bearing friction, you could  eventually get to a speed that would prevent the airplane from moving forward  since the rotational frict 153 ralgha: i must disagree, i've tried to  explain it to many "normal" people who were never convinced.
posted fri apr 22 2005 02:50:58
and the airplane wi 50 slamclick: ridiculous.
it was a theoretical problem that had some theoretical conditions.
there are a few situations in which the wheels could be  moving slower than the aircraft.
having read all the good points by all participants (includi 110 jean leloup: unfortunately, airplanes are not runners.
so you're saying that after a certain speed the friction with the surface will increase?
it really is that simple.
then  a.netters in years to come can see 582 superstring: well this topic  is one of the longest i have ever seen, however i think to discuss also very  "strange" questions is never wrong: it is illuminating be 583 david l: i think the number of responses indicates the level of interest.
finally we have a visual proof  don't quite understand what that scary* face is, though *replace with a more  suitable ad 777 russianjet:
the conveyer belt is designed to exactly match the speed  of the wheels at any given time, moving in the opposite direction of rotation.
that was my theory 4 months ago.
what the op is suggesting c 906 jetlagged: the belt can go  faster than the tyres and the aircraft will still take off (subject to the  usual caveats about tyres overheating, etc).
aircraft engines  move air, so it doesn't matter how fast you spin 843 starlionblue:  you're just trying to explain the laws of physics.
into your own  argument.
well enjoy  yourselves gday all newagebird 682 fly2hmo:
regds mel 908 a346dude: the real answer is the plane will take off regardless of belt speed.
the a/c will not move an inch, and also not rotate as there is no airflow over the wings.
well, if i have one person who agrees, there is hope left for this world haha, very nice.
it's impossible for the belt to negate the movement; when  the belt accelerates to catch the wheels' speed, the w 207 pihero: my  two cents : 1/ aircraft/wheels/belt do not form a closed system as in the  theory, the only force considered comes from the engine thrust, and we mi 208 cosmiccruiser: first let me say i should have stayed out of this.
additionally, i am an engineer by education, and i do get 154 ppvra:  the wheels would freewheel backwards - cancelling the conveyor belt - even with  the engines powered off.
and i have been following the path of option 1
until everyone grasps the simple truth that the airplane will take off unless something stops the motion of the center of the axl 133 david l: well, assuming you could find one that behaves, i think the shopping trolley analogy is a good one.
the truck moves  with the belt and 85 nighthawk: heres a thread about this on a  physics forum: http://forum.physorg.com/index.php?showtopic=2417&st=0 16  pages worth, and im guessing an answer was nev 86 joness0154:  mythbusters anyone?
if i clamp a toy car  in a vise w 53 a346dude: whoa - now that would be something to see!
this question, again, is quite farcical.
but i'm going on the 'terms of  reference' as stated in the thread-starter:- so more thrust equals more 'speed'  - 204 a346dude: it seems like just as everyone has agreed that the  aircraft will take off, someone new enters and says it won't.
914 mqtmxguy: of  course, the helicopter will still be ugly, thus the earth will still repel it.
the  conveyor belt does not affect the plane's ability to do this.
regds mel 839 starlionblue: more likely until it becomes so massive  that it causes the universe to implode on itself.
(ie a car on ice accelerating vs a car on pavement)
100 fokker lover: well, if that's how you see it, i guess it's settled then.
i'll try searching for it.
159 a346dude:  keta, a really good summary of the fundamental problem that i think is  responsible for the size of this thread.
better 950 kelpkid: if the friction were high enough, the water within would eventually turn to steam, and then if it found the slightest weak point, you could have a st 951 vc-10:
657 deltaamtrak058: lift is generated by the wings, the engine just pulls it forward.
kay: hmm, i will throw in the following: since the belt is rotating at the same speed as the wheels, then, sorry, but yes, there is a force stopping the ai 42 nighthawk: in order to move forward the tires would need to skid forward along the conveyor belt, losing friction.
mandala499 762 jetlagged: doesn't matter, in the scheme of things rolling friction is a low force compared to thrust and drag.
ah yes, sorry kay, i missed the all important smile!
no air resistance, you'd probably bur 757 iwok:
790 kay: dmmoore, i think this "complex, super  intelligent, magic" conveyor belt is not what is commonly refered to in  the conveyor belt problem that we are t 791 hangarrat:
885 airfoilsguy: have you not read every  single post in this thread?
the bottom line is that the question as stated isn't nearly as interesting to  discuss as a lot of us thought it was.
yes  but the brakes will be off otherwise its going backwards!
the wheels will spin at an infinite speed, but this will not push the aircraft back, the force of the engines will move the aircraft forward and it will eventually take off normally.
user profile send instant msg  add to resp members suggest deletion  quote selected text _ joness0154 from united  states of america, joined nov 2005, 667 posts,rr: 0 reply 17, posted   tue nov 29 2005 10:41:56 utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and  read 32767 times: i don't think you're seeing the full picture.
there is 37 nighthawk:  actually, i am going to alter my oppinion slightly: ive posted this to another  forum (http://www.gamedev.net/community/forums/topic.asp?topic_id=36097 38 flyingbabydoc:
and it contributes as much as any other post to our understanding of this  issue.
unfortunately, without the slick  conveyor belt or the wind tunnel, the plane will not take off.
if the aircraft moves forward  down the runway, the wheels rotate clockwise, ie backwards.
of course it will fly, slamclick > tecops 656 david l: in  which scenario?
so, in other words, if you're sticking to your guns about the  conditions, the situat 217 nav20: i agree, bond007, that in real life  the engines would move the aeroplane, the conveyor wouldn't be able to cope,  and the wheels would skid until the 218 nav20: very little to do with  the subject, slamclick, but i also recall him telling us about his squadron  being sent to malta in 1941.
it is no such thing unless you want to apply real numbers to  it and that is not necessary to find the answer.
any aircraft taking off on skis shows it could be done with locked wheels on  ice.
we assumed still air so airspeed would equal the aircraft's speed relative to the ground (not the conveyor belt).
i see this thread as rather like the "police  squad" or "airplane!" movies, or even like demolition derby.
after many tests, i have determined that either way the belt is turni 185 nav20: when you get to my age the oddest things stir memories of long ago.
sovietjet: i think the original question was poorly worded imho...
794 kay: i think the problem posted by the op does not present alot of relevance physically.
here's another thing.
and helicopter pilots will tell you the rotor remains stationary and the world
the aircraft will take  off.
in the real  world of aviation the axles are pulled forward by the rest of the plane.
181 ralgha: the  friction is constant, the force imparted by that friction is dependent on the  speed of the object.
it just shifts the vents of  the pegasus engine and it flies away safely...regardless of conveyor belt.
simply use some tons of glue  and put the aircraft into the glue on the conveyor belt, 654 david l:  for one option of one of the three different scenarios, yes, but what about the  later ones?
well, i suppose i did name it.
if a plane took off a conveyor belt...
"i am just  going outside and may be some time..."
the axle of the whee 735 wpiaeroguy: slamclick, you're  incorporating velocity vectors and using the ground/runway as your frame of  reference.
yes, there was a time  when i was interested to know if the plane would finall 674 newagebird : longest thread ever!
it pretty 877 boston92
well enjoy yourselves gday all newagebird 682 fly2hmo:
your count is off by one.
this time it's a long-lost uncle of mine who was an 'erk'  (aircraftsman) during th 186 jean leloup: nav20; you seem not to have  read the thread, as the examples you bring up (biking and treadmill) have been  brought up and dismissed.
if you pull on the rope to make it go faster the conveyor will go faster in the opposite direction.
if you dont like  it, dont read it.
highly unlikely, but i think the soviets tried it 765 russianjet: it's like being on a runnning machine - you're running but not going anywhere, which is also why you don't feel the wind in your face.
somebody might want clarification of a point they don't quite get.
unless the wheels slide down the belt, the aircraft  will never take o 118 slamclick:
only in tech-ops 683 zak: its not about facts and figures, its about that fetish this thread here kind of proves the proliferation of the "magic fantasy wonderland" plane feti 684stealthz:
565  bond007: no, quite the opposite.
what propels an aircraft is air, either compressed and heated by a turbine or  simply 75 a346dude: why must you torment us slamclick??
i'm pretty sure everyone agrees it will.
747 fredt: the only thing the conveyor belt can do is to impart a force on the tyre contact patch, in this context in the negative x direction (rearwards).
to the laws of physics gentlemen, the aircraft will be moving forward at take off speed, but since an opposite force is being exerted on the aircraft, it isnt actually going anywhere.
utc (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day 11 hours ago) and  read 32767 times: if you can generate that speed on the belt & have the engines at  t/o thrust at the same time regds think of the brighter side!
the conveyor belt runs the opposite way to that which you are probably assuming.
regds mel 839 starlionblue: more likely until it becomes so massive that it causes the universe to implode on itself.
note "transition", not  "suddenly change".
you can acheive the same result by anchoring the wheels dow 716 airframeas: easy...if its off.
utc  (6 years 3 months 2 weeks 1 day  12 hours ago)
the spinning wheels are not the cause, they are the result of 199  david l:
its all in what the  conveyor belt is moving in relation to, and whether you measure the conveyor  belt speed at the point of the 227 david l: assuming we're  going with the "silly" version, i see the point about the wheels  needing to rotate at half the speed i was thinking of (i.e. slipping) 228 kay: they will not spin as fast as you are saying, but only as a result of  the wheel struts wanting to move forward, they will want to spin, but the turni 229 david l: the wheel strut is not in contact with the conveyor  belt.
i think its a clear and reasonable  solution to this problem.
i'm done here, its too confusing, and too many variables 45 saintsman: something for you to ponder upon.
however, if the belt isn't allowed to move, how can we  say it's trying to 712 david l: um, actually it has been discussed
action = opposite equal reaction airspeed does not necessarily =
in order for the plane to reach takeoff speed it needs to over come the  friction of the air and the tires and inertia.
as for my 'vote' (not that it's really up to popular decision, of course), the plane will definitely take of 66 slamclick: it is absolutely staggering!
115 ariis: i absolutely agree, just in case i sound otherwise.
additionally, i am an engineer by education, and i do get 154 ppvra: the wheels would freewheel backwards - cancelling the conveyor belt - even with the engines powered off.
does that mean  the floatplanes that take our northern friends fish 722 david l: hang  on a minute.
it is because those who actually is  competent enough to figure out this ridiculously easy question can't f 872 starlionblue: guilty!
and it was decided to ignore it because the central issue was to explain that  an aircraft on a conveyor belt behav 713 wpiaeroguy:
traditional answers from the "it will move" group: 1- a plane  is not a car.
absolutely the aircraft would take off as normally.
it takes guts to admit you were wrong.
ok, seriously you have to assume that the wheelbearings are frictionless, have an infinite speed capacity, or simply admit that the plane taking off o 624 chksix: in your scenario, it will drive off the belt runway in a relative position 45 degrees from it's starting point and then keep on accelerating on the gr 625 david l: yes, that was assumed for option 1, where the wheels turn at twice the normal speed.
i will say that the post of yours i replied to didn't talk about wheel constraints the way your later defens 939 iwok: i do agree with you for sure.