the life-cycle emissions generated by cars, buses and aircraft are  dominated by tailpipe emissions pumped out in day-to-day running of their  engines.
they're almost never on time, which means that you have to waste time standing around the bus stop.
i envision a world where cars can no longer be the disproportionate whipping boy of of all that is purported wrong in the world and become an effective part of a diverse set of transportation options.
better still a humble moped.
the worst emitters may surprise you (image: r. g. williamson/rex features) advertisement 17:56 16 february 2012
is this a sustainable lifestyle?
a new study compares the "full life-cycle" emissions generated by  11 different modes of transportation in the us.
the buses in most of finland suck.
including these additional sources of pollution more than doubles the  greenhouse gas emissions of train travel.
i guess it depends on your perspective - i have a much nicer lifestyle in a downtown neighbourhood than i did in the suburbs.
show me one landlord who does not factor property taxes into the rent charged and i will add renters to the list of those who do not pay property taxes - the homeless and churches.login and reply report this comment all comments should respect the new scientist house rules.
at the moment, it costs me less money to visit my grandparents on a 25 year old banger car that gets something like 23 mpg, and the bus ride takes twice as long to get there (not including the wait time).
crisscrossing the us with a rail network, however, creates a different problem.
"new rail systems should serve as links to other transit modes, as is often the case in europe and japan," he says.
more than half of the life-cycle emissions from rail come not from the  engines' exhausts, but infrastructure development, such as station building and  track laying, and providing power to stations, lit parking lots and escalators.
in both cases they were seen as liberating for women because now they could transport themselves without having to wait for a big strong man to drive them in an automobile or in a horse carriage tue jun 09 16:51:54 bst 2009 by jack
for exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to new scientist.
the article also mentions the cost of laying train tracks, but not the cost of laying and maintaining asphalt highways.
at that point the anti-car debate will be revealed for what it is truly: 'a class envy and lifestyle issue' rather than a pro-environment issue.
other issues which seem to get little press in the 'anti-car' debate are the amounts of taxes paid by car owners (likely far higher with higher salaries (likely paying much of the public transit burden) and more likely owning their own properties and thus more likely to be supporting the lion share of property taxes), not to say much of the job creation and technological innovation as a direct result of the auto industry.
while its widely recognised that car drivers are notoriously blind and insensitive to two-wheeled road users, it seems that the mental blind spot is even more pervasive.
as a result, full life-cycle emissions are  between 10 and 20 per cent higher than "tailpipe" emissions.
policies that encourage distant commuters and employers to locate themselves closer together, or to use other options such as telecommuting, walking, and cycling, would pay off many times over what efficiency and renewable energy could provide.
more than half of the life-cycle emissions from rail come not from the engines' exhausts, but infrastructure development, such as station building and track laying, and providing power to stations, lit parking lots and escalators.
all the streetlights on roads?
even with alternative energy sources it seems to pretty damned wasteful and i don't see how you get around it.
another logical absurdity, but it suits our green brethren .login and reply report this comment tue aug 04 13:16:00 bst 2009 by andysuth
tue jun 09 20:10:00 bst 2009 by baboon esther i too am relieved you don't have any children, but none-the-less someone has to work if you are ever going to retire or have any provision of social services for the elderly.
the researchers found that travelling 1 kilometre on a nearly empty bus during off-peak hours emits eight times more per person than taking the same bus at rush hour – suggesting peak-time commuters may suffer, but they do less harm to the environment.
they count the electricity running the elevators at the train station.
here in budapest with a city of 2 million people, the vast majority of families bring up their children in apartment complexes and generally have a very nice quality of life indeed.
cars emitted more than any other form of transport with the notable exception of off-peak buses, which often carry few passengers.
the term 'blindingly obvious' could have been coined for this.
i have forgotten my password close
mon jun 08 12:54:29 bst 2009 by catherine brahic
secure best offer us$99.00 - one year via credit card log in your login is case sensitive
enjoy your home grown strained peas!
i also have a hard time imagining that roadway construction and maintenance is less costly than railways, but i assume it makes more sense when averaged out over the number of users for each?
i can walk to the store, the market, shopping, restaurants, parks.
this study looks suspiciously skewed to me.
to do this, chester and horvath calculated how many passengers each train, plane, bus or car would carry in its lifetime and how many kilometres it would cover.
track was deployed by private industry for freight and they went as cheap as they possibly could.
please, when you are old and dribbling into your gruel at your childless home, please don't ask any of your younger neighbours to help you out with anything.
it clearly states the road construction and parking lots have been considered.
the backyard wouldn't be relevent to the point.login and reply report this comment tue jun 09 06:34:27 bst 2009 by tim a backyard is the only way to raise a child healthily in an insecure and risk-laden world?
hi all, thank you for all your excellent comments.
in comparison to cars on roads and trains on tracks, air travel requires little infrastructure.
including these additional sources of pollution more than doubles the greenhouse gas emissions of train travel.
i've commuted 500+ miles a week and it's not nice being away from your family, to recite such clap-trap would only add insult to injury.
the gov't is constantly digging up and replacing asphalt, while there's train rails that haven't had to be changed in 50 years.
and "society" should give me *everything* i want right
mon jun 08 10:03:09 bst 2009 by mark "a backyard is the only way to healthily raise a child... no parent should... give up career dreams or goals to raise young children"
swap your car for a motorbike.
in fact i don't think he cares at all what europe thinks in regards to him raising a family in the u.s.
mon jun 08 00:52:33 bst 2009 by mike forbes "the life-cycle emissions generated by cars, buses and aircraft are dominated by tailpipe emissions pumped out in day-to-day running of their engines.
yes, reduce the policies that allow people to work away from home in unemployment black spots or where their job prospects are few and far between, how idealistic, how anti-social mobility.
a full article in ns, and this protracted discussion ranging over nearly every other imaginable form of transport also manages to avoid even to mention (motor-)cycling, which appears to me to be the single most relevent factor.
the elixir project combines dance, sculpture and song to explore our relationship with water 03:06 17 february 2012 ruptured well casings and surface spills are the main culprits, a new report concludes 19:00 16 february 2012
works out here in finland well enough, can't imagine why it wouldn't work in sunny california.
no, most people aren't going to die, themselves, for not having a child, however, that mentality taken on a large scale does little for the species.
any time you create new transportation infrastructure, is going to be extremely expensive.
advertisement back to top login your login is case sensitive
wed jun 10 23:22:00 bst 2009 by john the paper includes 'roadway construction' and its operation and maintenance.
they do an amazing amount of maintenance work on rr tracks.
rail track has onsistently degraded because of a lack of investment and a lack of redundancy.
a tiny clam-like robot made out of dna releases its drug payload only when it meets and identifies a cancer cell 18:00 16 february 2012 all today's stories on newscientist.com, including: heartland deniergate, grow your own electricity and young goats can develop distinct accents see all latest news get the latest from new scientist: sign up to our twitter feed subscribe for exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to new scientist.
mon jun 08 01:54:52 bst 2009 by jer
this is in part because 82 per cent of electricity in massachusetts isgenerated by burning fossil fuels.
" journal reference: environmental research letters, doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/4/2/024008, (in press)
and, if it is true, why have i never met anyone, from my country scotland, who dreams of living in a little flat in budapest, hungary?
if you're going to lay track, lay enough track so that you can repair one of the runs for any reason whatsoever and not degrade service.
you have a greater range of choices in where you live in the kind of property live in.
any government considering expanding its rail network should take into  account the emissions it will generate in doing so, chester says.
please log in.email: only personal subscribers may leave comments on this article subscribe now to comment.
if you would like to reuse any content from new scientist, either in print or online, pleasecontact the syndication department first for permission.
if it's a matter of where the kilowatts are coming from, we know the answer to that already.. it's not a 'train' problem, it's the fuel problem.
including parking lots for train stations and airports does seem a bit dubious to me.
for similar stories, visit the energy and fuels , climate change and aviation topic guides true or false: taking the commuter train across boston results in lower  greenhouse gas emissions than travelling the same distance in a jumbo jet.
clearer view the results make it easy to target attempts to cut emissions and could  change how politicians think about measures to improve transportation, say the  researchers.
you are right on.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 02:00:32 bst 2009 by sven
houses with gardens cost on average about twice as much as apartments per square metre of living space.
obviously original poster has never had to pay a mortgage or feed a family when they have lost a job.
mon jun 08 01:27:39 bst 2009 by rama
that threat of legal action may keep any development of urban public transportation from happening.
mon jun 08 04:27:43 bst 2009 by dr rob
lots of this size are dense enough to ensure transit is viable and prevent sprawl.
empty seats cars emitted more than any other form of transport with the notable  exception of off-peak buses, which often carry few passengers.
congratulations esj123 on getting closest.
that's why railways don't have to have maintenance and way departments, right? (sarcasm off.)
unfortunately, it's the thinkers and supposedly learned or educated who opt out of having children, while rabble such as the 'octomom' go around popping them out like it's going out of style.
if you are having a technical problem posting a comment, please contact technical support.
there are plenty of parks within walking distance of anywhere and excellent transport links throughout the city for a low monthly fee.
an emerging solution is to choose an electrically assisted bicycle, and for those with shorter journeys, a little self discipline and average physical condition, pedal power is still the healthiest and best option for many daily journeys.
cheers, catherine mon jun 08 13:29:06 bst 2009 by seanan have you actually read the paper, the links are provided!!
after all, their parents weren't as wise as you -- they had kids.
my heavens, esther - aren't you just a touch sanctimonius?
electric cars meet that criteria and the sooner we start deploying them the better.
urban properties from expensive because in order to run a mile track, you may need to take down a few hundred multi-story buildings.
buses turned out  to be the most sensitive to how full they were – those with only five  passengers were less efficient than cars; even large suvs and pick-up trucks.
i'm pretty skeptical too, but they do seem to be considering at least some of the items you mention (roadway construction and lighting, etc).
i also believe we should encourage far more use of two wheeled vehicles in the form of scooters and motorcycles which give you most of the economic freedoms a car does if you build your infrastructure to support them.
the finding also underlined that electric trains and cars can contribute to emissions if the electricity is generated by burning fossil fuels.
mon jun 08 15:00:08 bst 2009 by bob i've spent the whole morning now looking for flights that can get me from newton center to harvard square and it's like there's nothing!
if you think a particular comment breaks these rules then please use the "report" link in that comment to report it to us.
unlike previous studies on transport emissions,mikhail chester and arpad horvath of the university of california, berkeley, looked beyond what is emitted by different types of car, train, bus or plane while their engines are running and includes emissions from building and maintaining the vehicles and their infrastructure, as well as generating the fuel to run them.
if those multi-story buildings will hold tenants, you will have many more resources suing you.
wed jun 10 03:18:30 bst 2009 by mishu i don't think he's asking for society to give him anything.
for some reason, i see 'parking lot lighting' listed for train stations, but not for airports.
mon jun 08 15:28:44 bst 2009 by us city person and most of people from big coastal us cities don't agree with him either.
why focus on boston light rail?
so no, most of europe doesn't agree with you.
europeans, please do not make the mistake of thinking that all americans are as ignorant as that guy.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 15:41:01 bst 2009 by evan
and why should the lights in the car park at the train station be counted on the train tally and not the car tally?
perhaps surprisingly, the answer is false.
i don't remember him asking if europe agrees with him.
the researchers have taken into account quite a long list of manufacturing & infrastructure components.
i have forgotten my password close home |environment |tech |
without a car, you are limited to how far you can walk and how much you can carry.
remember, you can fit more motorcyclists on a roadway than you can cars and if you build the motorcycles right, they are far more energy-efficient and less polluting.
if one is at all passionate about transport alternatives and pollution and actually want to do something about it, the "obvious" answer is downscale your vehicle(s).
the occupation level of a vehicle is an important but often-overlooked factor, says chester.
if there is only one thing that you can do to make a difference, its surely to leave the car in the driveway and ride the bike more often.
the occupation level of a vehicle is an important but often-overlooked  factor, says chester.
new scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are avariety  of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the  copyright to.
i can't believe a mile of i-95 is cheaper than a mile of two steel rails.
so if a flying car can be developed, there will be no need for roads but still a need for carparks.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 02:02:09 bst 2009 by furthermore. . .
thu jun 11 00:25:23 bst 2009 by brian many budapest people would love to have a yard of their own, but it's relatively expensive.
the tables have been well and truly turned in "deniergate", the leak of documents from a key climate-sceptic think tank in the us, saysbob ward 17:54 16 february 2012
and the fee is rising every year.
good for you that it is a pleasant time to squeeze your whole family into a little apartment, but we prefer to live in a little more comfort with a yard for the kidslogin and reply report this comment mon jun 08 18:00:56 bst 2009 by dr joe bloggs
the researchers  found that travelling 1 kilometre on a nearly empty bus during off-peak hours  emits eight times more per person than taking the same bus at rush hour –  suggesting peak-time commuters may suffer, but they do less harm to the  environment.
if you bothered to take the time to read the damn paper, instead of being so quick to jump on it with clearly false accusations, you wouldn't end up looking so foolish!
to do this, chester and horvath calculated  how many passengers each train, plane, bus or car would carry in its lifetime  and how many kilometres it would cover.
tue jun 09 23:13:22 bst 2009 by ian hilliar another policy would be mass unemployment, so that no commuting would be necessary.
the routes are too long, which means that the wait times are long and then the bus is either completely full or almost completely empty.
do they count the electricity running the lights at the petrol (gas) station?
"although mass transit is often touted as more  energy efficient than cars, this is not always the case."
i am sure there must be a few out there but you can't help but suspect they are a tad masochistic.
how do you know that?
and i will not move from my garden either just because i have had the wisdom not to give birth as we grow our food in our garden - thank you!"
the 2011 earthquake triggered the release of a methane plume from the ocean crust to the east of japan – carrying microbes that live in the crust with it 14:31 15 february 2012 nearly all our fresh water comes from obscure underground deposits – now satellites and radioactive isotopes are telling us how much we have to go round 15:58 14 february 2012
this is in  part because 82 per cent of electricity in massachusetts isgenerated by burning  fossil fuels.
in my personal opinion, a backyard is the only way to healthily raise a child in an insecure and risk-laden world - and no parent should feel that they need to give up career dreams or goals to constantly supervise young children.
yes, i know with a bicycle you can go further but you can carry less unless you're willing to go to the hassle of using a trailer but most people aren't being to do that because they aren't twentysomethings and they really don't care about bicycles.
how is this going to happen?
in comparison to cars on roads and trains on tracks, air travel  requires little infrastructure.
tue jun 09 05:36:38 bst 2009 by esj123 it all depends on if you are talking about replacing or using existing infrastructure.
setting up a public transportation system that only a small proportion of the population uses could generate more emissions than it cuts, he adds – especially if trains and buses are not well connected.
tue jun 09 15:14:01 bst 2009 by esther i am sorry but there is no such thing as a need to have children.
we can't even afford to feed 6 billion people
so it is illuminating to notice that in the initial paper the only "cycle" mentioned is the life-cycle.
as a result, full life-cycle emissions are between 10 and 20 per cent higher than "tailpipe" emissions.
should that not also mean that we'd have to include the cost of the train stations and airports into the calculation for cars?
mon jun 08 13:14:03 bst 2009 by simon maybe 60 years ago car ownership was a class issue ,but in the 'west' ,that's long passed.
the need to have children will naturally mean the need to have a backyard and personal vehicle - which means a suburban infrastructure.
"although mass transit is often touted as more energy efficient than cars, this is not always the case."
having looked at the state of the world i am rather relieved we don't have any as they have only a small chance of a decent future considering the state of the planet and the number of inhabitants we will have in a few years time with all the constraints on resources that come with this.
public transport will always be neccesssary for the last two groups ,(yes, and for those on the lowest incomes), as long as our lives are so spread out as encouraged by car centric society.
unfortunately, urban sprawl in one form or another will constantly be with us.
if i relied on bus service for my daily transportation, i would need to put aside several hours a day for just standing around or sitting in a bus, and it would double the expenses.
let's say 1 in 10 want a car.
so, i would advocate a car use if the car can be made more efficient than public transit because of the economic, personal, and societal freedom it brings.
tue jun 16 14:58:59 bst 2009 by tom west "backyards mean low density" if you want a backyard for your children to run around in, then a quarter acre lot is more than enough, and one eighth of an acre is enough if you don't waste it on a front yard.
highways (and i admit i'm guessing here) may have higher utilisation rates because they handle multimodal traffic (passenger vehicles, goods transport etc.) are on the clock whereas rail transport has relatively low transportation density (i.e. a few trains widely spaced) and is only efficient, as this article points out, during peak load.
there may be a desire or a wish but there is no need.
another thing to consider is utilisation rates.
it's to reduce the need to use them at all.
and i will not move from my garden either just because i have had the wisdom not to give birth as we grow our food in our garden - thank you!login and reply report this comment tue jun 09 18:41:31 bst 2009 by john
news true or false: taking the commuter train across boston results in lower greenhouse gas emissions than travelling the same distance in a jumbo jet.
for a typical ride that costs 2.70...3€ (double rates at night), you could go three times the distance on a car on the same money with no wait times, no annoying co-passengers, faster and with the ability to carry your groceries somewhere else than on your lap.
so, due to a combination of economic condition, attitude of self-entitlement and the upper echelon being as far out of touch as they are, we're set to be in a bad way as a species in the coming decades...that is if we make it that far with psychopathic extremist countries such as n. korea and iran and their scientific devolution.
if you have children, then they should be the most important thing in the world to you - much more important than the ideal job.
(table 1 on page 3 has a complete list of  components that were considered).
the emissions generated by car travel  increase by nearly one third when manufacturing and infrastructure are taken  into account.
mon jun 08 01:05:14 bst 2009 by john atkeson they count the parking lots at train stations.
hence, the best way to reduce emissions from these modes of  transportation would be to increase fuel efficiency and push for renewable  fuels.
there are something like 6 billion people in the world right now.
and this choice is wonderful.
if we can eliminate all forms of poverty and tribalism, then we can start talking about supplying people with things like clean water, sanitation , and personal transportation.
for what it's worth, the same discussion over individual transportation versus the impact it has a society happened with the introduction of bicycles and motor scooters.
those that don't have access to cars directly are usually volountary abstainers (in cities ,for instance, they are unneccessary and innefficient due to clogged roads), children and the elderly.
mon jun 08 06:53:04 bst 2009 by m http://www.sustainable-transportation.com/ lists the paper's abstract and a table of the costs they have included.
the pair took into account how much each infrastructure component – such as tracks, roads and airports – is used in its lifetime.
who is looking foolish?login and reply report this comment tue jun 09 02:11:25 bst 2009 by jim c.
aside from that - people live in suburbs because it's a nicer neighborhood to live in - kids or no kids.
moderation and compromise is the key to advancing the fight against unnecessary material extraction and ubiquitous pollution - the real villains in today's civilized society.
(table 1 on page 3 has a complete list of components that were considered).
setting up a  public transportation system that only a small proportion of the population  uses could generate more emissions than it cuts, he adds – especially if  trains and buses are not well connected.
with the car, you have a much greater range of economic choices in terms of where you work, where you go to school and where you spend your money.
mon jun 08 21:40:49 bst 2009 by bp
train can be worse for climate than plane updated 12:51 08 june 2009 by catherine brahic
the results make it easy to target attempts to cut emissions and could change how politicians think about measures to improve transportation, say the researchers.
"we should avoid building rail systems that are disconnected from major population areas and require car trips and parking to access.
yes, it makes dark green environmentalists crazy because people are making rational choices based on economics not based on somebody else's philosophy.
the emissions generated by car travel increase by nearly one third when manufacturing and infrastructure are taken into account.
even the suburbs can be fairly well connected to bus network, if people are capable of moving their carcass for that extra half-a-mile to get to the bus stop.
i was going to raise this.
that's what all this crap called life is about, passing on your genes and survival of the species.
planes, trains or automobiles...
crisscrossing the us with a rail network, however, creates a different  problem.
i would consider the latter necessary, and hence children are needed.login and reply report this comment thu jul 02 19:54:59 bst 2009 by steeplejack "
"we should avoid  building rail systems that are disconnected from major population areas and  require car trips and parking to access." journal reference: environmental research letters, doi:  10.1088/1748-9326/4/2/024008, (in press)
unlike previous studies on  transport emissions,mikhail chester and arpad horvath of the university of  california, berkeley, looked beyond what is emitted by different types of car,  train, bus or plane while their engines are running and includes emissions from  building and maintaining the vehicles and their infrastructure, as well as  generating the fuel to run them.
" the best way to reduce emissions from these modes of transportation isn't to increase fuel efficiency and the use of renewable fuels.
or you can live in a place that is safe enough that you don't have to fear that someone runs over your kids or abducts them.
no, the american suburban lifestyle may not be good for the planet but let's be realistic, owning a big house with a garden in the suburbs is the ideal for the average scotsmen and european as it is for many americans.
consider your position, make your choices, then work your appendages off to make the most of the resources you have access to.
i really want to compare an airbus with the t myself, so i really know!
what happens if 6 billion people want a car?
or maybe i've been living in holland too long?
only subscribers may leave comments on this article.
suburbia is fairly cheap because taking individual properties are not that expensive.
new scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are avariety of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the copyright to.
i'm not going to worry about it.
mon jun 08 13:55:32 bst 2009 by m the link to the 'damn paper' was only added as a clarification after the above comments.
i've got an acquaintance who rides the trolleys in new orleans, in equipment and on rails that have been around for a century.
it is further interesting how these numbers will change as passenger vehicles start using greater amounts of non-carbon sources of energy and more of their components and infrastructure are increasingly recyclable.
my neighbours are great and my neighbourhood is attractive, quiet, and welcoming.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 18:32:07 bst 2009 by daniel
now maybe some of those kids will end up being exceptionally smart and a boon to society at large and thus the species, but all too often these days the children of such parents suffer from poor nutrition, poor education, poor supervision and poor health, becoming vampires on the system that was only supposed to help them get a foot under themselves, not support them indefinitely (i'm all for giving a helping hand, but let's 'teach them to fish instead).
hence, the best way to reduce emissions from these modes of transportation would be to increase fuel efficiency and push for renewable fuels.
the finding also underlined that electric trains and cars can contribute to  emissions if the electricity is generated by burning fossil fuels.
that being said, backyards mean low density.
if you would like to reuse any content from new scientist, either in  print or online, pleasecontact the syndication department first for  permission.
but i don't believe we should degrade everybody's life down to that of a mud hut and a candle.
news flash: the world has always been insecure and risk-laden, and healthy children have been raised for millenia, well before suburbia was even imagined.
do they also count all the private,downtown parking lots that will be *eliminated* by trains?
roadways are constantly being dug up and repaired because they are used constantly.
the us has finally approved the construction of its first nuclear reactors since 1978 – but the real nuclear revival will be elsewhere see all related stories 10:43 17 february 2012
the pair took into account how much  each infrastructure component – such as tracks, roads and airports  – is used in its lifetime.
you must be reading words in your mind that are not in his post.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 10:23:56 bst 2009 by charles "and no parent should feel that they need to give up career dreams or goals to constantly supervise young children" apparently, placing children in day care for long periods is very detrimental to their development mon jun 08 13:19:48 bst 2009 by simon i got the impression that the children would be locked in the backyards ,whilst the parents pursued their right to work in the distant city centres .otherwise
transport studies expert abigail bristow of loughborough university, uk, who was not involved in the study, says it is valuable because it attempts to compare transport on equal terms.
yes there is a need...as with any species on this planet, the need is clearly apparent.
we've tried to make this clearer in the updated story, and have provided a link to the full list.
you have a greater range of choices with medical practitioners.
i raise one eyebrow to emphasize my pointed stare.
any government considering expanding its rail network should take into account the emissions it will generate in doing so, chester says.
mon jun 08 14:01:18 bst 2009 by craig
the elitism of the homeowner class is showing through with the comment that only homeowners pay property taxes.
tue jun 09 05:52:32 bst 2009 by esj123 a car, more than any other transportation creations to date is incredibly liberating both a personal and economic level.
passengers on the boston light rail, an electric commuter train, were found to emit as much or marginally more than those on mid-size and large aircraft.
a new study compares the "full life-cycle" emissions generated by 11 different modes of transportation in the us.
they may work adequately around helsinki, but that's the exception to the rule.
incidentally, i've just moved back into town from the suburbs.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 09:29:43 bst 2009 by jukkad
buses turned out to be the most sensitive to how full they were – those with only five passengers were less efficient than cars; even large suvs and pick-up trucks.
i would also put money on him living in close proximity to the m4 where work is relatively easier to find.
transport studies expert abigail bristow of loughborough university, uk,  who was not involved in the study, says it is valuable because it attempts to  compare transport on equal terms.
passengers  on the boston light rail, an electric commuter train, were found to emit as  much or marginally more than those on mid-size and large aircraft.
roadways can be repaired incrementally without significant impact on the function of the transportation system which in turn has a lower over all cost to the system and it's users.
how much of the world's resources would that use up for something that is used very inefficiently, like most of them sit around in car parks all day?
hopefully, people will leave the suburbs once their children have left -- thus keeping a low-density -to- high-density recirculation, as necessary - hopefully leading to some reduction in sprawl as only those who need a backyard will have one - perhaps a tax-incentive scheme to push out childless backyard owners.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 04:02:08 bst 2009 by alex except, of course, everywhere outside north america kids grow just fine in urban or rural environments, and american suburbs are seen by foreigners as some kind of cemetery for the living.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 04:18:08 bst 2009 by dr rob strange!
the life-cycle emissions generated by cars, buses and aircraft are dominated by tailpipe emissions pumped out in day-to-day running of their engines.
it is a significant proportion of the impact of vehicle transport, as station and track infrastructure construction and operation is for rail.login and reply report this comment mon jun 08 01:46:59 bst 2009 by jer
sorry, jumped around a bit, but at work and concentration was not at an optimal level.
"new rail systems should serve as links to other transit modes, as is  often the case in europe and japan," he says.
"no parent should feel that they need to give up career dreams or goals to constantly supervise young children" why?