while it’s very seductive to think of standard rail travel being an  equivalent experience to business-class rail travel but a quarter of the cost,  it’s going to take more than environmental arguments and extra taxes to  get people off the motorway and onto the train.
somehow, i just cannot see that happening in the uk, can you?
while it’s easy to persuade people that drinking and driving is immediately dangerous to themselves and others, and the arguments about smoking and health are overwhelmingly accepted, it’s notoriously hard to get people to change their behaviour to help the environment; the actions of any one person are very small and difficult to gauge against the massive global problem.
unsuitable or offensive?
report this comment mike - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 8:46 am have "we" convinced the people that drink driving and smoking in  public is unaccaptable ?
i have been in  heavy traffic myself on the m6 in the past and noted with dismay that - while i  was surrounded by heavy goods vehicles - the goods yard ajacent to the motorway  was completely still.
very little more infra-structure is  needed, just longer trains instead of the unneccessary intensive frequency used  on many routes.
to make matters worse, the intention to ease this capacity limitation is to move very old stock from the west coast main line, limited to 110 mph, thereby reducing the running speed to less than 1930's steam trains!
any other way seems to be doomed to failure at present no matter how many penalty charges are inflicted on motorists.
there is plenty of spare capacity.
in terms of  passenger numbers, they are high, and as already acknowledged nearly at the  absolute maximum capacity that can be achieved.
b) walk, which is healthy but takes about an hour and attracts similar comments to a. c) buses, for which i would have to take at least 2.
we are undoubtedly a small country  compared say to the us, but that country long since accepted that to get from a  to b was a necessity, and being a large country, they have an  air-infrastructure that works, but only because the astute yanks have made it  very simple to fly & drive.
the strain of the train 5 march 2008 comments (15) save the board of the institution of mechanical engineers probably groaned very  loudly this morning.
its not cars, trains or even planes that’s the problem: it’s the sheer number of people on the planet.
site powered by webvision
government needs to take the initiative to install such systems to make it possible to do things like this economically, easily and quickly from anywhere in the uk (as opposed to just in the capital).
not that the m62 at rush hour is pleasurable but it can be  preferrable to the current alternatives.
currently even minor network enhancement to accomodate a few more trains seems difficult.
the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 5:43 pm railways should be utilised more fully.
report this comment andrew porter - the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 6:16 pm the issue with rail travel in the uk is the persisting trend towards patch  and repair of a system conceived during the victorian era.
i think the i mech e's stance is very good, however to actually achieve a  significant shift of people from cars to trains will need many more trains, and  more track to put them on.
yes, real polluters are the ones who insist on having more than two children per couple – sometimes the truth is hard, but so is the real world (and nature)!
the  only options to cover about 4 miles i have each way are: a) cycle, which is not  much fun on a wet, dark winter's day and takes about 30 min.
yes, real  polluters are the ones who insist on having more than two children per couple  – sometimes the truth is hard, but so is the real world (and nature)!
car hire is simple, cheap and reliable.
its not cars, trains or even planes that’s the  problem: it’s the sheer number of people on the planet.
report this comment john - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 9:06 am whilst reducing environmental impact is a laudible aim, can we please as engineers try to educate the politicians of the fact that co2 from our drive along the road is only part of the story.
the only options to cover about 4 miles i have each way are: a) cycle, which is not much fun on a wet, dark winter's day and takes about 30 min.
when i work away from home, usually in a naval base in the uk, i would love to be able to go to nottingham, pack my bits and pieces in a case, and relax to, say, plymouth, then recover my kit easily and stack it in a waiting van or car, possibly a low pollution battery truck or similar.
by public transport it increases to almost 160 mins.
for me it would be improved public transport, rather than taxation, that would get me back on trains.
again, like government and others, they are  missing the point.
not that the m62 at rush hour is pleasurable but it can be preferrable to the current alternatives.
my own travelling time by car is around 80 mins per  day.
when  i work away from home, usually in a naval base in the uk, i would love to be  able to go to nottingham, pack my bits and pieces in a case, and relax to, say,  plymouth, then recover my kit easily and stack it in a waiting van or car,  possibly a low pollution battery truck or similar.
you don’t have to put up with other people’s mobile phones, unruly children, drunken conversations and tinny ipod bleedover, and you never have to stand up all the way to crewe.
my own travelling time by car is around 80 mins per day.
the imeche is clearly right in its goals, but finding a route to them is going to take clever, subtle, innovative and brave thinking by politicians.
one recent study even showed that a 4 litre jeep wrangler is nearly 4 times better for the environment than a prius.
stuart nathan, special projects editor grace nodes - the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 5:33
in the uk, substitute rail for air and you have a disaster.
any why is it that so many major cities overseas have electric trams and  buses providing commuters with clean and efficient methods of transport while  we cannot do it here?
well, it’s because when you’re in your car, you’re in your own environment, with your own comfortable seat, listening to your own music or choice or radio station; you can even have a smoke if you want.
it would also take about an hour.
d)  get in my car, drive about twelve minutes, warm and comfortable.
the car remains, the car produces a massive income through fuel duty,  taxation, etc, giving a very good reason why the motorist will remain a target,  and why providing a real alternative is not a financially attractive option to  any uk government.
the imeche’s argument, however good intentioned, is likely to lead to even louder howls of protest.
the systems are in place to get you there and then have a vehicle at your disposal.
we are undoubtedly a small country compared say to the us, but that country long since accepted that to get from a to b was a necessity, and being a large country, they have an air-infrastructure that works, but only because the astute yanks have made it very simple to fly & drive.
so the bottom line is that new high speed rail links are needed now!
to improve passenger  numbers, travel needs to be far cheaper (compared with road and plane travel),  but more importantly far simpler with the previous principle of walk-on  reasonable fares and a united railway system and fare structure.
somehow, i just cannot see  that happening in the uk, can you?
recouping that investment while keeping  ticket prices attractively low would be a serious challenge.
i have been in heavy traffic myself on the m6 in the past and noted with dismay that - while i was surrounded by heavy goods vehicles - the goods yard ajacent to the motorway was completely still.
put freight back on the railways; congestion on roads would be dramatically reduced, there'd be faster and safer journies, less traffic on arterial routes and less fuel used.
there is  no simple way to get from where i live to where i work on a daily basis.
report this comment john - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 9:06 am whilst reducing environmental impact is a laudible aim, can we please as  engineers try to educate the politicians of the fact that co2 from our drive  along the road is only part of the story.
prices go up and the man in the street ends up paying for the country's inefficiency and greed yet again.
report this comment brian - the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 6:14 pm might be missing something here - when did trains become a zero carbon  footprint mode of travel?
not from my lofty peak.
this will free up capacity on the conventional network for the many more local & commuter trains we will need.
report this comment brian - the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 6:14 pm might be missing something here - when did trains become a zero carbon footprint mode of travel?
report this comment andrew porter - the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 6:16 pm the issue with rail travel in the uk is the persisting trend towards patch and repair of a system conceived during the victorian era.
basically the charges get passed on.
why is it that people complain bitterly about rail delays but seem to put up with traffic jams, they ask?
don't they do the 'fox and rabbits' on an island experiment any more on  control system engineering courses...?
i have  travelled by train and bus to and from work between huddersfield and leeds for  about 2 years before reluctantly reverting to my car.
currently it would take most of a day to get me to plymouth from here in the midlands, then the task of getting my stuff there and hiring a vehicle to get me the four miles to the dockyard from the station just makes it an impossible and uneconomical task.
report this comment view results 10 per page | 20 per page you have no saved stories save this article of the uk catapult technology and innovation centres announced so far, which represents the biggest opportunities for technology development and economic growth?connected digital economy will the government's proposed large infrastructure projects be sufficient to lift britain out of a second recession?
why is it that people complain  bitterly about rail delays but seem to put up with traffic jams, they ask?
all that seems to be happening at the moment is the petrol  and diesel cartel, along with government, cashing in on all the hot air.
all that seems to be happening at the moment is the petrol and diesel cartel, along with government, cashing in on all the hot air.
people should then be convinced, through information on the smaller emissions profile of rail travel and by new pricing policies, to take the train where previously they would have driven.
the co2 emissions from road transport are so high, the report says, that the best way to make a serious impact on it is to persuade people that having a high carbon footprint is as socially undesirable as drinking and driving or smoking in public.
don't they do the 'fox and rabbits' on an island experiment any more on control system engineering courses...?
if you take this to a logical conclusion, 4x4s should in fact pay less tax !
if, as the imeche recommends, extra taxes are introduced to make the cost of driving reflect its environmental impact — such as road pricing, increases in car tax and more fuel levies, and a moratorium on the building of new roads — the howls of indignation are bound to reach deafening levels.
as it happens, the headline in question wasn’t even about the imeche’s report — it referred to a proposal to introduce toll lanes for cars carrying passengers.
the simple fact is that, thanks to successive governments not investing in  public transport over the years - and therefore not providing viable  alternatives to the car - the public has become used to driving.
the last thing  needed is fancy wi fi on board.
the time and stress  saved is, for me, worth the increased cost.
but where it is underestimating the problem is in the sheer difficulty of persuading people to forsake their cars.
put freight back on the railways; congestion on roads would be dramatically  reduced, there'd be faster and safer journies, less traffic on arterial routes  and less fuel used.
this will free up capacity on the  conventional network for the many more local & commuter trains we will need.
while it’s very seductive to think of standard rail travel being an equivalent experience to business-class rail travel but a quarter of the cost, it’s going to take more than environmental arguments and extra taxes to get people off the motorway and onto the train.
the time and stress saved is, for me, worth the increased cost.
report this comment p field -
report this comment andrew denham - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 9:11 am
if only that were the whole story.
any why is it that so many major cities overseas have electric trams and buses providing commuters with clean and efficient methods of transport while we cannot do it here?
report this comment previous page
until that time, most of us will clamour for the ease and simplicity of sitting in jams, and eventually reaching the destination we are aiming for, with everything we need in the vehicle.
but where it is underestimating the problem is in the sheer difficulty of  persuading people to forsake their cars.
again, like government and others, they are missing the point.
for me it would be improved public  transport, rather than taxation, that would get me back on trains.
report this comment mike - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 8:46 am have "we" convinced the people that drink driving and smoking in public is unaccaptable ?
well, it’s because when you’re in your car, you’re in your  own environment, with your own comfortable seat, listening to your own music or  choice or radio station; you can even have a smoke if you want.
prices  go up and the man in the street ends up paying for the country's inefficiency  and greed yet again.
this is simply because it uses simpler manufacturing methods and should last far longer before all of the gimmics become beyond economical repair.
there’s no doubt that this is a laudable goal, and far from impossible — take a look at japan, where the majority of journeys are by train.
until that time, most of us will clamour for  the ease and simplicity of sitting in jams, and eventually reaching the  destination we are aiming for, with everything we need in the vehicle.
while it’s easy to  persuade people that drinking and driving is immediately dangerous to  themselves and others, and the arguments about smoking and health are  overwhelmingly accepted, it’s notoriously hard to get people to change  their behaviour to help the environment; the actions of any one person are very  small and difficult to gauge against the massive global problem.
the imeche doesn’t soft-pedal the difficulty of the task, either;  it says that considerable investment will be needed in new infrastructure,  including high-speed routes similar to the new channel tunnel line, following  the east coast and west coast lines and segregating passenger services from  freight trains; new rolling stock with wifi at every seat, to make rail travel  more pleasurable and productive, and to ensure more frequent and reliable  services; plus urban planning regimes encouraging high-quality development of  the areas around railway stations.
why haven't we at the very least got heavy goods onto the rail network (which in itself would have freed up a huge amount of capacity for cars)?
the psychological connections of car travel and personal freedom are very strong in this country.
a life cycle analysis is far more  sensible.
the strain of the train | 5 mar 2008 5:33 pm
as it happens, the headline in question wasn’t even about the  imeche’s report — it referred to a proposal to introduce toll lanes  for cars carrying passengers.
people should then be convinced, through information on the smaller  emissions profile of rail travel and by new pricing policies, to take the train  where previously they would have driven.
one recent study even showed that a 4  litre jeep wrangler is nearly 4 times better for the environment than a prius.
global  warming is happening, has happened before and will happen again.
the imeche’s argument, however good  intentioned, is likely to lead to even louder howls of protest.
now there’s a neat demonstration of how difficult it is to persuade  people to change the way they behave when it comes to cars.
remember, even the  east coast main line was able to achieve a 126 mph record using a steam train  in 1938, and yet on the same route trains are limited, today, to 125 mph, and  even the most recent record was only 154 mph with a modified train!
any  other way seems to be doomed to failure at present no matter how many penalty  charges are inflicted on motorists.
in terms of passenger numbers, they are high, and as already acknowledged nearly at the absolute maximum capacity that can be achieved.
why haven't we at the very least got heavy goods onto the  rail network (which in itself would have freed up a huge amount of capacity for  cars)?
stuart nathan, special projects editor readers' comments  (15) grace nodes -
several recent studies have shown that manufacture, support and  disposal have a far more serious effect.
if, as the imeche recommends, extra  taxes are introduced to make the cost of driving reflect its environmental  impact — such as road pricing, increases in car tax and more fuel levies,  and a moratorium on the building of new roads — the howls of indignation  are bound to reach deafening levels.
i'm sick of hearing about this and that scheme to reduce carbon emissions.
the psychological connections of car travel and personal  freedom are very strong in this country.
i have travelled by train and bus to and from work between huddersfield and leeds for about 2 years before reluctantly reverting to my car.
d) get in my car, drive about twelve minutes, warm and comfortable.
report this comment john shaw - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 8:30 am the arguments in the article are, for my money, right on the mark.
the co2  emissions from road transport are so high, the report says, that the best way  to make a serious impact on it is to persuade people that having a high carbon  footprint is as socially undesirable as drinking and driving or smoking in  public.
overcrowded and often dirty trains that ran late and sometimes not at all and bus services that seemed to run when they felt like it all combined to make the experience less than pleasurable.
overcrowded and often  dirty trains that ran late and sometimes not at all and bus services that  seemed to run when they felt like it all combined to make the experience less  than pleasurable.
the imeche doesn’t soft-pedal the difficulty of the task, either; it says that considerable investment will be needed in new infrastructure, including high-speed routes similar to the new channel tunnel line, following the east coast and west coast lines and segregating passenger services from freight trains; new rolling stock with wifi at every seat, to make rail travel more pleasurable and productive, and to ensure more frequent and reliable services; plus urban planning regimes encouraging high-quality development of the areas around railway stations.
the extra  time spent travelling would be acceptable given reasonably filled trains and  regular, on-time services.
this is simply because it uses simpler manufacturing methods and should last  far longer before all of the gimmics become beyond economical repair.
just as they were hoping to see sympathetic coverage of their latest report, which discusses the importance of getting people to use trains, rather than cars, for their journeys, they would have been faced with a screaming headline in one of the more hysterical tabloids, fulminating about the government’s ‘latest potty plan to clobber motorists’.
you don’t  have to put up with other people’s mobile phones, unruly children,  drunken conversations and tinny ipod bleedover, and you never have to stand up  all the way to crewe.
a life cycle analysis is far more sensible.
report this comment alistair brodie - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 9:15 am
to improve passenger numbers, travel needs to be far cheaper (compared with road and plane travel), but more importantly far simpler with the previous principle of walk-on reasonable fares and a united railway system and fare structure.
government  needs to take the initiative to install such systems to make it possible to do  things like this economically, easily and quickly from anywhere in the uk (as  opposed to just in the capital).
to make matters worse,  the intention to ease this capacity limitation is to move very old stock from  the west coast main line, limited to 110 mph, thereby reducing the running  speed to less than 1930's steam trains!
there is no simple way to get from where i live to where i work on a daily basis.
yes, propose a new dedicated high speed railway to follow the example set my our european neighbours, but do not expect to receive the political commitment required, particulary as the uk is virtually the most expensive place on this planet to build a railway.
the simple fact is that, thanks to successive governments not investing in public transport over the years - and therefore not providing viable alternatives to the car - the public has become used to driving.
currently it would take most of a day to get  me to plymouth from here in the midlands, then the task of getting my stuff  there and hiring a vehicle to get me the four miles to the dockyard from the  station just makes it an impossible and uneconomical task.
the car remains, the car produces a massive income through fuel duty, taxation, etc, giving a very good reason why the motorist will remain a target, and why providing a real alternative is not a financially attractive option to any uk government.
report this comment tom binkley - the strain of the train | 6 mar 2008 9:34 am
remember, even the east coast main line was able to achieve a 126 mph record using a steam train in 1938, and yet on the same route trains are limited, today, to 125 mph, and even the most recent record was only 154 mph with a modified train!
very little more infra-structure is needed, just longer trains instead of the unneccessary intensive frequency used on many routes.
the last thing needed is fancy wi fi on board.
if you  take this to a logical conclusion, 4x4s should in fact pay less tax !
the  systems are in place to get you there and then have a vehicle at your disposal.
there’s no doubt that this is a laudable goal, and far from  impossible — take a look at japan, where the majority of journeys are by  train.
b) walk, which is  healthy but takes about an hour and attracts similar comments to a. c) buses,  for which i would have to take at least 2.
5 march 2008 the board of the institution of mechanical engineers probably groaned very loudly this morning.
click here to see the results and comment.
so the bottom line is that  new high speed rail links are needed now!
the extra time spent travelling would be acceptable given reasonably filled trains and regular, on-time services.
just as they were hoping to see sympathetic coverage of  their latest report, which discusses the importance of getting people to use  trains, rather than cars, for their journeys, they would have been faced with a  screaming headline in one of the more hysterical tabloids, fulminating about  the government’s ‘latest potty plan to clobber motorists’.
yes, propose a new dedicated  high speed railway to follow the example set my our european neighbours, but do  not expect to receive the political commitment required, particulary as the uk  is virtually the most expensive place on this planet to build a railway.
global warming is happening, has happened before and will happen again.
now there’s a neat demonstration of how difficult it is to persuade people to change the way they behave when it comes to cars.
recouping that investment while keeping ticket prices attractively low would be a serious challenge.
pm i think the i mech e's stance is very good, however to actually achieve a significant shift of people from cars to trains will need many more trains, and more track to put them on.
the imeche is  clearly right in its goals, but finding a route to them is going to take  clever, subtle, innovative and brave thinking by politicians.
several recent studies have shown that manufacture, support and disposal have a far more serious effect.
currently even minor network enhancement to  accomodate a few more trains seems difficult.