the choice of the bicycle as an  empowering tool is designed to show the need for a life without dependency on  fossil fuels and unsustainable transport.
jenny driscoll, senior communications manager at which?
p.e.d.a.l set off on monday 21st march with a critical mass of cyclists  leaving from grow heathrow and stopping off at significant sites in london  perpetrating oppression and those in resistance.
and it's farewell, too, to the face of flying papers, michelle di leo.
linda has also been a member of the london school of economics research ethics committee since 2008.
according to that well-knownpublication 'an  executive review of business travel',flying matters will be wound up at  the end of the month because its corporate backers (mostly  airlines) are falling out amongst themselves about the future direction of  policy.
the ruling  is very welcome, but better still would be an acceptance by the police of their  own wrongdoing.
dan will be arguing that grassroots movements are the most effective way of creating change as opposed to top heavy methods from big charities.
before reading it, fortify yourself  with a little rum or whisky.
jenny has been at which?
on the weekend of the 20th and 21st march, p.e.d.a.l. began its 100 day cycle ride atgrow heathrow in sipson.
this  will be seen along the route they as they visit different communities where  resistance takes positive forms.
the group will be cycling in solidarity with palestinian and israeli  popular resistance movements- responding to the call-out from palestinian civil  society in 2005 to support theboycott, divestment, sanctions campaign.
and the  authorities aren't likely to forget the day they encountered the sticky  problem.
for over 12 years and have worked on campaigns in personal finance, energy, food and health.
during this time he has worked  building strategies for self-defence with communities of colour and  economically marginalised communities that are disproportionately affected by  polluting industries.
here is josh moos's statement on the ruling: "i have witnessed and been on the receiving end of police violence  before.
an executive review of business travel commented: "the organisation did cover a wide spectrum of the industry, including both british airways and unite, but there was an argument that flying matters carried little weight of influence.
across the world communities are fighting battles against economic, environmental and political injustice.
the police have a history of gross violence, and what i saw on the 1st  and 2nd april was deeply disturbing because of it's sheer scale.
becky's blog take the train like the rest of us submitted by joe on wed,  03/16/2011 - 12:25  tags: leeds-bradford short haul source: flickr
50,000 passengers flew from leeds/bradford airport to gatwick last year, the big majority of those people being the very rich who can afford it.
prior to joining which?, jenny worked for actionaid and the  church urban fund.
the officers behaved as if they had been unleashed upon us and were free to use as much force as they wished without provocation or any other justification.
if they don't - and they usually don't - harry's invention allows an activist to stick it to the authorities at will.
joyner's initial reaction was panic at the loss of expensive lab equipment.
before reading it, fortify yourself with a little rum or whisky.
never before has the industry had such a reverse.
a life where there  are other options than flying which simply transports you from a to b with no  appreciation for what is along the way.
2nd april was deeply disturbing because of it's sheer scale.
" you can send you condolences to brian and michelle at: www.flyingmatters.org.uk plane stupid doesn't do obituaries.
the cops will never notice.
who would have though it would end like this for the  radical young journalist who, 40-odd years ago, founded the west highland free
in 1952 a researcher named fred joyner, who was working  with harry coover at eastman kodak's laboratory in tennessee, was looking for a  temperature-resistant coating for jet cockpits.
across the world communities are fighting battles against  economic, environmental and political injustice.
he has spent the past five years in inner-city community and youth  organising in glasgow, manchester and london.
pedaller andy grange said: "in 2011 we have seen explosions of people power across the  middle east.
harry coover - to give him his full title, dr harry coover jr - discovered superglue by accident.
the final destination is palestine and along the way they will stop at many  locations across europe and the middle east.
a little bit of glue can go a long way!
the train from leeds to london kx  takes just over 2 hours and is 10 times less polluting than flying.
join in the fun by leaving a comment here, or ask a question live  and follow the debate today, tuesday 15th
dan glass, plane stupid and
harry coover - who was 94 when he died - had 400 patents to his name but he  will be forever remembered for just one - superglue.
she married jackson's dan hodges who chaired freedom to fly, the earlier pro-aviation lobby group, which folder in 2003.
vital is the selection of the individual to lead such a coalition, common  consensus being that british aviation is currently lacking such a person.
the ride  will trace a trail of corporations complicit in the occupation, pollinate  information about the campaign and support activists on trial for bds actions.
dan revels in finding ways to be a thorn in the side for those destroying the planet including duly occupying airports and dancing with old ladies blighted by flightpaths.
from 2001-2008, she  was chief executive of off the streets and into work (osw), a charity that  worked to alleviate poverty, homelessness and disadvantage, leading the  development of the organisation from a london-based programme into an award  winning, transnational network of organisations and individuals.
support plane stupid, support superglue, support the downfall of the aviation industry.
nowhere more do we see this than with the palestinian people struggling for self-reliance, political rights, and liberation.
you see, it's so convenient.
in a decision that makes sense, leeds/bradford airport is to be  left without any flights going to london.
flying matters, the pro-aviation lobby group that has fought so hard for expansion of airports across the country, is to fold.
osw and crisis merged in 2010.
when he spread a compound  between to lenses they became permanently bonded together.
and of course it's been gold-dust for campaigners.
the choice of the bicycle as an empowering tool is designed to show the need for a life without dependency on fossil fuels and unsustainable transport.
our own josh moos was one of the two  activists who not only took a beating that evening, but went on to jump through  legal hoops to try and bring those responsible for police violence to account.
" josh's blog submitted by barry on tue, 04/12/2011 -  12:45  tags: aviation industry flying matters this blog carries a warning.
the purpose of p.e.d.a.l is to  highlight the link between social and environmental injustices and how people  across borders are responding to them in creative and innovative ways.
but it was on the wrong side of the popular revolt - against a third  runway at heathrow.
our very own dan glass from plane stupid will be debating live on the guardian website today from 1-3pm.
join in the fun by leaving a comment here, or ask a question live and follow the debate today, tuesday 15th
most of  us take take the train round the country.
"it went on: "any  future lobbying group is expected to be formed around a more focused alliance.
who would have though it would end like this for the radical young journalist who, 40-odd years ago, founded the west highland free press, the hugely popular newspaper which brought a breath of fresh air to scotland's highlands and island by giving a voice to the crofters and challenging the staid establishment press.
back in 2009 plane stupid were among a festive group of folk protesting against the terrifying implications of carbon trading as part of the climate camp at the g20 demonstrations.
"it went on: "any future lobbying group is expected to be formed around a more focused alliance.
but it was on the wrong side of the popular revolt - against a third runway at heathrow.
the group will be cycling in solidarity with palestinian and israeli popular resistance movements- responding to the call-out from palestinian civil society in 2005 to support theboycott, divestment, sanctions campaign.
the final destination is palestine and along the way they will stop at many locations across europe and the middle east.
she married jackson's dan hodges who chaired freedom to fly, the  earlier pro-aviation lobby group, which folder in 2003.
a life where there are other options than flying which simply transports you from a to b with no appreciation for what is along the way.
so we stand our very own dan glass from plane stupid will be debating live on  the guardian website today from 1-3pm.
nowhere more do we see this  than with the palestinian people struggling for self-reliance, political  rights, and liberation.
the train from leeds to london kx takes just over 2 hours and is 10 times less polluting than flying.
so we stand @planestupid dan organises with grassroots movements 'plane stupid scotland' and 'so we  stand', bringing together anti-racism, anti-poverty and anti-climate change  struggles to take united action.
an executive review of business travel commented: "the organisation did cover a wide spectrum of the industry,  including both british airways and unite, but there was an argument that flying  matters carried little weight of influence.
the police have a history of gross violence, and what i saw on the 1st and
when he spread a compound between to lenses they became permanently bonded together.
never  before has the industry had such a reverse.
and the authorities aren't likely to forget the day they encountered the sticky problem.
dan revels in finding ways to be a thorn in the side for  those destroying the planet including duly occupying airports and dancing with  old ladies blighted by flightpaths.
in 1952 a researcher named fred joyner, who was working with harry coover at eastman kodak's laboratory in tennessee, was looking for a temperature-resistant coating for jet cockpits.
flying matters has been swept aside by that.
but harry coover  recognised the potential in the sticky adhesive, namely that it required no  heat or pressure to bond, and so superglue was born.
in a remarkable ruling, the police were in the dock and found guilty today.
tuck a little into your pocket.
p.e.d.a.l set off on monday 21st march with a critical mass of cyclists leaving from grow heathrow and stopping off at significant sites in london perpetrating oppression and those in resistance.
his great invention has been used in protests in gaza, against whaling,  against the rbs bank and by plane stupid's dan glass when he superglued himself  to gordon brown when he was prime minister in protests against plans for a  third runway at heathrow.
osw and crisis  merged in 2010.
the demise of flying matters is a sign of the confusion within the uk aviation industry.
his experience includes working with actionaid to tackle issues such as conflict diamonds and patent on food; combating discrimination for age concern; banning wild animals in circuses, fighting intensive farming and irresponsible puppy breeding for the rspca; with unison on public engagement campaigns and social and environmental internal engagement campaigns for corporations like mars and diageo.
pedaller andy grange said: "in 2011 we have seen explosions of people power across the middle east.
here is josh moos's statement on the ruling: "i have witnessed and been on the receiving end of police violence before.
true, we'll make the mother of  all exceptions when the aviation industry dies a death.
so we stand @planestupid dan organises with grassroots movements 'plane stupid scotland' and 'so we stand', bringing together anti-racism, anti-poverty and anti-climate change struggles to take united action.
prior to joining which?, jenny worked for actionaid and the church urban fund.
linda butcher, chief executive at sheila mckechnie foundation (smk)  @smkcampaigners linda butcher joined smk in september 2008, having been active in the  voluntary and community sectors for more than two decades.
" you can send you condolences to brian and michelle at:  www.flyingmatters.org.uk barry's blog
that has still to come.
for 50 years it has got what it  wanted.
so it is farewell to it's chairman brian wilson, the once radical labour mp, who became tony blair's energy minister and a big defender of nuclear power and airport expansion.
and if they do they are stuck with the problem!
the demise of flying matters is a sign of the confusion within the uk  aviation industry.
the man who invented superglue!
during this time he has worked building strategies for self-defence with communities of colour and economically marginalised communities that are disproportionately affected by polluting industries.
for 50 years it has got what it wanted.
joyner's initial  reaction was panic at the loss of expensive lab equipment.
our own josh moos was one of the two activists who not only took a beating that evening, but went on to jump through legal hoops to try and bring those responsible for police violence to account.
flying short-haul is the single most damaging thing an individual can to in terms of your carbon footprint so this move has been a long time coming.
the man  who invented superglue!
today the court has ruled, in clear terms, that it was unlawful  and nothing i nor anyone else demonstrating at the carbon exchange did in any  way to justify the kettling and violence to which we were subjected.
speakers along the way on the critical mass included mortaza sahibzada, the managing editor of the jewish national fund (jnf) ebook series and naomi wimborne idrisssi, the secretary of jews for boycotting israeli goods.
joe's blog campaigning - live debate today on the guardian submitted by becky  on mon, 03/14/2011 - 15:35  tags: campaigning guardian
most of us take take the train round the country.
the purpose of p.e.d.a.l is to highlight the link between social and environmental injustices and how people across borders are responding to them in creative and innovative ways.
dan will be arguing that grassroots  movements are the most effective way of creating change as opposed to top heavy  methods from big charities.
plane stupid protester wins kettling court case at the high court submitted by josh on thu, 04/14/2011 - 21:00  tags: kettling police source: flickr back in 2009 plane stupid were among a festive group of folk  protesting against the terrifying implications of carbon trading as part of the climate camp at the g20 demonstrations.
linda has also been a member of the london school of economics  research ethics committee since 2008.
linda butcher, chief executive at sheila mckechnie foundation (smk) @smkcampaigners linda butcher joined smk in september 2008, having been active in the voluntary and community sectors for more than two decades.
petra's blog submitted by becky on tue, 03/22/2011  - 15:58  tags: p.e.d.a.l palestine on the weekend of the 20th and 21st march, p.e.d.a.l. began its 100  day cycle ride atgrow heathrow in sipson.
since then it has been used to strengthen bridges, patch together internal organs of wounded soldiers in vietnam and repair the engine of the space shuttle discovery
vital is the selection of the individual to lead such a coalition, common consensus being that british aviation is currently lacking such a person.
and what he was protesting about.
this was  not misbehaviour by a few, out of control 'bad apples'; it was systematic and  orchestrated.
long after gordon brown has forgotten the precise details of his last  speech, he'll remember the day a young man superglued himself to his suit.
flybe blame the cancellation of their service to london on increasing landing fees at gatwick but surely this service along with all other domestic flight services in the country should be cancelled.
flybe blame the cancellation of their service to london on increasing  landing fees at gatwick but surely this service along with all other domestic  flight services in the country should be cancelled.
an unsung hero of activists across the world.
in a decision that makes sense, leeds/bradford airport is to be left without any flights going to london.
and they usually don't - harry's invention allows an activist to stick it to  the authorities at will.
the officers  behaved as if they had been unleashed upon us and were free to use as much  force as they wished without provocation or any other justification.
his great invention has been used in protests in gaza, against whaling, against the rbs bank and by plane stupid's dan glass when he superglued himself to gordon brown when he was prime minister in protests against plans for a third runway at heathrow.
the ruling is very welcome, but better still would be an acceptance by the police of their own wrongdoing.
check out the panel below: chris norman, strategy director at the good agency @thegoodagency a founding partner of the good agency, chris has worked on social and environmental campaigns across not-for-profit, corporate, and government sectors for the last 17 years, developing and implementing communications strategies to engage stakeholders to motivate behavioural and attitudinal change.
support plane stupid,  support superglue, support the downfall of the aviation industry.
flying matters, the pro-aviation lobby group  that has fought so hard for expansion of airports across the country, is to  fold.
today the court has ruled, in clear terms, that it was unlawful and nothing i nor anyone else demonstrating at the carbon exchange did in any way to justify the kettling and violence to which we were subjected.
and  what he was protesting about.
from 2001-2008, she was chief executive of off the streets and into work (osw), a charity that worked to alleviate poverty, homelessness and disadvantage, leading the development of the organisation from a london-based programme into an award winning, transnational network of organisations and individuals.
speakers along the way on the critical mass included mortaza sahibzada, the  managing editor of the jewish national fund (jnf) ebook series and naomi  wimborne idrisssi, the secretary of jews for boycotting israeli goods.
his experience includes working with actionaid to tackle issues such as  conflict diamonds and patent on food; combating discrimination for age concern;  banning wild animals in circuses, fighting intensive farming and irresponsible  puppy breeding for the rspca; with unison on public engagement campaigns and  social and environmental internal engagement campaigns for corporations like  mars and diageo.
check out the panel below: chris norman, strategy director at the good agency @thegoodagency a founding partner of the good agency, chris has worked on social and  environmental campaigns across not-for-profit, corporate, and government  sectors for the last 17 years, developing and implementing communications  strategies to engage stakeholders to motivate behavioural and attitudinal  change.
but we have to mark the passing of harry coover.
presentations included stories of struggle and hope in the uk relating to the palestine struggle outside the israeli embassy, outside beauty product store ahava in central london who sell israeli goods produced from land on illegally occupied territories and then at cable street - the scene of historic anti-fascist and anti-racist riots back in the 1930s.
for over 12 years and have worked on campaigns in  personal finance, energy, food and health.
and of course  it's been gold-dust for campaigners.
superglue has become a great tool in the the long line of creative protest that makes a serious point in a memorable way.
pedal begins at an exciting time for popular movements fighting back."
she has held various positions so has vast experience of targeting media, industry and government to achieve campaign aims.
the cops will  never notice.
presentations included stories of struggle and hope in the uk relating to the  palestine struggle outside the israeli embassy, outside beauty product store  ahava in central london who sell israeli goods produced from land on illegally  occupied territories and then at cable street - the scene of historic  anti-fascist and anti-racist riots back in the 1930s.
in praise of harry coover.
" this blog carries a warning.
michelle, who once tried to join the anti-expansion network,airportwatch, under an assumed name, is the daughter of tony blair's first aviation minister glenda jackson mp.
pedal begins at an exciting time for popular movements  fighting back."
but harry coover recognised the potential in the sticky adhesive, namely that it required no heat or pressure to bond, and so superglue was born.
it is still in a state of shock that a conservative-led government dared to drop new runways at heathrow, stansted and gatwick.
true, we'll make the mother of all exceptions when the aviation industry dies a death.
according to that well-knownpublication 'an executive review of business travel',flying matters will be wound up at the end of the month because its corporate backers (mostly airlines) are falling out amongst themselves about the future direction of policy.
she has held various positions so  has vast experience of targeting media, industry and government to achieve  campaign aims.
press, the hugely popular newspaper which brought a breath of fresh air to  scotland's highlands and island by giving a voice to the crofters and  challenging the staid establishment press.
harry coover - who was 94 when he died - had 400 patents to his name but he will be forever remembered for just one - superglue.
harry coover - to give him his full title, dr harry coover jr - discovered  superglue by accident.
but we have to mark the  passing of harry coover.
so it is farewell to it's chairman brian wilson, the once radical labour  mp, who became tony blair's energy minister and a big defender of nuclear power  and airport expansion.
the ride will trace a trail of corporations complicit in the occupation, pollinate information about the campaign and support activists on trial for bds actions.
he has spent the past five years in inner-city community and youth organising in glasgow, manchester and london.
it is still in a state of shock that a conservative-led  government dared to drop new runways at heathrow, stansted and gatwick.
long after gordon brown has forgotten the precise details of his last speech, he'll remember the day a young man superglued himself to his suit.
this was not misbehaviour by a few, out of control 'bad apples'; it was systematic and orchestrated.
michelle, who once tried to join the anti-expansion network,airportwatch, under  an assumed name, is the daughter of tony blair's first aviation minister glenda  jackson mp.
this will be seen along the route they as they visit different communities where resistance takes positive forms.
submitted by petra on wed,  03/30/2011 - 11:32  tags: gordon brown superglue plane stupid doesn't do obituaries.
superglue has become a great tool in the the long  line of creative protest that makes a serious point in a memorable way.
since then it has been  used to strengthen bridges, patch together internal organs of wounded soldiers  in vietnam and repair the engine of the space shuttle discovery
flying short-haul is the single most  damaging thing an individual can to in terms of your carbon footprint so this  move has been a long time coming.
50,000 passengers flew from leeds/bradford airport to gatwick last year,  the big majority of those people being the very rich who can afford it.