the name london originally referred only to the once-walled "square mile" of the original roman (and later medieval) city (now confusingly called the "city of london" or just "the city").
[15] is a government organisation  responsible for all public transport.
travelling on lower deck of a night bus is generally safer, as there are more passengers around, and you are visible by the bus driver.
it contains maps  plus an excellentjourney planner [16].
for instance, a cash tube one way in zone 1 is £4, while with an oyster  card it costs £1.50.
expect to pay close on £3 for a pint of beer in an average pub.
even better,  it is the only one of the traditional "alpha world cities" (london, new york city and paris) in which the majority of the museums have no entrance  charges, thus allowing visitors to make multiple visits with ease.
and it's entirely possible to be arrested and prosecuted.
children under 14 travels free without identification, under 16 travels  free on production of a child oyster photocard.
london has two types of taxis: the famous black cab, and so-called minicabs.
london, however, has taken on a much larger meaning to include all of the vast central part of the modern metropolis, the city having absorbed numerous surrounding towns and villages over the centuries.
incurs a hefty automatic fine of £80 (£40 if paid within 2 weeks).
all bus stops have their location and the direction of  travel marked on them, although by the time you've seen this it can be too late  to get off!
tax-free shops in airports are not strong in variety,  prices are equal to london, and they close rather early as well.
the following table summarises the validity of the different tickets you can use on oyster.
[18] is a contact-less electronic smartcard run by transport for london.
these are, of course, worse on weekdays during peak commuting hours, i.e. between 7:30am-9:30am and 4pm-7pm
roads are not the greatest but easily skatable.
many improvements have been made for cyclists in the city over the last few years, even if they remain no more than gestures in most places.
[18] is a contact-less electronic smartcard run by transport  for london.
furthermore, a cash bus fare is £2 while with  oyster it is £0.90.
notorious areas for inflated menu prices trading on travellers' gullibility and lack of knowledge are the streets around the british museum, leicester square and piccadilly circus.
by minibus: easybus, website: http://www.easybus.co.uk/.  to baker street (tube: baker street).
due to the high price of accommodation in the city and near the airport, and the fact that many budget airlines don't pay for accommodation in the event of cancellation, an increasing number of travellers choose to spend the night in the airport prior to their flight.
numerous payment options exist: by phone, online and by voucher.
this is fully refundable
london walking directions can be planned online with the walkit.com walking route planner[19].
[http://www.comparelondonbustours.com/ london bus tours] also.
tube etiquette the london underground [20] - also known popularly as the tube - has trains that criss-cross london in the largest underground rail network anywhere in the world (it was also the first, the first section of the metropolitan line dates back to 1863).
the kind of contiguous  cycle lane network found in many other european cities does not exist.
you will probably find that most places, particularly camden and shoreditch, straight bars will have a mixed clientele.
non-folding bikes can only be taken on limited sections of the tube  network, mostly only on the above-ground sections outside peak hours.
also the london transport museum  whose gift shop has some of the best souvenirs in the city (old maps, vintage  tube posters, etc).
your budget will have a lot to do with what part of london you will want to stay in.
there are a number of other hostels all through the city.
indian/bangladeshi restaurants are generally more fruitful, as they have plenty of traditional dishes that only use vegetables.
don't take illegal minicabs (see 'getting around' for details).
the congestion zone does not apply, and thus for anyone commuting it's usually the cheapest option (possibly excluding bus rides).
london waterloo, serves south west london and england: portsmouth,  winchester, southampton, bournemouth, weymouth, salisbury and exeter.
beckenham is served by routes 1 and 2 (yellow and red on the tramlink map), which terminate at elmers end and beckenham junction respectively.
the amount of prepay deducted from your oyster card in one day is capped at the cost of the appropriatepaper day ticket (day travelcard) for the zones you have travelled through, less 50 pence.
london marylebone, serves some north western suburban stations  such as amersham, harrow on the hill and wembley stadium.
however, the cost of alcohol drops significantly the further away you go from the centre (though be aware that west london tends to be an exception, with prices pretty much the same as the centre).
if you keep it in  your wallet try not to sit on it as sometimes they will crack and cease to  work.
london bridge, victoria, cannon street and charing cross serve the south east.
to  victoria (tube: victoria) via golders green and marble arch.
london victoria, serves south east london and england: brighton,  dover, eastbourne, hastings and ramsgate.
the metropolitan police have placed significant resources in combating street level crime.
the 45 minute trip along  regent's canal is a delightful way to travel.
it also saves time getting onto buses.
currently  undergoing redevelopment and is set to become london's sixth international  airport once the new rail link is completed.
£2  single [edit] london gatwick (iata: lgw, icao: egkk)
the airport is miles away from any settlement  and security guards overlook the open-plan building 24/7.
drivers must take an extensive exam in london's streets to be licensed for a black cab, meaning they can supposedly navigate you to almost any london street without reference to a map.
a crowd of around 100 travellers (up to 400 in summer) camp in the main departure/arrivals hall every night, effectively turning it into a giant dormitory.
this has led to  a large number of illegal minicabs operating - just opportunistic people, with  a car, looking to make some fast money.
by boat oyster card in use oyster pay-as-you-go on national rail be careful - while oyster pay-as-you-go is valid on london  underground, london buses and london overground, pay-as-you-go is not valid on  manynational rail trains - you have to use a travelcard, buy  separate paper tickets.
[edit] by tube / underground tube etiquette beware of pickpockets.
trouble spots can be expected around popular drinking locations such as soho and in various suburban centres.
it is also the most culturally  and ethnically diverse part of the country, and, for a visitor, a nice  side-effect of this is the wide range of cuisines available.
black cabs charge by distance and by the  minute, are non-smoking, and have a minimum charge of £2.20.
prices start from £35 per night for a basic single room.27 argyle street kings cross london wc1h 8ep, uk.
particularly in large ethnic communities, there is a competitive market which stands to benefit the consumer.
however, this presents travellers with a  problem, as the airport's location is a long way outside london, and transport  to the airport does not operate before 5:30am.
note  that admission to many temporary exhibitions is not free.
roads are not the greatest but  easily skatable.
in the united kingdom helmets are not compulsory for cyclists, and opinions  differ on their value.
england's royal family has, over the centuries, added much to the london  scene for today's traveller: thealbert memorial, buckingham palace, kensington  palace, royal albert hall,tower of london and westminster abbey being prominent  examples.
most international and domestic long distance bus (uk english: coach) services arrive at and depart from a complex of coach stations off buckingham palace road inst james's close to london victoria rail station.
in an emergency, telephone "999" (or "112").
open for tours during the summer  months only, but a must-see sight even if you don't go in.
your best bet is to ask fellow passengers and/or to trace your route on a map[24].
reflective clothing is always a good idea even  during the day.
[edit] by bus red bus in london bus stop london's iconic red buses are recognized the world over, even if the  traditional open-platform routemaster buses have been largely phased out.
it's usually the cheapest option (possibly excluding bus rides).
although london can be expensive many of the best museums and galleries are free includingtate modern, tate britain, british museum, national gallery, national portrait gallery and most museums in greenwich.
you can "charge up" an oyster card with electronic funds.
furthermore, a cash bus fare is £2 while with oyster it is £0.90.
some of these operators can be fairly  aggressive in their attempts to find customers, and it's now barely possible to  walk late at night through any part of london with a modicum of nightlife  without being approached.
to plan your trip on the  tube work out first which station is closest to your starting point and which  closest to your destination.
this number connects to police, ambulance and fire/rescue services.
the airport is actually quite a long way from london.
a suburban rail service that crosses north london and round to richmond, run by tfl.
they also offer a 24-hour travel  information line, charged at local rate: tel020 7222 1234 (or text 60835)
alternatively make sure you are equipped with an integrated map of london buses and tubes[31] so that you can make the most of your oyster card by getting less unpleasantly lost and more pleasantly lost!
if payment is not immediately provided, the bouncers will lock the "patrons" inside and take it by force.
all services operated by national express or eurolines (see below) servevictoria coach station, which actually has separate arrival and departure buildings.
there are no less than 12 main linenational rail [14] terminals (although in conversation you may hear the brand national rail infrequently if ever it differentiates main line and london  underground services; journey planner online or phone 08457 48 49 50).
as  per stansted, and for the same reasons, many choose to spend the night here  before flying, although "first capital connect" trains run 24 hours.
sleeping on the  floor is tolerated by the staff, but avoid pitching your bed in front of shops  and counters.
also the downtown terminus of the heathrow airport  express (see above) and serves some suburban stations such as acton main line  and ealing broadway.
bus 285 (or taxi) to feltham railway station (20 minutes) then a train to  london waterloo on the [[london/south bank|south bank]] or clapham junction in
if you are in the mood for a view  of london by boat.
for zone 1-2 (central london including everywhere inside the circle line and some places outside) this is £4.80 (£6.30 m-f before 9:30am).
today london is easily the largest  city in the united kingdom, eight times larger than the second largest city, birmingham, and ten times larger than the third, glasgow, and dominates the  economic, political and social life of the nation (much to the annoyance of  people in the provinces i.e. everywhere except london).
however many, especially  older drivers, dislike leaving the centre of town, or going south of the river  thames.
a quick summary  of transport options (also see heathrow airport[6]): fastest: by heathrow express rail, : 0845 600 1515,  website:http://www.heathrowexpress.com/. every 15 minutes, journey time 15  minutes.
[edit] london heathrow main article: heathrow airport heathrow (icao: egll, iata: lhr)
[edit] get in [edit] by plane image:london airport links summary.svg london (all airports code: lon) is served by a total of six  airports.
you must have working front and rear lights during hours of darkness.
it terminates  at st pancras international.
the 'green lungs' of  london are the many parks, great and small, scattered throughout the city  includingst james park and hyde park.
there is also the option of a central london park and ride site located at  park lane and marble arch, seenational park and ride directory [edit] get around
oxford university is fairly near london
with the excellent tube available where you stay won't limit what you see but be sure to check where the closest tube station is to your hotel.
a top tip is don't be put off if there are no beds left online, phone the hostel in question to see if there are still beds available or if there has been a cancellation.
this will make london the first city to hold the olympic games three times, having hosted the games previously in 1908 and 1948.
tube maps [21] are freely available from any station, most tourist offices and are prominently displayed throughout stations and, for some obscure reason, in the back of most diaries.
journey time to  stratford: 1 hour.
fares  are demand responsive but can be very cheap (£1.50 if you book far enough  in advance).
a  suburban rail service that crosses north london and round to richmond, run by
this is fully refundable if you hand it in at the end of the trip.
the tube is an easy method of transport  even for new visitors to london.
golders green for jewish and kingsland road for good cheap vietnamese.
with  the rise of britain to supreme maritime power in the 18th and 19th centuries,  the possessor of the largest global empire, london became an imperial capital  and drew people and influences from around the world to become, for many years,  the largest city in the world.
you may wish to  consider taking a taxi if you have a lot of baggage or small children.
[5] is london and europe's largest airport and the world's busiest airport in terms of international passenger movement, with services from most available major airports world-wide.
if a train is badly overcrowded, to see when the next is due look at the  information display.
many of the most popular buses tend to be of the double-length articulated  variety, known as bendy buses.
walking can also  be the quickest way to get somewhere: check your map, central london is  surprisingly compact.
these offer a good, albeit  somewhat expensive, introduction to the sights of london.
alsobrick lane, greenwich and portobello, [40].
east - a mixture of galleries and bustling nightlife, as well as the some  of the most deprived areas in the country.
however, if you are only using the tube, bus and tram, oyster pay-as-you-go makes a lot of sense.
these can be used on any tube,  dlr, bus, london overground,national rail or tram service within the  zones for which they were purchased.
charing cross road (near covent garden) - books, books and more  books!
london hosts an outstanding collection of world-class museums.
in the summer season, many of the colleges and universities in central london open up their student halls of residence as hotels during vacations, at usually much lower rates than proper hotels, but expect very basic facilities and no catering.
the london eye is the world's third largest observation wheel,  situated on thesouth bank of the thames with magnificent views over london.
bus drivers are usually too busy to be able to tell you when you've  reached your destination.
oxford street - main shopping street home to flagship branches of  all the major british high street retailers in one go including selfridges[33],  john lewis[34] (includes a food hall), marks & spencer
to london victoria via clapham junction.
a sleeping bag is generally recommended as the automatic doors constantly  open and close as passengers arrive, and it can get chilly in winter.
the night bus service is a reliable and often  interesting way to get home at night.
buses  are generally quicker than taking the tube for short trips (less than a couple  of stops on the tube), and out of central london you're likely to be closer to  a bus stop than a tube station.
[38] is a great (if expensive) food market, offering fruit, veg, cheese, bread, meat, fish, and so on, much of it organic.
care should be taken as to where you choose to park your bike.
the choice of places to go sometimes seem to be unmanageable.
they generally charge a fixed fare for a journey, best agreed before you get in the car.
it's  normally a better idea to take a train to london liverpool street and continue  by taxi from there.
they also offer a 24-hour travel information line, charged at local rate: tel020 7222 1234 (or text 60835) for suggestions on getting from a to b, and for up to the minute information on how services are running.
night buses are identified by an 'n' at the start of the route number, for example the n73 runs between walthamstow central and victoria.
tipping is not mandatory in either taxis or minicabs, despite some drivers' expectations.....
use your discretion , if you like the service you may tip  otherwise don't.
there is a map  showing this on the transport for london website.
direct trains connect southampton airport  to london waterloo station.
indeed, nearly a third of households do not feel the need to  own a car.
like many big cities, london has a variety of social problems, especially begging, drug abuse, theft (mobile phones are a favourite).
in london, many cyclists, especially those seen in rush  hour, also wear filter masks, but their efficacy is even more disputed.
alongside the regular police, the are over 4000 police community support officers (pcso's) that provide a highly visible presence on the streets and are able to deal with low-level crime.
[edit] see london can be stressful with kids - check london with children for slightly  less stressful sightseeing london is a huge city, so all individual listings are in the appropriate  district articles.
offering you a wide variety  of full day, half day or overnight [http://www.londonsightseeingtours.com/  london sightseeing tours], tours also from london to paris, edinburgh and other  locations in the uk such as bath, windsor and stonehenge to name a few.
by coach: national express, : 0870 580 8080, website:  http://www.nationalexpress.com.
it recently attracted controversy over the 'fourth plinth', previously  empty, being temporarily home to a marc quin sculpture, 'alison lapper  pregnant'.
bus drivers are usually too busy to be able to tell you when you've reached your destination.
the roman city of londinium,  however, established just after the roman conquest of britannia in the year 43,  formed the basis for the modern city (some isolated roman period remains are  still to be seen within the city).
services by other operators may use this station, or thegreen line coach station across buckingham palace road.
old-fashionedroutemaster buses, with an open rear platform and on-board conductor to collect fares, run onheritage route 9 and 15 every 15 minutes, daily between about 9:30am and 6:30pm.
see the district articles for the city of london, docklands and trafalgar square.
to stratford (tube: stratford) or  victoria (tube: victoria).
london's iconic red buses are recognized the world over, even if the traditional open-platform routemaster buses have been largely phased out.
if you are dining with carnivorous friends, then most restaurants will cater for vegetarians, and will have at least a couple of dishes on the menu.
the names of several boroughs, such as westminster  or camden, are well-known and self-explanatory, others less so, such as hackney  or tower hamlets.
not the most  efficient option.
between arena and sandilands, these two services
you will likely get lost but that is half the fun; if it worries you go for a  commercial tour.
there are several commercial wi-fi hotspots covering most of the airport, but  they charge extortionate rates.
there are no  drinking fountains.
(iata:  '''bhx''', icao: '''egbb''') is another non-london airport worth considering as  a less congested and hectic alternative to heathrow, being just over an hour  away from london.
as the trains often operate without a driver, it can be quite exciting  - especially for children - to sit in front and look at through the window,  whilst feeling as though one is driving the train oneself.
this could be related to the relative ease of hopping on and off these without paying (at stops, doors open along the length of the bus and there is no on-board conductor).
london went from strength to strength and with the rise of england to first  european then global prominence the city became a great center of culture,  government and industry.
mostnational rail operators allow bicycles outside peak hours also.
st james' park [29] buckingham palace
soho - alternative music and clothes.
refer to theoyster pay-as-you-go on national rail map[17] to help you, or ask at the station.
flashing led lights are legal.
london has a number of outdoor ice rinks that open in the winter months.
london king's cross, serves east anglia, north-east england and  eastscotland: cambridge, doncaster, leeds, york, kingston upon hull, newcastle  upon tyne, edinburgh and aberdeen.
travelcard not valid
south east - covers greenwich, bromley, croydon, deptford, dulwich,  lewisham and penge.
however, there is no expiry date on the oyster  card or any pay-as-you-go credit on the card.
one way £6.90, round trip  £12.90 cheapest: by london underground (piccadilly line), :  0845 330 9880, website:http://www.tfl.gov.uk/tube.
trains run from around 5:30am to about 1am.
however, if transiting through london be sure to check the  arrival and departure airports carefully as transfers across the city may be  quite time consuming.
end  (bond street, covent garden, oxford street and regent street).
door to door: national express dot2dot, : 0845 368 2368,  website:http://www.dot2.com/. door to door airport transfer service operating  between central london and heathrow and gatwick airports.
the difficulty with buses over the tube is knowing when to get off; while  tube stations are clearly marked it is sometimes more difficult to work out  where to get off a bus.
north west - the upscale areas of finchley, hampstead, hampstead garden  suburb, maida vale andst.
it is decorated with high towers and featuring a  drawbridge and you can visit the engine rooms and a tower bridge exhibition.
due to the mix of cultures and religions, many london restaurants cater well for religious dietary requirements.
move clear of the foot of escalators, ticket halls and station entrances.
the tube is made up of 12 lines each bearing a  traditional name and a standard color on the tube map.
st pancras international, serves paris, brussels, luton airport  and theeast midlands: leicester, nottingham, derby and sheffield.
the general rule is to leave a tip for table service, unless there's already a service charge added or unless the service has been notably poor.
minicabs are usually cheaper than black cabs, although this is not necessarily the case for short journeys.
old-fashionedroutemaster buses, with an open rear platform and on-board  conductor to collect fares, run onheritage route 9 and 15 every  15 minutes, daily between about 9:30am and 6:30pm.
watch football, website: http://www.thefa.com/. take in  a home match of one of the city's 20+ professional football clubs for a true  experience of a lifetime as you see the passion of the "world's game"  in its mother country.
by bus, website:  http://www.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/gettingaround/maps/buses/pdf/londoncityairportandsilvertown-12121.pdf .
donations are welcome.
although  london can be expensive many of the best museums and galleries are free  includingtate modern, tate britain, british museum, national gallery, national  portrait gallery and most museums in greenwich.
it's open th-sa, and it's best to go in the morning,  since it gets unpleasantly crowded by around 11am.
by rail then london underground: stansted express to tottenham  hale then london underground (victoria line), : 0845 600 7245, website: http://www.stanstedexpress.com/. every 15 minutes.
website:  http://www.terravision.it/. hourly, journey time 75 minutes.
both provide  hop-on/hop-off services where you can get off at any attraction and catch the  next bus; both provide live commentaries in english and recorded commentaries  in other languages (not necessarily on the same buses).
the farringdon/hoxton/shoreditch area mainly consists of clubs playing drum and bass, house and trance music and is home to two superclubs, fabric (arguably the sexiest nightclub in london) and turnmills.
if you have any pay-as-you-go credit  left this will also be refunded.
over 5 million bus trips are made each weekday; with over 700 different bus routes you are never far from a bus in london.
since the  tube map is well designed it is very easy to work out how to get between any  two stations, and since each station is clearly signed and announced it is easy  to work out when to get off your train.
in the evening allow extra half an hour as closing hours are not always strictly respected.
an integrated map of london's tube, train and bus map can be purchased  online at mapvendor.com[22] or alternatively you can view the map online [23].
the london cycle campaign[27] is an advocacy group for london cyclists and organizes regular group rides and events.
for zone 1-2 (central london  including everywhere inside the circle line and some places outside) this is  £4.80 (£6.30 m-f before 9:30am).
reflective clothing is always a good idea even during the day.
noticeably, there are many new signposted cycle routes and some new cycle lanes, not to mention more cyclists since the 2005 public transport attacks.
however, there are plenty of good-value, even cheap places to eat - you just have to know where to look.
the most common signs are for halal and kosher meat, from burger joints to nice restaurants.
indeed, nearly a third of households do not feel the need to own a car.
failure to pay the charge by midnight the next charging day (take note!)
also the downtown terminus of the  gatwick airport express.
care should be taken as it is possible for  those unfamiliar with this type of bus to get on board and then have no way of  paying.
gay pride[43] is held every year in june with parade and street parties.
the network is centred oncroydon, where it runs on street-level  tracks around the croydon loop.
[edit] by cycle due to the expense of other forms of transport and the compactness of  central london, cycling is a tempting option.
[edit] understand [edit] history settlement has existed on the site of london since well before roman times,  with evidence of bronze age and celtic settlement.
as one of the world's most cosmopolitan cities, you can find restaurants serving food cuisine from nearly every country, some of it as good as, if not better than the countries of origin.
notable clubs include cafe de paris, china white, funky buddha, mahiki, number one leicester square and paper.
many of the most popular buses tend to be of the double-length articulated variety, known as bendy buses.
the extra cost of getting around is probably not significant compared to hotel savings further out.
in east london for example, the vast number of kfc-style chicken shops means that a deal for 2 pieces of chicken, chips (fries) and a drink shouldn't cost you more than £2, and will satisfy even the largest of appetites.
[edit] summary the following table summarises the validity of the different tickets you  can use on oyster.
brixton for african/caribbean, chinatown insoho for chinese, edgware road in marylebone for middle eastern and drummond street (just behind euston railway station) for a selection of good value indian vegetarian.
the 'green lungs' of london are the many parks, great and small, scattered throughout the city includingst james park and hyde park.
most of the larger parks have their  origins in royal estates and hunting grounds and are still owned by the crown,  despite their public access.
tramlink, opened in 2000, is the first modern tram system to operate in london.
like everything else, you should book online well in advance - the hostels usually fill up on friday and saturday nights about 14 days before.
serve the same stops.
[7] london's second airport, also  serving a large spectrum of places world-wide.
[edit] pay-as-you-go (prepay) you can charge up your oyster card with electronic cash at any tube station  ticket machine or ticket desk (you can even use a credit card to do this if  your credit card has a pin number) with oyster pay-as-you-go, also known as  prepay.
for the disabled driving can be much more convenient than using public  transport.
to get to central london the following options exist: by rail, website: http://www.nationalrail.co.uk/.  journey time: 30-60 minutes.
the amount tipped is generally in the region of 10%, but if there's a figure between 10 and 15% which would leave the bill at a conveniently round total, many would consider it polite to tip this amount.
if you are looking for particular nationalities these tend to be clustered in certain areas:brick lane in east london is famous for curries but for better quality tooting in south west london has a good reputation and is cheaper.
the international olympic committee decided in 2005 that london will serve as the host city for thegames of the xxx olympiad [3], the summer olympic games of 2012.
on thursday many west  end stores close late (7pm-8pm).
also camden lock  market.
in addition to london's six official airports (of which  only two are located within greater london) there are a number of other  regional uk airports conveniently accessible from london.
(iata: '''sou''', icao: '''eghi''') is not officially a london airport,  though accessible enough to conveniently serve the capital, especially south  west london.
however, this presents travellers with a problem, as the airport's location is a long way outside london, and transport to the airport does not operate before 5:30am.
it terminates at st pancras international.
no airport express trains are heathrow, gatwick and stansted express, and  thameslink to luton piccadilly line to heathrow is a london underground train, so prepay and  travelcards are valid.
travelcard not valid.
despite residents constant, and sometimes justified, grumbling about unreliability public transport is often the best option for getting anywhere for visitors and residents alike and is far more reliable than locals would have you believe.
a free wi-fi hotspot is located in the arrivals gate area, next to the phone booths offering fixed internet.
cameras and mobile units record and identify the number plates and registration details of all vehicles entering the charging zone with high accuracy.
the following are amongst the main  coach operators: national express, : 0870 580 8080, website:  http://www.nationalexpress.com/. is by far the largest domestic coach operator  and operates services to / from london from throughout [[england]], [[wales]]  and [[scotland]].
thecentral london congestion charge [28] m-f 7am-6pm (excluding public holidays) attracts a fee of £8 if paid thesame day, or £10 if paid on the next charging day.
many improvements have  been made for cyclists in the city over the last few years, even if they remain  no more than gestures in most places.
sleeper trains to scotland leave from  euston.
the network is centred oncroydon, where it runs on street-level tracks around the croydon loop.
the roman city of londinium, however, established just after the roman conquest of britannia in the year 43, formed the basis for the modern city (some isolated roman period remains are still to be seen within the city).
from  £1 (advance web purchase) to £8 one way by car.
tax-free shops in airports are not strong in variety, prices are equal to london, and they close rather early as well.
london has hundreds of options for accommodation from hostels through historic bed and breakfasts (b&bs) and apartments to five star hotels.
loud and rowdy behaviour is to be expected and fights and acts of aggression do occur.
one way £16.90, round trip  £28.80, for the cheapest fare visit their website by rail: southern railway, : 0845 127 2920, website:  http://www.southernrailway.com/. every 15 minutes, journey time 35-40 minutes.
every 30 minutes, journey time 75 minutes.
london has plenty of vegetarian-only restaurants, and a quick search in google will produce plenty of ideas, so you never have to see a piece of cooked meat all week.
to stratford: £8 one  way, £14 round trip.
this  mostly centers around hyde park (on the serpentine road) and kensington gardens  (by the albert memorial).
safety is not a problem.
for the cheapest fare ask for an  ''
with the exception of fenchurch street (nearest tube: tower hill) these are on the london underground.
the london underground [20] - also known popularly as the tube - has trains that criss-cross london in the largest underground rail network  anywhere in the world (it was also the first, the first section of the  metropolitan line dates back to 1863).
the usual targets of these establishments are male tourists.
the congestion zone does not apply, and thus for anyone commuting
whilst gun crime, by united states standards is extremely low, deaths from gunshot wounds are increasing, however these usually occur within gang disputes particularly in south and east london.
traveling between the city and the airports is made relatively easy  by the large number of public transport links that have been put in place over  recent years.
a good tip is, that outside advertised restriction hours, parking on a single yellow line is permissible.
since they offer a  growing number of budget flights choosing those airports can be cheaper (or  even faster, depending on where in london your destination is).
the tube map also gives no information on london's extensive overground bus network and its orbital rail network.
with oyster one way £3.50-£4.80 taxi.
rough guide to what you might get, should you fancy eating out: prices inevitably become inflated at venues closest to major tourist attractions - beware the so-called tourist traps.
touch the card against a yellow disc, prominently displayed on the entry and  exit gates for the tube (do not try to insert it into the slot!)
though densely populated by new world standards,  london retains large swathes of green parkland and open space, even within the  city center.
parking for motorbikes and scooters is free at many of the reserved areas.
there are over 1000 minicab companies in london,  the largest one is addison lee (020 7387 8888)[http://www.addisonlee.com/],  other companies offering airport transfers can be found in the yellow pages  [http://www.yell.com/ucs/ucssearchaction.do?keywords=airport+transfers&companyname=&location=london&search.x=11&search.y=11&search=search&searchtype=advance&m=0&lastkeyword=minicab&lastclarifyindex=&lastclarifyoptions=&lastsearchall=&ssm=0].
shop listings  at airport web sites can help to plan your tax-free (vs traditional) shopping.
excellent free cycle maps[25] can be obtained from your local tube stations, bike shop, or ordered online.
since they offer a growing number of budget flights choosing those airports can be cheaper (or even faster, depending on where in london your destination is).
services arrive at and depart from a complex of coach stations off buckingham  palace road inst james's close to london victoria rail station.
for broadway-like musicals the [[london/leicester  square|leicester square]] area is highly recommended.
avoid large areas of social housing estates unless you know people there, they can be very dangerous places.
tips for sleeping at stansted airport: arrive early, preferably around 10pm, and stake your territory  immediately.
old city of london free tour starts  everyday at 10 am by the sundial directly opposite the tower gateway exit at  tower hill station.
most charge from £10-12 (adults)  for an hour on the ice, including skate hire.
bond street - some of the world's most luxurious designer stores  such as cartier, d&g, jimmy choo, louis vuitton and versace.
the london waterbus  company runs scheduled services (more in summer, less in winter) from little  venice to camden lock with a stop at the london zoo.
samuel johnson famously said, "when one is tired of london, one is tired of life."
minicabs are licenced hire vehicles that you need to book by phone or at a minicab office.
in an emergency phone shelter on 0808 800 4444 (8am-midnight) (shelter is a british housing and homelessness charity).
route 3 (wimbledon to new addington - green on the tramlink map) is the  most frequent service, running every 7 1/2 minutes monday to saturday daytime  and every 15 minutes at all other times.
[edit] travelcard season tickets weekly, monthly and longer-period travelcard season tickets can be  purchased at all tube station ticket offices.
the famous black cab of london (not always black in these days of heavy advertising!) can be hailed from the curb or found at one of the many designated taxi ranks.
london waterloo serves  the south west.
a licenced cab  from the airport to central london (&pound;60) would take about an  hour(depending on traffic) westendcarservices.com.
to find out what is going on during your visit, boyz magazine[42] is published fortnightly and is freely available at most london gay venues, and contains listings of everything that is happening in all the major clubs in london and the south east.
considered by some to be somewhat overpriced and overcrowded, they nonetheless have multiplied in recent years, easing congestion and increasing competition.
this mode of transport is usually the fastest way to get from one part of london to the another, the only problem being the relative expense, and the fact that it can get extremely crowded during rush hours (7:30am-9:30am and 4:30pm-7pm).
non-folding bikes can only be taken on limited sections of the tube network, mostly only on the above-ground sections outside peak hours.
greater london consists of 32 london boroughs and the city of london that, together with the relatively new mayor of london, form the basis for london's local government.
apart from the trains looking slightly different and running slightly less frequently than the tube, visitors may as well treat the two systems as the same.
other nationalities are equally represented, but are randomly dotted all over london.
fares are the same for night buses as for regular  services.
[edit] by boat a slower, pleasant way to travel through the city; privately owned, but  discounts are offered on some lines to travelcard holders.
some of these operators can be fairly aggressive in their attempts to find customers, and it's now barely possible to walk late at night through any part of london with a modicum of nightlife without being approached.
the company has been featured in the new  york times, the wall street journal, time, newsweek and on cnn, the bbc and the  travel channel.
nightlife seems to be an integral feature of london life and there are countless nightclubs in and around central london with music to suit even the most eclectic of tastes.
for transfers directly between london's airports, the fastest way (short of  a taxi) is the direct inter-airport bus service by national express[4].
bed & breakfast hotel - the jesmond dene hotel
whether you are interested in ancient history, modern art, opera or underground raves, london has it all.
if you hand it in at the end of the trip.
buses display their route number in large digits at the front,  side, and rear of the bus.
to london paddington.
driving in central london is a slow, frustrating,  expensive and often unnecessary activity.
with the  exception of fenchurch street (nearest tube: tower hill) these are on the  london underground.
travelcard valid by taxi.
note that  these machines don't provide change (all the more reason to use one of the  other options).
these can be used on any tube, dlr, bus, london overground,national rail or tram service within the zones for which they were purchased.
buses between heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton run at least hourly, with heathrow-gatwick services taking 65min (£18) and heathrow-stansted services 90min (£20.50) (note that services between stansted and luton run only every two hours).
critical mass london [26] meets for regular rides through central london at  6pm on the last friday of each month.
london's long association with the theater, for example, can be traced back to the english renaissance (witness the rose theatre [2] and great playwrights like shakespeare who made london their home).
cabwise, : 60835, website:  http://www.london.gov.uk/cabwise/. a free service provided by tfl which texts  you local licensed minicab numbers.
generally, outside central london, south and east suburban areas are considered more dangerous, notably brixton and hackney, although some parts of north-west london such as harlesden and northern camden are also known trouble spots.
due to the expense of other forms of transport and the compactness of central london, cycling is a tempting option.
south london is poorly served by the tube and lacks east-west national rail services so the network connects wimbledon in south west london to beckenham in south east london and new addington, a large housing estate in south croydon.
you are able to change freely between lines at  interchange stations (providing you stay within the zones shown on your  ticket).
on the tube, be sure to touch in and touch out again at the end of your journey.
londoners who drive will normally take public transport in the centre; follow their example.
the  safest option is to stick to minor residential roads where traffic can be  surprisingly calm outside rush hours.
they generally charge a fixed fare for a journey, best  agreed before you get in the car.
the 45 minute trip along regent's canal is a delightful way to travel.
the vast majority  of events will be held in a regenerated area in east london.
[38] is a great (if  expensive) food market, offering fruit, veg, cheese, bread, meat, fish, and so  on, much of it organic.
note that these machines don't provide change (all the more reason to use one of the other options).
travelcard not  valid by coach: terravision, : 01279 680028,
in south london many areas only have national rail services (no  london underground services but there are buses).
pay-as-you-go is much cheaper than paying in cash for each journey.
thecentral london  congestion charge [28] m-f 7am-6pm (excluding public holidays) attracts a  fee of £8 if paid thesame day, or £10 if paid on the next  charging day.
to get to the center of the  city, the following options exist: by rail: gatwick express, : 0845 850 1530, website:  http://www.gatwickexpress.com/. every 15 minutes, journey time 30-35 minutes.
a licenced cab  from the airport to central london (&pound;65) would take about an  hour(depending on traffic).
it is full of excellent  bars, galleries, museums, parks and theaters.
a zone 1-6travelcard can be used on the london underground  (piccadilly line) to/from heathrow airport.
london has a number of outdoor ice rinks that open  in the winter months.
chelsea in west london - the king's road is noted for fashion,  homeware and kids.
hostels are not necessarily as unpleasant as you may think, and as long as you don't mind sharing with others, they can be the most cost effective option, and also offer breakfast as well as kitchens for self catering.
[15] is a government organisation responsible for all public transport.
this means you must either have a pay-as-you-go oyster card, travelcard season ticket, bus saver ticket, bus pass, or have bought a one way ticket from a machine at the bus stop.
website:http://www.newlondon-tours.com.
in central london, the main shopping district is thewest
as the trains often operate without a driver, it can be quite exciting - especially for children - to sit in front and look at through the window, whilst feeling as though one is driving the train oneself.
world cultures throughout history are well represented, for example, at the british museum.
critical mass london [26] meets for regular rides through central london at 6pm on the last friday of each month.
servevictoria coach  station, which actually has separate arrival and departure buildings.
london bridge, london cannon street, london waterloo east and london charing cross, serve south and south east london and  england:brighton, dover, eastbourne, hastings and ramsgate.
it has information for getting in as well as some complete entries for restaurants and hotels.
the london cycle campaign[27] is an advocacy group for london  cyclists and organizes regular group rides and events.
parking during weekdays and on saturday can also mean considerable expense in parking fees - fees and restrictions are ignored at your extreme financial peril - issuing fines, clamping and towing vehicles (without warning!) has become a veritable new industry for borough councils staffed by armies of traffic wardens.
operates budget coach services from/to  london (victoria coach station) to/from several major regional cities, it is  even possible to get to inverness in the [[scotland|scottish]] highlands.
care should be taken as it is possible for those unfamiliar with this type of bus to get on board and then have no way of paying.
one of the world's great metropolises, anything and everything you could possibly want to buy is available in london, if you know where to look, and if you can afford it (london is not particularly noted for bargain shopping, owing to high prices and high exchange rates - though it can be done with some determination).
as per stansted, and for the same reasons, many choose to spend the night here before flying, although "first capital connect" trains run 24 hours.
visit fortnum  & mason[32], "the queen's grocery store."
london,  however, has taken on a much larger meaning to include all of the vast central  part of the modern metropolis, the city having absorbed numerous surrounding  towns and villages over the centuries.
routes served by this type of bus always carry a yellow route sign as detailed above.
[edit] eat this guide uses the following price ranges for a typical  mealfor one, including soft drink: budget below £10
themuseum of london (admission free) makes an ideal destination for the traveller who wants to understand the history and ongoing legacy of this great city.
the vast majority of events will be held in a regenerated area in east london.
world cultures throughout history are well represented,  for example, at the british museum.
touch the card against a yellow disc, prominently displayed on the entry and exit gates for the tube (do not try to insert it into the slot!) and on buses and trams.
cycling on the sidewalk (pavement) is illegal.
the east london line is now closed until 2010 when it will become part of the new london overground.
for most tourists, tubes and buses are the only transport you will use, but be aware of the limitations if you travel onnational rail or on airport express trains.
london possesses one of the best collections of museums and galleries  anywhere in the world.
for  adventerous people.
if you have any pay-as-you-go credit left this will also be refunded.
districts in london tend to specialize to different types of music.
borough (tube: london bridge)
the city has one of the most comprehensive public transport systems in the  world.
it's open th-sa, and it's best to go in the morning, since it gets unpleasantly crowded by around 11am.
if all else fails, central london has lots of mini-supermarkets operated by the big british supermarket chains (e.g. marks & spencer, sainsbury's, tesco) where you can pick up a pre-packed sandwich.
[45] (yha) operates four hostels in central london.
the weekly magazinetime out
night buses are identified by an 'n' at  the start of the route number, for example the n73 runs between walthamstow  central and victoria.
at these times public transport (and especially the tube) usually offers the best alternative for speed and reduced hassle.
theoretically you don't need to remove it from your wallet or bag to do this, the card reader can work through a bag, but in reality you may need to take the card out to get it to work.
at these times  public transport (and especially the tube) usually offers the best alternative  for speed and reduced hassle.
adhering to this train equette will make  life easier.
bus routes, numbers and timetable all change with most of the buses radiating out from around thetrafalgar square area to most outlying parts of greater london.
the police are generally very helpful when problems do occur.
fortunately for visitors (and indeed residents) there  is a single ticketing system, oyster, which enables travellers to switch  between modes of transport on one ticket - but even this has a few limitations  (see the guide below) and it is not yet universally accepted by many of the  private rail operators.
[[london/south west|south west london]].
in the central  area, tickets have to be bought at a machine by the bus stop if you don't have  an oyster and outside the zone from the driver.
it is close to many famous sites and has the best local transportation in london.
oxford street - high-street shopping soho - nightclubs and restaurants, the heart of gay london trafalgar square - churches, galleries and monuments bloomsbury - academic and intellectual area, many of the university of  london's constituent colleges are based here clerkenwell city of london - the historical, and financial, core of the city holborn mayfair south bank - a vibrant, artsy area fronting the river thames st james's - a city in its own right, and home of the british government  and royal family west - major centers include chelsea, kensington, paddington, acton,  chiswick, ealing, fulham, hammersmith, hayes, shepherd's bush and uxbridge.
there are always plenty of people on the street, even at 4am.
to victoria: 90 minutes.
after the end of roman rule in 410 and a  short-lived decline, london experienced a gradual revival under the  anglo-saxons, as well as the norsemen, and emerged as a great medieval trading  city, and eventually replacedwinchester as the royal capital of england.
despite residents constant, and sometimes justified, grumbling about  unreliability public transport is often the best option for getting anywhere  for visitors and residents alike and is far more reliable than locals would  have you believe.
whilst waiting for a train, allow others coming down the escalators  behind you space by moving down the platform.
in the center drivers are more used to skaters than in the  outskirts.
tower bridge is the iconic 19th century bridge located by the  tower of london nearthe city.
real londoners wouldn't dream of eating here - you shouldn't either!
they are a cheap transport option if there are five passengers as they do not charge extras, and many view them as an essential experience for any visitor to london.
lowest priced available if booked online at  westendcarservices.com zingo, : 0870 070 0700, website:  http://www.zingotaxi.co.uk/. you will be connected direct with the driver of  the nearest available black cab anywhere in london to arrange pickup.
the kind of contiguous cycle lane network found in many other european cities does not exist.
routes served by this type of bus always carry a  yellow route sign as detailed above.
however, if transiting through london be sure to check the arrival and departure airports carefully as transfers across the city may be quite time consuming.
the tube map also  gives no information on london's extensive overground bus network and its  orbital rail network.
[30] - the official london residence of the  queen, one of several royal palaces in london.
london walking directions can be planned online with the  walkit.com walking route planner[19].
reflecting the massive size of the  metropolis, therefore, the term greater london embracescentral london together  with all the outlying suburbs that lie in one continuous urban sprawl within  the lower thames valley.
on thursday many west end stores close late (7pm-8pm).
a licenced cab  from the airport to central london (&pound;30) would take about 30 minutes  upto 45 minutes at peak times(depending on traffic).
all services  operated by national express or eurolines (see below)
beckenham is served by routes 1 and 2  (yellow and red on the tramlink map), which terminate at elmers end and  beckenham junction respectively.
motorbike is arguably the fastest way around london, but also the most  dangerous.
there are also many vegetarian thai buffet places where you can eat somewhat unconvincing (but tasty) meat substitute grub for £5.
in summer they are crowded  with pedestrians and not suitable for cycling, but in winter or late in the  evening they offer a very fast and safe way to travel from east to west in  north london.
these are, of course, worse on weekdays during  peak commuting hours, i.e. between 7:30am-9:30am and 4pm-7pm
one way £15.50,  return trip £29 second fastest: by heathrow connect rail, : 0845 678  6975, website:http://www.heathrowconnect.com/. follows same route as heathrow  express but stops at several intermediate stations to london paddington so  journey is 25 minutes and trains less frequent.
first capital connect (frequently referred to as thameslink) is a cross london route between bedford and brighton via luton airport (parkway), st pancras international, farringdon, city thameslink, blackfriars, london bridge and gatwick airport.
usually, an attractive woman will casually befriend the victim and recommend a local bar.
london euston, serves the midlands, north-west england and west  scotland: birmingham, manchester, liverpool, chester, oxenholme lake district,  carlisle, glasgow, and holyhead for connecting ferries to/from both the  republic of ireland and northern ireland.
transport for london (tfl)
a taxi from heathrow to central london will cost  £45-60, you can check the price to your exact destination using a taxi  fare calculator [http://www.worldtaximeter.com/london].
on wednesday many  stores close late.
rides start from the southern end of waterloo bridge.
to get to the city center the following options  exist: by docklands light railway (dlr).
working in conjunction with borough councils they have been able to significantly cut and bring the level of theft and pickpocketing in major retail areas in london.
however many, especially older drivers, dislike leaving the centre of town, or going south of the river thames.
note that they can not be used on any  airport express trains (heathrow express, gatwick express and stansted  express).
the grand union canal connects  paddington to camden and the regent's canal connects camden to islington, mile  end and limehouse in east london.
the london overground is now featured on tube maps although runs a lot less frequently than the tube (some branches run just 2 or 3 trains per hour).
the fare is calculated based on your start and end  points.
rail services to heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton airports (tickets are generally sold at a premium) and suburban services that run out of the city from mainline stations likest pancras international and paddington (most lines are south of the river thames and only one (thameslink) runs through the city centre; operated by numerous private train companies).
getting a refund for unused  credit is, frankly, a hassle.
the difficulty with buses over the tube is knowing when to get off; while tube stations are clearly marked it is sometimes more difficult to work out where to get off a bus.
to bishopsgate  (tube: liverpool street) or victoria (tube: victoria).
use your discretion , if you like the service you may tip otherwise don't.
tottenham court road - some of the world's most luxurious designer  interior stores such asheals.
see also:  [[london#get_around|get around]].
minicabs are licenced hire vehicles that you need to book by phone  or at a minicab office.
see website for details of buildings opening in any given  year - book early for the popular ones!
the night bus service is a reliable and often interesting way to get home at night.
it is possible to book black cabs by phone, for a fee, but if you are in central london it will usually be quicker to hail one from the street.
cheaper than gatwick express
take the 474 bus to canning town station and then the 115 or n15 into central  london.
zone 1-6  travelcard valid.
for most tourists, tubes and buses are the only transport  you will use, but be aware of the limitations if you travel onnational rail or on airport express trains.
on warm days take a bottle of water with you.
use the tube map to determine which line(s) you will take.
like other capitals in the world, london has the usual array of fast food outlets.
it costs £1  single, or £2 return, if you are buying a rail ticket, otherwise it costs  £1.5 single or £3 return.
by tube / underground 12 colour-coded lines cover the central area and suburbs mostly north of  the river thames, run by tfl
allow passengers to get off the train before boarding yourself.
capsule-style crash spaces are just arriving, but currently these are only in central locations (does anyone know of cheaper capsule-style crash space further out).
when the train stops, the carriage doors will line up  with this warning.
that said, a number of projects are in place or in development.
walking  forces you to slow down and look around, and in a city like london there's  always something interesting to look at if you take the time.
london ducktours, : 020 7928 3132, website:  http://www.londonducktours.co.uk/. every day.
elsewhere, you should report your crime as normal to the metropolitan police.
by national rail including airport express trains rail services to heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton airports (tickets  are generally sold at a premium) and suburban services that run out of the city  from mainline stations likest pancras international and paddington (most lines  are south of the river thames and only one (thameslink) runs through the city  centre; operated by numerous private train companies).
one of the features of the license plate is a blue version of the famous london underground "roundel".
most of the larger parks have their origins in royal estates and hunting grounds and are still owned by the crown, despite their public access.
both services travel around the loop via west croydon and run every 10 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 30 minutes at all other times.
from  £10 (advance web purchase) one way.
costs the price of a  text message west end car services, : 47 rupert street, w1d 7pd, :  020 7734 8970,: info@westendcarservices.com, website:  http://www.westendcarservices.com/home.php?action=getaquote.
this money is then deducted from your card each time you get on a  service.
a zone 1-6travelcard can be used on the london underground (piccadilly line) to/from heathrow airport.
tours operate daily at 11am mar 1-apr 30, 11am and 3pm may 1-aug 15,  and 11am aug 16-nov 30.
over 5 million bus trips are made each weekday; with over 700 different bus  routes you are never far from a bus in london.
this could be related to the relative ease of hopping on and off these  without paying (at stops, doors open along the length of the bus and there is  no on-board conductor).
london with children london can be stressful with kids - check london with children for slightly less stressful sightseeing
in summer they are crowded with pedestrians and not suitable for cycling, but in winter or late in the evening they offer a very fast and safe way to travel from east to west in north london.
[edit] other airports near london london southend airport, : 01702 608100, website:  http://www.southendairport.com/. (iata: '''sen''', icao: '''egmc''')
all bus stops have their location and the direction of travel marked on them, although by the time you've seen this it can be too late to get off!
licenced minicabs  for the whole of london.
you will be asked which of these three services your require before being connected to the relevant operator.
booking  fee £2 + normal fare [edit] by road londoners who drive will normally take public transport in the centre;  follow their example.
samuel johnson  famously said, "when one is tired of london, one is tired of life."
[edit] do london is a huge city, so all individual listings are in the appropriate  district articles.
the city has recently been awarded the city with the best public transport in the world.
london motorists seem reluctant to acknowledge the  existence of cyclists, especially at busy junctions.
of course  you don't get the open air or the commentary, but the views are very similar.
despite the congestion charge, london - like most major cities - continues  to experience traffic snarls.
the worst tourist trap food is, in the opinion of many londoners, that served at the various steak houses.
[[arsenal]], tottenham hotspur (north  london); west ham united, leyton orient (east london); charlton athletic,  millwall and [[crystal palace]] (south london).
despite the inevitable decline of the british empire, and considerable suffering during world war ii (when london was heavily bombed by the german luftwaffe in the blitz), the city is still a top-ranked world city: a global center of culture, finance, and learning.
distinctive dress codes can be noticed which include excessive amounts of sports and/or hip-hop clothing, loose fitting baseball caps and most notoriously, hooded tops which are usually worn with the hood up all throughout the day and night and during hot and cold weather.
walking forces you to slow down and look around, and in a city like london there's always something interesting to look at if you take the time.
it takes about 30-40min to cycle from  paddington station to islington along the towpaths.
flights landing at heathrow are often delayed by up to an hour as a simple  result of air traffic congestion and waiting for parking slots.
london open house weekend, website:  http://www.londonopenhouse.org/. explore many of the city's most interesting  buildings during the london open house weekend every september.
oyster pay-as-you-go on national rail be careful - while oyster pay-as-you-go is valid on london underground, london buses and london overground, pay-as-you-go is not valid on manynational rail trains - you have to use a travelcard, buy separate paper tickets.
the main problem which is present right throughout london to various degrees is drunken behaviour, particularly on friday and saturday nights and after soccer matches.
london went from strength to strength and with the rise of england to first european then global prominence the city became a great center of culture, government and industry.
spitalfields [39] is an excellent market for clothes from up-and-coming designers, records, housewares, food, and all things trendy.
[edit] learn about culture.
currently london's third airport, the base for a large number of budget carriers (for example easyjet[9] and ryanair[10]) and flights within europe and a few inter-continental flights.
the cost of a single  trip using the oyster card is less than buying a single ticket outright, but  this varies depending on where you're traveling and whether by bus or tube.
an adventurous person could use this article, but pleaseplunge forward and help it grow!
if it's only a couple of minutes you would be as well to  wait, it could be less crowded.
for the disabled driving can be much more convenient than using public transport.
you are unlikely to encounter such problems within predominantly touristy central london, but various outer suburbs require greater vigilance.
of course you don't get the open air or the commentary, but the views are very similar.
to victoria (tube: victoria) via brent cross, finchley road tube  station, baker street, marble arch and hyde park corner.
stand  either to the right or to the left of the train doors, and allow passengers to  disembark before attempting to get on.
you can also add various electronic tickets onto the card,  and the card is simply validated each time you use it.
[edit] by bus most international and domestic long distance bus (uk english: coach)
tipping is  not mandatory in either taxis or minicabs, despite some drivers'  expectations.....
tipping for counter service, or any other form of service, is unusual - but some choose to do so if a tips container is provided.
during this  single weekend, several hundred buildings which are not normally open to the  public are opened up.
black cabs are the only ones licensed to 'tout for business' (ie pick people up off the street), while minicabs are more accurately described as 'private hire vehicles' and need to be pre-booked.
the london waterbus company runs scheduled services (more in summer, less in winter) from little venice to camden lock with a stop at the london zoo.
situated on the river thames insouth-east england, greater london has an official population of roughly 7.5 million people — although the figure of over 14 million for the city's total metropolitan area more accurately reflects london's size and importance.
there are five terminals, with a fifth one opened in march 2008.
the establishment will be near-desolate, and even if the victim has only a drink or two, the bill will run to hundreds of pounds.
st paul's cathedral, in the city, is sir christopher wren's great  accomplishment, built after the 1666 great fire of london - the great dome is  still seated in majesty over the city.
it is also the most culturally and ethnically diverse part of the country, and, for a visitor, a nice side-effect of this is the wide range of cuisines available.
tips for sleeping at stansted airport: (icao: egss, iata: stn)[8]
fashionable area home to  quaint outlets and relatively expensive designer stores.
london's long association with the theater, for  example, can be traced back to the english renaissance (witness the rose theatre [2] and great playwrights like shakespeare who made london their home).
if harrassed, it is best to simply ignore and walk away from those concerned.
car drivers should be aware that driving into central  london on weekdays during daylight hours incurs a hefty charge, with very few  exemptions (note that rental cars also attract the charge).
[35] and other  department stores.
cheaper than gatwick express by car.
the names of several boroughs, such as westminster or camden, are well-known and self-explanatory, others less so, such as hackney or tower hamlets.
for more details on london's nightlife with attention on the alternative, tryindie london.
the towpaths in north london along the grand union canal and regent's canal are the closest thing to a truly traffic-free cycle path in the capital.
advance  ticketing is required.
image:london airport links summary.svg london (all airports code: lon) is served by a total of six airports.
fat tire bike tours, website:  http://www.fattirebiketourslondon.com/. offers guided bicycle tours of central  london.
south london is poorly served by the tube and lacks east-west national  rail services so the network connects wimbledon in south west london to  beckenham in south east london and new addington, a large housing estate in  south croydon.
regent street (between oxford circus and piccadilly circus) -  includes such gems as hamleys, considered to be london's flagship toy store, on  seven levels, and the london apple store.
alternatively catch public transport into the city centre and then catch a  taxi.
for the tube, be sure to touch the card on the yellow disc both when you enter the tube and when you exit at your final destination; otherwise you will be charged £4.
find and read the  parking restrictions carefully!
[[london#get_around|get around]].
london fenchurch street, serves commuter towns north of the thames  estuary tosouthend.
[edit] by skate inline skating on roads and sidewalks (pavements) is completely legal,  except in the city of london (a district).
in the center of the  square there is an official half-price '''tkts''' booth.
minicabs are usually cheaper than black cabs,  although this is not necessarily the case for short journeys.
if you arrive later take a floor mat and sleeping bag.
traveling between the city and the airports is made relatively easy by the large number of public transport links that have been put in place over recent years.
docklands light railway (dlr) is a dedicated light rail network operating ineast london, connecting with the tube network at bank and tower gateway.
be careful standing near the readers on some bendy buses, they are often quite sensitive and may read your card from several centimetres away, even if you did not intend this.
tube maps [21] are freely available from any station, most tourist offices  and are prominently displayed throughout stations and, for some obscure reason,  in the back of most diaries.
your best bet is to ask fellow passengers and/or to  trace your route on a map[24].
if you forget to touch your oyster card at the start and finish you  will be charged extra!
around seven dials  chains include adidas originals, all saints, carhartt, fred perry, g star raw  and stussy.
london sightseeing tours, website:  http://www.sightseeingtourslondon.com/. every day.
traffic is slow and heavy, there are many sorts of automatic enforcement cameras, and it is difficult and expensive to park.
the seat of  the british parliament andworld heritage site, as well as setting for royal  coronations since 1066, most recently that of queen elizabeth ii in 1953.
alternatively make sure you are equipped with an integrated  map of london buses and tubes[31] so that you can make the most of your oyster  card by getting less unpleasantly lost and more pleasantly lost!
this has led to a large number of illegal minicabs operating - just opportunistic people, with a car, looking to make some fast money.
rides start from the southern end of  waterloo bridge.
notable clubs include electric ballroom, the world famous koko, and underworld.
folding bicycles only.
around midnight the bus network changes to the night bus network.
[[london#get_around|oyster]]'' card (£3 refundable deposit).
however, if you are only using the tube, bus and tram,  oyster pay-as-you-go makes a lot of sense.
to get to the center of the city, the following options exist: sleeping at stansted airport
getting a refund for unused credit is, frankly, a hassle.
john's wood; but also includes immigrant and working  class kilburn and wembley.
[edit] london stansted sleeping at stansted airport
flights landing at heathrow are often delayed by up to an hour as a simple result of air traffic congestion and waiting for parking slots.
music played here is often of the chart funky house, hip hop and r&b genre.
zone 1-6 travelcard valid.
bus  routes are identified by numbers and sometimes letters, for example the 73 runs  between seven sisters and victoria.
by docklands light railway (dlr) only runs in the east of the city, privately run but part of tfl's network by tram (tramlink) a tram service that only operates in southern suburbs around wimbledon and  croydon.
buses display their route number in large digits at the front, side, and rear of the bus.
£30-35 round trip birmingham international airport, : 0870 733 5511,  website:http://www.bhx.co.uk.
a free wi-fi hotspot is located in the arrivals  gate area, next to the phone booths offering fixed internet.
starting at  £17.50 also: to south london, : 0845 748 4950, website:  http://www.southwesttrains.co.uk/swtrains/travelinformation/network/_heathrowfelthambuslink.htm .
buses are generally quicker than taking the tube for short trips (less than a couple of stops on the tube), and out of central london you're likely to be closer to a bus stop than a tube station.
2-3 hours  £6 new london tours (by foot), : +49 30 510 50030,
many areas, some surprisingly busy, attract cycle thieves, while chaining a  bicycle to a railing which appears to be private property can occasionally lead  to said bike being removed.
both services travel around the loop via west  croydon and run every 10 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 30  minutes at all other times.
london is also home to some notorious organised gangs, but they wont pose any danger unless you are involved in that scene.
prices range from £20-200 per person per night.
the city has recently been awarded the city with the best public  transport in the world.
drivers  must take an extensive exam in london's streets to be licensed for a black cab,  meaning they can supposedly navigate you to almost any london street without  reference to a map.
note that some areas in london are poorly serviced by black cabs, particularly late at night.
the rail station is not actually in the airport,  but the there is a shuttle bus from the airport to luton airport parkway  station which runs every few minutes and takes five minutes.
themuseum of london (admission free) makes  an ideal destination for the traveller who wants to understand the history and  ongoing legacy of this great city.
licensed minicabs  display a transport for london (tfl) license plate - usually in the front  window.
direct  trains connect birmingham international to london euston and watford.
some italian sandwich shops have a very good reputation and you can identify them easily by looking at the long queues at lunchtime.
the east london line is now closed until 2010 when it will become part of  the new london overground.
dmoz:europe/united_kingdom/england/london/ world66:europe/unitedkingdom/england/london openguides:london wikevent:greater london extra:london this is a usable article.
for transfers directly between london's airports, the fastest way (short of a taxi) is the direct inter-airport bus service by national express[4].
now the focus of redevelopment for  thelondon 2012 olympic games. covers bethnal green, bow, brick lane, clerkenwell ,docklands, hackney, mile end, poplar, shoreditch, stepney, stratford,  walthamstow and whitechapel south west - covers battersea, brixton, clapham, kingston, putney,  richmond, wimbledon, streatham, sutton, tooting, twickenham and wandsworth.
however many local pubs, especially those run by chains like wetherspoons and scream tend to be more reasonably priced, the latter catering for a student audience.
travelcard  not valid
you can also add various electronic tickets onto the card, and the card is simply validated each time you use it.
for this  reason, folding bicycles are becoming increasingly popular.
[edit] london luton (icao: eggw, iata: ltn)[11] has traditionally been a holiday  charter airport, but is now also served by some budget scheduled carriers.
bus routes, numbers and timetable all change with most of  the buses radiating out from around thetrafalgar square area to most outlying  parts of greater london.
be careful though, as not all night buses are prefixed with an "n", some are simply a 24 hour service, such as the 214 from liverpool st-highgate hill.
this is, however, illegal and can be very risky - large teams of inspectors frequently descend on these buses accompanied by police, and it's entirely possible to be arrested and prosecuted.
between arena and sandilands, these two services serve the same stops.
also servesaylesbury,  high wycombe, banbury, stratford-upon-avon and the city of birmingham.
unlike some other cities, london is unfortunately not noted for free public wifi access - as yet.
reflecting the massive size of the metropolis, therefore, the term greater london embracescentral london together with all the outlying suburbs that lie in one continuous urban sprawl within the lower thames valley.
parking for  motorbikes and scooters is free at many of the reserved areas.
it is over 900 years old,  contains the crown jewels, is guarded by beefeaters, and is aworld heritage  site.
car drivers should be aware that driving into central london on weekdays during daylight hours incurs a hefty charge, with very few exemptions (note that rental cars also attract the charge).
if you notice crowds of youths dressed in this distinctive style, avoid them.
for suggestions on getting from a to b, and for up to the minute information on  how services are running.
free natural history museum, : cromwell road (tube: south  kensington), website:  http://www.nhm.ac.uk/visit-us/whats-on/ice-rink-and-christmas-fair/index.html if you don't feel like splashing out on one of the commercial bus tours,  you can make your own bus tour by buying anoyster card and spending some  time riding around london on the top deck of standard london buses.
at present it serves destinations  in the british isles only.
bus london underground london overground national rail dlr tram airport express trains pay-as-you-go
all meals include the 17.5% vat tax and some places include a service fee (10-12%).
[edit] by tram (tramlink) tramlink, opened in 2000, is the first modern tram system to operate in  london.
for listings buy the  weekly magazine ''time out''
the nucleus of london's gay scene is undoubtedly the western half of old compton street insoho and the surrounding area, but over the last couple of years vauxhall has seen a boom.
journey time approximately 30 minutes  £20-35 by car.
find and read the parking restrictions carefully!
london is home to a great many pubs, bars and nightclubs.
the tower of london, situated just south east of the city, is  london's original royal fortress by the thames.
if you're planning to go out late at night and are worried about safety, frequent crowded areas such as the west end.
london is historically one of the great, "world cities," and remains a global capital of culture, fashion, finance, politics and trade.
don't get caught out, staff are  generally unsympathetic!
in the suburbs, the cost of eating out is reduced drastically.
and on buses  and trams.
with the rise of britain to supreme maritime power in the 18th and 19th centuries, the possessor of the largest global empire, london became an imperial capital and drew people and influences from around the world to become, for many years, the largest city in the world.
england's royal family has, over the centuries, added much to the london scene for today's traveller: thealbert memorial, buckingham palace, kensington palace, royal albert hall,tower of london and westminster abbey being prominent examples.
you can get an oyster  card from any tube station for a deposit of £3.
london blackfriars, serves luton airport and brighton.
by london overground the london overground is now featured on tube maps although runs a lot less  frequently than the tube (some branches run just 2 or 3 trains per hour).
every few minutes, journey  time approximately 1 hour.
this cash is then deducted according to where you travel.
young and beautiful
heathrow (icao: egll, iata: lhr)
every 20 minutes, journey time 90 minutes..
greater london consists of 32 london boroughs and the city of london  that, together with the relatively new mayor of london, form the basis for  london's local government.
hertz gatwick airport
taxis are required by law to take you wherever you choose (within greater london) if their taxi light is on when you hail them.
some of the yha's properties also offer a limited number of private family rooms - expect to pay £61 per night.
the amount of prepay deducted from your oyster card in one day is capped at  the cost of the appropriatepaper day ticket (day travelcard) for the  zones you have travelled through, less 50 pence.
now home to chappell of bond  street.
bus routes are identified by numbers and sometimes letters, for example the 73 runs between seven sisters and victoria.
however, unlike the tube single  tickets do not allow you to transfer to different buses.
this is, however, illegal and can be very risky - large  teams of inspectors frequently descend on these buses accompanied by police,
after the end of roman rule in 410 and a short-lived decline, london experienced a gradual revival under the anglo-saxons, as well as the norsemen, and emerged as a great medieval trading city, and eventually replacedwinchester as the royal capital of england.
to get to the city center the following options exist: london has one international rail route (operated by eurostar [13] 0870 518 6186 ) fromparis (2h15) and brussels (1h50) diving under the sea for 22 high speed miles (35km) via the channel tunnel to come out in england.
london is a huge city, so all individual listings are in the appropriate district articles.
see the district articles formayfair and south west london.
incurs  a hefty automatic fine of £80 (£40 if paid within 2 weeks).
tipping may also be different than what you're used to.
staying further out will be cheaper but when travelling in allow 1-2min per tube stop (near the center), around 2-3min per stop (further out) and 5min per line change.
the following are amongst the main coach operators: there is also the option of a central london park and ride site located at park lane and marble arch, seenational park and ride directory
first capital connect (frequently referred to as thameslink) is a cross london route between bedford and brighton via luton  airport (parkway), st pancras international, farringdon, city thameslink,  blackfriars, london bridge and gatwick airport.
a slower, pleasant way to travel through the city; privately owned, but discounts are offered on some lines to travelcard holders.
covent garden [36] - historic market.
taxis are required by law to take you wherever you choose (within greater  london) if their taxi light is on when you hail them.
even better, it is the only one of the traditional "alpha world cities" (london, new york city and paris) in which the majority of the museums have no entrance charges, thus allowing visitors to make multiple visits with ease.
[[london#get_around|oyster]]'' card by coach: national express, : 0870 580 8080, website:  http://www.nationalexpress.com/. every 15-30 minutes.
platform 9 3/4 from the harry potter books  is marked with a special sign, although platform 9 itself is actually in the  fairly unpleasant metallic extension used by cambridge trains.
an integrated map of london's tube, train and bus map can be purchased online at mapvendor.com[22] or alternatively you can view the map online [23].
london bridge, victoria,  cannon street and charing cross serve the south east.
[edit] london 2012 olympic games the international olympic committee decided in 2005 that london will serve  as the host city for thegames of the xxx olympiad [3], the summer olympic games  of 2012.
standard bus services run from around 6am in the morning to 12:30am.
this can easily total up to a 1 hour journey if there is a walk at each end.
if you are standing on the left people will occasionally shove  you out the way.
travelcards are only valid within the zones you buy.
your tour bus is actually a d-day landing water/land vehicle  that has been refurbished complete with tour guide.
the youth hostel association of england and wales
use exit 2 when leaving hyde park corner station.
services by other operators may use this station, or thegreen line coach  station across buckingham palace road.
in summer (and also in winter, for the more  dedicated) there is also a thriving roller skating (on inline and traditional  "quad" skates) scene in london, catering to many disciplines  including street hockey, freestyle slalom, dance, general recreational skating  (including three weekly marshalled group street skates) and speed skating.
[edit] by foot for travelling shorter distances in london there is no better way.
some platforms in zone 1 have the words "mind the gap" written  on the platform edge.
note that admission to many temporary exhibitions is not free.
motorbike is arguably the fastest way around london, but also the most dangerous.
to plan your trip on the tube work out first which station is closest to your starting point and which closest to your destination.
london is a fairly safe city for its size, and most visits should be trouble-free.
if disabled and a resident of a member state of the eu then two cars can be permanently registered, for free, for the congestion charge.
you can charge up your oyster card with electronic cash at any tube station ticket machine or ticket desk (you can even use a credit card to do this if your credit card has a pin number) with oyster pay-as-you-go, also known as prepay.
london possesses one of the best collections of museums and galleries anywhere in the world.
this area attracts a rather pretentious crowd who love to flaunt what they have and is a must go to celebrity spot.
if disabled and a resident of a member state of the eu then two cars  can be permanently registered, for free, for the congestion charge.
have your oyster card ready for the top of the escalators so not to  obstruct barriers.
however, there is no expiry date on the oyster card or any pay-as-you-go credit on the card.
if you forget to touch your oyster card at the start and finish you will be charged extra!
if it appears you are being lured into a "clip joint", the easiest way out is to recommend a different bar to the new "friend" trying to get you into her "favourite local place" - and if she staunchly refuses, be very suspicious.
on the tube, be sure to touch in and touch out again  at the end of your journey.
tours offer a great orientation, detailed city  information and fantastic photo opportunities.
you should avoid mini-cabs touting for business off  the street and either take a black cab, book a licensed minicab by telephone,  or take anight bus.
if you have been the victim of crime on the railways or the london underground, you should report the crime as soon as possible to the british transport police, who have an office in most major train and tube stations.
see a musical, play or comedy in the  [[london/west end|west end]].
the jesmond dene hotel has been established for over 20 years, and is located in central london, uk.
street gang culture is a growing problem in london as with many other cities in england.
weekly, monthly and longer-period travelcard season tickets can be purchased at all tube station ticket offices.
by rail: first capital connect, : 0871 200 2233, website: http://www.firstcapitalconnect.co.uk/. to london bridge, blackfriars, city  thameslink, farringdon, st pancras international, luton airport and further  north.
every 30 minutes, journey time  1 hour.
it is  much cheaper but slightly slower to take a train from marylebone to birmingham  instead of a train from london euston.
clockwise starting at paddington, majornational rail stations are: in south london many areas only have national rail services (no london underground services but there are buses).
don't get caught out, staff are generally unsympathetic!
14 get out [edit] districts the name london originally referred only to the once-walled "square  mile" of the original roman (and later medieval) city (now confusingly  called the "city of london" or just "the city").
megabus, : 0900 160 0900, website:  http://www.megabus.com/uk/index.php.
retrieved from " http://www.etriptips.com/wiki/london" categories: articles needing attention | usable articles
if you are going to south  london, the west end or west london then take stansted express to tottenham  hale then the london underground (victoria line).
parking on a red line or a double yellow line is never permissible and heavily enforced.
new, second-hand, antiquarian and specialist.
though densely populated by new world standards, london retains large swathes of green parkland and open space, even within the city center.
black cabs charge by distance and by the minute, are non-smoking, and have a minimum charge of £2.20.
another good (and cheap) lunch option is a chicken or lamb doner (gyro) at many outlets throughout the city.
at least one cafe is open all night, offering snacks and hot drinks.
there are several commercial wi-fi hotspots covering most of the airport, but they charge extortionate rates.
the area around the west end (leicester square, mayfair, piccadilly) is home to the more upmarket and exclusive clubs in london.
do not escalate situations as such individuals are often extremely violent and can suddenly demonstrate extreme aggression and often carry concealed knives and even guns.
expect smaller than average rooms especially at the low end of this range.
[edit] by train london has one international rail route (operated by eurostar [13] 0870 518  6186 )
black cabs are the only ones licensed to 'tout for business'  (ie pick people up off the street), while minicabs are more accurately  described as 'private hire vehicles' and need to be pre-booked.
while  passengers are trying to get off do not stand in front of the doors.
the nearest underground station is kings cross st. pancras - from here you are moments away from all parts of london and have easy access to the northern parts of the uk.
you are able to change freely between lines at interchange stations (providing you stay within the zones shown on your ticket).
a section of the dome has such good  acoustics that it forms a "whispering gallery."
despite the inevitable decline of the british empire, and considerable  suffering during world war ii (when london was heavily bombed by the german  luftwaffe in the blitz), the city is still a top-ranked world city: a global  center of culture, finance, and learning.
normal precautions for the safe keeping of your personal possessions, as you would do in any other city, are suggested.
st.paul's  cathedral westminster abbey and the palace of westminster (including big ben and the houses of parliament) in st james's.
trafalgar square - home of nelson's column and the lions, and once  a safe haven for london's pigeons until the recent introduction of hired birds  of prey.
see[46] for a map containing free wifi locations.
a good way to combat being left at the side of the curb is to open the back door, or even get into the cab, before stating your destination.
apart from the  trains looking slightly different and running slightly less frequently than the  tube, visitors may as well treat the two systems as the same.
visitors should be aware, however, that the tube map is actually a diagram and not a scaled map, making it misleading for determining the relative distance between stations as it makes central stations appear further apart and somewhat out of place.
london walks, : 020 7624 3978, website:  http://www.walks.com/. excellent guided walks on a variety of themes.
however, it's essential to allow leeway, as london's expressways, especially the orbital m25 and the m1 motorway, are often congested to the point of gridlock.
from there, thameslink trains run by  '''first capital connect''' run four or more times an hour to london st pancras  international.
considered by some to be somewhat overpriced and  overcrowded, they nonetheless have multiplied in recent years, easing  congestion and increasing competition.
approximately £70 by licenced minicab: west end car services, : 020 7734  8970,: info@westendcarservices.com, website:  http://www.westendcarservices.com/home.php?action=getaquote.
when using the escalators always stand on the right to allow people in a  hurry to pass.
a traveller's london, however, is better defined not by strangely shaped and often fairly arbitrary administrative divisions but rather by recognized cultural, functional and social districts of varying type and size: settlement has existed on the site of london since well before roman times, with evidence of bronze age and celtic settlement.
route 3 (wimbledon to new addington - green on the tramlink map) is the most frequent service, running every 7 1/2 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 15 minutes at all other times.
unfortunately, london is one of the world's most expensive cities to eat in.
it contains maps plus an excellentjourney planner [16].
a large number of budget flights depart from stansted as early as 6am  (when the lowest fares are available).
12 colour-coded lines cover the central area and suburbs mostly north of the river thames, run by tfl only runs in the east of the city, privately run but part of tfl's network a tram service that only operates in southern suburbs around wimbledon and croydon.
it is possible to book black cabs by phone, for a fee,  but if you are in central london it will usually be quicker to hail one from  the street.
in the evening allow extra half an hour as closing hours are not always  strictly respected.
following is a (very!)
also the downtown terminus of the stansted airport express.
travelcard valid by licenced minicab: west end car services, : 020 7734  8970,: info@westendcarservices.com, website:  http://www.westendcarservices.com/home.php?action=getaquote.
this will make london the first city to hold the olympic games three  times, having hosted the games previously in 1908 and 1948.
most are on the circle line.
since the tube map is well designed it is very easy to work out how to get between any two stations, and since each station is clearly signed and announced it is easy to work out when to get off your train.
overlooked by the national gallery, it's the nearest london has to a  'center', and has recently been pedestrianized.
you can get an oyster card from any tube station for a deposit of £3.
on warm days take a  bottle of water with you.
southampton airport, : 0870 040 0009, website:  http://www.baa.co.uk/main/airports/southampton.
at tottenham hale ask for an  ''
licensed minicabs display a transport for london (tfl) license plate - usually in the front window.
smoking ban remember - smoking is banned in all uk pubs and restaurants.
today london is easily the largest city in the united kingdom, eight times larger than the second largest city, birmingham, and ten times larger than the third, glasgow, and dominates the economic, political and social life of the nation (much to the annoyance of people in the provinces i.e. everywhere except london).
in summer (and also in winter, for the more dedicated) there is also a thriving roller skating (on inline and traditional "quad" skates) scene in london, catering to many disciplines including street hockey, freestyle slalom, dance, general recreational skating (including three weekly marshalled group street skates) and speed skating.
they use california beach  cruiser bikes with large comfortable seats.
even busy night time soho presents a particular danger; the "clip joint".
london moorgate, serves some northern suburbs.
each bus stop has a sign listing the routes that will stop there.
there are two types of taxis: black cabs (usually slightly more expensive  - can be hailed on a street) or licensed mini cabs (cheaper - must be booked  over the phone or on the web).
these illegal drivers are unlicensed and sadly they  are often unsafe: a number of women are assaulted every week by illegal minicab  operators.
fares are the same for night buses as for regular services.
[edit] london city airport (icao: eglc, iata: lcy)[12] a commuter airport close to the  city's financial district, and specializing in short-haul business flights to  other major european cities.
transport options  into central london: by rail: stansted express to london liverpool street, :  0845 600 7245, website:http://www.stanstedexpress.com/. every 15 minutes,  journey time 45-60 minutes one way £15, round trip £24.
this paramount status for london was confirmed when william the conqueror, a norman, built the tower of london after the conquest in 1066 and was crowned king of england in westminster.
if you keep it in your wallet try not to sit on it as sometimes they will crack and cease to work.
this mostly centers around hyde park (on the serpentine road) and kensington gardens (by the albert memorial).
a crowd of around 100 travellers (up to 400 in summer) camp in  the main departure/arrivals hall every night, effectively turning it into a  giant dormitory.
shop listings at airport web sites can help to plan your tax-free (vs traditional) shopping.
sandwich shops are london's most popular places to buy lunch, and there are a lot of places to choose from.
beware that drinks are ridiculously expensive and many clubs operate a guestlist only policy.
a large number of budget flights depart from stansted as early as 6am (when the lowest fares are available).
[44] is an inexpensive family bed and breakfast that can offer you cheap hotel accommodation in london together with a traditional english breakfast and clean and cozy rooms.
a traveller's london, however, is better defined not by  strangely shaped and often fairly arbitrary administrative divisions but rather  by recognized cultural, functional and social districts of varying type and  size: central west end - theatres and shops chinatown covent garden - designer and alternative shopping, as well as the famous  royal opera house leicester square - one of the mainstream entertainment hubs.
in the bloomsbury area, check outthe court (near the north end of tottenham court road) and the rocket (euston road); both are fairly cheap to drink in, given that they cater for students of the adjacent university college london.
noticeably, there are many new signposted  cycle routes and some new cycle lanes, not to mention more cyclists since the  2005 public transport attacks.
london liverpool street, serves east anglia: ipswich and norwich.
the towpaths in north london along the  grand union canal and regent's canal are the closest thing to a truly  traffic-free cycle path in the capital.
clockwise starting at  paddington, majornational rail stations are: london paddington, serves south west england and wales including  slough, maidenhead, reading, oxford, bath, bristol, taunton, exeter, plymouth  andcardiff and swansea.
in central london, the main shopping district is thewest end (bond street, covent garden, oxford street and regent street).
walking can also be the quickest way to get somewhere: check your map, central london is surprisingly compact.
from £1  (advance web purchase) one way.
knife crime is however much higher and as such, conflicts should be avoided as tragic deaths caused as a result of seemingly petty incidents do occur from concealed weapons.
to bishopgate:  £6.70 one way, £11.80 round trip.
inline skating on roads and sidewalks (pavements) is completely legal, except in the city of london (a district).
in the center drivers are more used to skaters than in the outskirts.
toilets remain open and are normally in good condition.
visitors should be aware, however, that  the tube map is actually a diagram and not a scaled map, making it misleading  for determining the relative distance between stations as it makes central  stations appear further apart and somewhat out of place.
[41] can inform you of what's going in london's night life, as well as with cultural events in general.
they are a cheap transport option if there are five  passengers as they do not charge extras, and many view them as an essential  experience for any visitor to london.
london motorists seem reluctant to acknowledge the existence of cyclists, especially at busy junctions.
[edit] which ticket?
buses  between heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton run at least hourly, with  heathrow-gatwick services taking 65min (£18) and heathrow-stansted  services 90min (£20.50) (note that services between stansted and luton  run only every two hours).
a couple of budget carriers serving an increasing number of  european destinations are based here.
as a major airport serving the uk's second largest city,  there is a good choice of long distance and european destinations.
knightsbridge in west london - department stores include the world  famous harrods[37] (includes a food hall) and harvey nichols.
to victoria: £10, £16.
[http://www.timeout.com/london].
be careful standing near the readers on  some bendy buses, they are often quite sensitive and may read your card from  several centimetres away, even if you did not intend this.
their yellow taxi light will be on if they are available.
advance ticketing is usually required and recommended  practice in any case eurolines, : 0870 514 3219, website:  http://www.eurolines.com/. is an associate company of national express, and  runs coach services to / from london with various cities in [[northern  ireland]], the [[ireland|republic of ireland]] and continental europe.
in the united kingdom helmets are not compulsory for cyclists, and opinions differ on their value.
in addition to london's six official airports (of which only two are located within greater london) there are a number of other regional uk airports conveniently accessible from london.
it is full of excellent bars, galleries, museums, parks and theaters.
it takes about 30-40min to cycle from paddington station to islington along the towpaths.
be careful though, as not all night buses are prefixed  with an "n", some are simply a 24 hour service, such as the 214 from  liverpool st-highgate hill.
the famous black cab of london (not always black in these days of  heavy advertising!) can be hailed from the curb or found at one of the many  designated taxi ranks.
however, it's essential to allow leeway, as london's  expressways, especially the orbital m25 and the m1 motorway, are often  congested to the point of gridlock.
as of 2006, the yha's prices were £24.80 for bed and breakfast per night for hostelling international members, a £1 supplement per person per night for non-members.
a good way to combat being left at the side of the curb is to open the  back door, or even get into the cab, before stating your destination.
[edit] buy harrods one of the world's great metropolises, anything and everything you could  possibly want to buy is available in london, if you know where to look, and if  you can afford it (london is not particularly noted for bargain shopping, owing  to high prices and high exchange rates - though it can be done with some  determination).
yellow route signs indicate you must purchase your ticket before you board.
see the district articles formayfair and south west  london.
the biggest clubs clubs include chelsea, queens park  rangers, fulham, brentford (west london);
bus london underground london overground national rail dlr tram airport express trains for travelling shorter distances in london there is no better way.
the cost of a single trip using the oyster card is less than buying a single ticket outright, but this varies depending on where you're traveling and whether by bus or tube.
note that they can not be used on any airport express trains (heathrow express, gatwick express and stansted express).
london [1] is the capital and largest city of both the united kingdom and ofengland, and the largest city in western europe.
the city has one of the most comprehensive public transport systems in the world.
two principal  operators tend to dominate the market for this kind of tour:  ([http://www.theoriginaltour.com/ the original tour] 020 8877 1722 and  [http://www.bigbustours.com/ the big bus company] 020 7233 9533).
there is a map showing this on the transport for london website.
royal london free tour starts daily at 11am by wellington  arch.
they now run from the city center  (victoria), but terminate in baker st on the way back from the airport.
[7] london's second airport, also serving a large spectrum of places world-wide.
one of the features of the license plate is a blue version of the  famous london underground "roundel".
for shoes head for neal street.
fromparis (2h15) and brussels (1h50) diving under the sea for 22 high  speed miles (35km) via the channel tunnel to come out in england.
this money is then deducted from your card each time you get on a service.
but buyer  beware, there are a lot of impostor walking guides masquerading under the same  name&mdash;make certain that you are getting the real deal!.
visit fortnum & mason[32], "the queen's grocery store."
the camden area in north london is made of clubs which play indie, metal and rock music.
many areas, some surprisingly busy, attract cycle thieves, while chaining a bicycle to a railing which appears to be private property can occasionally lead to said bike being removed.
despite recent improvements, london remains a relatively hostile environment for cyclists.
it is usally wisest to eat in restaurants on main thoroughfares, rather than on quiet backstreets.
london has a vibrant gay scene with countless bars, clubs and events.
this  paramount status for london was confirmed when william the conqueror, a norman,  built the tower of london after the conquest in 1066 and was crowned king of  england in westminster.
the fare is calculated based on your start and end points.
by minibus: easybus number eb2, website:  http://www.easybus.co.uk/. to baker street (tube: baker street) via hastingwood  motorway services and south woodford.
(icao: egss, iata: stn)[8] currently london's third airport,  the base for a large number of budget carriers (for example easyjet[9] and  ryanair[10]) and flights within europe and a few inter-continental flights.
transport options into central london: (icao: eggw, iata: ltn)[11] has traditionally been a holiday charter airport, but is now also served by some budget scheduled carriers.
journey time 90-120 minutes.
for this reason, folding bicycles are becoming increasingly popular.
the tube is made up of 12 lines each bearing a traditional name and a standard color on the tube map.
camden town in north london - alternative clothing and other  alternative shopping, popular with teenagers and young adults.
for instance, a cash tube one way in zone 1 is £4, while with an oyster card it costs £1.50.
there are no less than 12 main linenational rail [14] terminals (although in conversation you may hear the brand national rail infrequently if ever it differentiates main line and london underground services; journey planner online or phone 08457 48 49 50).
if you don't feel like splashing out on one of the commercial bus tours, you can make your own bus tour by buying anoyster card and spending some time riding around london on the top deck of standard london buses.
despite the congestion charge, london - like most major cities - continues to experience traffic snarls.
london has one of the oldest police forces in the world, the metropolitan police service ( http://www.met.police.uk/), and as such, makes london an extremely safe place to visit and walk around.
from £2 (advance web purchase) to  £8 one way.
excellent free cycle maps[25] can  be obtained from your local tube stations, bike shop, or ordered online.
on wednesday many stores close late.
due to the high price of  accommodation in the city and near the airport, and the fact that many budget  airlines don't pay for accommodation in the event of cancellation, an  increasing number of travellers choose to spend the night in the airport prior  to their flight.
london is an expensive place and your drink is likely to cost more than its equivalent elsewhere in the united kingdom.
driving in central london is a slow, frustrating, expensive and often unnecessary activity.
north - covers archway, camden, crouch end, islington and wood green.
note that some areas in london  are poorly serviced by black cabs, particularly late at night.
spitalfields [39] is an  excellent market for clothes from up-and-coming designers, records, housewares,  food, and all things trendy.
[edit] by taxi london cab london has two types of taxis: the famous black cab, and so-called minicabs.
to get to central london the following options exist: (icao: eglc, iata: lcy)[12] a commuter airport close to the city's financial district, and specializing in short-haul business flights to other major european cities.
you should avoid mini-cabs touting for business off the street and either take a black cab, book a licensed minicab by telephone, or take anight bus.
classier bars and pubs can be much more expensive.
[5] is london and europe's  largest airport and the world's busiest airport in terms of international  passenger movement, with services from most available major airports  world-wide.
yellow route signs indicate you must  purchase your ticket before you board.
this means you must either have a  pay-as-you-go oyster card, travelcard season ticket, bus saver ticket, bus  pass, or have bought a one way ticket from a machine at the bus stop.
in the central area, tickets have to be bought at a machine by the bus stop if you don't have an oyster and outside the zone from the driver.
most charge from £10-12 (adults) for an hour on the ice, including skate hire.
the tube is an easy method of transport even for new visitors to london.
directly opposite the british library isthe euston flyer, popular with locals and commuters alike given its close proximity tost pancras international railway station.
it is a huge task for a visitor to find the 'right place' to eat in london - with the 'right atmosphere', at the 'right price' - largely because, as in any big city, there are literally thousands of venues from which to choose.
to victoria: £8, £14.
london waterloo serves the south west.
tours are not the least bit  strenuous and all ages are welcome.
a quick summary of transport options (also see heathrow airport[6]): (iata: lgw, icao: egkk)
[edit] by dlr docklands light railway (dlr) is a dedicated light rail network  operating ineast london, connecting with the tube network at bank and tower  gateway.
buses have toilets on board.
by coach: green line number 757, : 0844 801 7261,  website:http://www.greenline.co.uk/. every 20 minutes, journey time 90  minutes..
this mode of transport is  usually the fastest way to get from one part of london to the another, the only  problem being the relative expense, and the fact that it can get extremely  crowded during rush hours (7:30am-9:30am and 4:30pm-7pm).
cameras and mobile  units record and identify the number plates and registration details of all  vehicles entering the charging zone with high accuracy.
in london, many cyclists, especially those seen in rush hour, also wear filter masks, but their efficacy is even more disputed.
traffic is slow and heavy, there are  many sorts of automatic enforcement cameras, and it is difficult and expensive  to park.
by cycle, website: http://www.sustrans.org/. there is a  long-distance cycle path into central london, but as it involves going through  the north downs and south london and over, it will likely be quite a ride.
however, unlike the tube single tickets do not allow you to transfer to different buses.
the grand union canal connects paddington to camden and the regent's canal connects camden to islington, mile end and limehouse in east london.
benches without armrests are in limited supply and fill up quickly.
children under 14 travels free without identification, under 16 travels free on production of a child oyster photocard.
these illegal drivers are unlicensed and sadly they are often unsafe: a number of women are assaulted every week by illegal minicab operators.
there are plenty of kosher restaurants in london, mainly ingolders green and edgware.
the safest option is to stick to minor residential roads where traffic can be surprisingly calm outside rush hours.
whether you are interested in ancient history, modern art, opera or underground  raves, london has it all.
can supply 6 and 8 seaters  minicabs and luxury cars.
for the tube, be sure to touch the card on the yellow disc both when you  enter the tube and when you exit at your final destination; otherwise you will  be charged £4.
the clubs in this area are often home to the world's top dj's and attracts a lively crowd.
fortunately for visitors (and indeed residents) there is a single ticketing system, oyster, which enables travellers to switch between modes of transport on one ticket - but even this has a few limitations (see the guide below) and it is not yet universally accepted by many of the private rail operators.
by licenced minicab: west end car services, : 020 7734  8970,: info@westendcarservices.com, website:  http://www.westendcarservices.com/home.php?action=getaquote.
theoretically you don't need to remove it from your wallet or bag to  do this, the card reader can work through a bag, but in reality you may need to  take the card out to get it to work.
ear plugs and eye covers are a must, as the cleaning staff are noisy and  shop assistants start arriving at 4am to open shutters.
you will likely get lost but that is half the fun; if it worries you go for a commercial tour.
despite recent improvements, london remains a relatively hostile  environment for cyclists.
parking during weekdays and on saturday can  also mean considerable expense in parking fees - fees and restrictions are  ignored at your extreme financial peril - issuing fines, clamping and towing  vehicles (without warning!) has become a veritable new industry for borough  councils staffed by armies of traffic wardens.
these can be found on greek street, old compton street and islington high street.