average daily maximum is 8°c (46°f) in december and january.
note that the northern line has two separate routes through the city centre which split at euston and rejoin at kennington, one (officially called the charing cross branch but known by locals as the west end branch) runs through the west end serving leicester square, charing cross and waterloo, while the other route runs via the city of london (officially called the bank branch but also referred to as the city branch) with major stops at kings cross and bank.
incurs a hefty automatic fine of £80 (£40 if paid within 2 weeks).
the streets will be salted/gritted, but will remain slick and snow/slush covered until the sun melts it away.
by national rail a complex network of suburban rail services, mostly running in the southern suburbs, privately run and not part of the tfl network, although many do accept oyster payments.
east mostly originally part of the county of essex,  taking in former industrial areas on the upper thames estuary such as beckton,  dagenham and barking.
note that they cannot be used on any airport express trains (heathrow  express, gatwick express and stansted express).
music played here is often of the commercial chart, funky house, hip hop and r&b genre.
tipping is not mandatory in either taxis  or minicabs, despite some drivers' expectations.....
many improvements have been made for cyclists in the city over the last few years, even if they remain no more than gestures in most places.
notorious areas for inflated menu prices trading on travellers' gullibility and lack of knowledge are the streets around the british museum, leicester square and piccadilly circus.
[edit] travelcards a travelcard may be loaded onto an oyster card or may be purchased  as a paper ticket.
for this reason,  folding bicycles are becoming increasingly popular.
the kind of contiguous  cycle lane network found in many other european cities does not exist.
n-prefixed routes are  generally very similar to their day-route, but may take a slightly different  route or are extended to serve areas that are further out.
to the north east lies the gateway to the affluent epping  forest area south containing many commuter suburbs as  well as densely packed housing, as well as the well known urban centres of  kingston-upon-thames and croydon richmond-kew leafy  thames-side scenery, hampton court palace, the botanical gardens and some major  parklands wimbledon [edit] understand the tower of london
drivers must take an extensive exam in central london's streets to be licensed for a black cab, meaning they can supposedly navigate you to almost any london street without reference to a map.
one way  £9.10, round trip £17.80.
clockwise starting at paddington, majornational rail stations are: london paddington, serves south west england and wales including  slough,maidenhead, reading, oxford, bath, bristol, taunton, exeter, plymouth and cardiff and swansea.
beckenham is served by routes 1 and 2 (yellow and red on the tramlink map), which terminate at elmers end and beckenham junction respectively.
the rules for cyclists are available in the british government publication  the highway code due to the expense of other forms of transport and the compactness of  central london, cycling is a tempting option.
you are going to south london, the west end or west london then take  stansted express to tottenham hale then the london underground (victoria line).
the metropolitan police have placed significant resources in combating street level crime.
boats are operated by private companies and they have a separate ticketing  system from the rest of london transport; however if you have a travelcard you  get a 33% discount on most boat tickets.
bank - woolwich arsenal, stratford - woolwich arsenal and tower  gateway - beckton.
in general, most people tend to stay within "zone 1" of the underground, however do your research carefully - sometimes being that extra five minutes away from a station can make the difference in cost and quality and local food and drinking options.
plunge forward and help us make it a star!this is a guide article.
from  £10 (advance web purchase) one way, £35-100 round trip.
biggin hill in bromley borough had a rejected  licence bid in 2010 for commercial flights for the olympics but may recieve one  in the near future.
a crowd of around 100 travellers (up to 400 in summer) camp in the main departure/arrivals hall every night, effectively turning it into a giant dormitory.
every 20  min, journey time 90 min.
particularly in large ethnic communities, there is a competitive market which stands to benefit the consumer.
the ibus system has now been rolled out the ibus on every bus and garage in  london.
day travelcard - zones 1-2 - anytime: £8.00, off-peak  £6.60 7 day travelcard zones 1-2 - £28.50 monthly travelcard zones 1-2 - £106.00 annual travelcard zones 1-2 - £1,104.00
there are over  1000 minicab companies in london.
london is the official visitor organisation for the capital and has a lot of  free information for visitors in several different languages.
(for example: getting to wimbledon from central london by tube using  the district line takes significantly longer (around 45 minutes) than taking  the national rail service from waterloo to wimbledon (around 15 minutes).)
[7] is london and europe's largest airport and the world's busiest airport in terms of international passenger movement, with services available from most major airports world-wide.
these can be used on any tube,  dlr, bus, london overground,national rail or tram service.
most visitors will not need to use national rail services except for a  few specific destinations such as hampton court, kew gardens (kew bridge  station), windsor castle, greenwich or the airports, or indeed if they are  intending to visit other cities in the uk.
two important endemic london breweries are young's and and fullers.
and it's now barely possible to walk late at night through any part of london  with a modicum of nightlife without being approached.
following is a rough guide to what you might get, should you fancy eating out: prices inevitably become inflated at venues closest to major tourist attractions - beware the so-called tourist traps.
an interesting approach to saving old buildings for sure.
you can "charge up" an oyster card with electronic funds.
this number connects to police, ambulance and fire/rescue services.
there are many bus  stops on red routes, which can present a problem cycling around buses.
docklands light railway (dlr) is a dedicated light rail network operating ineast london, connecting with the tube network at bank, tower gateway (close to tower hill tube station), canning town, heron quays (close to canary wharf tube station) and stratford.
failure to pay the  charge by midnight the next charging day (take note!)
sleeping on the  floor is tolerated by the staff, but avoid pitching your bed in front of shops  and counters.
the famous black cab of london (not always black!) can be hailed  from the curb or found at one of the many designated taxi ranks.
currently, four of the five terminals are operational - t2 is closed until 2014 for redevelopment.
it's hard to say which pub in london is truly the oldest but it's easy to find contenders for the title.
a fully-enclosed crash-helmet is mandatory.
a travelcard may be loaded onto an oyster card or may be purchased as a paper ticket.
the most important are listed below.
it is also the main route  towards heathrow airport.
london went from strength to strength and with the rise of england to first  european then global prominence and the city became a great centre of culture,  government and industry.
displays on the platform will tell you the destination and  approximate wait for the next 3 trains, and the destination is also displayed  on the front and side of the train.
the tube is an easy method of transport  even for new visitors to london.
london victoria, serves south east london and england: brighton,  dover,eastbourne, hastings and ramsgate.
journey time 90-120 min.
motor vehicles often park on cycle lanes, rendering them unusable.
however, only one service is  officially called overground -london overground is a transport for  london rail service.
cycle-lanes exist in london but they are often sporadic at best - usually a  3-foot wide section of tarmac barely wide enough for one cyclist typically  indicated by green-painted tarmac.
london hosts an outstanding collection of world-class museums.
travelcard & oyster card not valid.
summer is perhaps the best season for tourists as it has long daylight hours as well as mild temperatures.
the establishment will be near-desolate, and, even if the victim has only a drink or two, the bill will run to hundreds of pounds.
to london victoria via clapham junction.
a sleeping bag is generally recommended as the automatic doors constantly  open and close as passengers arrive, and it can get chilly in winter.
there are many sorts of automatic enforcement cameras and it is difficult (and expensive) to park.
on the tube, be sure to touch in and touch out again at the end of your  journey.
care should be taken as to where you choose to park your bike.
find it at 65 brushfield st london e1 6aa (straight down bell lane past 66-68 and keep walking).
numerous payment options exist: by phone, online, at convenience stores displaying the red 'c' logo in the window and by voucher.
this is because historically london was two cities: a commercial  city and a separate government capital.
tipping is not mandatory in either taxis or minicabs, despite some drivers' expectations.....
in central london use a combination of the transport options listed below - and check your map!
edit london ashford airport, also known as lydd airport has rather  seasonal, limited services and is used primarily for businessmen.
it can get very busy on weekends though.
the connaught hotel inmayfair-marylebone boasts its house bar, plus the time out favourite, the coburg.
though densely populated by new world standards, london retains large swathes of green parkland and open space, even within the city centre.
terravision costs £9 one way and run roughly every hour throughout the night, check their site[23] for up to date timetable information.
london is also home to some of the most renowned (and most expensive) private medical treatment facilities.
you can also get avisitor oyster card [56] for a deposit of £5, although these cards can be used only to pay as you go and cannot be loaded with 7 day travelcards.
the dlr also runs above ground on much of its route, and travels  through many picturesque parts of london, including the docklands area where  most of london's skyscrapers are located.
for an hourly charge, bicycles may be hired from automated hire stations around the city.
usually, an attractive woman will casually befriend the victim and recommend a local bar or even a club that has a "show".
if all else fails, central london has lots of mini-supermarkets operated by the big british supermarket chains (e.g. , sainsbury's, tesco) where you can pick up a pre-packed sandwich.
since they offer a growing number of budget flights, choosing those airports can be cheaper (or even faster, depending on where in london your destination is).
the british railway system is known as national rail (although some  older signs still refer to it as "british rail").
[14] london's second airport, also  serving a large spectrum of places world-wide.
there are a number of other, independent hostels throughout the city and these are listed in the relevant district articles.
flashing led lights are legal.
black cabs are the only ones licensed to 'ply for hire' (ie pick people up off the street), while minicabs are more accurately described as 'private hire vehicles' and need to be pre-booked.
the deposit is fully refundable if you hand it in at the end of the trip.
london's suburban  rail services are operated by several private companies under tightly-written  government contracts, and mostly run in the south of the city, away from the  main tourist sights.
today, london has taken on a much larger meaning to include all of the vast central parts of the modern metropolis, with the city having absorbed numerous surrounding towns and villages over the centuries, including large portions of the surrounding "home counties", one of which - middlesex - being completely consumed by the growing metropolis.
there are many sorts of automatic  enforcement cameras and it is difficult (and expensive) to park.
the area around mayfair is home to the more upmarket clubs in london.
there are two types of machine: the older machines that have buttons for different fare levels and accept only coins and the new touchscreen machines that have instructions in multiple languages, offer a greater choice of ticket and accept bills and credit/debit cards (note that if your card has no embedded microchip, you cannot use these machines, you pay at the ticket counter).
the main problem right throughout london to various degrees is drunken behaviour, particularly on friday and saturday nights and after football matches.
however, the cost of alcohol drops significantly the further away you go from the centre (though be aware thatwest london tends to be an exception, with prices pretty much the same as the centre).
due to the mix of cultures and religions, many london restaurants cater well for religious dietary requirements.
[edit] pay-as-you-go (prepay)
summer is perhaps the best season for tourists as it has long daylight  hours as well as mild temperatures.
minicabs are usually cheaper than black cabs, although this is not necessarily the case for short journeys.
also, because of urban  heat effect, during night time it could feel muggy.
in some years such as 2010 there is no rain for several weeks.
due to london's huge global city status it is the most served destination in the world when it comes to flights.
the streets will be salted/gritted, but will remain slick and  snow/slush covered until the sun melts it away.
full-size superstores such as tesco, asda and morrisons are rare in the city centre and usually require a 15-20 min tube ride to reach them.
these  machines don't provide change (all the more reason to use one of the other  options).
if you have luggage or if your ticket is rejected there is normally a staffed gate as well.
short-term apartment or flat rentals are an attractive option for many travelers to london, and there are innumerable agencies offering them, almost all of them nowadays through the internet.
follows same route  as heathrow express but stops at several intermediate stations to london  paddington
the term greater london embraces central london  together with all the outlying suburbs that lie in one continuous urban sprawl  within the lower thames valley.
it's the biggest shopping centre in europe.
visitors are well advised to remember that the quickest route between two stations might be a combination of the tube as well as the national rail network.
some extremely  well-heeled districts of west central london and most of the city's premier  shopping street notting hill-north kensington
some of  these operators can be fairly aggressive in their attempts to find customers,
first capital connect (frequently referred to as thameslink ) is a cross london route between bedford and brighton via luton airport  (parkway), st. pancras international, farringdon, city thameslink, blackfriars,  london bridge and gatwick airport.
most notable of all are probably the host of private consultants and surgeons on harley st inmarylebone.
young's was founded inwandsworth in 1831 (but has recently relocated to bedford) and nowadays it boasts 123 pubs in central london alone.
services arrive at and depart from a complex of coach stations off buckingham  palace road inwestminster close to london victoria rail station.
the average cost of hotel accommodation in london is higher than in any other major british city.
critical mass london is a cycling advocacy group which meets for regular rides through central london at 6pm on the last friday of each month.
most major roads in london will have a red-route (indicated by red-painted  tarmac) which is restricted to buses, taxis and bicycles.
with the exception  of fenchurch st (tube: tower hill) these are on the london underground.
single tickets are charged at a premium (often costing only a little less than a 1-day travelcard) of £4 flat fare for journeys within or beyond zone 1 or £3 for journeys outside of zone 1.
only one line (thameslink) runs through central london - on a north-south axis between london bridge or blackfriars stations, and the underground level of st pancras main line station.
the most common signs are for halal and kosher meat, from burger joints to nice restaurants.
you can buy an oyster card from any tube station for a  deposit of £5.
failure to pay the charge by midnight the next charging day (take note!)
also the downtown terminus of the  gatwick airport express.
(iata: bhx, icao: egbb) is another non-london airport worth considering  as a less congested and hectic alternative to heathrow, being just over an hour  away from london.
even the major fast food chains charge a premium in their west end outlets - so watch out.
in common parlance, londoners may refer to travelling by  "overground" (or "overland"), meaning going by national  rail (as opposed to going by underground).
nando's has spicy peri peri style grilled chicken.
tickets are available from the machines at stations (most stations are unstaffed so make sure you are armed with a handful of coins or low-denomination notes) and are distance-based.
[7] is london and europe's  largest airport and the world's busiest airport in terms of international  passenger movement, with services available from most major airports  world-wide.
like everything else, you should book online well in advance - the hostels usually fill up on friday and saturday nights about 14 days before.
many areas,  some surprisingly busy, attract cycle thieves, while chaining a bicycle to a  railing which appears to be private property can occasionally lead to said bike  being removed.
serve the same stops.
london went from strength to strength and with the rise of england to first european then global prominence and the city became a great centre of culture, government and industry.
in the summer season, many of the colleges and universities in central london open up theirstudent halls of residence as hotels during vacations, at usually much lower rates than proper hotels, but expect very basic facilities (e.g. communal bathrooms, no catering facilities), but you will get the personal privacy that you don't get in hostels for not very much more cost.
for the disabled driving can be much more convenient than using public  transport.
to find out what is going on during your visit, you can check: please note that the borough of hackney is developing a reputation of being not gay friendly, having recently passed legislation that could lead to the closure of the boroughs sole lgbt bookshop and community resource.
the amount tipped is generally in the region of 10%, but if there's a figure between 10 and 15% which would leave the bill at a conveniently round total, many would consider it polite to tip this amount.
they are priced by zones: a 1-day travelcard for  zones 1-2 costs £8.40 (day anytime).
since 2 january 2010, pay-as-you-go  oystercards are accepted on all routes within london travel zones 1-6.
these train lines terminate at  london paddington which for most people will require a tube, bus, or cab ride  to their final destination.
[edit] tips touch the card against a yellow disc, prominently displayed on the entry  and exit gates for the tube (do not try to insert it into the slot!)
travelcard not valid.
[edit] london stansted getting to stansted for an early morning flight is fairly straight forward,  coaches run through the night, provided by terravision[22] and national express  from london victoria and london liverpool street.
birmingham international airport, ☎ +44 870 733 5511, [43].
fortunately for visitors (and indeed  residents) there is a single ticketing system, oyster, which enables travellers  to switch between modes of transport on one ticket.
be careful standing near the readers on some bendy buses, they are often  quite sensitive and may read your card from several centimetres away, even if  you did not intend this.
to get to the city centre the following options exist: by docklands light railway (dlr).
despite the confusing layout of the line, it is fairly easy to work out  which way your train is going; for example a northbound northern line train to  edgware along the charing cross branch will be displayed on the indicator as  'edgware via chx' and the on-board pa will announce 'this train terminates at  edgware via charing cross'.
edit other small airports, such as oxford airport can also be useful.
in the centre drivers are more used to skaters than in the outskirts.
greater london is encircled by them25 orbital motorway, from which  nearly all the major trunk routes to scotland, wales and the rest of england  radiate.
every night, soho presents a particular danger: the "clip joint".
[edit] london 2012 olympic games the international olympic committee decided in 2005 that london will serve  as the host city for thegames of the xxx olympiad [4], the summer olympic games  of 2012.
the network is centred oncroydon, where it runs on street-level tracks around the croydon loop.
tax-free shops in airports are not strong in variety, prices are equal to london, and they close rather early as well.
safety is not a problem.
give up your seat to the elderly and those less able to stand, especially  if the seat is reserved for such a purpose.
there is a  drinking fountain to the left of the accessorize storefront and the security  entrance "door 1", where you can fill water bottles for the night.
edit eurolines, ☎ +44 870 514 3219, [48].
there are three basic types of ticket,  which are summarised below.
the tube map also gives no information on london's extensive overground bus network and its orbital rail network.
much cheaper  than gatwick express - £13.50 (cheaper if booked in advance).
staying further out will be cheaper but when travelling in allow 1-2 min per tube stop (near the centre), around 2-3 min per stop (further out) and 5-10 min per line change.
the farringdon/hoxton/shoreditch area has many clubs playing drum and bass, house and trance music and is home to the superclub fabric.
some of the yha's properties also offer a limited number of private family rooms - expect to pay around £60 per night.
prices stay the same, and daily travelcards are valid until 04:00 the day after they were issued, so can be used on night buses.
to plan your trip on the tube work out first which  station is closest to your starting point and which closest to your  destination.
working in conjunction with borough councils, they have been able to bring the level of theft and pickpocketing in major retail areas in london to a level that is manageable.
alternative bus services may be  provided, but these can be slowed down by traffic congestion.
as a result, many tube lines are closed on most weekends, and  some lines close for several weeks at a time.
tips for sleeping at stansted airport: arrive early, preferably around 10pm, and stake your territory  immediately.
alternative bus services may be provided, but these can be slowed down by traffic congestion.
the amount of prepay deducted from your oyster card in one day is capped at  the cost of the appropriatepaper day ticket (day travelcard) for the  zones you have travelled through.
samuel johnson famously said, "when one is tired of london, one is tired of life."
directly opposite thebritish library is the euston flyer , popular with locals and commuters alike given its close proximity tost pancras international railway station.
noisy, vibrant and truly multicultural, london is a megalopolis of people, ideas and energy.
the south bank has lots of good bars with plenty of iconic bridges and buildings in sight the cocktail bar in the oxo tower is a secret that most tourists walk by everyday.
has it's own train station.
whether you are interested in ancient history,  modern art, opera or underground raves, london has it all.
furthermore, a cash bus fare is £2.40 while with  oyster it is £1.35.
[edit] oyster card oyster card in use oyster
see  the 5 day forecast for london at themet office london eye despite a perhaps unfair reputation for being unsettled, london enjoys a  dry and mild climate on average.
[14] london's second airport, also serving a large spectrum of places world-wide.
you can also add various electronic 1 week, 1 month and longer-period tickets onto the card, and the card is simply validated each time you use it.
every few minutes, journey time approximately 1 hour, however this  depends on your destination.
many lines have multiple branches rather than running point-to-point so always to check the train's destination (which is shown on the front of the train, the platform indicator screens and will be broadcast on the train's pa).
many of the big name chain hotels now offer substantial discounts (with rates often down as low as £30-£50 per room per night) if you book well in advance, but the drawback is that you have to pay the full amount upfront at the time of booking and there are no refunds if you cancel.
all lines are identified by name (circle line, central line, piccadilly  line).
24-hour services keep the same number as during the day and will run the  exact same route, such as the number 88, for example.
some of these operators can be fairly aggressive in their attempts to find customers, and it's now barely possible to walk late at night through any part of london with a modicum of nightlife without being approached.
edit pre-booked mini cab.
gay pride [111] is held every year in june with parade and street parties.
a reminder on the streets of london to  "look right" when you cross the road [edit] by foot london is a surprisingly compact city, making it a walker's delight and  often being the quickest method of transport.
note that if you only intend to use trains within the greater london boundary, then theoyster card (explained below) is by far the easiest and cheapest option to use.
covent garden one of the main shopping and entertainment districts.
edit by minicab, ☎ +44(0) 1279 816901, [34].
every 15 min, journey time 15 min.
for all non-yhi members, the yha will levy a £3 welcome stamp per day.
book online..   edit by bus: national express, [19].
a more imaginative alternative could be to stay in a nearby town with quick and easy train travel to london.
these also tend to be very cheap eats with authentically prepared dishes with a true local ambience).
if you are dining with carnivorous friends most restaurants will cater for vegetarians and will have at least a couple of dishes on the menu.
you can change between lines at interchange stations (providing  you stay within the zones shown on your ticket).
two advance single tickets for the outward and return legs of the  journey are generally cheaper than the off-peak return ticket.
every 30 min, journey time 75-110 min.
it is also the most culturally  and ethnically diverse part of the country, making it a great multicultural  city to visit.
as the trains often operate without a  driver, it can be quite exciting - especially for children - to sit in front  and look at through the window, whilst feeling as though one is driving the  train oneself.
for most tourists, tubes and buses are the only transport  you will use, but be aware that these tickets are not valid on airport express  trains.
londoners who drive will normally take public transport in the centre; follow their example.
you can rely on most up-and-running bars to offer a short cocktail menu and there are also bars that position themselves as cocktail specialists.
critical mass london is a cycling advocacy group which meets for regular  rides through central london at 6pm on the last friday of each month.
its universities include some of the oldest and most prestigious in the world.
routes served by these buses always carry a yellow route sign as detailed below.
many local pubs, especially those run by chains like wetherspoons and scream tend to be more reasonably priced with good drink promotions on weekday nights and during the day.
other popular scams are a man in a suit asking for emergency money for the phone (seen in shoreditch many times).
you can buy an oyster card from any tube station for a deposit of £5.
the airport is a major hub for easyjet, ryanair, wizzair, thomson airways  and monarch airlines, with other airlines also serving the airport like aer  arann, flybe and el al, to cities primarily inscotland, europe, north africa  and the mediterranean basin.
black cabs are the only ones licensed to 'ply for hire' (ie  pick people up off the street), while minicabs are more accurately described as  'private hire vehicles' and need to be pre-booked.
the  grand union canal connects paddington to camden and the regent's canal connects  camden to islington, mile end and limehouse in east london.
the online city guideview london [107] and the weekly magazine time out [108] can inform you of what's going in london's night life, as well as with cultural events in general.
first class is available on all long distance services to london, the standard of service varies from operator to operator, but in general you get a wider, more comfortable seat, free tea/coffee for the duration of the journey, and some sort of complimentary catering service.
for an hourly charge, bicycles may be hired from automated hire  stations around the city.
servevictoria coach  station, which actually has separate arrival and departure buildings.
london bridge, london cannon street, london waterloo east and london charing cross, serve south and south east london and  england:brighton, dover, eastbourne, hastings and ramsgate.
to get to the centre of the city, the following options exist: when departing, note that after passing through security you will find no drinking fountains in the south terminal departure lounge.
london overground appears on the tube map as an orange line, and services run acrossnorth london suburbs from east to west.
this had a dense population and all the other pre-requisites of a medieval city: walls, a castle (the tower of london), a cathedral (st pauls), a semi-independent city government, a port and a bridge across which all trade was routed so londoners could make money (london bridge).
so journey is 25 minutes and trains less frequent.
minicabs are normal cars which are licenced hire vehicles that you need to book by phone or at a minicab office.
the area retains some leftfield, quirky attractions.
travelling between the city and the airports is made relatively easy by the large number of public transport links that have been put in place over recent years.
you will be asked which of these three services you require before being connected to the relevant operator.
the vast majority of events will be held in a regenerated area in east london.
for transfers directly between london's airports, the fastest way (short of  a taxi) is the direct inter-airport bus service by national express[6].
drivers must take an extensive exam in  central london's streets to be licensed for a black cab, meaning they can  supposedly navigate you to almost any london street without reference to a map.
by overground 3 orange-coloured lines circling the northern suburbs (including the former east london line) , part of tfl's network.
if you have any pay-as-you-go credit left this will also be refunded.
so thewest end was up-wind and up-market, the east end was where people worked for a living.
borough (tube: london bridge)
the city has one of the most comprehensive public transport systems in the  world.
[2] london is a huge city with several district articles containing  sightseeing, restaurant, nightlife and accommodation listings — consider  printing them all.
those interested in london's historic and literary connections can't missthe spaniard's inn in hampstead.
to be safe, if a woman you just met suggests you a place, try to recommend a different bar.
samuel johnson famously said, "when one is tired of london,  one is tired of life."
then there is the added bonus is that it is close to central london, with a convenient link on the dlr.
visit 66/68 bell lane nearby to see a wealthy merchants house, rumor has it john lennon once played on the roof of this building with yoko ono.
the bikes, all coloured a distinctive bright blue,  can be unlocked and ridden around the city with a credit card, and must be  returned to another hire station by locking the bike into the rack.
there are other more minor centres and those are listed in the relevant  district articles.
always always advisable to carry a pocket tube map (available for free at most stations) to help you with this.
crime mapping has been launched in london allowing residents and visitors to see the level of recorded crime for different areas[120].
every 15 min,  journey time 30-35 min.
mostnational rail operators allow  bicycles outside peak hours also.
a fully-enclosed crash-helmet is  mandatory.
heathrow (iata: lhr, icao: egll)
most visitors will not need to use national rail services except for a few specific destinations such as hampton court, kew gardens (kew bridge station), windsor castle, greenwich or the airports, or indeed if they are intending to visit other cities in the uk.
the kind of contiguous cycle lane network found in many other european cities does not exist.
to victoria: £10,  £16.
notable clubs are cafe de paris, 1 big night out pub crawl, penthouse, sound, tiger tiger, zoo bar and ruby blue.
beckenham is served by routes 1 and 2  (yellow and red on the tramlink map), which terminate at elmers end and  beckenham junction respectively.
the heart of the west end is the most expensive place to stay and most hotels are either 4 or 5 star and most will command a hefty price premium.
[24] currently london's third airport, the base for a large number of budget carriers (for example easyjet[25] , ryanair[26], thomson and pegasus [27]) and flights within europe and a few inter-continental flights.
whilst central london is full of restaurants and cafes it is useful for the visitor to be aware that there are some areas where the majority of diners are londoners, rather than tourists, and in general you will get a much more pleasant, better value, and less crowded eating experience than you will find in the west end.
[edit] inner boroughs a diverse area of inner  north london which includes eclectic camden town east end a traditional working class heartland of inner london to the east of the city  made famous by countless movies and tv shows, and home to trendy bars, art  galleries and parks, especially in the shoreditch, hoxton, old street area.
transport for london (tfl)
if anyone offers you a free "stress test", they are likely trying to recruit you into the church of scientology.
greater london consists of 32 london boroughs and the city of london  that, together with the office of the mayor of london, form the basis for  london's local government.
buses are generally quicker than taking the tube for short (less than a couple of stops on the tube) trips, and out of central london you're likely to be closer to a bus stop than a tube station.
there is a long-distance cycle path into central london,  but as it involves an indirect route, going over the north downs and through  south-east london, it will likely be quite a ride.
the big advantage is the fixed fare, regardless of traffic  conditions or route.
this had a church for crowning the monarch (westminster abbey) and palaces.
yellow signs  indicate you must purchase your ticket before you board.
if can be great value if you get an advance first-class fare, but it is extremely expensive otherwise, and to be honest - not really worth it.
currently undergoing redevelopment.
[edit] by boat a river bus at tower millennium pier london is now starting to follow the example of cities such as sydney and  bangkok by promoting a network of river bus and pleasure cruise services along  the river thames.
edit by coach: terravision, ☎ +44 1279 68 0028, [31].
thecentral london congestion charge [66] m-f 07:00-18:00 (excluding public holidays) attracts a fee of £8 if  paid thesame day, or £10 if paid on the next charging day.
there are two types of night buses: 24  hour routes and n-prefixed routes.
london is one of the great  "world cities," and remains a global capital of culture, fashion,  finance, politics and trade.
however, if transiting through london, be sure to check the arrival and departure airports carefully as transfers across the city may be quite time consuming.
recently a new service toshrewsbury , telford , and wrexham has been launched by the wrexham &  shropshire railway company [46].
on warm days take a bottle of water with you.
you  may wish to consider taking a taxi if you have a lot of baggage or small  children.
night buses run at a 30 minute frequency at minimum, with many routes at much higher frequencies up to every 5 minutes.
londoners wouldn't dream of eating here - you shouldn't either!
boots the chemist is also open 24/7 toilets remain open and are normally in good condition.
it's normally a better idea to take a train to london  liverpool st and continue by taxi from there.
snow does occur,  usually a few times a year but rarely heavy (a few years being exceptions such  as the winters of 2009 and 2010, with temperatures dipping down to sub-zeros  regularly).
if you happen to travel outside the zone, you can use prepay (see above) to make up the difference.
"when a man is tired of london, he is tired of life; for there is  in london all that life can afford" — samuel johnson [edit] history settlement has existed on the site of london since well before roman times,  with evidence of bronze age and celtic settlement.
like many big cities, london has a variety of social problems, especially begging, drug abuse and theft (mobile phones are a favourite, often snatched by fast-moving cyclists).
these pubs are good traditional boozers which are frequented by the local working population and odd celeb.
if using  this method to return to heathrow during the morning/evening peak, leave plenty  of time in departing from central london as trains often get rerouted down the  rayners lane branch or terminate short at acton town or northfields - even if  they were originally designated as heathrow-bound.
only one in three days on average will bring rain and often only for a short period.
there are two types of taxis: black cabs (these can be hailed on  a street or at a taxi rank) and licensed mini cabs (these are typically cheaper  - but must be booked in advance over the phone or on the web).
one of the features of the license plate is a blue version of the famous london underground "roundel".
most of the larger parks have their origins in royal estates and hunting grounds and are still owned by the crown, despite their public access.
both services travel around the loop via west croydon and run every 10 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 30 minutes at all other times.
if you have  luggage or if your ticket is rejected there is normally a staffed gate as well.
first capital connect (frequently referred to as thameslink ) is a cross london route between bedford and brighton via luton airport (parkway), st. pancras international, farringdon, city thameslink, blackfriars, london bridge and gatwick airport.
this had a church for crowning the  monarch (westminster abbey) and palaces.
rides  start from the southern end of waterloo bridge.
fares are  demand responsive but can be very cheap (£1.50 if you book far enough in  advance).
as of mid 2010, the job market in london has recovered somewhat, it is best to check with recruiters and staffing agencies.
this had a dense population  and all the other pre-requisites of a medieval city: walls, a castle (the tower  of london), a cathedral (st pauls), a semi-independent city government, a port  and a bridge across which all trade was routed so londoners could make money  (london bridge).
a quick summary of  transport options (also seeheathrow airport): fastest: by heathrow express rail, (paddington station - heathrow 1, 2, 3  & 5), ☎ +44 845 600 1515, [8].
heathrow airport is located in this part of the city.
ye olde cheshire cheese infleet street is on the site of an old monastery and its cellar dates back to the 13th century.
london motorists seem reluctant to acknowledge the  existence of cyclists, especially at busy junctions.
despite the congestion charge, london - like most major cities - continues  to experience traffic snarls.
the two roads are connected at the  east end of the circle in north woolwich/woolwich arsenal by the woolwich free  ferry, which runs approx.
[55] is a contactless electronic smartcard run by transport  for london.
for more authentic cockney food, try pie and mash, which originates from the working-class in the east end.[103] usually minced beef and cold water pastry pie served with mashed potato, mushy peas and 'liquour' gravy, it tastes a lot better then it sounds.
the clubs in this area are often home to the world's top dj's and attracts a lively, hip and friendly crowd.
oyster also saves time getting onto buses.
for the disabled driving can be much more convenient than using public transport.
the cost of a single trip using the oyster card is  considerably less than buying a single paper ticket with cash.
it is operated and promoted just like the underground, with the logo like the tube (except orange) on stations and full acceptance of oystercards.
to  stratford: £8 one way, £14 round trip.
the following are amongst the main  coach operators: national express, ☎
in addition to the m25, here are two inner ring roads in london which skirt the central area: comparatively few people will actually drive into (or anywhere near) the centre of london.
buses display their route number in large digits at the front, side and rear.
journey time approximately 30 min.
most are open from 05:00-23:00 although some such as tesco metro or convenience stores located at petrol stations may open 24 hours although they will stop selling alcohol after 23:00.
however, this presents travellers with a problem, as the airport's location is a long way outside london, and transport to the airport is sporadic before 5:30am.
in addition to the m25, here are two inner ring roads in london which skirt  the central area: a406/a205 north circular/south circular
[edit] by bus most international and domestic long distance bus (uk english: coach)
every 20 min,  journey time 90 min.
tipping for counter service, or any other form of service, is unusual - but some choose to do so if a tips container is provided.
major a & e hospitals in london are: for advice on minor ailments and non-prescription drugs, consult a high street pharmacist.
bus london underground london overground national rail dlr tram airport express trains london is a surprisingly compact city, making it a walker's delight and often being the quickest method of transport.
finally, note that direction signs for the platforms indicate the geographical direction of the line,not the last stop of the line.
for example, livelybrighton (otherwise known as 'london by sea') is only an hour away, but your budget will go much further and there are excellent accommodation options.
thelondon waterbus company runs scheduled services (more in summer, less in winter) from little venice to camden lock with a stop at the london zoo (pick up only).
however some, especially  older drivers, dislike leaving the centre of town, or going south of the river  thames.
you'll save the ticket price on the savings you get from discounted drink deals and what you would have spent on club entry.
[edit] by overground
expect to pay around £4 for a pint of lager or guinness (or around £3.50 for a pint of ale) in an average pub, but be aware that as with restuarants, pubs close to major tourist attractions cash in on travellers' gullibility so be on your guard for the tourist traps where higher prices are not unheard of.
most international and domestic long distance bus (uk english: coach) services arrive at and depart from a complex of coach stations off buckingham palace road inwestminster close to london victoria rail station.
retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/london"retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/london" categories: huge city articles | guide articles |
24-hour services keep the same number as during the day and will run the exact same route, such as the number 88, for example.
never try to board or leave a train when the door warning (a  rapidly-repeating high pitch beep) is sounding.
sa 09:00-17:00 (jun-sep), su  10:00-16:00, public holidays: 10:00-16:00.
despite the inevitable decline of the british empire, and considerable suffering during world war ii (when london was heavily bombed by the german luftwaffe in the blitz), the city is still a top-ranked world city: a global centre of culture, finance, and learning.
tube etiquette the london underground [59] - also known popularly as the tube - has trains that criss-cross london in the largest underground rail network in the world (it was also the first, the first section of the metropolitan line dates back to 1863).
comparatively few people will actually drive into (or anywhere near) the  centre of london.
the towpaths in north london along the grand union canal and regent's canal are the closest thing to a truly traffic-free cycle path in the capital.
if choosing a course from a privately-run school or college, it is important to ensure the institution is accredited by the british council.
south london is poorly served by the tube and lacks east-west national  rail services so the network connects wimbledon in south west london to  beckenham in south east london and new addington, a large housing estate in  south croydon.
the commercial capital was the city of london.
the a1 is the original, historic "great north  road" between england and scotland's capital cities and has largely been  converted to motorway standard; it runs up the eastern side of great britain  through peterborough, york, newcastle and continues north through  northumberland and the scottish borders to edinburgh.
these machines don't provide change (all the more reason to use one of the other options).
although london can be expensive, many of the best museums and galleries are free including: and most museums in greenwich.
this new system provides bus times and destination information on a audio-visual display.
this traveller's guide to london recognises cultural, functional and social districts of varying type and size: settlement has existed on the site of london since well before roman times, with evidence of bronze age and celtic settlement.
then there is the added bonus is that it is close to central london, with a  convenient link on the dlr.
coach services with free  wi-fi, newspapers and extra legroom.
if she insists on hers then walk away and do not listen to her suggestions.
for transfers directly between london's airports, the fastest way (short of a taxi) is the direct inter-airport bus service by national express[6].
this has led to a large number of illegal minicabs operating - just opportunistic people, with a car, looking to make some fast money.
keep in mind that for foreign visitors, the yha hostels will require to see a form of id (a passport or national identity card) and a valid membership card from a local yhi (youth hostelling international)-recognised youth hostel association.
+44 845 600 7245, [29].
to baker st (tube: baker st) from £2  (advance web purchase) to £8 one way.
the uk's national health service (nhs) will provide emergency treatment for anyone in the uk, irrespective of whether they reside in the uk.
seats can be reserved for free on all long-distance trains to london - the reservation is always issued automatically with an advance ticket, and with most off-peak and anytime tickets bought online.
situated on the river thames insouth-east england, greater london has an official population of nearly 8 million people — although the figure of over 14 million for the city's total metropolitan area more accurately reflects london's size and importance.
in london,  many cyclists, especially those seen in rush hour, also wear filter masks, but  their efficacy is even more disputed.
if you don't have an oyster, tickets have to be bought at a machine by the bus stop in the central area, and from the driver outside the zone.
flights landing at heathrow are often delayed by up to an hour as a simple result of air traffic congestion and waiting for parking slots.
move down the carriages if standing during busy periods have your oyster card or ticket ready for the top of the escalators so  not to obstruct barriers.
parking on a red line or adouble yellow line is never permissible and heavily enforced.
this area attracts a rather more showy crowd who love to flaunt what they have and is a must go to celebrity spot.
zone 1-6 travelcard valid.
if you are standing on the left people will  occasionally ask grumpily for you to get out the way, especially during rush  hour when commuters are far less forgiving.
there are other more minor centres and those are listed in the relevant district articles.
both services travel around the loop via west  croydon and run every 10 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 30  minutes at all other times.
edit by rail then london underground: stansted express to tottenham hale then  london underground (victoria line), ☎
london blackfriars, serves gatwick airport and brighton.
a good place to get cheap beer is at any one of the sam smith's run pubs that are dotted around soho and north of oxford street.
you can pay a weekend supplement (generally £15-£20) to sit in the first class section of the train on saturdays and sundays, - useful if the service you are on is hideously overcrowded - but you don't get the same catering service as during the week.
a taxi from heathrow to central london will cost £45-60.
incorporates some of  london's theatreland.
this is because historically london was two cities: a commercial city and a separate government capital.
m 09:30-18:00  (oct-mar), m 09:30-18:30 (apr-sep), tu-f 09:00-18:00 (oct-mar), tu-f  09:00-18:30 (apr-sep), sa 10:00-16:00 (oct-may),
the extra cost of getting around is probably not significant compared to savings made by staying in a hotel further out.
over 5 million bus trips are made each weekday; with over 700 different bus  routes you are never far from a bus.
car drivers should be aware that driving into central london on weekdays  during daylight hours incurs a hefty charge, with very few exemptions (note  that rental cars also attract the charge).
to  liverpool st station: £9 one way, £14 round trip.
it is the world's busiest single runway airport and is split into anorth and south terminal.
n-prefixed routes are generally very similar to their day-route, but may take a slightly different route or are extended to serve areas that are further out.
travelcard  not valid.
londoners will often just round up to the nearest pound.
do plan your itinerary to allocate some time needed to get through heathrow airport t3, it can be long if you are not holding an uk / eu passport.
all trains go to london st pancras international, but many also  continue on to blackfriars, london bridge and elephant & castle, and  gatwick airport.
london river services[67] (part of transport for london) manages regular commuter boats and a network of piers all along the river and publishes timetables and river maps similar to the famous tube map.
for example, the 29 bus goes from trafalgar square to wood green during the day; however, the n29 bus goes from trafalgar square to wood green and on to enfield.
in practice, most car drivers ignore this and  occupy the cycle space when waiting at lights.
be prepared to give your signature on receipts or even show id for refunds over a few pounds.
by tube / underground 11 colour-coded lines cover the central area  and suburbs mostly north of the river thames, run by tfl. by docklands light railway (dlr) runs only in the east of the city,  privately run but part of tfl's network.
to  liverpool st station (tube: liverpool st) or victoria (tube: victoria).
sleeping at stansted airport
noisy, vibrant and truly multicultural, london is a megalopolis of  people, ideas and energy.
many lines have multiple branches rather than running point-to-point so  always to check the train's destination (which is shown on the front of the  train, the platform indicator screens and will be broadcast on the train's pa).
the road is heavily congested at most times of the day,  and is littered with automatically variable speed limits which are enforced  with speed cameras.
they generally charge a fixed  fare for a journey, best agreed before you get in the car.
loud and rowdy behaviour is to be expected and fights and acts of aggression also occur.
look out for these around the city.
see also: get around.
it boasts the same facilities of the other  major airports and also like stansted, it is common place for some passengers  on early morning flight, to sleepover in the terminal before their flights.
cycle-lanes exist in london but they are often sporadic at best - usually a 3-foot wide section of tarmac barely wide enough for one cyclist typically indicated by green-painted tarmac.
england's royal family has, over the centuries, added much to the london scene for today's traveller: thealbert memorial, buckingham palace, kensington palace, royal albert hall, tower of london, kew palace and westminster abbey being prominent examples.
find and read the parking restrictions carefully!
the  tube is made up of 11 lines each bearing a traditional name and a standard  colour on the tube map.
london is home to a great many pubs, bars and nightclubs.
though densely populated by new world  standards, london retains large swathes of green parkland and open space, even  within the city centre.
in east london for example, the vast number of chicken shops means that a deal for 2 pieces of chicken, chips (fries) and a drink shouldn't cost you more than £3 especially onbrick lane.
in the suburbs, the cost of eating out is reduced drastically.
most  are on the circle line.
but over the last couple of years vauxhall has seen a boom in gay venues.
dick turpin is said to have been born here; john keats and charles dickens both drank here; it's mentioned in dickens' the pickwick papersand bram stoker's dracula.
only one in three days on average will bring  rain and often only for a short period.
a good tip is, that outside advertised restriction hours, parking on asingle yellow line is permissible.
london is also one of the world's most fashion conscious cities, which explains the abundance of clothing shops from the flagship shops ofoxford street to the tiny boutiques ofbrick lane.
the other rule to follow when avoiding poor food is the same as in any other part of europe - is the menu available in multiple languages?
a free service  provided by tfl which texts you local licensed minicab numbers.
not as expensive to fly into than it used to be, and you may indeed find that from some origins, this may be your cheapest london airport to fly to, without even considering the cost savings of not coming from the distant larger london airports with £10+ transfer costs.
apart from the trains looking  slightly different and running slightly less frequently than the tube, visitors  may as well treat the two systems as the same.
london has one international high speed rail route (operated by eurostar [44] 0870 518 6186 ) from paris (2h 15min) and brussels (1h 50 min) diving under the sea for 35 km (22 mi) via the channel tunnel to come out in england.
a new network of "cycle super-highways" has  recently been launched: these are indicated by bright blue-painted tarmac.
excellent free cycle maps[62] can be obtained from your local tube stations, bike shop, or ordered online.
their amber taxi light will be on if they are available.
one of the most popular scams in london, is the ticket machine scam, when, while buying a ticket at a train station someone will approach you and act as if they want to help you buy the right ticket.
there are also a number of pay as you go car rental companies operating  around london
the company, established in 1870, import wines and own over thirty bars in the centre.
london is a huge city, so all individual listings are in the appropriate district articles.
note  that if you only intend to use trains within the greater london boundary, then  theoyster card (explained below) is by far the easiest and cheapest  option to use.
£14  one way if bought from the driver, tickets can be purchased in-advance online  from £2.
they are usually the fastest way to travel in london, the only problem being the relative expense, and that it can get extremely crowded during rush hours (07:30-10:00 and 16:30-19:00).
nightlife is an integral part of london life and there are countless nightclubs in and around central london with music to suit even the most eclectic of tastes.
excellent free cycle maps[62] can  be obtained from your local tube stations, bike shop, or ordered online.
scooters and bikes with automatic transmission are much  more preferable - a manually-geared racing bike is completely impractical  unless you have excellent clutch-control!
if you pay by oyster card, just tap your card against the yellow pad to open the barriers (both upon entrance and exit).
not as expensive to fly into than it used to be,  and you may indeed find that from some origins, this may be your cheapest  london airport to fly to, without even considering the cost savings of not  coming from the distant larger london airports with £10+ transfer costs.
however, this presents travellers with a  problem, as the airport's location is a long way outside london, and transport  to the airport is sporadic before 5:30am.
services by other operators may use this station, or thegreen line coach  station across buckingham palace road.
tickets are available from the machines at stations (most  stations are unstaffed so make sure you are armed with a handful of coins or  low-denomination notes) and are distance-based.
note that admission to many temporary exhibitions is not free.
this means london can feel hot and humid for several days in the summer months.
the local and commuter rail companies within the london and home counties  area also have a bewildering array of special fares which are all in essence,  variations of the off-peak ticket and are far too detailed to cover here, go  directly to the website of the operator concerned for more information.
to plan your trip on the tube work out first which station is closest to your starting point and which closest to your destination.
you will find that many areas, particularly incamden town andshoreditch, that straight bars will have a mixed clientele.
if disabled and a resident of a member state of the eu then two cars can be permanently registered, for free, for the congestion charge.
parking for bikes is usually free - there are designated  motorcycle-parking areas on some side-streets and some multi-level parking lots  will have bike parking on the ground level.
however, there is no expiry date on the oyster card or any pay-as-you-go credit on the card.
the two were linked by a road called the "strand", old english for riverbank.
part of the borough of camden.
if you have been the victim of crime on the railways or the london underground, you should report the crime as soon as possible to the british transport police, who have an office in most major train and tube stations.
the land to the east was flat, marshy and  cheap, good for cheap housing and industry, and later for docks.
unlike the tube, the dlr uses the honor-system at all stations apart from  bank and stratford.
in south london many areas have only national rail services (no  london underground services but there are buses).
the ferry stops running after 10pm, so it's  advisable to travel through the docklands and use the blackwall tunnel instead.
care should be taken as it  is possible for those unfamiliar with them to get on then have no way of  paying.
a list of licenced minicab operators can be found at tfl findaride:[64].
note that some  areas in london are poorly serviced by black cabs, particularly late at night.
it is  much cheaper but slightly slower to take a train from marylebone to birmingham  instead of a train from london euston.
seats can be reserved for free on all long-distance trains to london - the  reservation is always issued automatically with an advance ticket, and with  most off-peak and anytime tickets bought online.
one of the closest is the asda store close to crossharbour dlr station on the lewisham line - about 15-minute ride from bank station or at the end of the 135 24-hour bus line.
london has the oldest police force in the world, the metropolitan police service[119], and on the whole, london is a safe place to visit and explore.
at least one cafe is open all night, offering snacks and hot drinks.
journey time to stratford: 1 hour.
edit [edit] london luton (icao: eggw, iata: ltn)[35] is smaller than stansted, but  still a major hub for many low cost airlines, and over 10 million passengers  fly through the airport each year.
dozens of excellent restaurants, popular with young professionals.
in general avoid all pubs that have graphic-designed and printed menus - it's peoples experiences in these kind of places that gives britain a bad name for food!
to victoria:  £9, £14.
in the run-up to the 2012 london olympics, transport for london are  undertaking a massive redevelopment programme on the 19th- and 20th-century  tube network.
greater london is encircled by them25 orbital motorway, from which nearly all the major trunk routes to scotland, wales and the rest of england radiate.
bus 285 (or taxi)  to feltham railway station (20 minutes) then a train to london waterloo on the south bank or clapham junction in south west london.
there are also a number of pay as you go car rental companies operating around london
sorting the good from the bad isn't easy, but london has something to accommodate all budgets and tastes.
these places are best visited in the evenings.
terravision costs £9  one way and run roughly every hour throughout the night, check their site[23]  for up to date timetable information.
a number of mobile phone apps are also available to  download which show line closures on real-time tube maps.
with active local groups in most of the city's boroughs, it is recognised by  local and regional government as the leading voice for cycling in the capital.
weekends generally carry  no restrictions on the use of off-peak tickets.
fast food with an asian flair is easy to find throughout the city, with lots of busaba eathai, wagamama, and yo!
many boat operators offer their own one-day ticket - ask at the pier kiosks.
a good way to combat being left at the side of the curb is to open the back door, or even get into the cab, before stating your destination.
there are several commercial wi-fi hotspots covering  most of the airport, but they charge extortionate rates.
route 3 (wimbledon to new addington - green on the tramlink map) is the most frequent service, running every 7 1/2 minutes monday to saturday daytime and every 15 minutes at all other times.
motorcycles and scooters are fairly common in london as they can pass stationary cars, can usually be parked for free and are exempt from congestion-charging.
bloomsbury vibrant historic district made famous by a group of  turn-of-the-century writers and for being the location of the british museum,  the university of london and numerous historic homes, parks, and buildings.
licensed minicabs display a transport for london (tfl) license plate  - usually in the front window.
this will make london the first city to hold the olympic games three  times, having hosted the games previously in 1908 and 1948.
most are on the circle line.
you have to select a range of zones when you buy it, numbered 1-9.
in common parlance, londoners may refer to travelling by "overground" (or "overland"), meaning going by national rail (as opposed to going by underground).
it is a huge task for a visitor to find the 'right place' to eat in london - with the 'right atmosphere', at the 'right price' - largely because, as in any big city, there are literally thousands of venues from which to choose, ranging from fast food joints, pubs, and mainstream chains all the way up to some of the most exclusive restaurants in the world which attract the kind of clientele that don't need to ask the price.
[edit] london heathrow rail and tube lines go to different  terminals at heathrow main article: heathrow airport heathrow (iata: lhr, icao: egll)
and on  buses and trams.
travelcards are also accepted, as are oyster cards, which must be validated when entering the platform, and then validated again when exiting the station.
in central london, taking the tube for just one stop can be a waste of time; londoners joke about the tourists who use the tube to travel between leicester square and covent garden stations.
paper travel cards valid for 1 day, 3 days or 7
helmets are not compulsory for cyclists in the united kingdom, and their  effectiveness is as much a matter of debate here as anywhere else.
licensed minicabs display a transport for london (tfl) license plate - usually in the front window.
though not particularly known for bargain shopping, nearly anything you could possibly want to buy is available in london.
also getting to the airport  can take longer than the proclaimed 90 minutes, expect more like 120 minutes.
one of the features of the license plate is a  blue version of the famous london underground "roundel".
the earlier you  book, the more you save - you can get down to as little as £12.00 one-way  from scotland for example, but these tickets are non-refundable, and cannot be  used on anything other than the date, train time and operator that is printed  on the reservation.
finally, note that direction signs for the  platforms indicate the geographical direction of the line,not the last  stop of the line.
london overground services also connect  busy clapham junction railway station in the southwest to west london  (shepherds bush and kensington) and willesden junction in the northwest.
london university vacation accommodation providers include;ucl residences lsevactions, travelstay.com and cortisso.
travelcards are valid on thameslink but if you are heading all the way to  luton airport, you will need a ticket between the edge of your travelcard zone  and the airport.
also checkoutbrick lane, greenwich andportobello, [102].
a crowd of around 100 travellers (up to 400 in summer) camp in  the main departure/arrivals hall every night, effectively turning it into a  giant dormitory.
operates budget coach services  from/to london (victoria coach station) to/from several major regional cities,  it is even possible to get to inverness in thescottish highlands.
most major roads in london will have a red-route (indicated by red-painted tarmac) which is restricted to buses, taxis and bicycles.
numerous payment options exist: by phone, online, at convenience stores  displaying the red 'c' logo in the window and by voucher.
another good place for free wi-fi would be mcdonald's, where free 24-hour period wi-fi are offered to customers.
some apartment-hotels offer good value accommodation for those travelling in a group - often better quality than many hotels but at a cheaper individual rate per person.
inline skating on roads and pavements (sidewalks) is completely legal, except in thecity of london (a district).
there are two types of machine: the older machines that have buttons for  different fare levels and accept only coins and the new touchscreen machines  that have instructions in multiple languages, offer a greater choice of ticket  and accept bills and credit/debit cards (note that if your card has no embedded  microchip, you cannot use these machines, you pay at the ticket counter).
since the tube map is well  designed it is very easy to work out how to get between any two stations, and  since each station is clearly signed it is easy to work out when to exit your  train.
emergencies can be dealt with under the nhs system at any hospital with an a & e (accident & emergency) department.
edit cheapest: by london underground (piccadilly line), ☎ +44 845 330  9880, [10].
however, there is no expiry date on the oyster card or any pay-as-you-go credit  on the card.
this is especially true since the walk from a tube station entrance to the platform at some central stations can be extensive.
recipients are as diverse as wolfgang amadeus mozart, sigmund freud, charles de gaulle, jimi hendrix and karl marx.
the camden area is home to clubs which play indie, metal and rock music and notably the electric ballroom, the world famous koko (fridays) and underworld, however be aware that camden clubs are mostly shut (or empty) on the weekdays.
there are three basic types of ticket, which are summarised below.
the  corresponding south circular is really a local road which is made up of  segments of main suburban thoroughfares.
better deals can  often be had by going directly to the train operator's website.
some of the better value options are to be found in the following central districts: a slightly left-field option is to check the landmark trust [113], a building preservation charity who purchase notable old buildings in the uk, renovate and run them as holiday lettings.
londoners will often just  round up to the nearest pound.
clapham junction is not just a train station - but also home to many good restaurants and bars, in particular on lavender hill and battersea rise lordship lane in the southern suburbs - head to east dulwich station - a good selection of european restaurants and a few award winning gastropubs high street
a large number of budget flights depart from stansted as early as 6am (when  the lowest fares are available).
london river services[67] (part of transport for london)
modern-day london in these terms is a two-centre city, with the area in between known confusingly as the west end.
the towpaths in north london along the grand union canal and regent's canal  are the closest thing to a truly traffic-free cycle path in the capital.
in general, oyster is the more cost effective option than paper tickets if you plan to be in london for any more than a couple of days, or if you intend to make return visits to the city - the savings quickly recover the initial purchase cost.
the ibus system has now been rolled out the ibus on every bus and garage in london.
unless you have a disability, there is no good reason whatsoever to drive a car in central london.
if you plan on buying lots of groceries it's worth the trip as prices are much lower than in any downtown supermarkets.
unless you have a disability, there is no good reason  whatsoever to drive a car in central london.
single oyster fares are charged by the number of zones crossed, starting at £2.00 for 1 zone up to £4.80 for 6 zones.
it takes about 30-40min to cycle from paddington station to islington along the towpaths.
if you're looking to save money and meet travellers then pub crawls are guided tours that run nightly in central london.
wine buffs can enjoy the famous davys wine bars that dot the city.
just 7  cm (3 in) of snow will cause trains to stop running, airports to see  significant delays, and mail service will halt.
every 15 min,  journey time 35-40 min.
to  get to the centre of the city, the following options exist: by rail: gatwick express, ☎ +44 845 850 1530, [15].
a good way to combat being left at the side of the curb is to open the  back door, or even get into the cab, before stating your destination.
student oysters (only available to students studying in  london) go up to age 18 and journeys are still free, failure to show an oyster  means a £2 fare.
these still run onheritage  route 9 and 15 daily between about 09:30 and 18:30, every 15  minutes.
one way  £18.90, round trip £33.20, for the cheapest fare visit their website .
the city has one of the most comprehensive public transport systems in the world.
together, these motorways are the main link to the coastal  ferry (and channel tunnel) ports of dover and folkestone from continental  europe.
however, only one service is officially called overground -london overground is a transport for london rail service.
unlike the tube one way tickets do not allow you to transfer to different  buses.
if yes then start running!!
there is a map showing this on the transport for london website.
croydon croydon is derided by most londoners as the end of the earth, however this suburban gem of a road has at least 30 decent restaurants, including three argentinians, a south african curryhouse, a couple of fancy modern european brassieres, and just about every over type of cuisine you can think of.
many pubs were destroyed in the great fire of london – indeed, samuel pepys supposedly watched the disaster from the comfort ofthe anchor in borough.
because britain drives on the left hand side of the road, for most foreign  visitors it can be all too easy to forget that traffic will come at you from  the opposite direction than you are used to when crossing a street - for this  reasonremember to look right when you cross the road.
refrain from walking slowly in tight spaces to avoid annoying any fast  walking people that may be trying to pass.
snow does occur, usually a few times a year but rarely heavy (a few years being exceptions such as the winters of 2009 and 2010, with temperatures dipping down to sub-zeros regularly).
fares are low - especially when booked in  advance via the web.
furthermore, bus x26  (limited stop) is an express route stopping in three of south london's district  centres: kingston, sutton and croydon.
london is now starting to follow the example of cities such as sydney and bangkok by promoting a network of river bus and pleasure cruise services along the river thames.
despite recent improvements, london remains a relatively hostile environment for cyclists.
the fare is calculated based on your start and end points.
[edit] districts the name london originally referred only to the once-walled "square  mile" of the original roman (and later medieval) city (confusingly called  the "city of london" or just "the city").
[edit] by dlr docklands light railway (dlr) is a dedicated light rail network  operating ineast london, connecting with the tube network at bank, tower  gateway (close to tower hill tube station), canning town, heron quays (close to  canary wharf tube station) and stratford.
for this reason, folding bicycles are becoming increasingly popular.
[edit] climate climate jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec daily highs (°c)  8  8  11  13  17  20  23  23  19  15  11  9 nightly lows(°c)  2  2  4  5  8  11  14  13  11  8  5  3 precipitation (mm)  52  34  42  45  47  53  38  47  57  62  52  54
edit by minibus: easybus, [32].
a pre-booked sedan transfer from heathrow to central  london will cost £35-40.
fares can be very cheap.
the 'green lungs' of london are the many parks, great and small, scattered throughout the city includinghyde park, st james park and regent's park.
london's suburban rail services are operated by several private companies under tightly-written government contracts, and mostly run in the south of the city, away from the main tourist sights.
generally, tickets from one boat  comapny are not valid on other operators' services.
despite the congestion charge, london - like most major cities - continues to experience traffic snarls.
this an excellent and cheaper alternative to a  black cab.
it is expected that the business 'expectations' will close by the end of march 2011.
in  summer they are crowded with pedestrians and not suitable for cycling, but in  winter or late in the evening they offer a very fast and safe way to travel  from east to west in north london.
notable clubs include china white, luxx, maddox, jalouse, funky buddha, whisky mist, mahiki, no 5 cavendish square, embassy, vendome and maya.
only one line (thameslink) runs through central london -  on a north-south axis between london bridge or blackfriars stations, and the  underground level of st pancras main line station.
it is full of excellent bars, galleries, museums, parks and theatres.
their website contains maps plus an excellentjourney planner [54].
are similarly small.
travelcard & oyster  card not valid to heathrow.
winter in london is mild compared to nearby continental european cities, due to both the presence of the gulf stream and urban heat effect.
[edit] by taxi london cab london has two types of taxis: the famous black cab, and so-called minicabs.
there are however, a  monumentally complex number of exceptions for which off-peak tickets are and  aren't valid which are barely fathomable to the british, never mind overseas
travelcards are also accepted,  as are oyster cards, which must be validated when entering the platform, and  then validated again when exiting the station.
classier bars and pubs can be much more expensive.
advance ticketing is  required.
this could be related to the relative ease of hopping on and off  without paying (doors open along the length of the bus and there is no on-board  conductor).
prices vary depending on distance travelled, whether by bus or tube, and on the time of day.
incurs a hefty automatic  fine of £80 (£40 if paid within 2 weeks).
the tube is an easy method of transport even for new visitors to london.
the term greater london embraces central london together with all the outlying suburbs that lie in one continuous urban sprawl within the lower thames valley.
non-folding bikes can be taken only on limited sections of the tube network,  mostly only on the above-ground sections outside peak hours.
for advice on non-emergency medical problems, you can ring the 24 hour nhs direct service on 0845 4647.
while boat  travel may be slower and a little more expensive than tube travel, it offers an  extremely pleasant way to cross the city with unrivalled views of the london  skyline - big ben, st paul's cathedral, the tower of london, etc.
the nucleus of london's gay scene is undoubtedly old compton st and the surrounding area insoho
a top tip is don't be put off if there is no availability left online, phone the hostel in question to see if there are still beds available or if there has been a cancellation.
the mayor of london is elected by london residents  and should not be confused with the lord mayor of the city of london.
britain and london visitor centre (blvc), 1 regent st, sw1y 4xt (nearest  tube station piccadilly circus), ☎ +44 870 156 6366, [5].
benches without armrests are in limited supply and fill up quickly.
alternatively catch public transport into the city centre and then  catch a taxi.
normal precautions for the safe keeping of your personal possessions, as you would in any other city, are suggested.
the safest option is to stick to minor residential roads where traffic can be surprisingly calm outside rush hours.
a free wi-fi hotspot  is in the arrivals gate area, next to the phone booths offering fixed internet.
[edit] validity the following table summarises the validity of the different tickets you  can use on oyster.
the names of several boroughs, such aswestminster or camden, are well-known, others less so, such aswandsworth or lewisham.
this new system provides bus times and destination information on a  audio-visual display.
parking during weekdays and on saturday can also mean considerable  expense in parking fees - fees and restrictions are ignored at your extreme  financial peril - issuing fines, clamping and towing vehicles (without  warning!) has become a veritable new industry for borough councils staffed by  armies of traffic wardens.
a list of  licenced minicab operators can be found at tfl findaride:[64].
ear plugs and eye covers are a must, as the cleaning staff are noisy and  shop assistants start arriving at 4am to open shutters.
despite recent improvements, london remains a relatively hostile  environment for cyclists.
english heritage runs the blue plaques [68] programme in london.
since the tube map is well designed it is very easy to work out how to get between any two stations, and since each station is clearly signed it is easy to work out when to exit your train.
london king's cross, serves east anglia, north-east england and  east scotland:cambridge, doncaster, leeds, york, kingston upon hull, newcastle  upon tyne, edinburgh and aberdeen.
the london cycling campaign [63] is an advocacy group for london cyclists.
travelling on lower deck of a night bus is generally safer, as there are more passengers around, and you are visible by the bus driver.
non-folding bikes can be taken only on limited sections of the tube network, mostly only on the above-ground sections outside peak hours.
many improvements have been made for  cyclists in the city over the last few years, even if they remain no more than  gestures in most places.
tube maps [60] are freely available from any station, most tourist offices and are prominently displayed in stations and in the back of most diaries.
the m11 connects stansted airport and cambridge to london,  and it terminates on the north eastern periphery of the city.
london has two types of taxis: the famous black cab, and so-called minicabs.
paper travel cards valid for 1 day, 3 days or 7 days are also available and can also be used on buses, national rail trains, the dlr and croydon tramlink.
they also offer a 24-hour travel information line, charged at premium rate: tel+44-843-2221234 (or text 60835) for suggestions on getting from a to b, and for up to the minute information on how services are running.
a quick summary of transport options (also seeheathrow airport): (iata: lgw, icao: egkk)
the principal route to/from the west - leading to bath,  bristol and cities south wales (cardiff and swansea).
scooters and bikes with automatic transmission are much more preferable - a manually-geared racing bike is completely impractical unless you have excellent clutch-control!
the following table summarises the validity of the different tickets you can use on oyster.
lively  market, interesting history, the world famous carnival and diverse population paddington-maida vale largely residential district of  northwest central london with lots of mid-range accommodation soho dense concentration of highly fashionable restaurants, cafés,  clubs and jazz bars, as well as london's gay village south bank south side of the river thames with good views of the city, several  theatres and the london eye south kensington-chelsea an  extremely well-heeled inner london district with famous department stores, hyde  park, many museums and the king's road westminster a city  in its own right, the seat of government and an almost endless list of  historical and cultural sights, such as buckingham palace, the palace of  westminster and westminster abbey.
there are a huge range of options, from informal language exchange services to evening classes and formal language schools.
flights landing at heathrow are often  delayed by up to an hour as a simple result of air traffic congestion and  waiting for parking slots.
roads are not the greatest but easily skatable.
on thursdays many west end stores close later than normal (19:00-20:00).
equally, failing to touch out when you leave a station will result in you being  overcharged for your journey, as the system will make a default deduction of  £6.50 since it doesn't know which station you left at.
you can "charge up" an  oyster card with electronic funds.
at a & e departments, be prepared to wait for up to 2-3 hours during busy periods before being given treatment if your medical complaint is not too serious.
airport claims to become  london's sixth international airport.
london is one of the great "world cities," and remains a global capital of culture, fashion, finance, politics and trade.
a new railway station  opened in 2011, which is adjacent to the new terminal.
due to the high price of accommodation in the city and near the airport, and the fact that many budget airlines don't pay for accommodation in the event of cancellation, an increasing number of travellers choose to spend the night in the airport prior to their flight.
as with the rest of the uk, chain pubs abound which londoners tend to avoid like the plague.
a tram service that operates only in southern suburbs around wimbledon and croydon.
in any case, you can always catch a bus anyway - by the far the best way to see the city and get about generally.
despite the controversial "congestion charge",  driving a car anywhere near the centre of london remains a nightmare with  crowded roads, impatient drivers and extortionate parking charges (that's if  you can find a space in the first place, that is!).
always always advisable to carry a pocket tube map (available  for free at most stations) to help you with this.
your budget will have a lot to do with what part of london you will want to stay in.
the average daily high temperatures in july and august are around 24°c (75°f)
another good (and cheap) lunch option is a chicken or lamb doner (gyro) at many outlets throughout the city, though meat quality is often poor.
a few journeys are fast but most are notably slower than  using the train.
this could be related to the relative ease of hopping on and off without paying (doors open along the length of the bus and there is no on-board conductor).
tower bridge at night, bridging the river thames.
since they offer a  growing number of budget flights, choosing those airports can be cheaper (or  even faster, depending on where in london your destination is).
from/to london (victoria coach station)  to/from several cities.
the goose at catford, was reputedly a favourite of karl marx.
if you have a paper ticket, insert it face-up into the slot  on the front of the machine, and remove it from the top to enter the station.
london waterloo, serves south west london and england: portsmouth,  winchester, southampton, bournemouth, weymouth, salisbury and exeter.
you can also try time out's favourite newcomer,the princess victoria on uxbridge road, shepherd's bush.
london marylebone, serves some north western suburban stations  such as amersham, harrow on the hill and wembley stadium.
road users should plan their journey and check traffic conditions, as if  an incident occurs on london's busy roads, journey times can dramatically  increase.
look around you - see any locals tucking in?
london overground appears on the tube map as an orange line, and  services run acrossnorth london suburbs from east to west.
there are a number of unaccredited schools charging hefty fees and offering qualifications that are viewed as worthless.
depending on where  you are travelling from in london and time of day, journey times take 45-90  mins.
the airport is miles away from any settlement  and security guards overlook the open-plan building 24/7.
one way prices start from £2.
a number of mobile phone apps are also available to download which show line closures on real-time tube maps.
a new network of "cycle super-highways" has recently been launched: these are indicated by bright blue-painted tarmac.
holborn-clerkenwell buffer zone between london's west end  and the city of london financial district, home to the inns of court leicester square west end district comprising leicester square,  chinatown, trafalgar square and piccadilly circus and the centre of london's  cinema and theatre land mayfair-marylebone
(icao: eglc, iata: lcy)[39] a commuter airport close to the city's financial district, and specializing in short-haul business flights to other major european cities.
despite this however it is still possible to find a sub-£3 pint in central london - it takes some determination.
generally, outside central london, the south, and east suburban areas are considered more dangerous, notablybrixton and hackney, although some parts of north-west london such asharlesden and northern camden are also known trouble spots.
taking bikes on trains is very limited in london due to overcrowding.
not necessarily as unpleasant as you may think, and as long as you don't mind sharing with others, they are the most cost-effective option and also offer breakfast as well as kitchens for self catering.
also, because of urban heat effect, during night time it could feel muggy.
this is, however, illegal and can be very risky - large teams of inspectors frequently descend on these buses accompanied by police, and it's possible to be arrested and prosecuted.
to victoria (tube: victoria) via brent cross,  finchley rd tube station, baker st, marble arch and hyde park corner.
likewise to bicycles, car-drivers have a disregard to anyone on two wheels and larger vehicles have an unwritten priority so take care when crossing junctions.
in an emergency, telephone "999" (or "112").
zone 1-6 travelcard valid on all london  buses and trains.
edit megabus, ☎ +44 900 160 0900, [49].
single tickets are charged at a premium (often costing only a little less  than a 1-day travelcard) of £4 flat fare for journeys within or beyond  zone 1 or £3 for journeys outside of zone 1.
reflective clothing is always a good idea even  during the day.
your best protection is to deal only with london apartment rental agencies which have been recommended by independent sources you feel you can trust, and to deal only with those that accept confirmations via credit card.
as each palace was replaced by a larger one, the previous one was used for government, first the palace of westminster (better known as the houses of parliament), then whitehall, then buckingham palace.
the parkway airport station, which serves the terminal is about 20 minutes walk back into town, though there is a regular shuttle bus charging £1.50 to take you to the station.
the dlr can be a little confusing as the routes are not easily  distinguished - generally trains run between bank - lewisham, stratford -  lewisham,
the average daily high temperatures in july  and august are around 24°c (75°f)
all services operated by national express or eurolines (see below) servevictoria coach station, which actually has separate arrival and departure buildings.
if you are harassed, it is best to simply ignore and walk away from those concerned.
situated on the river thames insouth-east england, greater london has an official population of nearly 8 million people — although the  figure of over 14 million for the city's total metropolitan area more  accurately reflects london's size and importance.
most budget carriers' websites offer reduced  price deals for the stansted express, allowing you to save a few pounds.
by tube / underground 11 colour-coded lines cover the central area and suburbs mostly north of the river thames, run by tfl. by docklands light railway (dlr) runs only in the east of the city, privately run but part of tfl's network.
be a londoner and only use the tube as a way of travelling longer distances - you're here to see london - you can't see it underground!
to complicate the matter, airlines that fly into heathrow are currently playing a system-wide game of musical chairs as gate assignments are cycled through the new terminal, making it even more necessary for travelers to check their terminal and gate assignment in advance.
so thewest end was up-wind and up-market, the  east end was where people worked for a living.
if you're after gastropubs, you may like to visit london's first, the eagle, in clerkenwell, established in 1991.
scams/con artists london has a large number of con artists around, all trying to convince you to hand over your money one way or another.
you must have working front and rear lights during hours of darkness.
the tube is made up of 11 lines each bearing a traditional name and a standard colour on the tube map.
be aware that whistlestop convenience stores (located in or around train stations) are notoriously overpriced and should be avoided.
over 5 million bus trips are made each weekday; with over 700 different bus routes you are never far from a bus.
part of the city of westminster and borough of camden.
this will make london the first city to hold the olympic games three times, having hosted the games previously in 1908 and 1948.
they are priced by zones: a 1-day travelcard for zones 1-2 costs £8.40 (day anytime).
the name london originally referred only to the once-walled "square mile" of the original roman (and later medieval) city (confusingly called the "city of london" or just "the city").
in such cases a short stay in london can be more affordable compared to staying in a hotel.
by boat commuter boats and pleasure cruises along the river thames, privately run but part of tfl's network.
capsule-style crash spaces are just arriving, but currently these are only in central locations.
london is unfortunately not noted for free public wifi access - although the number of hotspots is continuing to grow.
from £1 (advance web purchase) one way.
every 30 min,  journey time 1 hour.
[edit] the city and westminster the world famous st. stephen's  tower (the main bell is big ben)
first class is available on all long distance services to london,  the standard of service varies from operator to operator, but in general you  get a wider, more comfortable seat, free tea/coffee for the duration of the  journey, and some sort of complimentary catering service.
a good tip is,  that outside advertised restriction hours, parking on asingle yellow  line is permissible.
use your discretion, if  you like the service you may tip otherwise don't.
clockwise starting at paddington, majornational rail stations are: in south london many areas have only national rail services (no london underground services but there are buses).
as well as the thames
unlike the tube, the dlr uses the honor-system at all stations apart from bank and stratford.
edit also: to south london, ☎ +44 845 748 4950, [12].
it takes about  30-40min to cycle from paddington station to islington along the towpaths.
with the exception of fenchurch st (tube: tower hill) these are on the london underground.
cooke in hackney broadway market.[104] water souchet and london particular (green-pea and ham) are classic cockney soups, though hard to find on menus.
the choice of places to go sometimes seem to be unmanageable.
[edit] london gatwick (iata: lgw, icao: egkk)
they generally charge a fixed fare for a journey, best agreed before you get in the car.
particularly on central london's busiest streets, it is easy to spot native londoners as they are able to weave in and out of the large crowds at fast speed.
[edit] by bus double-decker bus in london bus stop london's iconic red buses are recognized the world over, even if the  traditionalroutemaster buses, with an open rear platform and on-board  conductor to collect fares, have been phased out.
if you have a national railcard, such as the 16-25 year old railcard, you can register this with your oyster card at a tube ticket office and then continue to receive special discounts on your tfl travel.
if you have a national railcard, such as the 16-25 year old railcard, you  can register this with your oyster card at a tube ticket office and then  continue to receive special discounts on your tfl travel.
rail fares to london vary enormously from very cheap to prohibitively expensive - the golden rules are to book advance tickets for a particular train time, don't travel into the city on friday afternoons and sundays, and avoid buying tickets on the day of travel.
despite the inevitable decline of the british empire, and considerable  suffering during world war ii (when london was heavily bombed by the german  luftwaffe in the blitz), the city is still a top-ranked world city: a global  centre of culture, finance, and learning.
services by other operators may use this station, or thegreen line coach station across buckingham palace road.
it has a variety of good, quality information including hotels, restaurants, attractions, arrival and departure info.
take the 474 bus to canning town station and then the 115  or n15 into central london.
[45] terminals (although in conversation you may hear the brandnational rail infrequently if ever it differentiates main line and london underground services; journey planner online or phone 0845 748 49 50).
one way £20, round trip  £27.
[53] is a government organisation  responsible for all public transport.
journey time: 20-55 min.
between arena and sandilands, these two services
today, london has  taken on a much larger meaning to include all of the vast central parts of the  modern metropolis, with the city having absorbed numerous surrounding towns and  villages over the centuries, including large portions of the surrounding  "home counties", one of which - middlesex - being completely consumed  by the growing metropolis.
mostnational rail operators allow bicycles outside peak hours also.
you can also add various electronic 1 week, 1 month and longer-period  tickets onto the card, and the card is simply validated each time you use it.
from monday through friday,  parking in the city of london is free after 18:30; after 13:30 on saturday and  all day sunday.
(icao: egss, iata: stn)
get a quick train to east croydon station from victoria or london bridge.
a couple of budget carriers serving an increasing  number of european destinations are based here.
starbucks offers free wi-fi for customers registering their prepaid starbucks card.
be aware that weekend  engineering works can result in replacement buses being run in place of the  trains - check with the tfl website beforehand.
every 10-15 minutes and is free of charge, although  it can only carry a limited amount of vehicles so avoid during busy periods as  the queues can be very long!
the london underground [59] - also known popularly as the tube - has trains that criss-cross london in the largest underground rail  network in the world (it was also the first, the first section of the  metropolitan line dates back to 1863).
if you intend to use the overnight sleeper trains to london, you will have to pay a berth supplement for every member of your party - provided there is berth availability on the train.
trouble spots can be expected around popular drinking locations such assoho and in various suburban centres.
for a posh wine tasting experience, there isvinopolis by borough market, though a tour price will be as eye-watering as the produce sampled.
it also acts  commercially and can have some astoundingly good last minute deals on  accommodation.
bus routes are identified by numbers and sometimes letters, for example the 73 runs between victoria and seven sisters.
the land to the east was flat, marshy and cheap, good for cheap housing and industry, and later for docks.
sushi locations throughout the city.
england's royal family has, over the centuries, added much to the london  scene for today's traveller: thealbert memorial, buckingham palace, kensington  palace, royal albert hall, tower of london, kew palace and westminster abbey  being prominent examples.
edit [edit] get in [edit] by plane summary map of rail connections to london  airports due to london's huge global city status it is the most served destination  in the world when it comes to flights.
be careful at the ticket barrier of people coming up close behind you in  an attempt to get through the barrier on your ticket.
the names  of several boroughs, such aswestminster or camden, are well-known, others less  so, such aswandsworth or lewisham.
if can be great value  if you get an advance first-class fare, but it is extremely expensive  otherwise, and to be honest - not really worth it.
they are usually the fastest  way to travel in london, the only problem being the relative expense, and that  it can get extremely crowded during rush hours (07:30-10:00 and 16:30-19:00).
the general rule is to leave a tip for table service, unless there's already a service charge added or unless the service has been notably poor.
edit [edit] by car london is the hub of the uk's road network and is easy to reach by car,  even if driving into the centre of the city is definitely not recommended.
the worst tourist trap food is, in the opinion of many londoners, is served at the various steak houses (angus steak house, aberdeen steak house etc - they are all dotted around the west end and near to the main train stations).
almost all stations have automatic ticket barriers.
for a more  comprehensive list of the prices visit the tfl website: 1 day travelcards [57] 7 day, monthly & annual travelcards [58] [edit] travelcard season tickets weekly, monthly and longer-period travelcard season tickets can be  purchased at all tube station ticket offices.
some of the best pie houses arem. manze in peckham orf.
also note that engineering works usually take place during weekends or the evening.
contact tfl or visit their web site[61] especially if you plan to travel on a saturday or a sunday when entire lines may be shut down.
each bus stop has a sign listing routes that stop there.
this is a guide article.
in the evening allow extra half an hour as closing hours are not always strictly respected.
for the cheapest single fare ask for an oyster card (£5 refundable deposit).
london's long association with the theatre, for  example, can be traced back to the english renaissance (witness the rose theatre [3] and great playwrights like shakespeare who made london their home).
wandsworth grand thames-side areas and open green parks in the  north and dense housing in south [edit] outer boroughs outer boroughs.
for a more comprehensive list of the prices visit the tfl website: 1 day travelcards [57] 7 day, monthly & annual travelcards [58] weekly, monthly and longer-period travelcard season tickets can be purchased at all tube station ticket offices.
noticeably, there are many new signposted cycle routes and some new cycle lanes, not to mention more cyclists since the 2005 public transport attacks.
if you have a paper ticket, insert it face-up into the slot on the front of the machine, and remove it from the top to enter the station.
does not serve terminal 5.
includingwhizzgo [51] and car clubs [52] transport maps london is the home of the famous tube map, and tfl produce some excellent maps to help you get around:
, consider a trip along an old victorian canal through the leafy suburbs of north london.
in some years such as 2010 there is no  rain for several weeks.
the network is centred oncroydon, where it runs on street-level  tracks around the croydon loop.
if you are the holder of a britrail pass, things are simpler - but remember  you still have to make a seat reservation for the train you intend to travel on  - otherwise you run the risk of standing for the journey!
cabwise, liverpool station, ☎ 60835, [65].
tramlink, opened in 2000, is the first modern tram system to operate in london.
these illegal drivers are unlicensed and sadly they are often unsafe: a number of women are assaulted every week by illegal minicab operators (11 per month).
london grew both west and east.
very expensive however - on a long  distance journey from northern england or scotland for example - an anytime  return ticket to london won't leave you with any change out of £250!
kent international airport and shoreham airport (near brighton)
to london  bridge, blackfriars, city thameslink, farringdon, st pancras international,  luton airport and further north.
all lines are identified by name (circle line, central line, piccadilly line).
be prepared to  give your signature on receipts or even show id for refunds over a few pounds.
normally, however, those who get on the  bus via the doors in the middle will be asked (or rather yelled) to come to the  front and pay.
london is a city which does not cope well with snow; walkways, stairs, and streets will not be cleared by shovels or plows.
travelcards are valid only within the zones you buy.
it is possible  to book black cabs by phone, for a fee, but if you are in central london it  will usually be quicker to hail one from the street.
cameras and mobile units record and identify the number plates and registration details of all vehicles entering the charging zone with high accuracy.
is an associate company of  national express, and runs coach services to / from london with various cities  innorthern ireland, the ireland and continental europe.
yellow signs indicate you must purchase your ticket before you board.
heading towardsbermondsey, pub crowds become a little less touristy.
sleeper trains to scotland leave from  euston.
closed 25-26 dec and 1 jan. visit
unlike the tube one way tickets do not allow you to transfer to different buses.
oyster cards can be used as  payment for the 'clipper'-styled commuter services but not for tour boats.
for british visitors, a valid yha (syha for scotland) membership card is all that's required.
these still run onheritage route 9 and 15 daily between about 09:30 and 18:30, every 15 minutes.
for adventurous people.
winter in london is mild compared to nearby continental european cities,  due to both the presence of the gulf stream and urban heat effect.
as one of the world's most cosmopolitan cities, you can find restaurants serving food cuisine from nearly every country, some of it as good as, if not better than in the countries of origin.
london (all airports code: lon) is served by a total of five airports.
you must either have a  pay-as-you-go oyster card, travelcard season ticket, bus saver ticket, bus  pass, or have bought a one way ticket from a machine at the bus stop.
hammersmith and fulham borough in west london with a diverse population and the home of the bbc, plus  a hotbed for professional football hampstead bohemian and  literary north london and the wonderful open spaces of hampstead heath islington area to the north of clerkenwell which has undergone huge  gentrification since 1990 lambeth a diverse caribbean -flavoured district to the south of the thames which includes the buzzing,  bright-lights ofbrixton southwark-lewisham inner  southern districts of london, traditionally residential, with a large melting  pot of communities.
there is also a tesco in the surrey quays shopping mall which is next to canada water station on the jubilee line - again about 10-15 minutes from the centre of town.
from age 11 and up you must show an oyster card on buses, yet journeys are free.
in a well-known scam, an older gentleman will ask you for directions, convincing you that he thought you were english.
the royal oak of borough, is another pub which is the only representative of an out-of-town brewery in london, that of harvey's of lewes.
about an hour upstream (on foot or by boat) around a bend in the river was  the government capital (westminster).
the best option is to walk away or just say "no thank you" politely, as people are commonly harassed into giving personal details.
travelling between the city and the airports is made relatively easy  by the large number of public transport links that have been put in place over  recent years.
visitors should be aware, however, that the tube map is a diagram and not a scaled map, making it misleading for determining the relative distance between stations as it makes central stations appear further apart and somewhat out of place - the most distant reaches of the metropolitan line for example are almost 60 km (40 mi) from the centre of the city.
also getting to the airport can take longer than the proclaimed 90 minutes, expect more like 120 minutes.
it is the world's busiest single  runway airport and is split into anorth and south terminal.
london overground services also connect busy clapham junction railway station in the southwest to west london (shepherds bush and kensington) and willesden junction in the northwest.
no? - then you shouldn't either.
sandwich shops are the most popular places to buy lunch, and there are a lot of places to choose from including eat and pret a manger.
route 3 (wimbledon to new addington - green on the tramlink map) is the  most frequent service, running every 7 1/2 minutes monday to saturday daytime  and every 15 minutes at all other times.
the capital and largest city of both theunited kingdom and ofengland, it is also the largest city in western europe and the european union.
on some busy routes, extra-long buses known as "bendy buses" are used.
they are a cheap transport option if there are five passengers as they do not  charge extras, and many view them as an essential experience for any visitor to  london.
apart from the trains looking slightly different and running slightly less frequently than the tube, visitors may as well treat the two systems as the same.
airport express trains are heathrow, gatwick and stansted express.
the main travel options in summary are: central london
theoretically you don't need to remove your oystercard from your wallet  or bag to do touch in/out - the card reader can work through a bag, but in  reality you may need to take the card out to get it to work - watch out for  this especially if you have another smartcard in your wallet/purse (e.g. an an  employers' identity badge or a contactless bank card) as this can confuse the  barriers or ticket machines.
whether you are interested in ancient history, modern art, opera or underground raves, london has it all.
regardless of which time of the year, the weather in london could change quickly from sunny to rain and from hot to cold.
london has a vibrant gay environment with countless bars, clubs and events in almost every district in the city.
to stratford  (tube: stratford) or victoria (tube: victoria).
driving in central london is a slow, frustrating,  expensive and often unnecessary activity.
the main route to london from the shipping port of southampton.
editthe airport has its own railway station "luton  airport parkway", and is served by trains 24 hours a day from central  london using "first capital connect trains" and connects with st  pancras international.
the british government lists over 240 genuine museums in the city.
the dlr can be a little confusing as the routes are not easily distinguished - generally trains run between bank - lewisham, stratford - lewisham,
their website contains maps plus an  excellentjourney planner [54].
despite a perhaps unfair reputation for being unsettled, london enjoys a dry and mild climate on average.
this paramount status for london was confirmed when william the conqueror, a norman, built thetower of london after the conquest in 1066 and was crowned king of england in westminster .
oyster cards can be used as payment for the 'clipper'-styled commuter services but not for tour boats.
as each palace was replaced by a  larger one, the previous one was used for government, first the palace of  westminster (better known as the houses of parliament), then whitehall, then  buckingham palace.
west taking in  much of the ancient english county of middlesex (which many residents still  identify with rather than "london", and former parts of  buckinghamshire.
after the end of roman rule in 410 and a short-lived  decline, london experienced a gradual revival under the anglo-saxons, as well  as the norsemen, and emerged as a great medieval trading city, and eventually  replacedwinchester as the royal capital of england.
south london is poorly served by the tube and lacks east-west national rail services so the network connects wimbledon in south west london to beckenham in south east london and new addington, a large housing estate in south croydon.
when using the escalators, always stand on the right to allow  people in a hurry to pass.
daylight hours are short with darkness filling up the sky by 4pm in december.
minicabs are normal cars which are licenced hire vehicles that you  need to book by phone or at a minicab office.
on the tube, be sure to touch in and touch out again at the end of your journey.
yes no bus (and tram) passes are only available for periods of 7 days and longer.
includingwhizzgo [51] and car clubs [52] [edit] get around transport maps london is the home of the famous tube map, and tfl produce some excellent  maps to help you get around: tube map tube and trains with oyster card information bus maps - if you know which borough you're in, these maps are very useful river buses - great if you're near the thames engineering work
this means london can feel  hot and humid for several days in the summer months.
rail fares to london vary enormously from very cheap to prohibitively  expensive - the golden rules are to book advance tickets for a particular train  time, don't travel into the city on friday afternoons and sundays, and avoid  buying tickets on the day of travel.
in central london use a combination of the transport options listed below -  and check your map!
for zone 1-2 (central london including everywhere inside the circle line and some places outside) this is £6.60 (£8 m-f before 09:30).
the local and commuter rail companies within the london and home counties area also have a bewildering array of special fares which are all in essence, variations of the off-peak ticket and are far too detailed to cover here, go directly to the website of the operator concerned for more information.
to victoria (tube: victoria) via golders green and marble  arch.
the  safest option is to stick to minor residential roads where traffic can be  surprisingly calm outside rush hours.
60 km (34 mi) north of london, just off the m1 motorway which  connects london with the midlands and the north of england.
the vast majority  of events will be held in a regenerated area in east london.
parking for bikes is usually free - there are designated motorcycle-parking areas on some side-streets and some multi-level parking lots will have bike parking on the ground level.
pay-as-you-go is much cheaper than paying in cash for each journey.
the usual targets of these establishments are lone male tourists.
for  instance, a cash tube one way in zone 1 is £4, while with an oyster card  it costs £1.90.
paper tickets can be purchased from vending machines in the station lobby.
some italian-style sandwich shops have a very good reputation and you can identify them easily by looking at the long queues at lunchtime.
from age 11 and up you must show an oyster card on buses, yet  journeys are free.
the founder's arms on thesouth bank is one of the brewery's most well known establishments.
alongside the regular police, there are over 4,000 police community support officers (pcsos) that provide a highly visible presence on the streets and are able to deal with low-level crime.
prices vary  depending on distance travelled, whether by bus or tube, and on the time of  day.
to get to the city centre the following options exist: london is the hub of the british rail network - every major city in mainland britain has a frequent train service to the capital, and most of the smaller, provincial cities and large towns also have a direct rail connection to london of some sort - although the frequency and quality of service can vary considerably from place to place.
as the trains often operate without a driver, it can be quite exciting - especially for children - to sit in front and look at through the window, whilst feeling as though one is driving the train oneself.
in the bloomsbury area, check out the court (near the north end of tottenham court road) andthe rocket (euston road).
the station is nearly 2 km (1 mi) from the terminal building,  there is a shuttle bus service running between the terminal and airport every  10 minutes, costing £1 each way.
today london is easily the largest  city in the united kingdom, eight times larger than the second largest, birmingham, and ten times larger than the third, glasgow, and dominates the  economic, political and social life of the nation.
the main route to/from the north, leading from the east  midlands, yorkshire and terminating at leeds.
service is run by greenline and in conjunction with easybus (but  can be used by all travellers regardless of airline you travel with).
bus routes are identified by numbers and sometimes letters,  for example the 73 runs between victoria and seven sisters.
edit [edit] by car londoners who drive will normally take public transport in the centre;  follow their example.
parking during weekdays and on saturday can also mean considerable expense in parking fees - fees and restrictions are ignored at your extreme financial peril - issuing fines, clamping and towing vehicles (without warning!) has become a veritable new industry for borough councils staffed by armies of traffic wardens.
if you happen to travel  outside the zone, you can use prepay (see above) to make up the difference.
routes served by these buses  always carry a yellow route sign as detailed below.
the food is fantastic as is the atmosphere.
if you don't have an oyster,  tickets have to be bought at a machine by the bus stop in the central area, and  from the driver outside the zone.
even better, it is the only one of the traditional "alpha world cities" (london,tokyo, new york city and paris) in which the majority of the museums have no entrance charges, thus allowing visitors to make multiple visits with ease.
for a different taste, trylondon gin, a popular type of spirit, often mixed with tonic water, (and a slice of lemon) to make g & t's.
london euston, serves the midlands, north-west england and west  scotland:birmingham, manchester, liverpool, chester, oxenholme lake district,  carlisle, glasgow, and holyhead for connecting ferries to/from both the  republic of ireland and northern ireland.
from monday through friday, parking in the city of london is free after 18:30; after 13:30 on saturday and all day sunday.
one way prices start from £7.
as a general rule, expect to pay between £75-150 per night for a 2 or 3 star hotel in the central area of the city.
it  has direct connections with the m4, m40, m1 and m11 motorways and can be useful  if you want to quickly get around the northern suburbs of the city.
with oyster one way £2.90  (off-peak) to £4.80 (peak).
pubs within the touristy areas of london are usually a poor choice for food although there are some brilliant 'gastro-pubs' hidden away - use the internet or a good guide (such as time out) to find them.
both are fairly cheap to drink at, given that they cater for students of the adjacent university college london.
if, for whatever reason you hold an anytime or off-peak ticket and there is no seat reservation coupon, then it is highly recommended you get one from any railway station ticket office - if you want to avoid camping out in the vestibule for all or part of the journey!!
districts in london tend to specialize to different types of music.
most bus stops will have night bus maps with all the buses to and from that local area on it, although it is good to check on the tfl website beforehand, which also has all those maps easily available.
to complicate the matter, airlines that fly into  heathrow are currently playing a system-wide game of musical chairs as gate  assignments are cycled through the new terminal, making it even more necessary  for travelers to check their terminal and gate assignment in advance.
many boat operators offer their own  one-day ticket - ask at the pier kiosks.
other big names in wine include the michelin-starredcellar gascon andvinoteca, both in smithfield.
in a medical emergency, dial 999 or 112.
at these times public transport (and especially the tube) usually offers the best alternative for speed and reduced hassle.
there are plenty of kosher restaurants in golders green, edgware and stamford hill.
at these times  public transport (and especially the tube) usually offers the best alternative  for speed and reduced hassle.
around half past midnight the network changes to the vast night bus network of well over 100 routes stretching all over the city.
typically this excludes anything that arrives  into london during the morning rush hour (before 10:00 typically), or any train  which departs during evening rush hour (16:30-18:30).
always be sure though to check where the closest tube station is to your hotel.
to earl's  court/west brompton.
for domestic train services, there are no fewer than 12 main linenational rail
there are always plenty of people on the street, even at 4am.
oyster [55] is a contactless electronic smartcard run by transport for london.
they are a cheap transport option if there are five passengers as they do not charge extras, and many view them as an essential experience for any visitor to london.
details of london's primary tourist information centre are given below.
the tube map also  gives no information on london's extensive overground bus network and its  orbital rail network.
their amber taxi light  will be on if they are available.
in many cases you can easily walk from one place to another or use the busses.
all services  operated by national express or eurolines (see below)
contact tfl or visit their  web site[61] especially if you plan to travel on a saturday or a sunday when  entire lines may be shut down.
airport express express rail services run to heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton airports (tickets are generally sold at a premium), privately run and not part of the tfl network.
to make the most of the city's tremendous cultural offerings (performing arts, museums, exhibitions, clubs, eateries and numerous others), visitors will do well to pick up a copy of a cultural magazine like time out london (available at most corner shops and newsagents) which gives detailed information and critiques on what's around town including show times and current attractions.
despite the heathrow express & connect's speed,  they are often not the fastest way to a final destination in london.
furthermore, pret-a-manger franchises offer free internet without a login.
rides start from the southern end of waterloo bridge.
when cycling on roads, you must ride on the left with other vehicles.
this has led to a large number of illegal minicabs operating - just  opportunistic people, with a car, looking to make some fast money.
wages are generally higher in london than the rest of the uk, although the cost of living is higher still.
the capital and largest city of both theunited kingdom  and ofengland, it is also the largest city in western europe and the european  union.
use your discretion, if you like the service you may tip otherwise don't.
however, a zone 1-6 travelcard can be used on the london underground (piccadilly line) to/from heathrow  airport.
find and read the parking restrictions  carefully!
you must either have a pay-as-you-go oyster card, travelcard season ticket, bus saver ticket, bus pass, or have bought a one way ticket from a machine at the bus stop.
it is possible to book black cabs by phone, for a fee, but if you are in central london it will usually be quicker to hail one from the street.
edit bournemouth airport similarly operates a couple of ryanair flight  amongst others, and is not too far west on the train line from southampton.
they also offer a 24-hour travel  information line, charged at premium rate: tel+44-843-2221234 (or text  60835) for suggestions on getting from a to b, and for up to the minute  information on how services are running.
with active local groups in most of the city's boroughs, it is recognised by local and regional government as the leading voice for cycling in the capital.
london has one international high speed rail route (operated by eurostar  [44] 0870 518 6186 ) from paris (2h 15min) and brussels (1h 50 min) diving  under the sea for 35 km (22 mi) via the channel tunnel to come out in england.
like other capitals in the world, london has the usual array of fast food outlets.
edit by rail: southern railway, ☎ +44 845 127 2920, [16].
chelsea harbour - cadogan embankment - london eye - bankside - london bridge city - tower - canary  wharf - greenland - masthouse terrace - greenwich - qeii for the o2 - woolwich  arsenal embankment - london eye - blackfriars - london bridge city - tower -  canary wharf - greenland - masthouse terrace - greenwich - qeii for the o2 -  woolwich arsenal embankment - london eye - blackfriars - london bridge city - tower -  canary wharf - greenwich - qeii for the o2 - woolwich arsenal embankment - london eye - london bridge city - tower - canary wharf -  greenland - masthouse terrace - greenwich - qeii for the o2 - woolwich arsenal greenwich - tilbury - gravesend greenwich - tower - westminster - london eye hampton court - kingston (town end pier) - kingston (turk's pier) -
overground services  can be a useful shortcut for crossing the city, bypassing the centre, for  example from kew gardens to camden.
today london is easily the largest city in the united kingdom, eight times larger than the second largest, birmingham, and ten times larger than the third, glasgow, and dominates the economic, political and social life of the nation.
care should be taken as it is possible for those unfamiliar with them to get on then have no way of paying.
likewise to bicycles, car-drivers  have a disregard to anyone on two wheels and larger vehicles have an unwritten  priority so take care when crossing junctions.
convenience stores such as tesco metro, sainsbury central/local, budgens, costcutter, spar, somerfield as well as privately-run 'corner shops' sell pre-made sandwiches, snacks, alcohol, cigarettes, drinks etc.
elsewhere, you should report your crime as normal to the metropolitan police.
these can be found on greek and old compton sts insoho and islington high street.
you can charge up your oyster card with electronic cash at any tube station  ticket machine or ticket desk (you can even use a credit card to do this if  your credit card has a pin number) with oyster pay-as-you-go, also known as  prepay.
is by far the largest  domestic coach operator and operates services to / from london from throughout  england, wales andscotland.
you have to  select a range of zones when you buy it, numbered 1-9.
this money is then deducted from your card each time you get on a  service.
black cabs charge by distance and by the minute, are non-smoking, and  have a minimum charge of £2.20.
london with children london can be stressful with kids - check london with children for slightly less stressful sightseeing
in summer they are crowded with pedestrians and not suitable for cycling, but in winter or late in the evening they offer a very fast and safe way to travel from east to west in north london.
however, a zone 1-6 travelcard can be used on the london underground (piccadilly line) to/from heathrow airport.
pubs were rebuilt on sites that claimed to have been working pubs since the 13th century.
london now offers a city-wide cycle hire scheme, operated by transport for london.
most bus stops will have  night bus maps with all the buses to and from that local area on it, although  it is good to check on the tfl website beforehand, which also has all those  maps easily available.
london now offers a city-wide cycle hire scheme, operated by transport for  london.
the airport is actually quite a  long way from london.
it is very  important to check the tfl website fortravel updates, especially at weekends,  to avoid disappointment.
edit by coach: national express, ☎ +44 870 580 8080, [38].
failure to do this when you begin a journey is regarded as  fare dodging (carrying a penalty fare or even a fine if you are caught).
these are, of course, worse on weekdays during peak commuting hours (i.e. between 07:30-09:30 and 16:00-19:00).
there is no one central station - instead, there are twelve mainline stations dotted around the edge of the central area, and most are connected by the circle line (except euston, fenchurch st and those south of the river like london waterloo and london bridge).
prices stay the same, and daily travelcards are valid until 04:00 the day  after they were issued, so can be used on night buses.
buses are generally quicker than taking the tube for short (less than  a couple of stops on the tube) trips, and out of central london you're likely  to be closer to a bus stop than a tube station.
indian/bangladeshi restaurants are generally fruitful, as they have plenty of traditional dishes (good indian/bangladeshi options can be found in the brick lane area of spitalfields or further afeild in east ham, tooting broadway and southall.
these illegal  drivers are unlicensed and sadly they are often unsafe: a number of women are  assaulted every week by illegal minicab operators (11 per month).
there are up to 10 trains an hour, depending on the time  of day.
the  parkway airport station, which serves the terminal is about 20 minutes walk  back into town, though there is a regular shuttle bus charging £1.50 to  take you to the station.
if you are the holder of a britrail pass, things are simpler - but remember you still have to make a seat reservation for the train you intend to travel on - otherwise you run the risk of standing for the journey!
in central london, the main shopping district is the west end (bond st, covent garden, oxford st and regent st).
costs the price of a text message.
theprincess louise and citty of york are two lovely pubs close by, along high holborn with interesting decor; as is the jerusalem tavern of farringdon, a converted georgian coffee shop, which sells the norfolk beer, st. peters.
you can also get avisitor oyster card [56] for a  deposit of £5, although these cards can be used only to pay as you go and  cannot be loaded with 7 day travelcards.
be sure to generously tip the  hard-working mostly immigrant drivers.
the highest temperature since 2000 was recorded once in august at 38°c (100°f).
th-sa (best to go in the morning, since it gets unpleasantly crowded by around 11:00).
motorcycles and scooters are fairly common in london as they can pass  stationary cars, can usually be parked for free and are exempt from  congestion-charging.
tube maps [60] are freely available from any station, most tourist offices  and are prominently displayed in stations and in the back of most diaries.
note that they cannot be used on any airport express trains (heathrow express, gatwick express and stansted express).
this scam has been used for over ten years.
generally, tickets from one boat comapny are not valid on other operators' services.
this is, however, illegal and can be very risky - large teams of  inspectors frequently descend on these buses accompanied by police, and it's  possible to be arrested and prosecuted.
fullers was founded a bit later in 1845 at chiswick (where you can take a most enjoyable tour of the brewery, including beer-tasting) and the jewel in its crown is probably the grade i listedold bank of england on fleet street, thanks to its breath-taking interiors.
london's iconic red buses are recognized the world over, even if the traditionalroutemaster buses, with an open rear platform and on-board conductor to collect fares, have been phased out.
also a man with a very convincing fake gash on his arm - asking for money to get to hospital (strangely refusing the offer of calling an ambulance).
prices invariably become inflated close to major sporting tournaments (such as the london marathon, wimbledon or major england football/rugby fixtures), or other important events taking place in the city - so it pays to plan your trip around such occasions or book your accommodation well in advance.
in general, oyster is the more cost effective option than paper  tickets if you plan to be in london for any more than a couple of days, or if  you intend to make return visits to the city - the savings quickly recover the  initial purchase cost.
however some, especially older drivers, dislike leaving the centre of town, or going south of the river thames.
regardless of which time of the year, the weather in london could change  quickly from sunny to rain and from hot to cold.
there is a map showing this  on the transport for london website.
plunge forward and help us make it a star!
these can be used on any tube, dlr, bus, london overground,national rail or tram service.
particularly on central london's busiest streets, it is easy to spot native  londoners as they are able to weave in and out of the large crowds at fast  speed.
boats run on the following routes: some key tourist attractions that are easily accessible by boat include: plus all the central london sights in westminster and the south bank
there are many bus stops on red routes, which can present a problem cycling around buses.
student oysters (only available to students studying in london) go up to age 18 and journeys are still free, failure to show an oyster means a £2 fare.
some branch lines (such as the chesham branch of the metropolitan line or the kensington olympia branch of the district line) run as shuttles and require a transfer onto the 'main line'.
also the downtown terminus of the heathrow airport express  (see above) and serves some suburban stations such as acton main line and  ealing broadway.
buses  between heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton run at least hourly, with  heathrow-gatwick services taking 65 min (£18) and heathrow-stansted  services 90 min (£20.50) (note that services between stansted and luton  run only every two hours).
edit by bus: easybus, [18].
about an hour upstream (on foot or by boat) around a bend in the river was the government capital (westminster).
[24] currently london's third  airport, the base for a large number of budget carriers (for example easyjet[25] , ryanair[26], thomson and pegasus [27]) and flights within europe and a few  inter-continental flights.
the land to the west of the city (part of  the parish of westminster) was prime farming land (covent garden and soho for  example) and made good building land.
every 15 min, journey time 45-60 min.
greenwich on the pretty southern banks of the thames, home of  the greenwich meridian, observatory and the national maritime museum hackney hackney has risen the ranks and become fashionable in  recent decades and is home to a thriving arts scene as well as many trendy,  cafés bars and pubs.
london fenchurch street, serves commuter towns north of the thames  estuary tosouthend.
london waterloo serves the  south west.
all meals include the 20% vat tax and some places include a service fee (10-12%).
don't take illegal minicabs (see get around for details).
if you forget to touch your oyster card at the start and finish you  will be charged extra!
much cheaper than gatwick express - about  £10 (they occasionally have advance tickets priced at half that).
st pancras international, serves paris, brussels, lille, as well  as luton airport,catford several destinations in kent and the east midlands:  leicester, nottingham, derby and sheffield.
the bikes, all coloured a distinctive bright blue, can be unlocked and ridden around the city with a credit card, and must be returned to another hire station by locking the bike into the rack.
for example, the 29  bus goes from trafalgar square to wood green during the day; however, the n29  bus goes from trafalgar square to wood green and on to enfield.
around half past  midnight the network changes to the vast night bus network of well over 100  routes stretching all over the city.
advance stop lines at traffic lights allow cyclists to wait ahead of  other traffic at red lights.
london is a city which does not  cope well with snow; walkways, stairs, and streets will not be cleared by  shovels or plows.
some links to british council accredited schools: london is one of the world's leading financial centres and so professional services is the main area of employment, although this sector has been hit hard by the global financial crisis.
bear in mind though that this part of central london becomes a ghost town over the weekend, and you will find that few (if any) bars and restaurants will be open.
folding bicycles only.
direct trains connect  southampton airport to london waterloo station.
buses display their route number in large digits at the front, side and  rear.
beware that drinks are ridiculously expensive and many clubs operate a guestlist-only policy.
if payment is not immediately provided, the bouncers will lock the "patrons" inside and take it by force or take them to an atm and stand over them while they extract the cash.
advance - travel on a specific day and train time, booked up to 12  weeks in advance either in person at a railway station, over the telephone, or  online.
the dlr also runs above ground on much of its route, and travels through many picturesque parts of london, including the docklands area where most of london's skyscrapers are located.
the cost of a single trip using the oyster card is considerably less than buying a single paper ticket with cash.
if you pay by oyster  card, just tap your card against the yellow pad to open the barriers (both upon  entrance and exit).
engineering work in the run-up to the 2012 london olympics, transport for london are undertaking a massive redevelopment programme on the 19th- and 20th-century tube network.
with the excellent tube system where you stay won't limit what you see.
advance ticketing is usually required and  recommended practice in any case.
night buses run at a 30 minute frequency at minimum, with many routes at  much higher frequencies up to every 5 minutes.
it is usually wisest to eat in restaurants on main thoroughfares rather than on quiet backstreets.
note that some areas in london are poorly serviced by black cabs, particularly late at night.
by national rail a complex network of suburban rail services, mostly  running in the southern suburbs, privately run and not part of the tfl network,  although many do accept oyster payments.
for zone 1-2 (central london including  everywhere inside the circle line and some places outside) this is £6.60  (£8 m-f before 09:30).
sometimes this con trick takes place when someone is lured into a private club with the promise of something perhaps more than a drink (like a 'private show' or sex for a small amount of money).
direct  trains connect birmingham international to london euston and watford.
note that the northern line has two separate  routes through the city centre which split at euston and rejoin at kennington,  one (officially called the charing cross branch but known by locals as the west  end branch) runs through the west end serving leicester square, charing cross  and waterloo, while the other route runs via the city of london (officially  called the bank branch but also referred to as the city branch) with major  stops at kings cross and bank.
one way,  adult prices: £18 (if purchased online or from ticket machine/office) and  £23, when purchased onboard; round trip is £34.
normally, however, those who get on the bus via the doors in the middle will be asked (or rather yelled) to come to the front and pay.
also servesaylesbury,  high wycombe, banbury, stratford-upon-avon and the city of birmingham.
between arena and sandilands, these two services serve the same stops.
when the train stops, the carriage doors will usually  line up with this warning.
despite the confusing layout of the line, it is fairly easy to work out which way your train is going; for example a northbound northern line train to edgware along the charing cross branch will be displayed on the indicator as 'edgware via chx' and the on-board pa will announce 'this train terminates at edgware via charing cross'.
if you are in any doubt at all about the validity of an off-peak  ticket, ask a guard at the station or a ticket office before getting on a train  - as on-train conductors can be notoriously unforgiving.
sou, icao: eghi) is not officially a  london airport, though accessible enough to conveniently serve the capital,  especially south west london.
richmond (st helena) hampton court - richmond - kew - westminster hilton docklands - canary wharf london bridge city - canary wharf millbank - bankside putney - wandsworth (rq) - chelsea harbour - cadogan - embankment -  blackfriars richmond (st helena) - kingston (turk's pier) - kingston (town end pier)  - hampton court tilbury - gravesend - greenwich westminster - embankment - festival - bankside - london bridge city - st.  katharine's - westminster westminster - embankment - st. katharine's - westminster westminster - kew - richmond - hampton court westminster - london eye - tower - greenwich westminster - st. katharine's - greenwich - barrier gardens woolwich arsenal - qeii for the o2 - greenwich - masthouse terrace -  greenland - canary wharf - tower - london bridge city - bankside - embankment -  london eye woolwich arsenal - qeii for the o2 - greenwich - masthouse terrace -  greenland - canary wharf - tower - london bridge city - blackfriars -  embankment - london eye woolwich arsenal - qeii for the o2 - greenwich - masthouse terrace -  greenland - canary wharf - tower - london bridge city - embankment - london eye some key tourist attractions that are easily accessible by boat include: hampton court palace
edit [edit] london city airport (icao: eglc, iata: lcy)[39] a commuter airport close to the  city's financial district, and specializing in short-haul business flights to  other major european cities.
old spitalfields market [101] is an excellent market for clothes from up-and-coming designers, records, housewares, food, and all things trendy, it was once the london fruit markets.
airport express express rail services run to heathrow, gatwick,  stansted and luton airports (tickets are generally sold at a premium),  privately run and not part of the tfl network.
as a result, many tube lines are closed on most weekends, and some lines close for several weeks at a time.
car drivers should be aware that driving into central london on weekdays during daylight hours incurs a hefty charge, with very few exemptions (note that rental cars also attract the charge).
transport options into central london: by rail: stansted express to london liverpool street, ☎ +44 845 600  7245, [28].
the two were linked by a road called the "strand",  old english for riverbank.
currently, four of the five terminals are operational - t2 is  closed until 2014 for redevelopment.
some buses have toilets on board.
if you intend to use  the overnight sleeper trains to london, you will have to pay a berth supplement  for every member of your party - provided there is berth availability on the  train.
it terminates at st. pancras international station.
despite residents' constant, and sometimes justified, grumbling about  unreliability, public transport is often the best option for getting anywhere  for visitors and residents alike.
[edit] tourist information centres details of london's primary tourist information centre are given below.
[edit] by tram (tramlink) tramlink, opened in 2000, is the first modern tram system to operate in  london.
the amount of prepay deducted from your oyster card in one day is capped at the cost of the appropriatepaper day ticket (day travelcard) for the zones you have travelled through.
cameras and mobile units record and  identify the number plates and registration details of all vehicles entering  the charging zone with high accuracy.
bank - woolwich arsenal, stratford - woolwich arsenal and tower gateway - beckton.
[11] operates service from midnight-05:00 between heathrow  and piccadilly circus and trafalgar square, roughly following the piccadilly  line into central london taxi.
the website[69] also has major shows listed and there is also an iphone/ipod app available though these tend to not be as detailed as the print version.
be aware that lines are very common at  stansted, security check can easily take an hour.
airport express rail services run to heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton airports - tickets are generally sold at a premium and oystercards not valid.
note that much of the advice applies to rail travel in general within the united kingdom.
if you keep your oystercard in your wallet try not to sit on it as  sometimes they will crack and stop working.
the 45-minute trip along regent's canal is a delightful way to travel.
if you're planning to go out late at night and are worried about safety, frequent crowded areas such as the west end.
[edit] by tube / underground to-scale central london underground  map full to-scale london underground map tube etiquette beware of pickpockets.
edit by rail: first capital connect, ☎ +44 871 200 2233, [17].
snow in london can be crippling, as seen at the end of 2010.
while most groups of youngsters are not likely to present any danger to tourists, some people feel the need to be slightly more vigilant in certain areas, especially certain outer suburbs.
be a londoner and only use the tube as a way of travelling  longer distances - you're here to see london - you can't see it underground!
by boat commuter boats and pleasure cruises along the river thames,  privately run but part of tfl's network.
on some busy routes, extra-long  buses known as "bendy buses" are used.
sailing under  tower bridge is an unforgettable experience.
tips for sleeping at stansted airport: (icao: egss, iata: stn)
this cash is then deducted according to where you travel.
the following are amongst the main coach operators: london is the hub of the uk's road network and is easy to reach by car, even if driving into the centre of the city is definitely not recommended.
tourist-standard prices range from £20-200 per person per night.
go on any other train and get caught and you will be  obliged to pay the anytime fare for the journey you are making - which as we've  said before is hideously expensive!
modern-day london in these terms is a two-centre city, with the area in  between known confusingly as the west end.
taxis are required by law to take you wherever you choose (within greater london) if their taxi light is on when you hail them.
london has plenty of vegetarian-only restaurants many of them championing organic foodstuffs, and a quick search in google will produce plenty of ideas, so you never have to see a piece of cooked meat all week.
since 2 january 2010, pay-as-you-go oystercards are accepted on all routes within london travel zones 1-6.
for the best view in the city, try pubs on the banks of the thames.
upper street head to highbury & islington (victoria line) or angel (northern line).
london attracts more students from overseas than any other city in the world, and is home to a huge variety of academic institutions.
also the wind  blows 3 days out of 4 from west to east, and the thames (into which the sewage  went) flows from west to east.
after the end of roman rule in 410 and a short-lived decline, london experienced a gradual revival under the anglo-saxons, as well as the norsemen, and emerged as a great medieval trading city, and eventually replacedwinchester as the royal capital of england.
if you arrive later, take a floor mat and sleeping bag.
a tram service that operates only in southern  suburbs around wimbledon and croydon.
the infamous m25 ring road did not earn its irreverent nicknames "the road to hell" and "britain's biggest car park" for nothing.
anytime - travel on any train, any operator at any time, returning  within one month with few restrictions.
by overground 3 orange-coloured lines circling the northern suburbs  (including the former east london line) , part of tfl's network.
many older trains are not  fitted with sensors to detect if the doors are blocked and it's all too easy to  become stuck in the doors, although the train cannot start if the doors are  still open.
edit [edit] other airports near london london southend airport, ☎ +44 1702 608100, [41].
you  can just about find a resturant from any ethnic group in the world too.
however, if transiting through london, be sure to check the  arrival and departure airports carefully as transfers across the city may be  quite time consuming.
it is also the most culturally and ethnically diverse part of the country, making it a great multicultural city to visit.
you will get refunds in cash only if you paid in cash.
with the rise of britain to supreme maritime power in the 18th and 19th centuries and the possessor of the largest global empire, london became an imperial capital and drew people and influences from around the world to become, for many years, the largest city in the world.
taxis are required by law to take you wherever you choose (within greater  london) if their taxi light is on when you hail them.
platform 9 3/4 from the harry potter books  is marked with a special sign, although platform 9 itself is actually in the  fairly unpleasant metallic extension used by cambridge trains.
this can easily total up to a 1 hour journey if there is a walk at each end.
single oyster fares are  charged by the number of zones crossed, starting at £2.00 for 1 zone up  to £4.80 for 6 zones.
furthermore, a cash bus fare is £2.40 while with oyster it is £1.35.
edit airport parking [13].
note that much of the advice applies to rail travel  in general within the united kingdom.
has designer shops in with the more affordable chain shops.
greater london consists of 32 london boroughs and the city of london that, together with the office of the mayor of london, form the basis for london's local government.
these are, of course, worse on weekdays during  peak commuting hours (i.e. between 07:30-09:30 and 16:00-19:00).
if you ask a londoner where the centre of london is, you are likely to get  a wry smile.
some platforms in zone 1 have the words "mind the gap" written  on the platform edge.
also note that engineering works  usually take place during weekends or the evening.
there are two types of night buses: 24 hour routes and n-prefixed routes.
the international olympic committee decided in 2005 that london will serve as the host city for thegames of the xxx olympiad [4], the summer olympic games of 2012.
many of the city's most prestigious colleges fall under the auspices of the university of london [82] including: london is a natural place to learn and improve spoken and written english.
airport express rail services run to heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton  airports - tickets are generally sold at a premium and oystercards not valid.
bus route map standard bus services run from around 06:00-00:30.
edit second fastest: by heathrow connect rail, (paddington station - heathrow  1, 2, 3 & 4), ☎ +44 845 678 6975, [9].
you can charge up your oyster card with electronic cash at any tube station ticket machine or ticket desk (you can even use a credit card to do this if your credit card has a pin number) with oyster pay-as-you-go, also known as prepay.
the roman city of londinium, established just after the roman conquest of britannia in the year 43, formed the basis for the modern city (some isolated roman period remains are still to be seen within the city).
if disabled and a resident of a member state of the eu then two cars  can be permanently registered, for free, for the congestion charge.
all bus stops have their location and the direction of travel on them.
if you forget to touch your oyster card at the start and finish you will be charged extra!
overground services can be a useful shortcut for crossing the city, bypassing the centre, for example from kew gardens to camden.
thecentral london congestion charge [66] m-f 07:00-18:00 (excluding public holidays) attracts a fee of £8 if paid thesame day, or £10 if paid on the next charging day.
the airport is a major hub for easyjet, ryanair, wizzair, thomson airways and monarch airlines, with other airlines also serving the airport like aer arann, flybe and el al, to cities primarily inscotland, europe, north africa and the mediterranean basin.
in central london, taking  the tube for just one stop can be a waste of time; londoners joke about the  tourists who use the tube to travel between leicester square and covent garden  stations.
despite the controversial "congestion charge", driving a car anywhere near the centre of london remains a nightmare with crowded roads, impatient drivers and extortionate parking charges (that's if you can find a space in the first place, that is!).
street gang culture is a growing problem in london as with many other cities in england.
in addition to london's five official airports (of which  only two are located within greater london), there are a number of other  regional uk airports conveniently accessible from london.
for those game,jellied eels, pickled-cockles and whelks are all traditional london seafood.[105] tipping may also be different than what you're used to.
nightclubs around the leicester square area hold the same music policy, but are rather more accessible, with numerous club and pub crawl promoters scattered around the area offering deals on entry.
getting to stansted for an early morning flight is fairly straight forward, coaches run through the night, provided by terravision[22] and national express from london victoria and london liverpool street.
it is operated and promoted just like the underground,  with the logo like the tube (except orange) on stations and full acceptance of  oystercards.
london will host the 2012 summer olympics.
drummond street in the euston area has a fine mix of indian restaurants - a short walk from euston railway station.
black cabs charge by distance and by the minute, are non-smoking, and have a minimum charge of £2.20.
a top tip however is to always check the likes of londontown.com, expedia and laterooms as well as the hotel's own website - since there are often deals to be had which can reduce the costs significantly.
off-peak - travel on certain trains within a specific time-frame;  again returning within one month.
[edit] by cycle cycling in the united kingdom cycling on the pavement (sidewalk) is illegal, except where a cycle route  has been designated by signs or painted lines.
every 15-20 min, journey time 60-90 min.
for domestic train  services, there are no fewer than 12 main linenational rail [45]  terminals (although in conversation you may hear the brandnational rail infrequently if ever it differentiates main line and london underground  services; journey planner online or phone 0845 748 49 50).
there are several commercial wi-fi hotspots covering most of the airport, but they charge extortionate rates.
expect smaller than average rooms especially at the low end of this range.
the "official" youth hostel association of england and wales [114] (yha) operates five hostels in central london.
heathrow terminal 5 parking.
the north circular is a  half circle on the north of the thames, and is mostly a dual carriageway.
-  putney canary wharf - hilton docklands canary wharf - london bridge city embankment - blackfriars -
this paramount status for  london was confirmed when william the conqueror, a norman, built thetower of  london after the conquest in 1066 and was crowned king of england in westminster .
north largely made up of lush green upper middle-class/bourgeois  suburbs, many of which were formerly part of the counties of middlesex,  hertfordshire and buckinghamshire before being absorbed into greater london.
the highest temperature since 2000  was recorded once in august at 38°c (100°f).
this isn't a huge  problem, but it does happen.
because britain drives on the left hand side of the road, for most foreign visitors it can be all too easy to forget that traffic will come at you from the opposite direction than you are used to when crossing a street - for this reasonremember to look right when you cross the road.
trains run from around 05:30 to about 01:00.
since the first plaque was erected in 1867, the number has grown steadily and there are now more than 800.
the "1 big night out" pub crawl is the biggest operator and starts from near leicester square underground station.
however, it's essential to allow leeway, as london's expressways, especially the orbital m25 and the m1 motorway, are often congested to the point of gridlock.
smoking ban smoking is banned in all uk pubs and restaurants.
fuller's flagship beer is the famous 'london pride', however to try a truly authentic cockney pint, ask at bars if they serve a seldom seen nowporter, a dark style of beer originating in london in the 18th century, similar but less heavy then astout.
the land to the west of the city (part of the parish of westminster) was prime farming land (covent garden and soho for example) and made good building land.
+44(0)7505616915, [20].
buses between heathrow, gatwick, stansted and luton run at least hourly, with heathrow-gatwick services taking 65 min (£18) and heathrow-stansted services 90 min (£20.50) (note that services between stansted and luton run only every two hours).
the city is the area of london that originally lay within the ancient city walls  and is now a major world financial centre.
for instance, a cash tube one way in zone 1 is £4, while with an oyster card it costs £1.90.
it is illegal to jump through a red light for cyclists as well as  motorists.
also the downtown terminus of the stansted airport express.
visitors are well advised to remember that the quickest route between two  stations might be a combination of the tube as well as the national rail  network.
you should avoid  mini-cabs touting for business off the street and either take a black cab, book  a licensed minicab by telephone, or take anight bus.
london has hundreds of options for accommodation to suit all budgets from hostels through historic bed and breakfasts (b&bs), mainstream chain hotels and apartments all the way to some of the most exclusive luxury hotels in the world such as the savoy, the ritz and claridges where a stay in a top suite will cost upwards of £1,000 per night.
there are lots of halal restaurants[106] and shops all over london including whitechapel rd and brick lane inthe east end, bayswater, edgware rd and paddington and in many parts ofnorth london.
these numbers are free of charge from any telephone.
in many cases you can easily walk from one place to another  or use the busses.
days are also available and can also be used on buses, national rail trains,  the dlr and croydon tramlink.
aside from these world famous establishments, there is an almost unbelievable number of minor museums in london covering a very diverse range of subjects.
piccadilly line to heathrow is a london underground train, so prepay and  travelcards are valid.
sailing under tower bridge is an unforgettable experience.
indian food in london is especially famous and there is hardly a district without at least one notable indian restaurant.
with  the rise of britain to supreme maritime power in the 18th and 19th centuries  and the possessor of the largest global empire, london became an imperial  capital and drew people and influences from around the world to become, for  many years, the largest city in the world.
big hotels, such as the dorchester and the ritz, and upmarket clubs around leicester square and soho are reliable bets for a date at the bar.
sadly chain restaurants are moving in (zizzi's, pizza express) but most of the places are still independent.
if you have a single-ticket it will be retained at the exit gate.
london is a huge city, so all individual listings are in the appropriate district articles and only an overview is presented here.
parking on a red line or adouble yellow line is  never permissible and heavily enforced.
london moorgate, serves some northern suburbs.
manages regular commuter boats and a network of piers all along the river and  publishes timetables and river maps similar to the famous tube map.
the mayor of london is elected by london residents and should not be confused with the lord mayor of the city of london.
this is especially true since the walk from a tube station entrance  to the platform at some central stations can be extensive.
[edit] by train london is the hub of the british rail network - every major city in  mainland britain has a frequent train service to the capital, and most of the  smaller, provincial cities and large towns also have a direct rail connection  to london of some sort - although the frequency and quality of service can vary  considerably from place to place.
shop listings at airport web sites can help to plan your tax-free (vs traditional) shopping.
a large number of budget flights depart from stansted as early as 6am (when the lowest fares are available).
fortunately for visitors (and indeed residents) there is a single ticketing system, oyster, which enables travellers to switch between modes of transport on one ticket.
london liverpool street, serves east anglia: ipswich and norwich.
edit by cycle, [21].
do plan  your itinerary to allocate some time needed to get through heathrow airport t3,  it can be long if you are not holding an uk / eu passport.
bus london underground london overground national rail dlr tram  airport express trains pay-as-you-go
the road is heavily congested at most times of the day, and is littered with automatically variable speed limits which are enforced with speed cameras.
on the docklands light railway, and on the overground railway stations in  the outlying parts of the city there are no entry or exit gates (except at  interchanges with the tube like bank or stratford), so you have to be sure to  touch your oyster card on the readers (which are clearly signposted) as you  enter and leave.
has lots of good places to eat.
visitors should be aware, however, that the tube map is a diagram and  not a scaled map, making it misleading for determining the relative distance  between stations as it makes central stations appear further apart and somewhat  out of place - the most distant reaches of the metropolitan line for example  are almost 60 km (40 mi) from the centre of the city.
noticeably, there are many new signposted cycle routes  and some new cycle lanes, not to mention more cyclists since the 2005 public  transport attacks.
at tottenham hale ask for anoyster card  edit by coach: national express, ☎ +44 870 580 8080, [30].
there are dozens of companies serving heathrow, just  google 'heathrow minicab'.
the infamous m25 ring road did not earn its irreverent  nicknames "the road to hell" and "britain's biggest car  park" for nothing.
blue plaques celebrate great figures of the past and the buildings that they inhabited.
if you have any pay-as-you-go credit left this will also be  refunded.
minicabs are usually  cheaper than black cabs, although this is not necessarily the case for short  journeys.
arrives in london from a north westerly direction,  linking the city with oxford and providing an additional link from birmingham.
london motorists seem reluctant to acknowledge the existence of cyclists, especially at busy junctions.
if you are looking for other particular regional foods these tend to be clustered in certain areas andsome examples are: other nationalities are equally represented and randomly dotted all over london.
these are among the most familiar features of the capital’s streetscape and adorn the façades of buildings across the city.
also the wind blows 3 days out of 4 from west to east, and the thames (into which the sewage went) flows from west to east.
boats are operated by private companies and they have a separate ticketing system from the rest of london transport; however if you have a travelcard you get a 33% discount on most boat tickets.
[100] is a great (if expensive) food market, offering fruit, veg, cheese, bread, meat, fish, and so on, much of it organic.
as a major airport serving the uk's second largest city,  there is a good choice of long distance and european destinations.
london (all airports code: lon) is served by a total of five  airports.
the british railway system is known as national rail (although some older signs still refer to it as "british rail").
edit when departing, note that after passing through security you will find no  drinking fountains in the south terminal departure lounge.
stansted airport cars, located just outside of the terminal complex.
drinking alcohol or smoking anywhere on the underground is illegal.
if, for whatever reason you  hold an anytime or off-peak ticket and there is no seat reservation coupon,  then it is highly recommended you get one from any railway station ticket  office - if you want to avoid camping out in the vestibule for all or part of  the journey!!
+44 870 580 8080, [47].
still in mayfair, the polo bar at the westbury is very intimate.
however, it's essential to allow leeway, as london's  expressways, especially the orbital m25 and the m1 motorway, are often  congested to the point of gridlock.
a 'hostess fee' will appear on the bill for several hundred pounds, even though there has been nothing more than polite conversation.
(for example: getting to wimbledon from central london by tube using the district line takes significantly longer (around 45 minutes) than taking the national rail service from waterloo to wimbledon (around 15 minutes).)
daylight hours are short with  darkness filling up the sky by 4pm in december.
if you ask a londoner where the centre of london is, you are likely to get a wry smile.
cycling in the united kingdom the rules for cyclists are available in the british government publication the highway code due to the expense of other forms of transport and the compactness of central london, cycling is a tempting option.
this money is then deducted from your card each time you get on a service.
bus route map [edit] night bus standard bus services run from around 06:00-00:30.
if using a petrol-station convenience store late at night (i.e. after 23:00) the store will be locked and you should order and pay through the external service window.
many areas, some surprisingly busy, attract cycle thieves, while chaining a bicycle to a railing which appears to be private property can occasionally lead to said bike being removed.
the above prices are adult prices and only for zones 1 & 2.
average  daily maximum is 8°c (46°f) in december and january.
transport options into central london: (icao: eggw, iata: ltn)[35] is smaller than stansted, but still a major hub for many low cost airlines, and over 10 million passengers fly through the airport each year.
edit greyhound, ☎ +44 900 096 0000, [50].
you can change between lines at interchange stations (providing you stay within the zones shown on your ticket).
london bridge, victoria, cannon st and charing cross serve the south east.
in addition to london's five official airports (of which only two are located within greater london), there are a number of other regional uk airports conveniently accessible from london.
london is hugely popular as a working holiday destination - work in bars and the hospitality industry is relatively easy to find.
for most tourists, tubes and buses are the only transport you will use, but be aware that these tickets are not valid on airport express trains.
due to the high price of  accommodation in the city and near the airport, and the fact that many budget  airlines don't pay for accommodation in the event of cancellation, an  increasing number of travellers choose to spend the night in the airport prior  to their flight.
[53] is a government organisation responsible for all public transport.
london is an expensive place and your drink is likely to cost more than its equivalent elsewhere in the united kingdom.
driving in central london is a slow, frustrating, expensive and often unnecessary activity.
the roman city of londinium,  established just after the roman conquest of britannia in the year 43, formed  the basis for the modern city (some isolated roman period remains are still to  be seen within the city).
you should avoid mini-cabs touting for business off the street and either take a black cab, book a licensed minicab by telephone, or take anight bus.
london bridge, victoria,  cannon st and charing cross serve the south east.
it is full of excellent  bars, galleries, museums, parks and theatres.
displays on the platform will tell you the destination and approximate wait for the next 3 trains, and the destination is also displayed on the front and side of the train.
it boasts the same facilities of the other major airports and also like stansted, it is common place for some passengers on early morning flight, to sleepover in the terminal before their flights.
you can pay a weekend  supplement (generally £15-£20) to sit in the first class section of  the train on saturdays and sundays, - useful if the service you are on is  hideously overcrowded - but you don't get the same catering service as during  the week.
london waterloo serves the south west.
refrain from walking slowly in tight spaces to avoid annoying any fast walking people that may be trying to pass.
there are also many vegetarian thai buffet places where you can eat fake meat in tooth-achingly sweet sauces for under £5.
allow passengers to get off the train before boarding yourself by  standing to the right or to the left of the train doors.
southampton airport, ☎ +44 870 040 0009, [42].
this traveller's guide to london recognises  cultural, functional and social districts of varying type and size: [edit] central london central london and inner boroughs.
this cash is then deducted according to  where you travel.
the famous black cab of london (not always black!) can be hailed from the curb or found at one of the many designated taxi ranks.
be aware that lines are very common at stansted, security check can easily take an hour.
the grand union canal connects paddington to camden and the regent's canal connects camden to islington, mile end and limehouse in east london.
despite residents' constant, and sometimes justified, grumbling about unreliability, public transport is often the best option for getting anywhere for visitors and residents alike.
london's long association with the theatre, for example, can be traced back to the english renaissance (witness the rose theatre [3] and great playwrights like shakespeare who made london their home).
each bus stop has a sign listing routes  that stop there.
a key consideration for renting a short term flat is if you are visiting in a large group or a family.
at present it serves destinations in the  british isles only, but from april 2012 easyjet will operate a number of  european routes.
the city can also be very expensive during the week, as it relies heavily on the business market but prices often drop over the weekend and it can be a good way of getting into a higher standard of accommodation than you could otherwise afford.
a free wi-fi hotspot is in the arrivals gate area, next to the phone booths offering fixed internet.
once booked, the driver will be waiting for you with  a sign bearing your name in the arrivals area.
some branch lines (such as the chesham branch of the metropolitan line or the  kensington olympia branch of the district line) run as shuttles and require a  transfer onto the 'main line'.
in reality they will wait until your money is in the machine, then lean across, cancel the transaction and pocket your cash.
just 7 cm (3 in) of snow will cause trains to stop running, airports to see significant delays, and mail service will halt.
while boat travel may be slower and a little more expensive than tube travel, it offers an extremely pleasant way to cross the city with unrivalled views of the london skyline - big ben, st paul's cathedral, the tower of london, etc.
there is no one central  station - instead, there are twelve mainline stations dotted around the edge of  the central area, and most are connected by the circle line (except euston,  fenchurch st and those south of the river like london waterloo and london  bridge).
by coach: green line number 757, ☎ +44 844 801 7261, [37].
most importantly, britain's  longest motorway - the m6, branches from the m1 at rugby, leading to  birmingham, liverpool, manchester, the lake district and onwards to the  scottish border, and ultimately glasgow.
it is very important to check the tfl website fortravel updates, especially at weekends, to avoid disappointment.
view from greenwich observatory which is easily reached by boat services  plying the thames boats run on the following routes: bankside - millbank barrier gardens - greenwich - st. katharine's - westminster blackfriars - embankment - cadogan - chelsea harbour - wandsworth (rq)