seattle is like many cities in that we had competing rail companies who built competing passenger rail stations.
the seat width is as wide as the first class airplane ticket as well.
i went  online and bought my tickets with a promotion code (never pay full price for  amtrak, there's always a promo code somewhere).
why would there be  a rush to get on the train?
i would think that vancouver bc to san diego would be one such line as well as boston to miami and chicago to nyc.
amtrak is not crappy rail travel, let me just say that right now.
to give some background before i start i have to say that i've logged about 15,000 miles on amtrak in the past and about another 5,000 to 10,000 miles on other train systems all over the world.
i'd estimate roughly 45 inches between seats or roughly equal to a first  class airplane ticket.
the amtrak superliner experience is drastically different.
an amtrak superliner is a completely different product than say a french tgv.
i started noticing business people taking the trains, grannies seeing family, workers commuting and more.
if you want more of  a personal experience (and more costly) you can snag one of the attendants as  they walk through the car and get a reservation to eat in the restaurant.
i remember times when i was passing through  portland and had a layover when we'd run down the street to the burger king and  buy a couple of $1.39 whoppers and take them on the train.
it might be easy to say that seattle really only needs one passenger rail station and we should combine our money but how do you decide which of the 100 year old stations to keep?
i like the rhythmic rocking motion and i like the  fact that i can do other things on them.
how little did i understand trains.
a  short walk to the chinatown station put us on the red line light rail.
i took my first train ride in 1993 from  pasco wa to las vegas.
so  is there any hope for amtrak and why am i yammering about such things?
the lower level also houses additional luggage storage although if i were you i'd lock my bags if i couldn't monitor them.
longer journeys the planes speed overcomes it's inefficiencies.
at some point during the last couple of decades some idiot decided to modernize the king street station and put in lowered ceiling tiles covering up a truly amazing molded ceiling and a second story balcony.
there's very little difference between first class and second  so unless the ticket prices are close we always ride second class.
if the  superliner could get up to speed or stay at top speed longer it could equal  driving and still be more comfortable.
i spend a lot of time in europe and especially france where high speed rail has all but killed air travel and i have tosay that i love trains.
on arriving to portland we exited the always nice restored union station.
the lower level also houses  additional luggage storage although if i were you i'd lock my bags if i  couldn't monitor them.
the old lady's only waiting room may be made into a cafe or  restaurant.
the tgv is  an all business experience more like an airplane ride (but not so walmart).
i have mixed feelings about rail travel in  the us.
the plane leaves at 6:30 and our comfort suites is going to  start breakfast at 4 so off to count sheep i go.
each seat has power plugs which are a godsend and a quick stroll through the cars will show many people taking advantage of them with laptops and pods everywhere.
the whole process takes  15 minutes tops from the time i decide to take a train and get one one.
the seat reclines about  2-3 times more than an economy airline seat and a second lever props up a leg  support and a third pops up a bar for your feet.
the tgv experience is about getting to your destination as quick as possible with relative comfort.
the  restaurant car is complete with white table cloths and nice food but you have  to be fast because there's several seatings and if you don't get a reservation  you're limited to the bar car or bringing your own.
my first amtrak trip cost me $177 from washington to nevada round trip.
speaking of which if you  get bored in your oversize seat you can take a walk.
what they're doing right....
however there are 4 trains a day from seattle south which isn't wonderful but  it's good enough that you can choose a schedule.
so let's get to the meat of the question here.
immediately  upon entering the train you will notice that you have an insane amount of room  in your coach seat.
i have mixed feelings about rail travel in the us.
the idea of taking a  taxi to some airport where i have to take my shoes off, scan my bags and then  wait at a gate to be crammed into a tin can with a bunch of other half sick  travelers coughing on me and babies screaming is very very unappealing.
we started our most recent journey by taking a bus to downtown seattle to the historic king street station.
when you fold down your tray you have to then slide it toward  you about 6 inches before you can put anything on it.
a good bus can't compete with a bad train in my book.
with amtrak when  you're on you're done.
downstairs  from the observation car is the food counter where they have the usual  cardboard pizzas and ampm quality hamburgers.
that was cheaper than  any plane ticket then.
each seat has power plugs which  are a godsend and a quick stroll through the cars will show many people taking  advantage of them with laptops and pods everywhere.
back to the future...
thirty  minutes later we're at the airport.
i'm sure there's probably limits to what you can take on board (like your weber smoky mountain smoker)
thats right, a person is standing there with a map and a market to  scratch off where he wants you.
i'd estimate roughly 45 inches between seats or roughly equal to a first class airplane ticket.
with amtrak having a ticket is only the beginning.
unless you  knew the specific differences you wouldn't be able to tell.
so in this country where we're afraid to pay one cent in taxes  unless it's put to good use bombing a small country to protect our civil  liberties we should think about just using rail for these high profit lines.
there is about 12 tables where  you can sit an eat your food before returning to your seat.
and i'm not sure they  can fix it is the train routes are generally slow and not very frequent.
because they're double decker the second level (the main level) doesn't have to deal with train wheels so there's 37 rows of seats in the car which is amazing considering the space between them.
inside the station they have a media board showing the  future plans which include tossing out the water stained roof tiles,  restoration of some of the marble pillars, a new walkway up to street level and  a restoration of the outside of the building which will open up space for  businesses etc..
i say do whatever to bring us up to the same level of japan, china, france and germany or leapfrog them.
i'm fairly impressed by how much light rail portland has put in compared to seattle.
let's start by the ridiculous and painful proces s of going from the idea of taking the train to actually walking on.
what, someone is going to masquerade as me on the train?
we've managed 1/5 the amount of mileage and only after two decades of talking about it and it still doesn't really go anywhere.
there used to be a beautiful wooden ticket booth which is no  longer and a lady's waiting room which doesn't get used.
the coast starlight also  has a bar/lounge car with observation deck which is where i love to just sit  and read and watch the scenery pass by the wraparound glass windows.
now i can fly for less than that.
on the amtrak you feel like you can take  as much time as you want to get where you need to be and for good reason, you  have to.
because  of the amount of time it takes to get to airports, get checked in and get your  bags and get away makes any journey under 6 hrs subject for replacement by high  speed rail.
but i think it could be profitable.
i measured 5 softbound novels from my upright setback to the one in front of me.
the plane leaves at 6:30 and our comfort suites is going to start breakfast at 4 so off to count sheep i go.
tgvs have about as much room per passenger in economy as airplanes have in business class.
unless you knew the specific differences you wouldn't be able to tell.
i realized that normal people took the  train.
for about the first day of the trip i felt a bit  embarrassed because i always thought people who took mass transit were poor  uneducated folks with little other choice.
the stairway from the street is closed off and the street level parking lot is a hangout for bums and trash.
when you fold down your tray you have to then slide it toward you about 6 inches before you can put anything on it.
then we turn and fly  to mexico city.
then we turn and fly to mexico city.
with amtrak when you're on you're done.
however, funding is starting to tickle in and the clock tower is being  cleaned, the clay roof tiles are being replaced and new lighting for the 15 ft  clock is being fitted.
the train ride goes by very  casually and without disappointment.
why would there be a rush to get on the train?
tomorrow we fly to georgia.
should we do something about rail in america or let amtrak go the way of the dodo?
it doesn't take a genius to figure out that is a lot of room.
the one nice side effect of this process though is  you don't have conductor coming through to punch your ticket.
i remember times when i was passing through portland and had a layover when we'd run down the street to the burger king and buy a couple of $1.39 whoppers and take them on the train.
a modern train with right a way could do canada to mexico in 10 hours or less and would be full the whole way because unlike an airplane they pick up people on the way.
however, funding is starting to tickle in and the clock tower is being cleaned, the clay roof tiles are being replaced and new lighting for the 15 ft clock is being fitted.
my perception may be skewed a bit but in france i show up at  the train station 15 minutes early (or whenever to be honest) and walk up to a  kiosk to buy my ticket after which i walk onto a train.
speaking of which if you get bored in your oversize seat you can take a walk.
union station got funding to renovate because it is used for the  new light rail station.
my first amtrak  trip cost me $177 from washington to nevada round trip.
the lower  level is for first class and sleepers in addition to the bathrooms which also  will surprise you.
if you were someone you drove of flew.
the train ride goes by very casually and without disappointment.
tgvs have about as much room per passenger in economy as airplanes have in  business class.
how little did i understand  trains.
what amtrak does wrong....
the seat reclines about 2-3 times more than an economy airline seat and a second lever props up a leg support and a third pops up a bar for your feet.
so back to my original quandary.
we've managed 1/5 the amount of  mileage and only after two decades of talking about it and it still doesn't  really go anywhere.
the coast starlight also has a bar/lounge car with observation deck which is where i love to just sit and read and watch the scenery pass by the wraparound glass windows.
speaking of which you can bring your own food and drinks (yes liquids!)
seattle is like many  cities in that we had competing rail companies who built competing passenger  rail stations.
however, they're rarely on time,  they're not fast and they're not always cheaper than flying.
the train would probably cost more.
blog comments powered by  disqus read 571 times  last modified on friday, 18 november 2011  19:34 tweet
before people jump on me about taxes and subsidies let me say one thing, the tgv system in france makes money.
i spend a lot  of time in europe and especially france where high speed rail has all but  killed air travel and i have tosay that i love trains.
you now have to stand in a long  line to turn it into a boarding pass.
and i got the tickets for a song.
because they're double decker the second level  (the main level) doesn't have to deal with train wheels so there's 37 rows of  seats in the car which is amazing considering the space between them.
i measured 5 softbound novels from my upright setback to  the one in front of me.
the idea of taking a taxi to some airport where i have to take my shoes off, scan my bags and then wait at a gate to be crammed into a tin can with a bunch of other half sick travelers coughing on me and babies screaming is very very unappealing.
once you have your boarding pass you need  to move to a new line which is waiting to get on the train.
once you have your boarding pass you need to move to a new line which is waiting to get on the train.
immediately upon entering the train you will notice that you have an insane amount of room in your coach seat.
the trip from seattle to la takes 40 hours.
the  answer is you keep both as comical as that is.
before people jump on me about taxes and subsidies let me say one  thing, the tgv system in france makes money.
inside the station they have a media board showing the future plans which include tossing out the water stained roof tiles, restoration of some of the marble pillars, a new walkway up to street level and a restoration of the outside of the building which will open up space for businesses etc..
with  amtrak having a ticket is only the beginning.
so is there any hope for amtrak and why am i yammering about such things?
but i'll pick up some miles
i just spent 4 hrs on the coast starlight for the first leg of our journey so it's fresh in my mind.
this is also from my experience today.
king street station across the street is just starting the process of restoration and the venetian piazza st. marks style clock tower definitely looks better as does the new roof tiles.
the whole process takes 15 minutes tops from the time i decide to take a train and get one one.
should we do something about rail in  america or let amtrak go the way of the dodo?
the stairway from the  street is closed off and the street level parking lot is a hangout for bums and  trash.
you now have to stand in a long line to turn it into a boarding pass.
the ter (inter region) do not make money and need to be  subsidized.
the seat width is as wide as the first class airplane  ticket as well.
at some point during the last couple of decades some idiot decided to  modernize the king street station and put in lowered ceiling tiles covering up  a truly amazing molded ceiling and a second story balcony.
without darkness there is no light.
for about the first day of the trip i felt a bit embarrassed because i always thought people who took mass transit were poor uneducated folks with little other choice.
i just like riding trains.
if you want more of a personal experience (and more costly) you can snag one of the attendants as they walk through the car and get a reservation to eat in the restaurant.
the old lady's only waiting room may be made into a cafe or restaurant.
however there are 4 trains a day from seattle south which isn't wonderful but it's good enough that you can choose a schedule.
a kiosk that can assign seats on purchase would  replaced this entire thing.
also there's the feel element.
more trains, a bit more speed and keep  them full so the ticket prices could be lower and i think we'd have a winner.
i think we were  off about 15 minutes after we started boarding.
a  modern train with right a way could do canada to mexico in 10 hours or less and  would be full the whole way because unlike an airplane they pick up people on  the way.
i just  spent 4 hrs on the coast starlight for the first leg of our journey so it's  fresh in my mind.
because of the amount of time it takes to get to airports, get checked in and get your bags and get away makes any journey under 6 hrs subject for replacement by high speed rail.
ok, now the part about my mixed feelings with rail travel.
i  would think that vancouver bc to san diego would be one such line as well as  boston to miami and chicago to nyc.
on a less idealistic dreamy note amtrak would do well with newer rails and more right of way.
downstairs from the observation car is the food counter where they have the usual cardboard pizzas and ampm quality hamburgers.
so in this country where we're afraid to pay one cent in taxes unless it's put to good use bombing a small country to protect our civil liberties we should think about just using rail for these high profit lines.
the train would  probably cost more.
it took us 4 hrs to get from seattle to portland which isn't  that much slower than driving and a heck of a lot more enjoyable.
there used to be a beautiful wooden ticket booth which is no longer and a lady's waiting room which doesn't get used.
the ter (inter region) do not make money and need to be subsidized.
the tgv experience  is about getting to your destination as quick as possible with relative  comfort.
if it seems as though i'm bouncing around between topics bear with me,  they'll come together in a moment.
i started noticing business people taking the trains, grannies seeing  family, workers commuting and more.
what's worse is they actually chipped molding from the walls so they could plaster over it to get a smooth surface.
it might be easy to say  that seattle really only needs one passenger rail station and we should combine  our money
not only do you have way way more room than on an airplane the train gets  going quickly because they can load all cars at the same time.
the interesting part is they built them across the street from one another.
i like the rhythmic rocking motion and i like the fact that i can do other things on them.
anyway with tickets in hand we proceeded to the king street station two days later.
there's very little difference between first class and second so unless the ticket prices are close we always ride second class.
thats right, a person is standing there with a map and a market to scratch off where he wants you.
there is about 12 tables where you can sit an eat your food before returning to your seat.
the interesting part is they built them across the street from  one another.
if it seems as though i'm bouncing around between topics bear with me, they'll come together in a moment.
i took my first train ride in 1993 from pasco wa to las vegas.
a short walk to the chinatown station put us on the red line light rail.
please enable  javascript to view thecomments powered by disqus.
on a less idealistic dreamy note amtrak would do well with newer rails and  more right of way.
anyway with tickets in hand we proceeded to the king street station  two days later.
the answer is you keep both as comical as that is.
if the superliner could get up to speed or stay at top speed longer it could equal driving and still be more comfortable.
king street station across the street is just starting  the process of restoration and the venetian piazza st. marks style clock tower  definitely looks better as does the new roof tiles.
a kiosk that can assign seats on purchase would replaced this entire thing.
the  coast starlight is a double decker superliner train similar to their flagship  empire builder.
an amtrak  superliner is a completely different product than say a french tgv.
i'm sure there's  probably limits to what you can take on board (like your weber smoky mountain  smoker)
the one nice side effect of this process though is you don't have conductor coming through to punch your ticket.
we started our most recent journey by taking a bus to  downtown seattle to the historic king street station.
amtrak is not crappy rail  travel, let me just say that right now.
theoverhead luggage  compartment has enough room for a rugby team and if that's not enough there's  more space at the car entrance.
in  addition i've flown about a quarter of a million miles or enough to  circumnavigate the earth 10 times.
you don't realize how bad things are until you experience the opposite.
that's right it makes money and is usually full.
the tgv is an all business experience more like an airplane ride (but not so walmart).
thursday, 24 december 2009 06:24 to rail or not to rail, that is the question.
not only do you have way way more room than on an airplane the train gets going quickly because they can load all cars at the same time.
theoverhead luggage compartment has enough room for a rugby team and if that's not enough there's more space at the car entrance.
i think we were off about 15 minutes after we started boarding.
if  safeway did this we'd have to sign each squash to keep someone else from  cooking it.
however, they're rarely on time, they're not fast and they're not always cheaper than flying.
what's worse is they  actually chipped molding from the walls so they could plaster over it to get a  smooth surface.
the lower level is for first class and sleepers in addition to the bathrooms which also will surprise you.
union station got funding to renovate because it is used for the new light rail station.
but they're not real strict about it.
to give some background before i start i  have to say that i've logged about 15,000 miles on amtrak in the past and about  another 5,000 to 10,000 miles on other train systems all over the world.
the coast starlight is a double decker superliner train similar to their flagship empire builder.
speaking of which you can  bring your own food and drinks (yes liquids!)
and i got the  tickets for a song.
i've always been a fan of the double decker trains.
my perception may be skewed a bit but in france i show up at the train station 15 minutes early (or whenever to be honest) and walk up to a kiosk to buy my ticket after which i walk onto a train.
more trains, a bit more speed and keep them full so the ticket prices could be lower and i think we'd have a winner.
thirty minutes later we're at the airport.
because seat assignments are done at the train car door!
food fanatic, it professional, cloud computing expert, software developer and travel fan.
i'm fairly impressed by how much light rail  portland has put in compared to seattle.
yes you heard me georgia
if safeway did this we'd have to sign each squash to keep someone else from cooking it.
the restaurant car is complete with white table cloths and nice food but you have to be fast because there's several seatings and if you don't get a reservation you're limited to the bar car or bringing your own.
avoiding the whole can of soda  for two bucks situation completely.
buses are cheaper but i hate them.
i say do whatever to bring us up  to the same level of japan, china, france and germany or leapfrog them.
why bother with this old crap when we have at least three eligible airports that could service the area?
on the amtrak you feel like you can take as much time as you want to get where you need to be and for good reason, you have to.
the other thing amtrak does wrong
i then had to go to a station to pick up the tickets where they made me sign each one to combat fraud as they said.
but how do you decide which of the 100 year old stations to keep?
a couple (that's right, a couple per car) are small like  airplane bathrooms and then there's at least one large one where you can plug  in all your electronic shavers, blow driers etc...
i went online and bought my tickets with a promotion code (never pay full price for amtrak, there's always a promo code somewhere).
- a train was just a bigger greyhound.
that's right it makes money and is  usually full.
that was cheaper than any plane ticket then.
why bother with this  old crap when we have at least three eligible airports that could service the  area?
i then had to go to a station  to pick up the tickets where they made me sign each one to combat fraud as they  said.
and i'm not sure they can fix it is the train routes are generally slow and not very frequent.
it took us 4 hrs to get from seattle to portland which isn't that much slower than driving and a heck of a lot more enjoyable.
date: 06/21/2006 views: 159 owner: grant we have 140 guests and no members online
a  good bus can't compete with a bad train in my book.
written by   grant font size decrease font size increase font size print 5 (0 votes)
because seat assignments are done at the train car  door!
a couple (that's right, a couple per car) are small like airplane bathrooms and then there's at least one large one where you can plug in all your electronic shavers, blow driers etc...
- a train was just a bigger  greyhound.
it doesn't take a genius to figure out that is a lot of  room.
i realized that normal people took the train.
avoiding the whole can of soda for two bucks situation completely.
in addition i've flown about a quarter of a million miles or enough to circumnavigate the earth 10 times.