currently the institution univers serves  640 children (300 girls, 340 boys) ranging in age from 2 1/2 to 11 years.
of course, things like pizza hut, alco, washing machines and television were all new as well.
nov. 6 election will be conducted exclusively by mail by john m motter archuleta county voters are restricted to casting ballots by mail for the  nov. 6, 2001, general election.
weeminuche bid $593,969 on phase 1 and $654,477 on phase 2.
teachers are paid $960 per year.
sincerely, doesn't understand dear editor, it seems our commissioners need to be reminded who actually pays the taxes  in this county.
individuals ages 50 and above need to take this course, which may reduce automobile insurance premiums.
and what about the police  department.
price: $75,900 seller: bell country land co. buyer: dorothy bell property: not listed price: not listed seller: david gustafson buyer:
but, this board has  to be neutral.
be not afraid, they come in peace.
if passed, the issue will "extend" the current 2-percent tax - not allowing the current tax to expire.
because of economic conditions in the rural town of 84,000, including a 90-percent unemployment rate, many students' parents are uneducated, struggle to provide the basic necessities and have little chance to help their students academically.
at the aug. 14 regular meeting of county commissioners, commissioner bill downey said he favors a seven-year renewal, commissioner and chairman of the board gene crabtree said he favors levying the tax in perpetuity, and commissioner alden ecker was ambivalent.
sports is a learning process and we don't  want that learning to stop once they've reached a given performance level.
then again, what can we expect  from a commissioner who illegally cuts the lock and dumps questionable waste in  the county landfill and another who illegally closes the maintained portion of  a roadway that has been in use in archuleta county for close to 100 years then  dares the county to take him to court over the matter.
it was only a matter of when.
to think that you can take out six inches of clay, and fill it with  gravel and thereby create an adequate base is ludicrous.
because of economic conditions in the rural town of 84,000,  including a 90-percent unemployment rate, many students' parents are  uneducated, struggle to provide the basic necessities and have little chance to  help their students academically.
they bring us the tapes after the programs.
local photos needed for screen saver plan united way of southwest colorado is offering a unique opportunity to spend a day on horseback in the stunning san juan mountains, witness the wildlife in their natural habitat and raise money to support our community all in one fell swoop.
"everyone must work together  to make the schools live up to their responsibility," noggle said.
by monday afternoon monsoon conditions created by the high pressure area  over eastern new mexico should return, chancy said.
"it's like going to heaven for them."
all of the county's income from its 1-cent portion is spent on road capital  improvement projects, a practice the commissioners hope to continue.
the children attended a rodeo, saw an old west show, met a united states senator, took a train ride, rode horses, viewed water falls and went to the top of wolf creek pass.
spouses and minor children of eligible veterans may also be buried in national cemeteries without cost.
"we should start preparing them much earlier than high school -  perhaps even at upper grade school levels.
ken's performance/paint connection took the coed tournament championship beating radio shack 14-3 in the final game.
on saturdays  from 9 a.m. to noon, students return for a sports program, videos, bible study  and arts and crafts.
tole painters angel box painters, a division of the psac, meets every tuesday at 2:30 p.m. to tole paint small boxes which are sent to hospitals to be given to parents who have lost infants in death.
so far this year, over 400 cases have been reported.
at the intermediate school/junior high level, shawna bolt was named to the  vacant music teacher position and pam miller hired as a resource teacher aid.
she will also do custom requests for you.
don reid piles of manure dear editor, now, isn't it commendable: the archuleta county board of commissioners has  decided to involve the local taxpayer in their continuing search for solutions  to county road classification dilemmas by asking for volunteers to staff their  new standing road committee before they further task county road and bridge and  take them off tearing up taxiways.
the main objective is to promote and provide developmentally appropriate activities, materials and expectations for children 3 to 5 years old within the scope of all comprehensive services of the head start performance standards.
voters may return ballots directly by dropping them  in a ballot box located in the county clerk's office.
"our website home page," he said, "could become an important tool in education.
in the high school, jim shaffer was named an assistant varsity football  coach and troy persson an assistant varsity golf coach.
on the average, more precipitation falls during august in pagosa country than any other month of the year.
that is  primarily why they are here.
the commission holds monthly meetings to discuss park and recreation issues.
this is very informative, especially as it relates to hospice care, etc., so we hope folks will take time to attend these presentations.
the always effervescent lindsey kurt-mason is as enthusiastic as ever about his team's chances, but seems a little more reserved this year.
in fact, the commissioners hope to continue the 2 cent sales tax just as it was approved by voters during november of 1994.
apply your windfall to the amount financed.
as a learning tool, not something to be ashamed of." he told the board staff development will be based in part on alfie kohn technology and instruction strategy.
after the first of these trips two years ago, the excitement only grew and test results showed marked improvement for many, bastien said.
your influx of westerners that don't like their native place of california or arizona has discouraged me from further plans to settle in your area.
the town's action is independent of anything the county does.
we try to get the newsletter out some time the first week of september, and we would love to include your insert.
highs averaged 77 degrees,  lows 53 degrees.
of course, things like pizza hut, alco, washing  machines and television were all new as well.
he also said he plans to have regular superintendent's forums - "an open office to the people of the community . . .
on friday afternoons, music is added and students learn  songs and study english.
" he said school should be fun, safe, exciting, interesting and well-organized.
many of the students come to school without having had breakfast.
510h, archuleta county airport
and heard a faint buzz, buzz, buzz, coming from inside the boxes.
cost for this day will be $45 if you bring your own horse and tack, or $75 if you need to rent same.
of the 4 percent retained locally, 1 percent to be divided equally with the  town was first approved in perpetuity by voters june 25, 1968.
there were 60 participants.
the damage was very light as the flame was very soon extinguished.
it will be the perfect stocking stuffer for christmas this year or just generally a great gift for any occasion.
"since i, and most of the others pay our plpoa dues regularly,"  she said, "i should think you'd be obligated to represent us in our  predicament.
the family must also apply for the presidential memorial certificate, the burial flag, and for military honors.
the  courts upheld the fee.
his latest letter he wrote about the cost of repairing the taxiways at the  airport was most interesting.
"the recreation center is now ours, and the golf course is a private enterprise.
each year since then, bastien and his staff have attempted to add an additional classroom so that the children who started at the school will graduate from high school and, hopefully, go on to higher education.
"the recreation center is now  ours, and the golf course is a private enterprise.
the last date to register or update  a record and be eligible to vote is oct. 5.
comstock replaces former county director of planning mike  mollica, who resigned in march of this year.
other entities may choose to let the county  conduct elections for them.
the county position  is supported by colorado counties, inc. attorneys, according to crabtree.
for public engagement in the  school process.
they also inform teachers at the center of community needs, from a different point of view.
of course the toll charge would be higher for the roads that  lead to those big homes that have those beautiful views.
much of the money comes from a 2 percent countywide sales tax divided equally between the county and the town.
from 1999 through 2000, comstock was a principal planner with durango.
but i think he might have a brilliant idea about making the users pay for the  airport.
"they tried the lemonade, and it was awful.
the bee hives are inside a fence.
noting "nearly half the junior high school enrollment is out for fall sports, we need to strengthen these programs.
davidlegacies by shari pierce 100 years ago taken from the weekly times of august 15, 1901 monday evening about eight o'clock fire was reported, it was in the santa fe cafe.
in lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the saint francis church building fund in lumberton.
a meeting is scheduled later this month to form teams, discuss rules and develop a schedule.
" when fairfield went into bankruptcy, he said, "we were told plpoa will  take over operation of recreation facilities and i withheld payment thereafter,
come on, you have to come up with something better than that.
the pagosa springs arts council gallery and gift shop are located in town park.
the project has been divided by davis engineering, the county's contract  engineer, into two phases.
the norming will involve eliminating the extremes in educational philosophies to find a common track and the ultimate goal will be performing."
the division is working with community groups and private landowners in northeastern colorado who will participate in the program.
she especially likes the challenge of entering the local arts council photography contests and analyzing the competition.
betty also brings us the four corners gallery of pagosa located in the ridgeview center as well.
a beekeeper carries his prying tool and his smoke pot, and that's about all, when he goes to visit the beehives.
"we can't discipline education or mandate learning," noggle said education is the responsibility of the school and the student in cooperation with the home and the community.
the community plan needs to be implemented in full, with no further delays.
"it will protect the town of rico's watershed in the silver creek drainage, secure legal public access to the circle trail and forest development road 551, and enhance recreational opportunities," beaber said.
second, the decision to spend $11,000 to build a guardrail along piedra  road on the pretense that a fence wouldn't stop people from entering the road  illegally would be laughable if it weren't so expensive.
consequently, if voters approve the county tax, a confrontation appears to be in the offing between the county and the town as to which entity's tax will prevail.
forty-one people turned out.
the department is also looking for persons interested in officiating soccer games or field supervising for the season.
unfortunately, in the past few weeks he's made a couple of blunders that i think need to be addressed.
certainly, the commissioners know, too, the town is a statutory entity of no less legal status than the county - that there is no political hierarchy in place, with county government at the top of the pyramid.
"that's one reason i came here . . .
first, the idea that the taxiway at the airport can be fixed for $250,000 is absurd!
m. chamberlain reynolds property: lake hatcher park, lot 133
the 1994 ballot question approved by voters stipulated that the tax would be split evenly with the town, all county proceeds dedicated to the road capital improvement fund, and that the tax would expire jan. 1, 2003.
the property owners should have been advised of the fees, should have read it for themselves, but still have the right to seek relief." director thomas cruse asked to be put on record "that i'm opposed to this board becoming involved, as a board, in this issue."
the front of the hood, which stood well out from my face, was mesh.
following the town hall meeting, coaches for the scorer's league will form their teams through a draft process and practices will be scheduled.
the cdr response will help the commissioners make a decision.
matt poma will be your host on this wonderful adventure and i can assure you, based on my own experience, he is the "host with the most."
"simplicity," john neill said.
whereas it's easy to write a column; it's work to write a weekly column.
repeating as league champs will require all of stretton's coaching skills.
the estimated cost of the services is $3,000 a month for one and an estimated $13,500 a month for the other.
"the time is coming when the teacher won't just lecture," he said.
charlie, on the other hand, wore a short-sleeved shirt.
in addition to dale construction, inc. 3-d inspection services is your source for home inspection needs providing a full, comprehensive, professional, objective visual examination of the condition of a home.
in the pacific flyway, the  season will run from sept. 29 through oct. 9 and oct. 24 through jan. 20, 2002.
there is some agreement, he said, that proportionately few of those being assessed the fee get any service for it.
"i drew up a temporary purchase-sale agreement and went to a local title company proposing consolidation of the two lots.
the office is open from 8 a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 p.m. monday through thursday, or friday by appointment.
they closed their office to do so.
i ran into nina recently at the fairfield arts and crafts show and picked up a few of her products, and quickly thereafter became addicted to her almond lotion.
there has been scant communication between town and county thus far, and there are people in the community who would feel more comfortable if a ballot issue was supported openly and fully by both entities.
nearly everything on the trip has been new to them.
other entities may choose to let the county conduct elections for them.
it is evident, from their performance that the commissioners do not have the vaguest notion of how government operates.
written comments may be  mailed to paul beaber, san juan national forest, 15 burnett court, durango, co  81301 or e-mailed to: pbeaber@fs.fed.us.
price: $17,000 seller: ernest w. harris buyer: charles b. hawkins property: twincreek village, lots 940 and 941 price: not listed seller: andrea l. king buyer: burleson t. and joyce e. collyer property: aspen springs subdivision 6, lot 799 price: not listed seller: robinson family limited partnership buyer: earl r. jr. and deborah w. bruno property: pagosa alpha section, lot 5, section 21 price: $500,000 seller: archuleta county public trustee, jimmy r. and juanita j. lewis, rodney w. and kerrie l. helmuth buyer: daniel b. and beverly z. johnson property: not listed price: not listed seller: colorado timber ridge ranch buyer: fred and kay olson property: colorado's timber ridge, phase ii, lot 97 price: $80,700 seller: gabriel v. and josefita chavez buyer: jonathan k. weyer and ramona a. chavez property: candelaria subdivision, lots 8 and 9 price: not listed seller:
united way benifit "ride the weminuche," a four-hour horseback ride in the beautiful mountains surrounding the poma ranch will take place saturday.
their performance depends upon our performance.
joint his concept of a district focus.
in short, mother nature cooperated.
theft of mail is a felony.
at long last, archuleta school district 50 joint has a nearly full  complement of teachers for the beginning of the school year sept. 4, and there  is one surprise in the mix.
ivy turner ivy lou (mobley) turner passed into heaven aug. 5, 2001.
you can give nina a call at 264-6570 to learn more about essence of earth.
last week's lowest temperature was 51 degrees.
cabaret diosa is merely a band.
you may want to get your names on the hold list.
inside the sun school board
" "our students," he said, "must be allowed to experience both  success and failure.
while burial in a national cemetery is an option to consider, all other benefits are available to the family of those interred in community, church or private cemeteries.
the town's position, supported by the town's attorney according to town manager jay harrington, is that the existing tax will expire, to be automatically replaced jan. 1, 2003, by the town tax.
nina offers all natural handmade soaps, lotions, and bath products and will create gift baskets for each and every occasion.
there is, in general, a good sense of everyone being there to share the day with each other.
she leaves gifts of much love and many memories, but can now rest.
noggle told the board he intends to have regular superintendent chat  sessions.
to help prevent mail theft, love gave these tips: pick up delivered mail from mailboxes as soon as possible do not leave outgoing letters in neighborhood cluster box units if possible, take outgoing mail directly to the post office or to a blue collection box prior to last pick-up of the day report suspicious activity or mail theft immediately to a local law enforcement agency and to the colorado postal inspectors' 24-hour line at (303) 313-5320 have the post office hold mail if planning to be gone for long periods of time.
well, i smell "manure" commissioners - piles of it.
a draw of 14 played four pro sets of eight games each before the winners were determined.
the morning was cool.
paul beaber, san juan national forest land surveyor and realty specialist, said forest service acquisition of the private inholding two miles northeast of rico is in the public interest.
being a native born new mexican, (lovington, november of 1934), i've decided when i win the lottery that i'll have a summer place near taos, and not pagosa.
most folks give you their opinion whether you ask for it or not.
" at time of purchase, he said, "no one, not fairfield representatives,  the title company or anyone else ever mentioned the recreation fee.
in exchange, robert d. lindner ranches would acquire 104 acres of national  forest adjoining its private property in hinsdale and mineral counties,  northwest of pagosa springs.
an amount that is now up to several thousand dollars.
consequently, they must visit the county clerk's office in the  county courthouse and update their record.
john and sara essig brings us our next new business, sara's kitchen cabinets located at 20345 west u.s. 160, unit 105, in the mountain view plaza.
for about the past three years mr. crouse and i periodically talked about what would follow the final weld spatters.
too bad they were not included in the recent parade of gardens.
in the next year, the school staff will be working to secure the funding to  complete a new multi-purpose room on the campus.
each year since then,  bastien and his staff have attempted to add an additional classroom so that the  children who started at the school will graduate from high school and,  hopefully, go on to higher education.
this law, allowing the town to take up to 3 percent sales tax in town along with its perpetual 1 percent outside town limits, was passed following a failed attempt by several non-town residents to put an initiative on a ballot calling for the town's share of countywide sales tax to be reduced.
the aarp 55 alive driver safety class will take place at the methodist church sept. 12 and 13.
he wrote out a label for it, "produced by charlie king's bees on the flanks of pagosa peak, colorado." "all honey used to come in the comb like this," he said.
it is assessed by the pagosa area water  and sanitation district.)
the school district and the state must conduct their elections through the county election office.
a $7 donation is requested and includes homemade desserts and coffee or tea.
he was discharged in 1953 as an army medic.
the life expectancy holds at about 53 years of age.
they can use failure as a basis for striving  higher . . .
october leads all months for maximum precipitation with 7.8 inches,  followed by january with 7.79 inches.
during their stay in pagosa, from aug. 8-15, the new experiences continued to pile up.
instead, they are scheduled for home and home matches against perennial state contender telluride, crested butte and ridgway and home contests against cortez from class 4a and piedra vista of farmington.
for those who may not be familiar with this economic marketing tool, you simply bring us 725 copies of your insert (please do not fold) and a check for $40, and your message will reach the over 765 chamber members.
school board candidates will also be on the ballot.
"i'd be willing to bet the left half of my house, however, that if litigation is enacted, all negotiations on our part would be down the tubes.
"a victim of recreation fees being billed since 1991.
but then he set a little cloth on fire in the smoker, and off we went to the bee yard.
numerous special seasons were also approved and will be available in the  division of wildlife’s 2001 waterfowl brochure.
"we're now halfway through the league season and many of our golfers are in mid-season form, playing better than their handicaps," said alan schutz, assistant course professional.
leading the returnees on the offensive side is senior ronnie janowski, all iml at quarterback last year.
we plan a fun evening aug. 23 at the bar d chuckwagon in durango for dinner and entertainment.
for more information, contact beaber at 385-1205.
from here, the students traveled to cleveland, ohio and then on to new york city before heading home.
i was told no title firm could issue a title  policy or handle the case in any way until the amount in arrears is paid.
call kathi declark (1-946-2057) for additional information.
once again, this is not an exclusive list, and we are open to any and all suggestions.
we need to develop new technologies that don't depend on oil for such  purposes.
the bees buzzed around us, but a few whiffs of the smoker calmed them right down.
boom, bust and battle just a reminder that we have this fine kwuf radio program on tapes that can be checked out.
adult flag football
monday's agenda includes an update on the tree-thinning program on reservoir hill, renewal of a rental agreement for a radio tower on the hill, a recreation update and more.
every day we do nothing causes the loss of the uniqueness and beauty of our community, and the reduction of our value to tourists, on whom our economy depends.
park commission the next park and recreation commission meeting is scheduled at 6 p.m. monday in town hall.
the chamber screen saver committee spent some time brainstorming on what those images might be and came up with, just to name a few, the following: chimney rock (all seasons), balloons, main street scenes, special events, williams creek, four-mile falls, treasure falls, rodeo, county fair, all winter and summer activities and wildlife.
i have no children in the school system in pagosa.
comstock will be in charge of the county planning department responsible  for developing and implementing regulations connected with county growth and  development.
local weather should dry out over the coming weekend, then return to the  wetter monsoon pattern early next week, according to gary chancy, a forecaster  from the national weather service office in grand junction.
this is the latest information on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, prognosis, and follow-up.
"we should start preparing them much earlier than high school - perhaps even at upper grade school levels.
"the storming phase will come when there are  times that we do not agree.
nina allen joins us next with her home business, essence of earth.
burial benefits are generally available to a veteran's family up to two years after the death of the veteran.
technology will be an education key and site-based decision making will be emphasized (parameters will be set, organizational structure determined , and decisions made on that basis).
i did not see where either happened.
first, the idea that the taxiway at the airport can be fixed for $250,000  is absurd!
"before the bear came back."
yet, one commissioner, as late as tuesday, was pondering the prospect of asking the "extension" to be "in perpetuity."
we wand them to be encouraged to be lifelong learners.
"all the country is mountainous at home," bastien said, "but  bare.
even so, if they have  changed addresses since the 2000 general election, they must provide madrid  with a current address.
he also worked with the cavalry used in this picture.
he told the board he initially paid the fee, even though he was unaware of  the codicil in his deed outlining it.
in the pacific flyway, the bag limit is two geese in aggregate.
oh and the most costly to me for taxes is the public schools.
missing are most starters from last year, including league most valuable player, tyrel ross.
please contact us with any questions at 264-2360 or just bring us your slides or pictures (with negatives) on or before aug. 31.
occasionally it takes someone from outside to remind us of the specialness of this place we call home.
there were leather and canvas gloves, too, with long cuffs.
the third business to join us in the ridgeview center is the antique and collectible mall with pamela suneby as the contact.
photographers needed we need all of our talented local photographers to submit slides and pictures (with negatives) to us by the end of the month for consideration to be featured on our upcoming chamber of commerce screen saver.
there is some agreement, he said, that proportionately few of those being  assessed the fee get any service for it.
work on phase 1 begins this fall.
it would save me a bundle of tax money as i am sure it would others.
kurt-mason said he will not name varsity starters for at least another week, preferring to work different combinations of players to develop team play concepts.
" a high pressure area over eastern new mexico fostering the monsoon conditions which have dominated local weather recently will move out over the weekend, according to chancy.
we welcome agnes maez who recently joined our kitchen crew.
please call kathi declark at (970) 946-2057 to register or for information on available lodging or overnight accommodations for you and/or your horse.
currently, 8,063 voters are registered in archuleta county.
"all the country is mountainous at home," bastien said, "but bare.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
we thank mary o'neil, aaa ombudsman for archuleta county, who spoke to us on wednesday referencing the colorado ombudsman program.
working in a fire station,  cleaning ambulances, assisting in traffic control . . .
betty brings us the ridge at pagosa springs located at 525 navajo trail drive in the ridgeview center.
people would take us in, do our laundry, give us supper, put us up in hotels, all at their own expense.
sara's kitchen cabinets offers a wide range of cabinetry ranging from economy to full custom.
an electrified bear-resistant fence, enclosing a square space about 10 feet on a side, containing four beehives.
it may be that through our negotiations on other matters we can achieve a trade-off on fusa fees, but that is not a promise.
simply put, cabaret diosa is a nine-piece musical ensemble.
being a native born new mexican, (lovington, november of 1934),  i've decided when i win the lottery that i'll have a summer place near taos,  and not pagosa.
i also think that all in all he has done a pretty good job  as a commissioner.
we urge you to support this worthy cause at the ridgeview mall.
the town has asked the county for guarantees that any action by the county not interfere with that revenue stream.
phone 264-5020.extension viewpoints by bill nobles use windfall to increase investments friday - colorado kids, extension office, 5 p.m.
one way of achieving your financial dream is to use windfalls such as gifts, tax refunds and garage sale earnings to increase your investments.
registration can be accomplished in person by visiting the county clerk's office in the courthouse, or by mail if using the correct form.
postal inspector randy stokes, of colorado springs, said it may take some  time to uncover whether or not fraud is involved.
bee cement, the propalis, was no match for a hungry bear.
each promises to share with the other in the future, regardless of whether voter action nov. 6 leaves the county or the town in the driver's seat as far as the sales tax is concerned.
in exchange, robert d. lindner ranches would acquire 104 acres of national forest adjoining its private property in hinsdale and mineral counties, northwest of pagosa springs.
our diplomats have a way of contributing both time and monet to the chamber for which we are eternally grateful.
assisting as pallbearers were his six sons.
ute reservations € county emergency management coordinator russell crowley was granted  $7,739.51 with which to upgrade county road maps by hiring a contractor with a  ground position locater € approved $6,000 for use by the county finance department for  purchasing additional computer memory € listened to a monthly progress report presented by social services  director erlinda gonzalez.
i got a letter from fairfield in 1994 saying i owed $600 in back fees . . .
sometimes there will be no fraud if nothing of value was found in the box."
the plan on the commissioners' table relies on the use of the word "extension."
town officials say they put the issue before the voters in order to ensure  their sales tax revenue stream is not interrupted.
information is available by calling 731-5582.sports page gridiron pirates are preparing to put iml title on the line by john m. mottergridiron pirates are preparing to put iml title on the line by john m. motter pads are popping at golden peaks stadium as head coach myron stretton's pirates begin defense of their intermountain league 2a football title.
bitten by snake in oklahoma rick majors, the man from bowling green, ky., who had a dream to ride a horse to the rocky mountains won't make it.
and, we're aware it is an issue which won't go  away.
installation of the equipment will allow county social services to move from the courthouse to contracted facilities in the new town hall building.
then again, what can we expect from a commissioner who illegally cuts the lock and dumps questionable waste in the county landfill and another who illegally closes the maintained portion of a roadway that has been in use in archuleta county for close to 100 years then dares the county to take him to court over the matter.
it gives regional history and attractions, scenic drives, shopping and restaurants among other tips.
ridin' da brand, jim sawicki parade of gardens dear editor, now and for the last three years, the house on the northeast corner of apache and ninth has had an amazing array of perfect flowers and lawns.
" "our students," he said, "must be allowed to experience both success and failure.
sports is a learning process and we don't want that learning to stop once they've reached a given performance level.
it was a good triathlon - a fantastic success for the 60 smiling, exhausted athletes.
bob chitwood bested the field (and his handicap) by a wide margin, winning the net competition with an 11-under-par 60.
house concert the whistle pig house concert sept. 30 will feature bruce hayes, mandolin virtuoso, songwriter, guitarist, and vocalist.
" director gerald smith said "it is not plpoa's place to represent you in this issue.
all three teams are from pagosa.
"if our teachers are not prepared," noggle said, "how can they  expect the student to be?" € developing self-esteem and self-reliance is a prime responsibility  of our school € honest and effective communication is vital to positive human  relations € everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect € evaluation provides feedback to improve teaching and student progress € all students have the right to develop their individual potential  and to assume responsibility for their decisions and actions.
archuleta county and pagosa springs share responsibility and funding for  the projects.
the item was not listed on the meeting agenda.
if you prefer a vegetable sandwich, please make the request when you purchase the ticket.
a meeting between county officials and the involved judge is  being arranged in an attempt to work out a solution which won't break archuleta
he is survived by his wife, cora vigil gomez at the home in dulce; children donna gomez elote and husband erwin of dulce; frances gomez garibay and husband pablo of lumberton; sylvester gomez and wife rosie and frank gomez jr. all of dulce; patrick gomez of san diego, calif.; andrew gomez and wife yvette and augustine gomez and wife lisa, all of dulce; orlin gomez and wife rhonda of farmington; yolanda gomez toya and husband greg of albuquerque and michelle gomez archuleta and husband tony of lumberton; 20 grandchildren; a sister, theresa gomez godwin and husband glenn of lumberton and sun lakes, ariz.; sisters-in-law lupita gomez of bloomfield and adela gomez of lumberton; brothers-in-law salomon luna of tierra amarilla and everett eaton of nevada; numerous cousins, nieces, nephews, godchildren and many other relatives and friends.
comstock's hiring is based on a recommendation from an advisory committee  appointed by the county commissioners which interviewed candidates for the  position.
all the opening slots between the boxes and between the racks of honey are a standard width, about 5/16 of an inch, called "bee space."
in future years, the access  program will begin on sept. 1.
in the pacific flyway, the season will run from sept. 29 through oct. 9 and oct. 24 through jan. 20, 2002.
in the  pacific flyway, the bag limit is two geese in aggregate.
but then she would need power for the t.v.," bastien said, smiling at their enthusiasm.
they bring nothing for lunch, and may go home to no dinner, he said.
using a slide presentation which already had been screened by principals,  noggle said the basis of the concept is a belief statement which includes these  precepts:
the ranch is adjacent to the pagosa ranger district of the san juan national forest.
there are other options but the commissioners seem unwilling to exercise them.
in taking the issue to voters in 1999, trustees were clear then about attempts to dictate town business by anyone living outside town.
that will leave two weeks of conditioning and play making practice before the sept. 1 home and season opener against the cortez panthers.
for additional information, contact susan garman at 731-2485.
of the 4 percent retained locally, 1 percent to be divided equally with the town was first approved in perpetuity by voters june 25, 1968.
the competition at institution univers provides the push many of them  need to encourage their children to excel.
colorado law allows  executive sessions, even if not listed on the agenda, if a majority of the  governing board involved vote to do so.
another hope, he said, is that the visit to the united states will open the  children's eyes to the possibilities of prosperity and encourage them to bring  these ideas back to their own country.
even so, if they have changed addresses since the 2000 general election, they must provide madrid with a current address.
the county's portion is allocated to a road and bridge capital improvements fund, the town's portion goes to a capital improvement's fund.
" at least some readers will.
one of the first things i learned at the sun is that there are no byes, no open spots on the schedule, no vacations . . .
you will find antiques and collectibles ranging from glassware to furniture sold by dealers hailing from all over the four corners area.
"things here are very precious to them," bastien said.
program similarities include all children receiving the same age-appropriate education.
many of the  students come to school without having had breakfast.
next time i am walking from the airport to my residence i can laugh at all those silly folk that are paying toll to drive their cars around.
during their stay in pagosa, from aug. 8-15, the new experiences continued  to pile up.
the humane society is looking for donations of hors d'oeuvres for the auction for the animals to be held aug. 24 at the ridgeview mall.
your influx of westerners that don't like their native place of  california or arizona has discouraged me from further plans to settle in your  area.
i guess that's just the way things are done here in the "ol' west."
she began honing her skills with photography classes in high school and, since moving to pagosa springs 15 years ago, continues learning through local workshops and classes and a great deal of shooting.
families may have a co-payment every month, but their children are given free breakfast, lunch and afternoon snacks.
ivy was adored by all who knew her.
no one loves the land quite like matt, and he relishes opportunities to share it with other folks.
the men's league is open to golfers of all levels.
even after i said he would have to take mug shots along with asking the questions, karl was ready to hit the sidewalks.
"there's something wrong if you negotiate  with them without taking up our interest," she said.
i had the deed with me.
this facility boasts 6,400 square feet and with the capability of serving 700 guests.
the plpoa staff helped, with 10 members volunteering.
after adjourning from the executive session, they instructed administrative assistant kathy wendt to make an offer to comstock.
the august average of 2.52 inches enjoys a  substantial lead over the next highest average, in october, with its 2.03  inches.
but, this board has to be neutral.
leaders, parents, public  officials . .
232 if your business is interested in sponsoring a team.
stevens field is the official local national weather  service gauging station.
but, when a group of taxpayers approached the county for sponsorship and less than 1/10th that amount of money, they are told they just do not know how "modern government" operates.
"the plane is almost like a house," rose saica, age 8, said, wide-eyed even describing the experience.
your investment in health insurance is finally beginning to pay off your joints are more accurate meteorologists than the national weather service
the hospital  district has chosen the county to conduct its election.
in future years, the access program will begin on sept. 1.
then students are released to their classrooms for the regular academic program which lasts until 1:30 p.m. from 3-5 p.m., an after-school program is offered.
by john m. motter greg comstock, a bayfield resident, accepted employment tuesday afternoon  as director of county development for archuleta county.
despite at least two prior lawsuits which went against the complainants,  the question of recreation fees levied by fairfield usa against some properties  in the pagosa lakes communities has risen again.
that's why the hives you see, maybe driving to durango, are usually painted white.
if the town's 3 percent goes into effect and is added to the state's 2.91 percent, no room remains for a county levy within town limits.
the local christian men's group has agreed to sponsor a teacher for one year.
by john m. motter three bids were opened friday for rebuilding light plant road from the pagosa springs town limit south and eastward to light plant road's intersection with u.s. 84.
what they've not agreed on so far is, should they ask for renewal for seven years only, or for perpetuity?
" schmideler thanked the board for its time and "the great job you've been doing.
"we  wait to see if anything is cashed.
installation of the  equipment will allow county social services to move from the courthouse to  contracted facilities in the new town hall building.
the general goose season in the central flyway will run from nov. 17  through feb. 17, 2002 for both dark and light geese.
robert g. schmideler of longmont told pagosa lakes property owners association directors thursday that he has owned property in lakeview estates, off lighthouse drive, since 1990.
in any event, the county and town pledge fidelity to each other.
if you would like to learn more about the pagosa early childhood center, you can call 264-2484 or 264-2512.
bastien, who returned to haiti to start the school after spending 15 years in the united states, said equipping the children of haiti with a knowledge of god and a solid education was the best way to help them gain the tools to improve conditions in their own country.
" he asked directors to support a move to form a local legal defense fund to help victimized property owners fight the fee assessment through a class action suit, saying he intends to advertise for any such property owners who want to be party to the suit.
he says: "it was an adventure i'll never forget, but i don't want to have another.
on saturdays from 9 a.m. to noon, students return for a sports program, videos, bible study and arts and crafts.
alan leo was second with a 66 and ray henslee was third with 69.
a sturdy bear-resistant fence, with heavy wood poles and bars at the corners and lots of wire.
for registration information, call 731-8060.united way sets golf tournament sept. 8
i have read most of mr. sawicki's letters to the paper on a wide variety of issues and he certainly keeps up with what's going on around town.
for the commissioners' information, they can form a park district without  it being on a ballot.
at the intermediate school/junior high level, shawna bolt was named to the vacant music teacher position and pam miller hired as a resource teacher aid.
also at the elementary school level, the board named carolyn riedberger as  a first grade teacher.
for the commissioners' information, they can form a park district without it being on a ballot.
they keep changing position to let the bees on the outside come in out of the cold and warm up.
i made a lot of friends i'll never forget.
in the competitive tournament, ken's performance came away with both league and tournament championships, beating p.p.p. playboys 28-8 in the "if necessary" game.
our county commissioners are championing a sales tax initiative in november almost certain to cause some conflict with the town of pagosa springs.
generally that occurs about two weeks  after the break-in because people don't usually notice missing credit cards or  checks until after they receive a bank statement, he said.
school superintendent outlines focus for board of education by richard walter where does our school district stand now and where is it headed?
haitian students go 'old west' in pagosa visit trip winners: landscapes leave youngsters in awe by tess noel baker
lee sterling thanks again dear editor, after more years than i want to remember, i am not renewing my subscription  to your fine paper.
the local internet service providers are jockeying for position.
three of our new businesses are connected to the ridgeview center with busy lady betty slade at the helm of two.
"we've accomplished the forming stage with our new principals and  assistants," he said.
a smile and a  welcome from them make it a place where dreams and fantasies can be fulfilled.
317 e. murray dr., farmington, n.m., 87401.people cabaret diosacabaret diosa audience members at the four corners folk festival are in for a latin treat.
there is no reason i should have to pay a monthly fee for nothing in return.
while a majority of veteran deaths will come from the aging population of those who served in ww i, ww ii, and korea, a disproportionate number will come from those who served in vietnam and the gulf war.
renewal of this 2 percent levy was  approved for a second 7-year period during november of 1994.
" schmideler told the board he decided to sell the property and, after an engineering feasibility study, was told it would cost $25,000 to $30,000 to bring it up to grade.
following the business meeting mr. woods entertained the club with an intensely interesting talk on the making of a movie.
" director gerald smith said "it is not plpoa's place to represent you  in this issue.
he's written for village voice, esquire, harper's and the new yorker.
using a slide presentation which already had been screened by principals, noggle said the basis of the concept is a belief statement which includes these precepts: all people are of inherent and infinite worth.
waterfowl hunters will be able to hunt ducks in the central flyway from  sept. 29 through nov. 21, nov. 3 through nov. 29 and dec. 7 through jan. 20,  2002.
"petroglyph," the psac quarterly newsletter, is in need of a layout person.
i expect word any day that they have opened their doors and will share that with you when it comes in.
the season lasts 52 weeks and you've got to start fresh every week.
the courts upheld the fee.
it has gone to court several times and the fusa fees have been upheld.
to put his feelings about the team into one word, kurt-mason said, "call me 'happy.'" colorado high school activities association has placed pagosa springs in a league that may exist mostly on paper.
temperature control is just as important in the summer.
for example, noggle  said, "the bus drivers are the mickey mouse of our schools.
the county  hopes that advice will give them confidence their ballot wording will establish  the nov. 6 results as a renewal or extension of the existing tax, if voters say  yes.
"we don't need all this stuff  to be happy people.
"we've accomplished the forming stage with our new principals and assistants," he said.
elizabeth was a member of the woman's civic club and daughters of the nile.
in fact, it is so good that i want him to push for not only the  airport being privately run but all of the other public facilities also.
his granddaughter is keeping bees.
according to archuleta county sheriff's department reports, the cluster box  at the corner of meadows drive and buttress was pried open from the back.
other purchases included watches, purses, sunglasses, backpacks and other school supplies.
stop insulting our intelligence and give us believable reasons for your  decisions.
each says  it enjoys the harmonious working relationship shared over the past few years.
"there's no way they would ever dream of coming to the states," he said.
jim, i think i see a way to save myself a bundle of money.
as for the children, the three girls admitted to missing siblings and  family.
they probably would have recalled some escapades about the blacksmith and welding shop that mr. crouse had forgotten or failed to mention.
to help resolve the issue, kathy wendt, the administrative assistant, was  instructed to draft language as it may appear on the nov. 6 ballot and forward
"that was my fault," he said,  "for not reading the fine print closely.
local chatter by kate terry
the first winter he kept bees here in pagosa, the hives were covered, heaped high, with snow.
the commission also approved an emergency regulation reducing the sage grouse season from 16 to 7 days in north park and middle park.
after each pro set was played, players changed partners, allowing everyone to play with a different teammate for the next set.
we  should start with the roads and streets.
"private acquisition of these federal lands would allow lindner  ranches to undertake important river restoration activities," said adam  poe of western land group.
but finally, i decided, the  property is vacant, i don't occupy it and there is no structure on it.
at that time, voters okayed renewal of the 2 cent tax first initiated in 1988.
with the bees groggy and slow, charlie pried off the top super from one of the hives and took out a frame of honey.
their passion is latin music and the "real big sound."
that's how hugues bastien, director of institution univers, a private  christian school in rural haiti, describes the experience four of his students  will have over the next few weeks as they explore three american destinations.
they go four days a week, tuesday through friday, with free breakfast and lunch.
at the tuesday morning regular meeting of county commissioners, the  board entered executive session to discuss hiring comstock.
the cdr response will help  the commissioners make a decision.
" special education, too, needs a hard look and perhaps most important, is  fully realizing and utilizing the rapidly increasing field of computer-assisted  instruction.
i will push this issue independently and hope to garner support of other fee payers.
madrid was not at the school board meeting and was out of town wednesday and unavailable for comment on his return to the school system staff.
colorado law limits sales tax levies to a total of 7 percent by all entities, with a few minor exceptions.
contrary to what you may have heard, cabaret diosa is not a subversive cult planting the seeds of free love and fierce fashion consciousness among today's wayward youth.
if you, a family member, friend or acquaintance, have experienced the tragic death of a veteran, please call or stop by the veterans service office to determine eligibility and to complete the appropriate paperwork.
margie lucero, area eligibility and program support technician, works with each family to thoroughly assess its needs and offer guidance that will help the family attain eligibility.
august 29 pagosa journeys to dolores to engage the 1a bears at 7 p.m.
and, we're aware it is an issue which won't go away.
bealmer property: pagosa highlands estates, lot 748 price: $4,000 seller: ernest w. and mary ann e. miller buyer: tyler m. and amanda
thanks again for publishing an outstanding weekly second only to the wise county messenger, decatan, texas.
even though the 2 cents is split evenly with the town, the remaining 1 cent stuffs about $1 million a year into the county budget.
slv earthmovers bid $445,409 on phase 1, $512,481 on phase 2.
we hope for a large turnout - bring your family members along if you would like.
i have never used all the streets that  exist in town.
the county position is, if it can show voter approval is a continuation of the existing tax, then it becomes obvious the existing tax will not expire jan. 1,2003, and the town's tax will not automatically kick in.
phase 1 extends from the town limits southeastward  to the mill creek bridge.
technology will be an education key and  site-based decision making will be emphasized (parameters will be set,  organizational structure determined , and decisions made on that basis).
"we choose not to get  into litigation.
the county hopes that advice will give them confidence their ballot wording will establish the nov. 6 results as a renewal or extension of the existing tax, if voters say yes.
"once in albuquerque, they asked, 'where are all the people?' because  they are used to seeing everyone walking," bastien said.
under the proposed exchange, lindner ranches would consolidate land ownership by acquiring public land intermingled with private lands near the east fork of the piedra river.
he was fined the sum of $25 and costs, but the fine was remitted.
"we have great respect for what he and his staff are trying to accomplish in what can only be described as deplorable conditions in all areas of employment, government, medical and transportation.
we should start with the roads and streets.
the $20 fee will pay for the costs of the program including signs and publications listing the properties.
another allowed as how he is on the fence regarding the "in perpetuity" proposal.
i was warned when i first came to town that the courts  had ruled against the property owners.
competition begins every wednesday at 1 p.m. sign up in the men's locker room before 5 p.m. the tuesday afternoon before each play day.
betty slade would be happy to answer any questions you might have at 731-3800.
for more information, contact summer at the recreation department at 264-4151, ext.
they did not hesitate to give $200,000 to the airport - a  constant drain on county coffers, serving less than 1 percent of the county  population.
for example, he said, we need to take a stronger look at vocational  education.
the august average of 2.52 inches enjoys a substantial lead over the next highest average, in october, with its 2.03 inches.
when the project is complete, conversion of the road from gravel to asphalt pavement will facilitate entry into town from the southeast.
charlie says he does it for fun.
i'm returning to my roots in new mexico, although i'll be several hundred miles north of my birth place.
they take water into the hive and leave little drops all around.
the opening reception for photographic works by patricia francis and denise mudrock is from 5-7 p.m. at the gallery and their images will be on display until sept. 5.
the evaporating water helps maintain the hive temperature at a steady 96 degrees.
i suppose we could adjust the cost for the school based on how much each child's car cost that they drive to school.
having the children around for just a few days taught them both a lot.
robert g. schmideler of longmont told pagosa lakes property owners  association directors thursday that he has owned property in lakeview estates,  off lighthouse drive, since 1990.
" shopping has been a big hit.
normally i don't agree with a lot of what he says
this is a full-day, full-year program that runs five days a week.
i'm returning to my roots in new mexico, although i'll be several hundred  miles north of my birth place.
this can reveal a need to create and pursue new avenues.
at the junior high school level, susan garman was appointed to fill a  mathematics department vacancy, mike blum was named an assistant football coach  and melanie cowan appointed an assistant volleyball coach.
beekeeping is not high-tech.
the commission also approved a walk-in access hunting program that will open up small game and waterfowl hunting on private land in northeastern colorado for hunters who purchase a $20 permit.
the program, modeled after successful programs in other states, will open private land previously closed to many hunters.
in our growing collection of medical books, we find "what you really need to know about moles and melanoma," by drs.
i was all covered up, like a character in a disaster movie.
second, the decision to spend $11,000 to build a guardrail along piedra road on the pretense that a fence wouldn't stop people from entering the road illegally would be laughable if it weren't so expensive.
in order to receive a ballot, voters who move or change address must give madrid a correct mailing address by oct. 5.
it tasted, well, waxy.
just think if we could make each street a toll-road, privately  ran and operated.
if a fee is required, something should be provided for that fee.
but the trip has a silver lining.
much of the money comes from a 2 percent countywide sales tax  divided equally between the county and the town.
ivy was preceded in death by her father, her brother, leroy mobley; her hero and stepfather, leland minium; and a nephew, chad jones.
alan's response to whether or not he was missing home was an immediate, "no." when asked what they'd like to take back to haiti with them, alan said, "a car, $1,000 dollars." rosa saica and katiana agrand, said, "motorcycles." rose judith said, "a television." "
"a victim  of recreation fees being billed since 1991.
parents must be working, in training, or going to school.
but then she would need power for the t.v.," bastien said,  smiling at their enthusiasm.
back at his house, he gave me a round section of honeycomb.
temperatures last week were on the cool side.
the commission also approved an emergency regulation reducing the sage  grouse season from 16 to 7 days in north park and middle park.
each tuesday morning in august at 8:30 a.m. there will be a 90-minute presentation at the senior center on bill moyer's series "death and dying" - one video presented each time, four total.
it is  something we are working on.
it was a contractual obligation.
when asked to name their favorites, the children quickly switched from  their native french to english.
" he said school should be fun, safe, exciting, interesting and  well-organized.
in july, the school offers a summer camp, leaving just one month for vacation.
slv  earthmovers bid $445,409 on phase 1, $512,481 on phase 2.
in july, the school  offers a summer camp, leaving just one month for vacation.
and no, you don't have to buy a copy of your photo or sign up for a subscription.
this event will raise needed funds for united way.
real estate transactions seller: alicia marie white buyer: kevin r. alford property: 11-34-1w price: not listed seller: carl pitts 2000
a team can't have more than one player below a 10 handicap, there can't be more than two players with handicaps below 15, and more than three players below a 20 handicap.
there's one two-week exhibit time slot available that is bound to be filled quickly, so turn in your application to the gallery asap.
the involved counties are  archuleta, la plata, san juan, montezuma, and dolores.
the town tax is scheduled to become  effective when the existing 2 percent tax shared by the town and county expires  jan. 1, 2003.
"it will protect the town of rico's watershed in the silver creek  drainage, secure legal public access to the circle trail and forest development  road 551, and enhance recreational opportunities," beaber said.
vince sencich with enzo's catering acts as the in-house caterer for all functions.
some beekeepers do that, although it seems a cruel practice.
the ride starts at 9 a.m. at the poma ranch.
any question of litigation would be well down the  road.
auction for animals the humane society's annual "auction for the animals," is coming up on august 24.
editorialseditorials all's well...isn't it?
after adjourning from the executive session, they  instructed administrative assistant kathy wendt to make an offer to comstock.
proponents requesting sponsorship and funds should have asked for an airport, cut the locks on the landfill and closed turkey springs road - then all three commissioners would be in their corner.
madrid was not at the school board meeting and was out of town wednesday  and unavailable for comment on his return to the school system staff.
voters may return ballots directly by dropping them in a ballot box located in the county clerk's office.
generally that occurs about two weeks after the break-in because people don't usually notice missing credit cards or checks until after they receive a bank statement, he said.
donations thank you for materials from vivian rader, ann dancer, mare perouty, janet donavan, walt snyder, mary jo hannay, marsha preuit, dee mcpeek, laurie walston, barbara carlos, anita hinger, normand and claire cyr, vicki buck, carol hakala, barbara lindley, robert kamrath, carol and richard quillin, jack koppelman, wendy valentine, and jack farris.
the archuleta county fair this year was down in number of general exhibits, up in attendance, and in livestock exhibits.
also included are the southern ute and ute mountain
a dog that frequently barks for hours, or a neighbor that most of the day plays very loud music whose sound goes beyond their property, ruins the peace we need.
" "even the beauty of the country is overwhelming to them," bastien  said.
i see this as a  bottomless money pit over the next few years.
price: not listed seller: donald g. and fern delight shahan living trust buyer: don and fern shahan first family l.p. property: see document for legal description
volunteer helpers are mike marshall and chris kelley.
the  county commissioners approved a resolution may 1 specifying that this year's  election be by mail ballot.
limiting the answer to a brief response.
to dance as if it were your last night on earth, as if your very pants were aflame.
your secrets are safe with your friends because they can't remember them either your supply of brain cells is finally down to a manageable size you can't remember who sent you this list.
although incidents like this are rare in archuleta county, lowe said, the  back of the mailbox that was hit has been changed to provide more security.
these volunteers gave form, order and direction to the event.
"those of us being assessed this fee represent about 20 percent of plpoa membership," she said, "and we feel you should be acting on our behalf to put a stop to this.
"we don't need all this stuff to be happy people.
it is not that the people do not understand modern government, it is that the sitting "modern government" does not understand its people, or itself for that matter.
when asked why, alan said "solving problems," and ruth saica added "division."
division staff members requested the change at the request of local groups  working with the division to conserve and protect sage grouse and their habitat.
a neighbor, hoping to stop construction on the lot and  protect her view, he said, made him an offer of $11,000 (roughly 60 percent of  what he paid for the property).
rose judith said, "a television." "
public comments will be accepted until sept. 6.
it  was a contractual obligation.
to make the system work, he said, some revisions in curriculum are needed.
by party  affiliation there are 4,414 republicans, 2,007 unaffiliated, 1,623 democrats,  12 green party, 5 libertarian, 1 reform party, and 1 american constitution  party.
he was a prominent businessman in lumberton and gubernador, n.m., and in coyote park in archuleta county.
but, i digress - before we can put the screen saver together with 32 images, we need the images.
but i think he might have a brilliant idea about making the users pay for the airport.
eddie brings to this business twenty years experience and invites you to give him a call at 731-4724 for more information about 3-d inspection services.
others won't think a thing about it.
the important aspect of their discoveries is how the experience fits into their life - how it connects.
if the veteran was discharged from active duty due to a service-connected disability, was eligible for va compensation or pension, or died in a va facility, the va will also pay a $150 plot allowance for internment in other than a government cemetery.
after the first of these trips two  years ago, the excitement only grew and test results showed marked improvement  for many, bastien said.
then flush with boiling water.
charlie turned off the juice, unhooked the electric wires, and we went in.
postal service agents probing cluster box vandalism
persons who did not vote in the 2000 general election are not considered active voters.
pagosa pretenders the pagosa pretenders family theater presents "the legendary life of a local: a story about fred harmon and red ryder."
llc property: 15-32-1e, 22-32-1e and 23-32-1e, ii tracts price: not listed seller: bank one na (trustee) buyer: donroy and judith ann hafner, vance g. and jennie m. youens property: pagosa hills subdivision, unit 3, lot 62, east 1/2 price: $83,500 seller: derossett family limited partnership, archuleta mesa ranch
tickets are available at the library, the chamber and the pack rack.
colorado takes 3.91 percent of the total revenue, leaving 4  percent to be divided between the county and town.
"from here we just follow the paper trail," he said.
adult softball adult league tournaments ended last week for both men's and coed leagues.
"i, too, was never notified by fairfield or anyone connected with it -  or by the title company - at the time of purchase that such a fee existed.
it is something we are working on.
for example) to provide individual counseling to assist each student in selecting and preparing for a career though a program of higher education, vocational/technical or work immediately after graduation to maximize parent/community involvement in education to make most effective use of time in the classroom, increasing percentage of instruction/learning time to maximize cooperation in the use of district facilities and programs to maximize communication in the school system so that teachers, students, administrators, parents and the public are fully aware of what is being done to educate children and adults.
pagosa hosts kirtland sept. 7, travels to piedra vista in farmington sept. 14, travels to bloomfield, sept. 22, then hosts taos sept. 28.
in the recreational league, the tigers of dulce came away as tournament champions, beating american legion 14-11 in the final game.
such an activity  occurred when county citizens tried by initiative to change the current 50-50  county-town split.
mr. woods acted as technical advisor on the indian customs, costumes, and dances used in this movie.
from another section of the audience, schmideler's quest was taken up by edie cook who told the board she is a california resident but owns two lots on beaver circle in lake forest estates and leases out a home on the property.
this message can be found online at http://www.dnr.state.co.us/cdnr_news/wildlife/200181383032.htmlletters brilliant idea dear editor i have been following the sun for the past six years since purchasing a residence in this beautiful town.
the people who pay the bills can just fund this turkey on a continuing basis and learn to "love it!"
if  proponents of the park were scheduled to be on the agenda then any discussion  regarding the park was in order until the matter was voted on or tabled by the  board.
rick, whose great-grandfather, alexander majors, was one of the founders of the pony express - the others being william waddle and william russell - wanted to visit the rocky mountains.
the occasional loud celebration should be allowed, or a small  construction project by a handyman, or the occasional weed whacker use (my  least favorite irritant), but not what i would call chronic noise.
they all receive developmental and dental screening.
we're going to make it much more interactive.
beehives are composed of boxes stacked on top of each other.
in other business, the commissioners: € following a public hearing, adopted changes to the limited impact  section of county land use regulations € approved a beer and liquor license renewal for the bavarian inn € approved an agreement with the state, shifting responsibility for  beanpole funding in southwest colorado from archuleta county to la plata  county.
after the meeting, superintendent duane noggle said the staff is now 99.9 percent complete, with only one vacancy possibly remaining under the title 1 program.
"i had to move the undamaged hives the next day," charlie said.
in the next year, the school staff will be working to secure the funding to complete a new multi-purpose room on the campus.
veterans corner by: andy fautheree death benefits help ease family's pain throughout the year 2001, it is estimated that an average of 1,500 american veterans will die each day.
the commissioners must realize the town is not going to back down now, and allow voters outside town boundaries to arbitrarily dictate affairs within its statutory boundaries.
also, i have discovered another area in the west that i have adopted - taos.
they've crafted a plan suitable to one and all, one that is going to succeed because of mutual support.
experimental education should challenge them to try new  things and not be afraid to fail.
sometimes there will be no fraud if nothing  of value was found in the box."
" waterfowl bag limits left intact for new season the colorado wildlife commission approved waterfowl regulations for the  2001-2002 season aug. 9 including bag and possession limits similar to those of  last year.
these should also be private  and just charge us when we actually use them . . .
the beekeeper hangs empty forms inside the supers, forms that have the suggestion of a honeycomb structure.
" manley told the fee payers, "we appreciate what you have said.
over the weekend, monsoon conditions will be replaced by a high pressure area west of colorado creating northerly wind flows with drier air content.
thanks again for publishing an outstanding weekly second only to the wise  county messenger, decatan, texas.
naturally, your name will accompany your image on the screen saver.
registration fees include lunch.
jill schofield and william robinson.
too bad  they were not included in the recent parade of gardens.
the ranch is adjacent to the pagosa ranger  district of the san juan national forest.
league dues are $25 for the season, payable in the pro shop.
the triathlon course includes some single-track trail with a couple of technical spots, some woods, some meadows, some gravel roads and some asphalt.
sterling was born july 16.
if a person doesn't have a team or a handicap, the golf shop will place them on a team.
"it is out of our hands," he said.
"we wait to see if anything is cashed.
letters will be sent to all the people with boxes in the cluster from the  inspection offices in denver, he said.
no early voting is possible  under the mail-out process.
the bloomfield game starts at 7 p.m. saturday, sept. 22 in pagosa springs.
while in neosho, rick befriended a young boy who was having problems at home and at school.
local triathlete bob kimber finished in second place with a time of 2 hours 2 minutes, 6 seconds.
don't miss this opportunity to see the 960-acre poma ranch, spend a glorious day outside, experience a bona fide chuckwagon lunch and support the united way program all at the same time.
all games start at 7 p.m. friday night with the exception of bloomfield and piedra vista.
by party affiliation there are 4,414 republicans, 2,007 unaffiliated, 1,623 democrats, 12 green party, 5 libertarian, 1 reform party, and 1 american constitution party.
pour down drain and let set for 15 minutes.
colorado law allows executive sessions, even if not listed on the agenda, if a majority of the governing board involved vote to do so.
that attempt failed, but similar attempts could recur.
a barbeque-style dinner will be served from 5:30-6:30.
the bees do the rest, making honeycomb cells out of wax and filling them with honey.
plpoa orders property appearance guidelines by richard walter
it's just a chance to let folks know what you think about what's happening in pagosa springs.
the walk-in access program will begin with the start of the pheasant season in november and end on the last day of february.
they've represented the situation accurately to numerous legal authorities through their county attorney, and received positive responses.
"there are approximately 1,900 of your plpoa members who are victims of the fairfield covenant," he said, and "we believe it is incumbent upon you to make a move to get this fee set aside.
to prevent outright hostility, the commissioners must be sure of several things and act accordingly.
twenty-five of them were from out of town.
everyone is welcome to participate in the event.
postal inspector randy stokes, of colorado springs, said it may take some time to uncover whether or not fraud is involved.
we encourage you to use colorful paper and both sides if you like.
the doctor advised tonsil and adenoid operations in 23 cases, or 37% of the children examined.
no one mentioned the $15 monthly recreation fee nor the $14 monthly fee for having a water line past the property."
the county commissioners will not select a bid until they've reviewed  davis' recommendations.
the town has asked the  county for guarantees that any action by the county not interfere with that  revenue stream.
they also cement the boxes together with propalis.
" director david bohl said, "people paying the fee have a very legitimate complaint and have a right to take legal action.
i think that people will agree it would have been great fun to welcome rick majors, but in the meantime he says, "i'm glad to be home again.
" "even the beauty of the country is overwhelming to them," bastien said.
however, around the state, the number of cluster mailbox thefts is on the rise.
membership as september approaches, more and more renewals come with it, and this week it seems that new members are heading our way as well.
leadership is  the key, the town of pagosa springs has it, the county of archuleta does not.
gonzalez reported a district court judge has ordered archuleta county social services to provide services for two delinquent minors.
these students, age 8-10, who started their vacation in pagosa springs this last week, earned a trip to the united states by achieving top scores on their annual academic tests.
buyer: raymond j. elliott property: aspen springs subdivision 5, lots 185, 186, 187, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196 and 197 price: not listed seller: gold creek enterprises inc. buyer: flatland resources llc property: aspen springs subdivision 2, lot 46, block 15 price: not listed seller: flatland resources llc buyer: carl krauter property: aspen springs subdivision 2, lot 46, block 15 price: $5,900 seller: jack w. and susan m. topoleski living trust buyer: gerald a. werner property: spring valley ranches, ranch 3 price: $740,000 seller: richard w. and adele roberts, roberts family trust buyer: roberts family trust property: piedra estates, lot 36 price: not listed seller: robert j. and judy cecka buyer: roberts family trust property: hangar no.
office hours at pagosa dental are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. monday to thursday.
when asked what they'd like to take back to haiti with them, alan said,  "a car, $1,000 dollars.
"they bought clothes for themselves, their siblings."
john graves and john porter provide this material.
for public engagement in the school process.
when i told people i was going out to see charlie king's beehives and learn about bees, the burning question on everybody's lips was - "what about bears?
"we return on friday and on monday they must be back in class,"  he said.
enjoy the familiar as you study denise's images of the diverse southwest; then journey afar with patricia francis as she expresses her vision of italian landscapes.
i thank you all from the bottom of my heart.
we knew it wasn't a "when or if" proposition.
noggle told the board he has based his plan on effective team building -  with well-versed and productive personnel in key leadership positions and  referred to a four-stage plan involving forming, storming, norming and  performing.
"the catsitters," by james wolcott is an adroit comedy about an unmarried man - bartender by day, actor by night - who lives with his jukebox and cat.
his latest letter he wrote about the cost of repairing the taxiways at the airport was most interesting.
fun on the run old age advantages kidnappers are not very interested in you
" "it is a general feeling of this board," he said, "that something needs to be done.
they could have provided a revised version of many of the same episodes mr. crouse shared with his readers.
colorado takes 3.91 percent of the total revenue, leaving 4 percent to be divided between the county and town.
if you want more money to travel, pay for education for you or your children, and have adequate funds to enjoy retirement, now is the time (no matter how old you are) to start an investment program by saving those dollars that seem to slip away each day.
a meeting between county officials and the involved judge is being arranged in an attempt to work out a solution which won't break archuleta county's budget.
on a $100,000 fixed-rate loan at 8 percent interest, you will pay $90,000 less over the life of the loan than you would with a 30-year mortgage establish an emergency fund by putting your windfall in a money market mutual fund sign up for a class to learn about smart ways to manage money take your windfall to a consumer credit counseling office and work out a total budgeting/debt reduction plan check out the american savings education council web site at www.asec.org/toolshm.htm  use their interactive ballpark estimate to calculate what you might need for retirement.
by tess noel baker a local cluster mailbox was the victim of vandals last week.
price: not listed seller: barbara j. smith buyer: thomas m. and terri m. shelton property: wildflower subdivision, lot 25 price: $50,000 seller: k partners vi ltd buyer: william e. and sheri d. arnold property: meadows golf villas, unit 8 price: $237,000 seller: james m. jr. and patricia d. latham (trustee) buyer: lincoln trust company (custodian) property: 15-35-1w price: not listed seller: pagosa springs enterprises inc. buyer: archuleta county board of commissioners property: fairgrounds minor impact subdivision, lot 1 price: not listed seller: martin and claudia margulies, fd development inc. buyer: peter adam heist property: town of pagosa springs, lot 17, block 52
the  local christian men's group has agreed to sponsor a teacher for one year.
the light color reflects sunlight, so the boxes don't heat up too much.
proponents requesting sponsorship and funds should have asked for an  airport, cut the locks on the landfill and closed turkey springs road - then  all three commissioners would be in their corner.
apparently the beekeeping gene skips a generation.
"as you can tell, i'm really distressed by this.
controls on sound emissions should be for both day and night, 24 hours.
contact don hurt at 264-2337 for further information and to sign up.
only active voters receive a ballot to vote nov. 6.
taking an airplane was another story.
let's make it a private school and just those that have children would be required to support it.
this would be a very dangerous place for fire to start since it is the only solid built portion of town.
the  county intends to word the ballot question to support the idea that this will  be a continuation and not expiration of the existing tax.
from here, the students traveled to cleveland, ohio and then on to new york  city before heading home.
"i'd be  willing to bet the left half of my house, however, that if litigation is  enacted, all negotiations on our part would be down the tubes.
suggested donations are $2.25 for folks over 60 and a required fee of $4.50 for others.
"i am a victim of fairfield association," he said.
kurt-mason, if the rains subside enough to allow practice fields to dry, hoped to get into full scale intra-squad confrontations by the end of this week.
there would be no weld spatters ii or an attempt to imitate mr. crouse's approach or style.
the va provides headstones or markers for the unmarked graves of veterans anywhere in the world and of eligible dependents of veterans buried in military post, state veteran or national cemeteries.
"our website home page," he said, "could become an important  tool in education.
consequently, all elections in the county this year must be by mail ballot, madrid said.
"when it quits being fun, then i'll quit keeping bees."
his defense was that he had no such intent and had considered the fire out when he left.
of course the bears get at the hives!
ute reservations county emergency management coordinator russell crowley was granted $7,739.51 with which to upgrade county road maps by hiring a contractor with a ground position locater approved $6,000 for use by the county finance department for purchasing additional computer memory listened to a monthly progress report presented by social services director erlinda gonzalez.
paul beaber, san juan national forest land surveyor and realty specialist,  said forest service acquisition of the private inholding two miles northeast of  rico is in the public interest.
people in ouanaminthe have no electricity and must walk or ride horses.
this is close to the average for the state.
archuleta county and pagosa springs share responsibility and funding for the projects.
after some initial research, we discovered we could create a wonderful screen saver and make it very affordable.
low bidder on the project was slv earthmovers, inc. of monte vista.
"we can't  discipline education or mandate learning," noggle said € education is the responsibility of the school and the student in  cooperation with the home and the community.
"private acquisition of these federal lands would allow lindner ranches to undertake important river restoration activities," said adam poe of western land group.
assisting stretton with coaching duties this year are sean o'donnell, who will work with the offensive line and defensive backs; scott white, who will work with offensive backs and defensive ends; randy sorenson, who will work with receivers and defensive backs; and jim shaffer, who will work with the defensive and offensive lines.
the estimated  cost of the services is $3,000 a month for one and an estimated $13,500 a month  for the other.
other purchases included  watches, purses, sunglasses, backpacks and other school supplies.
dinner and performance tickets are $15 for adults and $8 for children under 12 and can be purchased at the chamber of commerce, sisson library, wolf tracks bookstore and coffee house, the plaid pony, and the psac gallery.
the students to teacher ratio was key to bastien's vision for the school.
canvasback ducks may only be harvested during the first segment of each season to assure that populations do not fall below continent-wide objectives.
each promises to share with the other in the future, regardless of whether  voter action nov. 6 leaves the county or the town in the driver's seat as far  as the sales tax is concerned.
yes, they are known for propagating what has come to be called "hi-fi latin exotica."
they also had fun  learning to ride an escalator, an experience that resulted in a few falls and a  lot of laughs.
there are three ways you can save over the life of your mortgage.
francisco gomez francisco orlando gomez sr., 74, a resident of dulce, n.m., passed away on friday aug. 10, 2001.
" rosa saica and katiana agrand, said, "motorcycles."
bids will be reviewed by davis engineering, contract engineers for the county.
gone from the 2000 squad, which surprised many with an advance to state quarterfinal play against denver christian, is all-everything midfielder daniel crenshaw, the player kurt-mason counted on as his inspirational leader, and striker mike pierce who was a constant offensive threat.
jim, i think i see  a way to save myself a bundle of money.
" then, he said, "i started receiving letters from fairfield threatening  suit.
i personally attended a club 20 meeting at the ridge last week and can attest that this is a lovely meeting place.
interscholastic activities, he said, will remain a prime focus.
he told the board he initially paid the fee, even though he was unaware of the codicil in his deed outlining it.
a separate, but related, contract stipulating conditions of agreement  among the involved counties was also approved.
i have never used the fire department or emergency medical facilities either.
contact with opposing gridders is scheduled friday or saturday next week against the alamosa mean moose.
united way supports 12 local health and human services agencies in the county.
when finished, the space will be used for an auditorium, gymnasium and cafeteria.
there could be something new every week.
those who voted in the  2000 general election are considered active voters.
and what a  magnificent display of genuine, dedicated and compelling hypocrisy.
memorials may be made in her honor to the sisson library or the humane society.
and what a magnificent display of genuine, dedicated and compelling hypocrisy.
leaders, parents, public officials . .
their mission: to make you dance.
last saturday's tenth annual pagosa lakes high-tri triathlon - a 7.2 mile run, 14.4 mile mountain bike and a half-mile swim - went smoothly.
"i, too, was never notified by fairfield or anyone connected with it - or by the title company - at the time of purchase that such a fee existed.
put on your dancing shoes, because you won't be sitting down when this band is through.
if the openings are wider or narrower than bee space, the bees will fill them with a kind of resin they make, called "propalis."
the weather station thermometer registered exactly 32 degrees, but this was enough to nip flowers and gardens.
gonzalez was authorized to spend $6,304 for  installation of wireless computer/telephone equipment.
this is why they need honey over the winter.
"next we're trying to start a feeding program for the students,"  he said.
now, isn't it also sad that those same commissioners did not desire any  public input on the stevens field paving fiasco from other folks in the county  before they go out for bids?
the beekeeper has to pry the supers off with a flat metal tool.
the highest temperature, 78 degrees, was measured three times.
the main focus of the center right now is meeting target enrollment and providing childcare for as many families as possible.
finds bishop blackie ryan in paris.
byron monterosso and courtney steen, a two-person team placed third with a time of 2:03.33.
don reid piles of manure dear editor, now, isn't it commendable: the archuleta county board of commissioners has decided to involve the local taxpayer in their continuing search for solutions to county road classification dilemmas by asking for volunteers to staff their new standing road committee before they further task county road and bridge and take them off tearing up taxiways.
parks & rec by douglas call youth soccer coaches to meet tuesday
"i'll go to every school," he said, "so all members of  the staff have an opportunity to meet with me and discuss programs and/or  problems," and an accountability committee will meet monthly to review  program progress.
a memorial celebration will be held at 2 p.m. aug. 25 in the garden of the home of joyce and clayton jones in flora vista, n.m. memorial contributions, in lieu of flowers, may be made to the word of life christian center, building fund,
there is  no reason i should have to pay a monthly fee for nothing in return.
local taxing entities, excepting the school district, may conduct elections  apart from the county, according to madrid, but they still must be mail ballot  elections.
buyer diligence is required.
exhibit schedule applications for exhibits in the year 2001 are still available at the moonlight book store in town and wolf tracks bookstore and coffee co. as well as at the arts council gallery in town park.
"our ultimate goal," he said, "is to assist every child in performing to their maximum potential and talents.
no gloves, no hat with the little screen.
the superintendent said a district support team representing business, transportation, maintenance and food service divisions will meet every thursday and make recommendations to the administration.
"there are approximately 1,900 of your plpoa members who are victims  of the fairfield covenant," he said, and "we believe it is incumbent  upon you to make a move to get this fee set aside.
in fact, the united methodist thrift shop was one of the first stops.
and he handed me a white heavy canvas jacket with a zip-on hood.
" he asked directors to support a move to form a local legal defense fund to  help victimized property owners fight the fee assessment through a class action  suit, saying he intends to advertise for any such property owners who want to  be party to the suit.
bees spend a lot time fanning air through the hives.
weather stats date high lowdate high low precipitationprecipitation type depth moisture 8/8 78 52 r - .30 8/9 77 54 r - t 8/10 78 51 - - - 8/11 78 52 r - .15 8/12 76 53 r - .17 8/13 77 55 r - .46 8/14 76 51 r - .19 steve and kerri haning are happy to announce the birth of their son, sterling craig haning.
the town's action is  independent of anything the county does.
each says it enjoys the harmonious working relationship shared over the past few years.
wendt disclosed tuesday afternoon that comstock accepted the county's  $45,000 a year offer.
she was born sept. 27, 1939 in pagosa springs and attended schools there, graduating pagosa springs high school in 1957.
the journey to secure  their visas, a distance of less than 200 miles that takes 12 hours over the  country's bad roads, was the first time they had seen port au prince, haiti's  capital.
"i haven't evaluated the other teams, yet.
i saw every evidence that this is a  district that cares about the kids € everyone has the right to learn and function in a safe and  appropriate environment, and, finally € all students can learn.
va reimbursement for burial expenses ranges from $0 to $1,500 depending on the status of the veteran.
in the meantime, please contact pamela at 731-3800 with any questions.
it's a terrific way to let people know more about a move, a special you're offering, a big sale or clearance, new owners, a new service - just about anything.
colleen susan richter liescheidt buyer: gary p. and colleen susan richter liescheidt property: 32-34-1w price: not listed seller: first national bank of chicago (trustee) buyer: charles m. thomas property: aspen springs subdivision 3, lot 13, block 13
as for the children, the three girls admitted to missing siblings and family.
rebecca gustafson property: aspen springs subdivision 2, lot 1, block 7 price: not listed seller: eugene and margaret lodes buyer: steve graham and ohea dawn
they were to have connected with pat parelli upon arrival in pagosa springs.
after the meeting, superintendent duane noggle said the staff is now 99.9  percent complete, with only one vacancy possibly remaining under the title 1  program.
my own question, when i first learned that charlie was a beekeeper, was, "do you leave the bees enough honey to make it through the winter, or do you let them starve to death and buy more bees in the spring?"
the latter was injured in a boating accident last weekend, was present but unable to perform monday, but was in action tuesday.
ride the weminuche will take place saturday, beginning at 9 a.m. at the historic poma ranch located 27 miles north on piedra road from u.s. 160.
every contract should be bilateral.
there will be opponents who urge defeat of the measure and a return to the polls in november, 2002, with a remodeled issue that reflects increased communication and cooperation between town and county - entities that, for the last decade, have enjoyed an unusually positive relationship.
call the recreation department at 264-4151, ext.
having been involved in some of the local county and city government issues in other locations in the past, it is with interest that i notice each location has its own self-appointed monitor of how their taxes are being spent and who is benefiting the most.
the season will now run from sept. 8 through sept. 14.
i was warned when i first came to town that the courts had ruled against the property owners.
new books cathy has a stack of great new books for the ladies to process.
ben minium is cutting several acres of fall wheat which is reported to be of the very finest quality and will yield about 20 bushels per acre.
"once in albuquerque, they asked, 'where are all the people?' because they are used to seeing everyone walking," bastien said.
surely, the commissioners understand what the words "altered in any way" mean.
jean carson was the chairman of the endeavor.
the 1994 ballot question approved by voters stipulated that the tax would  be split evenly with the town, all county proceeds dedicated to the road  capital improvement fund, and that the tax would expire jan. 1, 2003.
cost for the ride is $45 if you rent a horse, $45 if you bring your own horse and $15 if you have lunch only.
lisa k. steward buyer: page k. steward property: pagosa meadows, unit 4, lot 64 price: not listed seller: page k. steward buyer: timothy and gloria jean shumaker property: pagosa meadows, unit 4, lot 64 price: $51,500 seller: dennis m. and marcilee d. custer buyer: james e. poirier and marianne r. caprioli property: lake hatcher park, lot 197 price: $9,000 seller: a. robert cox buyer: anthony robert and dixie laurita cox, anthony robert and dixie laurita cox lt property: lake pagosa park, lots 8 and 9, block 15 and 7w 1/2 block 15 price: not listed seller: john e. and patricia diehl buyer: john e. and patricia e. diehl property: piedra park subdivision, unit 1, lot 3, block 4 price: not listed seller: john e. diehl buyer: john e. and patricia e. diehl property: piedra park subdivision, unit 1, lot 42, block 4 price: not listed seller: barry d. and pamela p. hurt buyer: barry d. and pamela hurt property: spring estates, lot 1
oh and the most costly to me for taxes is the  public schools.
when asked why, alan said "solving problems," and ruth saica  added "division."
these classes have included slot canyon workshops, black and white processing, and advanced black and white technique courses.
the bees had weathered the winter just fine.
she has spent her life in colorado and new mexico and the magic scenery inspires her to continue developing her photography skills.
and in pagosa springs, you don't have to ask.
the four students began their united states experience in pagosa springs because of john and char neill, members of the united methodist church, who met bastien while touring israel in march of 2000.
as a learning tool, not something to be ashamed of." he told the board staff development will be based in part on alfie kohn  technology and instruction strategy.
so it seemed like a good idea to ask folks what they thought about a specific issue . . .
we use such energy sources in agriculture, home heating and transportation.
it was a matter of public record.
they would have had their own hunting and fishing stories.
another hope, he said, is that the visit to the united states will open the children's eyes to the possibilities of prosperity and encourage them to bring these ideas back to their own country.
nina offers all natural handmade soaps, lotions and bath products and will create gift baskets for each and every occasion.
to help prevent mail theft, love gave these tips:
for example) to provide individual counseling to assist each student in selecting and  preparing for a career though a program of higher education,  vocational/technical or work immediately after graduation to maximize parent/community involvement in education to make most effective use of time in the classroom, increasing percentage  of instruction/learning time to maximize cooperation in the use of district facilities and programs to maximize communication in the school system so that teachers, students,  administrators, parents and the public are fully aware of what is being done to  educate children and adults.
a time-limited construction project should of course be allowed.
crusing with cruse by katherine cruse
then start your retirement plan right away.
comstock replaces former county director of planning mike mollica, who resigned in march of this year.
comstock's hiring is based on a recommendation from an advisory committee appointed by the county commissioners which interviewed candidates for the position.
"they've been working hard and i've seen some strong leadership from the veterans," kurt-mason said.
all four of the academic achievement winners, two from 2000 who weren't  able to get visas last year, and two from 2001, said math was their favorite  subject.
6 election will be conducted exclusively by mail by john m motter archuleta county voters are restricted to casting ballots by mail for the nov. 6, 2001, general election.
access to the high school complex by way of the aztec street bridge across the san juan river will also be improved.
being from a later era, they would have experienced a somewhat different school and social life.
these should also be private and just charge us when we actually use them . . .
for example, he said, we need to take a stronger look at vocational education.
plpoa board president richard manley told schmideler the same type of suggestion was broached during the annual meeting last month and that then, as now, the board has no jurisdiction in such actions.
certainly, the commissioners understand the town has a law on the books, approved by voters more than a year ago, that goes into effect if the current 2 percent sales tax, split 50/50 over 7 years between town and county, expires or is altered in any way.
from 1995 to 1999, comstock was city planner for spanish fork, utah, and from 1992-1995 a planning consultant for high country planning of heber, ariz. the new county director earned a bachelor of arts degree in economics and geography from california state university at fresno in 1973.
" "joyfulness," char neill added.
patty tillerson, who takes blood pressures for us has rescheduled to aug. 24 because of the picnic tomorrow.
charlie showed me pictures of earlier years, when the bears had gotten into his beehives.
"no," he said, "i leave them enough honey.
biz beat dr. bill thornell opened pagosa dental aug. 1, with offices in the pagosa family medicine center, 75 south pagosa boulevard, near the intersection of south pagosa and u.s. 160.
the incident was reported aug. 7.
a dog that frequently barks for hours, or a neighbor that most of the day plays  very loud music whose sound goes beyond their property, ruins the peace we  need.
teachers are  paid $960 per year.
but returning are a cadre of experienced juniors who were starters in 2000, including kurt-mason's son, jordan, a key to the pirate defensive scheme, zeb gill, who roamed at left striker, and team scoring leader kyle sanders.
in the men's overall division, matt kattensette from littleton finished in first place with a time of 2 hours 1 minute, 37 seconds.
on the average, more precipitation falls during august in pagosa country  than any other month of the year.
" special education, too, needs a hard look and perhaps most important, is fully realizing and utilizing the rapidly increasing field of computer-assisted instruction.
it may be that through our negotiations on other matters we  can achieve a trade-off on fusa fees, but that is not a promise.
it has gone to court several times and  the fusa fees have been upheld.
the competition at institution univers provides the push many of them need to encourage their children to excel.
bob priess and maurice allen each won 23 games of the possible 32; tina rolig won 21 games; christine wyman won 19.
it is not that the people do not understand modern government, it is that  the sitting "modern government" does not understand its people, or  itself for that matter.
by bob eggleston start getting your team together for the third annual united way golf tournament scheduled for saturday, sept. 8.
noggle told the board he intends to have regular superintendent chat sessions.
enjoyment is partly enhanced by a low stress, but not lightly competitive attitude of organizers and participants.
parents will be able to see their students' current grades, students will be able to log on to get help with a homework question.
other projected 2001 needs include playground equipment, a  basketball/volleyball court, finishing supplies for the sixth grade classroom  and a large school bus.
and this time, a protagonist against the fees is hoping to garner enough  support among others being assessed, to bring a class action suit to suspend  efforts to collect.
in this case there is no service.
noggle told the board he has based his plan on effective team building - with well-versed and productive personnel in key leadership positions and referred to a four-stage plan involving forming, storming, norming and performing.
"since i, and most of the others pay our plpoa dues regularly," she said, "i should think you'd be obligated to represent us in our predicament.
according to archuleta county sheriff's department reports, the cluster box at the corner of meadows drive and buttress was pried open from the back.
50 years ago taken from sun files of august 17, 1951 the town dump grounds on the trujillo road has been cleaned up and a road built to the rear of the area.
the children attended a rodeo, saw an old west show, met a united  states senator, took a train ride, rode horses, viewed water falls and went to  the top of wolf creek pass.
on august 17 and 18, dinner entertainment will be provided by mountain harmony ladies choir.
madrid will then order ballots printed.
consequently, if voters approve the county tax, a confrontation appears to  be in the offing between the county and the town as to which entity's tax will  prevail.
they can use failure as a basis for striving higher . . .
pagosa springs postmaster richard love said at this time no mail has been  reported missing and the postal inspection service has been notified.
the format will be a 4-person abcd scramble.
call pagosa dental at 731-6600 for more information or to schedule an appointment.
elizabeth andersonelizabeth anderson elizabeth anderson passed away aug. 5, 2001 at her home in pagosa springs.
calling writers writers, give us a call if you would like to write the psac artsline column in the sun when there are five thursdays in a month.
i have read most of  mr. sawicki's letters to the paper on a wide variety of issues and he certainly  keeps up with what's going on around town.
this year's youth soccer program is underway but the $10 early registration ended last week.
food firsts are accruing quickly with both good and bad results.
any veteran who served their required term of service and received an appropriate discharge.
we'd much prefer to settle amicably on a negotiated answer. "that doesn't mean that you, as a property owner, can't enlist others in the same situation to join in your quest," he continued.
cut up your credit cards and live on your paycheck review your home mortgage.
at present, i am over $3,000 in arrears on a fee that has no purpose.
last year, the pirates were 7-2 for the regular season, 4-0 in league play.
the day will include morning and afternoon horseback riding, a real chuckwagon lunch including brisket, chicken, ribs and beans, and a live auction for western merchandise including a $3,000 scholarship for the pat parelli international study center and an original print from the lori salisbury gallery.
byron recently moved back to l.a., but came back for the triathlon.
we will change the form of interaction so that all can be involved."
"i drew up a temporary purchase-sale  agreement and went to a local title company proposing consolidation of the two  lots.
light plant road bids under estimate
any question of litigation would be well down the road.
he was preceded in death by his parents, juan lino gomez sr.
ballot information must be submitted to county clerk and chief elections officer june madrid by sept. 12, madrid said, in order to be placed on the nov. 6 ballot.
now, isn't it also sad that those same commissioners did not desire any public input on the stevens field paving fiasco from other folks in the county before they go out for bids?
although there are income guidelines to be followed, income is not the only major factor for qualifying at pagosa early childhood center.
local businesses, as usual, threw in generous prizes.
the pagosa pirates soccer coach thinks his squad can be a challenger for honors
noting  "nearly half the junior high school enrollment is out for fall sports, we  need to strengthen these programs.
if the veteran was eligible to receive va compensation or pension, or the veteran died in a va facility, up to $300 in expenses are reimbursed.
during the 2000 general election, 4,814 votes were cast in archuleta county.
thanks, leroy oldham two concerns dear editor, two of the concerns before our county commissioners affect us all.
(years ago a plumber told me that using this solution once a week would keep drains open).
pagosa springs postmaster richard love said at this time no mail has been reported missing and the postal inspection service has been notified.
parents receive information and a list of programs on topics including child development, child abuse, parenting, etc.
written comments may be mailed to paul beaber, san juan national forest, 15 burnett court, durango, co 81301 or e-mailed to: pbeaber@fs.fed.us.
"skies will be partly cloudy with a 20 percent chance for afternoon  and evening showers and thunderstorms through thursday evening," chancy  said.
surely the commissioners realize, if they proceed with their apparent plan, there will be opposition to the measure.
why is it a commissioner who could  find funds for unbudgeted road work, couldn't find funds to do something  constructive for a change?
at this early stage, it appears the county, school district, hospital  district, and the state will have issues on the nov. 6 ballot, according to  madrid.
this year, for the first time, pagosa gridders play all games, home and away, under the lights.
when schmideler asked the board if members were aware "some of the court decisions have been set aside here in archuleta county?"
while denise finds much enjoyment in creating the images, she also likes to push herself to improve.
local weather should dry out over the coming weekend, then return to the wetter monsoon pattern early next week, according to gary chancy, a forecaster from the national weather service office in grand junction.
in sync by isabel willis early childhood center - the right start young children have important tasks to practice that will eventually provide them with a solid base for learning.
after he had given me the standard show and tell that he gives visiting 4-h kids and other groups, charlie asked, "do you want to see the bees?" "of course," i said.
he advised the board its goals should be: to provide a program of safety and health instruction for living in a  change world to offer understanding and appreciation of the creative arts and science  in the modern world to provide, through experiences in democratic living, understanding and  appreciation of our form of government, emphasizing obligations of citizenship  and social responsibility to develop understanding of and respect for all people, emphasizing their  rights as world citizens and their responsibilities as such to encourage participation in community living by sharing in leadership  and service experiences.
"we have great respect for what he and his staff are trying to  accomplish in what can only be described as deplorable conditions in all areas  of employment, government, medical and transportation.
almost one-half an inch, 0.46 inches, fell sunday night and monday morning.
you will receive free measurements, designs and estimates.
her prize was a small carrying bag containing a water bottle, first aid supplies, antiseptic wipes and sun screen.
while seeking renewal, the commissioners have informally  agreed to place the proposition on the nov. 6 ballot with one stipulation not  agreed upon.
in spite of the consistent late afternoon monsoons, the trail was ridable with a couple of boggy sections.
but  they trusted us enough to try it a second time.
jack searle, carolyn feller and chris nobles came in second with a 2:01.14.
some fairfield members get reduced rates there, but those mostly are timeshare and condo users.
all four of the academic achievement winners, two from 2000 who weren't able to get visas last year, and two from 2001, said math was their favorite subject.
visiting participants commented on the friendly, family-oriented nature of the event and the beauty of the course.
in his fourth season at the pirate helm last year, stretton was chosen coach of the year by fellow iml coaches.
they also had fun learning to ride an escalator, an experience that resulted in a few falls and a lot of laughs.
the pirate schedule is the same as last year.
you sing along with elevator music your eyes won't get much worse
and yes, this music has become associated with behavior considered by some to be taboo.
i've been out of town quite a bit during the past month, but i don't recall hearing of a rash of incidents involving people driving through fences to keep from having to drive 50 feet to get to a driveway.
denise mudrock has made photography an important part of her life since she received a 35mm camera for her 16th birthday.
they bring nothing for  lunch, and may go home to no dinner, he said.
a student's day begins at 7:20 a.m. monday through friday with an assembly  around the flag.
we need to develop new technologies that don't depend on oil for such purposes.
we plan to do it again next year.
in the women's overall division, debbie maloney from englewood crossed the finish line with a 2:18.45.
a sponsorship fee of $200 provides teams with shirts bearing the sponsor's name, which players keep.
in addition to the many lifetime benefits afforded to veterans discharged under other than dishonorable conditions, several death benefits are offered to ease the pain of surviving family members and to recognize the memory and sacrifice of those who served.
this message can be found online at  http://www.dnr.state.co.us/cdnr_news/wildlife/200181383032.html letters brilliant idea dear editor i have been following the sun for the past six years since purchasing a  residence in this beautiful town.
when finished, the space will  be used for an auditorium, gymnasium and cafeteria.
(at some point, he said, seniors should be required to  have a service requirement for graduation . . .
in fact, it is so good that i want him to push for not only the airport being privately run but all of the other public facilities also.
that draft to the colorado department of revenue.
we will change the form of interaction so  that all can be involved."
october leads all months for maximum precipitation with 7.8 inches, followed by january with 7.79 inches.
alan raphael, age 11, was impressed by the water running out of the mountains at treasure falls.
put extra money into an automatic savings plan invest in yourself.
in order to receive a ballot, voters who move or change address must give  madrid a correct mailing address by oct. 5.
folks by david c. mitchell
thanks to a thoughtful pagosa resident who found a screen saver in another colorado town and brought it in for us to see, we decided this would be a great project for us.
this is a funny, easy read to help anyone avoid mistakes from a man who says he has made them all.
came spring, he went out to brush the snow off the hives and check out the losses.
the bottom two are usually where the bees live and raise their young.
all of the county's income from its 1-cent portion is spent on road capital improvement projects, a practice the commissioners hope to continue.
skunk relief this remedy for treating skunk infected dogs has been contributed: one bottle peroxide, one small box baking soda, one quart water, and a few drops of dish detergent.
please call nancy ray at 731-3122 or annie jo bishel at 264-5549 if you can help.
i suppose we could adjust the cost for the school based on how much  each child's car cost that they drive to school.
gonzalez was authorized to spend $6,304 for installation of wireless computer/telephone equipment.
while seeking renewal, the commissioners have informally agreed to place the proposition on the nov. 6 ballot with one stipulation not agreed upon.
this program is concerned with protecting the civil and human rights of elderly persons in long-term care facilities, solving and mediating problems and investigating complaints.
colorado law allows mail ballot elections during odd years, according to june madrid, the archuleta county clerk and chief elections official.
despite at least two prior lawsuits which went against the complainants, the question of recreation fees levied by fairfield usa against some properties in the pagosa lakes communities has risen again.
sharon porter new technologies dear editor, because of the price of fuel and its volatility in price, we need to start to develop new technologies that do not use natural gas or oil.
you quit trying to hold your stomach in, no matter who walks into the room
strohecker bid $505,905 on phase 1 and $622,476 on phase 2.
bring an umbrella to chase away raindrops for this outdoor dinner theater held at the fred harmon art museum at u.s. 160 and piedra road, aug. 17, 18, and 25.
but if you are free, join in the new mambo revival as the caravan races headlong toward paradise.
i would encourage others to express their opinions on these issues.
persson takes gross honors in men's golf league by bob howard the pagosa springs men's golf league event aug. 8 had no complicated format, no unusual scoring system, just good, old-fashioned quality golf in an individual low gross and low net competition.
briefly, the thought flashed through my mind that maybe this bee thing was all a giant hoax.
both rose saica and rose judith, 8, said the trees and flowers were their favorite parts of the landscape here.
a change in the service plan of the aspen springs metro district, however, would require that the district petition the county, which would then be required to hold a public hearing on the matter and, if approved, refer it to the 6th judicial district.
"our ultimate goal," he said, "is to assist every child in  performing to their maximum potential and talents.
separate property trust buyer: ronald l. and donna m. rosa property: 13-34-1w and 14-34-1w price: $256,000 seller: sally high and jerry smith buyer: ruth b. smith (estate of) property: 10-33-5w and 11-33-5w
at the institution univers, courses are offered in bible studies, writing,  reading, languages (french and english), math, social studies, music and arts,  sports, geography of haiti and history of haiti.
should they seek a seven-year extension, or should they seek voter  approval in perpetuity?
"if our teachers are not prepared," noggle said, "how can they expect the student to be?" developing self-esteem and self-reliance is a prime responsibility of our school honest and effective communication is vital to positive human relations everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect evaluation provides feedback to improve teaching and student progress all students have the right to develop their individual potential and to assume responsibility for their decisions and actions.
yet their faith that  their dream will be realized is so strong’ we can't help but be affected  and desirous to help in any way we can," the neills said.
it is evident, from their performance that the commissioners do not have  the vaguest notion of how government operates.
thank you for your consideration.
arrangements were entrusted to the salazar family of block-salazar mortuary, espanola.
he hopes to report for work aug. 27, but could be delayed until sept. 4  because of prior work obligations.
if we offered to pay, they wouldn't take it."
mr. crabtree's suggestion that the county attempt to imitate the  "city" could be construed to say that perhaps we should have the town  board and town planners replace the sitting county government.
now, let one of the commissioners say which method is most feasible.
thomas h. watkinsobituaries
the bids averaged about 12 percent lower than davis engineering's estimated construction cost.
tuesday, the commissioners voted  unanimously to enter executive session to discuss this subject and other  subjects noted on the agenda.
unfortunately, in the past few weeks he's made a couple of  blunders that i think need to be addressed.
in addition to the pirates, the league includes bayfield (which pagosa ousted from playoff contention in a home field shootout last year), center, which withdrew from participation late last season, sierra grande (which did not field a team last year and probably won't this year), and laveta, which fielded a coed team last year and gave several others a run for their laurels.
call us at 264-2360 with any questions.
front page august 16, 2001 county sales tax vote is assured by john m. motterfront page august 16, 2001 county sales tax vote is assured by john m. motter archuleta county's commissioners are determined to place sales tax renewal on the nov. 6 general election ballot.
those who voted in the 2000 general election are considered active voters.
the county's portion is  allocated to a road and bridge capital improvements fund, the town's portion  goes to a capital improvement's fund.
don't worry, the band will show you how to mambo like there's no tomorrow.
persons who did not vote in the 2000 general election are not considered  active voters.
don't bears get into the hives?" so, of course, that's the first thing i asked charlie.
"but what about those bears?"
the property owners should have been advised of the fees, should  have read it for themselves, but still have the right to seek relief." director thomas cruse asked to be put on record "that i'm opposed to  this board becoming involved, as a board, in this issue."
i, too, want to sell, but cannot do so with the unpaid fees - for which i've received no benefit - hanging over me.
they gather in a ball, and the ones on the inside are warm.
the school year starts sept. 1 and runs through june.
in a hostage situation, you are likely to be released first
not knowing he was the one i planned to dump the assignment on, karl said he thought it could be interesting.
i have never used all the streets that exist in town.
at the aug. 14 regular meeting of county commissioners, commissioner bill  downey said he favors a seven-year renewal, commissioner and chairman of the  board gene crabtree said he favors levying the tax in perpetuity, and  commissioner alden ecker was ambivalent.
a lone reference to recent colorado scholastic aptitude proficiency (csap) test scores, involved his note that "training will be made available for staff, not by teaching to the test, but by teaching concept understanding."
" still, cook was adamant.
these are good music and history episodes.
it would save me a  bundle of tax money as i am sure it would others.
the county commissioners will not select a bid until they've reviewed davis' recommendations.
but, the more adversarial the situation becomes, the less chance for success.
we're concentrating on pagosa scenes, things that make us unique even in beautiful colorado.
parents will  be able to see their students' current grades, students will be able to log on  to get help with a homework question.
in the pacific flyway, duck seasons will run from sept. 29 through oct.  14 and oct. 24 through jan. 20, 2002.
the library connection is part of a network and we are at the mercy of many other players - none of which wants to take responsibility for the glitches.
cost of the class is $10.
fortunately no harm was done.
congratulations to all players and a big thanks to all the sponsors who made this year's season a success.
troy persson took the honors in the gross competition with an even-par 71, followed by sean o'donnell at 75, and gene johnson at 80.
those questions were put somewhat into perspective tuesday night by superintendent duane noggle as he outlined for the board of education for archuleta school district 50
local athletes who participated in saturday's triathlon did enjoy the opportunity to pit their athleticism against other participants, particularly the unknown competitors from outside of pagosa.
on august 25, john graves and warron big eagle will provide dinner entertainment.
"next we're trying to start a feeding program for the students," he said.
of course the toll charge would be higher for the roads that lead to those big homes that have those beautiful views.
all proceeds from the show will be donated to support our community.
i've been out of town  quite a bit during the past month, but i don't recall hearing of a rash of  incidents involving people driving through fences to keep from having to drive  50 feet to get to a driveway.
"that was my fault," he said, "for not reading the fine print closely.
many have participated in summer camps and have worked out on their own in order to be ready for the season."
you may call 264-2167 and talk to cindy or musetta if you have questions.
to give you a heads-up for enrollment, you can start gathering your child's birth certificate or baptismal record, locate their record of immunizations, social security numbers, tanf and medicaid card (if applicable), proof of family income for the past 12 months or the previous income tax year, and names and phone number of emergency contact people.
hopefully, the situation will turn out for the best, for the greatest number of people.
town officials say they put the issue before the voters in order to ensure their sales tax revenue stream is not interrupted.
an additional 1 percent to be levied in perpetuity and split with the town was approved by voters sept. 6, 1983.
the county position is supported by colorado counties, inc. attorneys, according to crabtree.
they realize that, legally, it doesn't matter whether sales tax is paid by in-town residents, county residents, or tourists.
surely they realize that at least 70-percent of sales tax, and probably more, is collected within the boundaries of the town of pagosa springs and that town trustees have an obligation to work in the fiscal best interests of their constituents to protect as much of that revenue as possible.
if the town's 3 percent goes into  effect and is added to the state's 2.91 percent, no room remains for a county  levy within town limits.
last week's  lowest temperature was 51 degrees.
"the time is coming when the teacher won't just  lecture," he said.
whereas mr. crouse eased into weld spatters with an on-again-off-again approach of periodically submitting a column, his potential followers knew a weekly column would be expected.
"everyone must work together to make the schools live up to their responsibility," noggle said.
i will push this issue independently and hope to garner support of  other fee payers.
but they trusted us enough to try it a second time.
charlie thought, "well, that's the end of the bees."
local winners in first tennis mixer four local men and women were named winners of saturday's tennis mixer at the fairfield courts.
however, around the state, the number of cluster mailbox thefts is on the  rise.
should they seek a seven-year extension, or should they seek voter approval in perpetuity?
currently, a 6.91 percent sales tax is levied on most retail sales in archuleta county.
no dinner will be served aug. 24
registration forms are available at town hall.
we have six new members to introduce to you this week and fourteen renewals.
in fact, the united methodist thrift shop was  one of the first stops.
there must  be a common sense way to write such a law.
summer hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and winter hours are 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. tuesday through saturday.
each experience they encounter with the environment offers a new opportunity to increase their understanding of the world.
other private schools in the region, are too expensive for local families, follow no standard of education and are crowded, having as many as 105 children per classroom per instructor.
please come out and enjoy the morning and support united way.
the office number is 264-2304, the fax number is 264-5949, and e-mail is vsoarch@pagosa.net.
a little big band if you will.
forest service invites comment on proposed land swap public comments are now being accepted on an environmental assessment of a  land exchange whereby the u.s. forest service would acquire 160 acres of  private land within the boundaries of the san juan national forest in dolores  county.
they are the first 'teachers' the students meet all students have the right to receive effective instruction.
it was good to have norm and anna denney, kevin warner, arthur and ramona ruiz, rosemary lavigne, maz and esther peralta, and kurt and shirley killion's sons cliff, brad and wes killion and their guests michele johnson and boni etter with us this week.
now, let  one of the commissioners say which method is most feasible.
call bill and clarissa hudson at 264-2491 for reservations and information or visit the whistle pig website at www.hudson hudson.com/whistlepig.
for open exchange of ideas . . .
ballots will be mailed to voters no  earlier than oct. 12 and no later than oct. 22.
gonzalez reported a district court judge has ordered archuleta county  social services to provide services for two delinquent minors.
families must meet income guidelines.
(at some point, he said, seniors should be required to have a service requirement for graduation . . .
the commission also approved a walk-in access hunting program that will  open up small game and waterfowl hunting on private land in northeastern  colorado for hunters who purchase a $20 permit.
members of the united methodist church in pagosa springs have pledged to build a pair of new classrooms for the school at a cost of around $7,000.
to report problems or concerns, to learn more about the colorado ombudsman program, or to seek information about long-term care facilities, you may contact mary at 259-1967.
returning starters on the defensive side of the ball are junior linebacker pablo martinez, an all-league honorable mention, and senior lineman ethan sanford.
join fellow pagosans tonight in premiering a new exhibit at the pagosa springs arts council gallery in town park.
the festival takes place aug. 31-sept. 2 on reservoir hill.
by monday afternoon monsoon conditions created by the high pressure area over eastern new mexico should return, chancy said.
this is one of the earliest freezes in recent years.
it takes a lot of calories to keep those little bee bodies shimmying and warming each other up.
since that time the weather has been pleasant with almost daily evening showers.
she leaves her family who loved and cherished her: her mother and best friend, beatrice minium; son, kenny turner; daughters melody ahlgrim and husband ken, and april turner; brothers billy mobley and wife lavenda and les mobley and wife debbie; a sister, joyce jones and husband clayton; five grandchildren and many nieces and nephews.
pagosa pretenders family theatre is a non-profit division of the pagosa springs arts council.
division staff members requested the change at the request of local groups working with the division to conserve and protect sage grouse and their habitat.
so don't be surprised if in the future someone comes up to you and says, "hey, whaddya think about. . .?
plpoa  is not and should not be a party to the fee dispute except in negotiation.
veteran intermediate school principal butch madrid, who retired at the end of the last school year, was named tuesday night as the new dean of students at pagosa springs elementary school.
"the colorado guide," is the best selling and ultimate guide to our state.
a friend suggested pagosa springs as a destination.
the county promises to make a final decision on ballot wording either next week or the following week, after receiving advice from the cdr.
forest service invites comment on proposed land swap public comments are now being accepted on an environmental assessment of a land exchange whereby the u.s. forest service would acquire 160 acres of private land within the boundaries of the san juan national forest in dolores county.
the life  expectancy holds at about 53 years of age.
tonight, tonight won't be like any night.
stop insulting our intelligence and give us believable reasons for your decisions.
a change in the service plan of the aspen springs metro  district, however, would require that the district petition the county, which  would then be required to hold a public hearing on the matter and, if approved,  refer it to the 6th judicial district.
they are not a traveling freakshow or spiritual revival.
players wriggled into pads today for the first time this season.
experimental education should challenge them to try new things and not be afraid to fail.
"that's why i'm here.
charlie is an amateur beekeeper.
it is evident the agenda  of at least two commissioners is either self-serving or serves the interest of  the wealthy at the expense of the taxpayers.
" then, he said, "i started receiving letters from fairfield threatening suit.
at this early stage, it appears the county, school district, hospital district, and the state will have issues on the nov. 6 ballot, according to madrid.
what they've not agreed on so far is,  should they ask for renewal for seven years only, or for perpetuity?
price: $3,900 seller: david charles and violet jane o'connell buyer: john d. and karla j. ostroski property: high west subdivision, unit 11, lot 12, block 1 price: $19,500 seller: kari l. montagriff and greg ruttum buyer: glenn d. bayger and lorri j. hill-bayger property: not listed price: not listed seller: lincoln trust company (custodian)
mrs. anderson was the maternal aunt of lenore and gil bright.
this may explain the allegations of audience impropriety, etc.
someone at the craft show had asked her to create something for them that didn't appear in her inventory and she whipped it up for them right away.
every day we do nothing causes the loss of the uniqueness and beauty of  our community, and the reduction of our value to tourists, on whom our economy  depends.
also attempting to  get the contract were strohecker excavation, inc. of bayfield, and weeminuche  construction authority of towaoc.
they know, when combined, the phrases "in perpetuity" and "altered in any way" buy a token on a bus heading straight to court.
€ pick up delivered mail from mailboxes as soon as possible € do not leave outgoing letters in neighborhood cluster box units € if possible, take outgoing mail directly to the post office or to a  blue collection box prior to last pick-up of the day € report suspicious activity or mail theft immediately to a local law  enforcement agency and to the colorado postal inspectors' 24-hour line at (303)  313-5320 € have the post office hold mail if planning to be gone for long  periods of time.
when you visit the gallery, allow time to stop in the gift shop which features locally created arts and crafts.
parents are their most valuable resource because they are the main source of information concerning all aspects of their children.
i was told there would be an attorney here tonight with answers for us
joining janowski on the offensive eleven are all-purpose back darin lister, a senior, and defensive end jason schutz, a sophomore.
medical conditions are also poor  with one doctor and two nurses attempting to serve everyone.
at that time, voters okayed renewal of the 2 cent tax first initiated in  1988.
colorado law allows mail ballot elections during odd years, according to  june madrid, the archuleta county clerk and chief elections official.
i was told no title firm could issue a title policy or handle the case in any way until the amount in arrears is paid.
on defense, he will continue the 43-d, a defense dictated by personnel.
for more information, call rosie hatchett at 264-6987.
also included are the  southern ute and ute mountain
we apologize for the inconvenience but don't see it being fixed very soon.
tickets for the aug. 24 performance may be purchased in advance or at the door.
conviction can result in a fine of up to  $250,000 and up to five years imprisonment.
come on, you have to come up with something  better than that.
i  got a letter from fairfield in 1994 saying i owed $600 in back fees . . .
for information on these and other va benefits, please call or stop by the office located on the lower floor of the archuleta county courthouse.
price: not listed community newscommunity news chamber news by sally hameisterchamber news by sally hameister
a total of 62 children were examined at the clinic, 36% of which were found to be more than 7% underweight for their heights.
his grandfather was a professional beekeeper, back in pennsylvania.
if death was the result of a service-connected disability rated by the va, up to $1,500 in expenses are reimbursed.
"there's something wrong if you negotiate with them without taking up our interest," she said.
" stretton expects to continue the multiple-offense attack he has employed with success during his four-year tenure as head coach.
the community plan needs to be implemented in full, with no further  delays.
he also said he plans to have regular superintendent's forums - "an  open office to the people of the community . . .
there must be a common sense way to write such a law.
you signed the documents.
bible study is first and lasts about 30 minutes.
phase 2 extends from the bridge to u.s. 84.
i saw every evidence that this is a district that cares about the kids everyone has the right to learn and function in a safe and appropriate environment, and, finally all students can learn.
waterfowl hunters will be able to hunt ducks in the central flyway from sept. 29 through nov. 21, nov. 3 through nov. 29 and dec. 7 through jan. 20, 2002.
the coming jan. 1, 2003, expiration of 2 of the 4-cents-per-dollar local  sales tax has elevated the sales tax issue to the top of the commissioners'  agenda.
a student's day begins at 7:20 a.m. monday through friday with an assembly around the flag.
the four students began their united states experience in pagosa springs  because of john and char neill, members of the united methodist church, who met  bastien while touring israel in march of 2000.
children can still register at $15 until aug. 24.
a discount is available to arts council members when tickets are purchased at the gallery.
"the instructor will have a full-blown  presentation with animation, music and focus of purpose," he said.
registration can be accomplished in person by visiting the county clerk's  office in the courthouse, or by mail if using the correct form.
tuesday, the commissioners voted unanimously to enter executive session to discuss this subject and other subjects noted on the agenda.
andrew greeley's new mystery, "the bishop and the beggar girl of st. germain,"
j.h. hallett came down from the mountains with many fine samples of ore rock, some of which runs very well in minerals.
bastien said the competition is a major incentive for families in  ouanaminthe who make a sacrifice just to send a child to school at a cost of  $45 a year.
"we choose not to get into litigation.
this will be just another cool way to make all your friends and relatives jealous that you live in such a beautiful place.
madrid is currently looking at three or four ballot styles.
he added a master's degree in urban and regional planning at the same university in 1976.inside the sun teaching vacancies filled by school board by richard walterteaching vacancies filled by school board by richard walter
mr. crabtree's suggestion that the county attempt to imitate the "city" could be construed to say that perhaps we should have the town board and town planners replace the sitting county government.
even though the 2 cents is split evenly with the town, the remaining 1  cent stuffs about $1 million a year into the county budget.
wolcott is the cultural critic for vanity fair.
" a high pressure area over eastern new mexico fostering the monsoon  conditions which have dominated local weather recently will move out over the  weekend, according to chancy.
failure in government exams at the end of high  school is high.
no one  mentioned the $15 monthly recreation fee nor the $14 monthly fee for having a  water line past the property."
mr. crabtree again stuck his foot in his mouth by stating that a  commissioners' meeting was not an open forum or the place to discuss a park.
the important thing though," he said, "is that they get enough air."
the county intends to word the ballot question to support the idea that this will be a continuation and not expiration of the existing tax.
consequently, they must visit the county clerk's office in the county courthouse and update their record.
he graduated as valedictorian in 1945 from the el rito normal school.
senior news by janet copeland third summer picnic slated friday in town park our third picnic in the park for the summer is tomorrow.
the people who pay the bills can just fund  this turkey on a continuing basis and learn to "love it!"
"for the first event of the season, the mixer was a great success," said dale schwicker, tennis pro.
so i asked karl what he thought about "whaddya think?" after all, an endless number of legitimate issues, reasonable concerns and inane ideas surface in pagosa springs.
wendt disclosed tuesday afternoon that comstock accepted the county's $45,000 a year offer.
another option is head start and colorado child care assistance (ccap).
"those of us being assessed this fee represent about 20 percent of  plpoa membership," she said, "and we feel you should be acting on our  behalf to put a stop to this.
i have not been diligent in reading it, nor do i use the ads since i live  in ft.
the bag limit in the central flyway is five dark and 20 light geese.
the school began in 1994 as a kindergarten "l'univers des petits,  kindergarten" with 84 children and three teachers.
but this group came in great shape.
the project has been divided by davis engineering, the county's contract engineer, into two phases.
it was my  belief our only obligation was to pay taxes and association dues.
she studied at the santa fe workshops on the saint john's college campus and, more recently, with kit frost at smiley studios in durango.
the hospital district has chosen the county to conduct its election.
their performance depends  upon our performance.
those questions were put somewhat into perspective tuesday night by  superintendent duane noggle as he outlined for the board of education for  archuleta school district 50
a separate, but related, contract stipulating conditions of agreement among the involved counties was also approved.
alan raphael, age 11, was impressed by the water running out of the  mountains at treasure falls.
honorary pallbearers were celso gomez, ray garcia, dennis lucchetti, manuel archuleta, michael gomez and jose abeyta.
special thanks to the following for opening their homes and gardens: ranza and barbara boggess; the paws xeriscape demonstration garden; john and sandra applegate; john and cheryl nelson; laurie breckinridge and julie wilif; jack and katy threet; anthony and ronnie doctor; and walter and doris green.
we have determined areas where we can negotiate  with fairfield and we are working on putting the question of fusa fees into  that negotiation equation.
bastien said the competition is a major incentive for families in ouanaminthe who make a sacrifice just to send a child to school at a cost of $45 a year.
ridin' da brand, parade of gardens dear editor, now and for the last three years, the house on the northeast corner of  apache and ninth has had an amazing array of perfect flowers and lawns.
add to that mix returning senior trent sanders, veteran goalkeepers matt mesker and josh soniat, both of whom can also play attack positions, and defensive stalwarts ryan lister and reuben coray, and you have the makings of a standout squad.
the little child of mr. and mrs. lewis swallowed a pin monday causing considerable alarm to the parents.
the general goose season in the central flyway will run from nov. 17 through feb. 17, 2002 for both dark and light geese.
lister also handled most of the pagosa punting and kicking chores last year.
if you are getting a tax refund every year, change your withholding exemptions so less tax is withheld from each paycheck.
he's back home again.
it was my belief our only obligation was to pay taxes and association dues.
benefits include free burial in a national veterans cemetery, an appropriate headstone or marker, a presidential memorial certificate, military funeral honors, a burial flag, and possible reimbursement of some burial expenses.
maloney was followed by two pagosans: tammy holcomb who finished second in 2:30.13
he joined the army in 1951 and was trained at fort meade, md., fort houston, texas and fort bliss, texas.
the piedra vista game starts at 7:30, friday, sept. 14, on the piedra vista turf.
preparation of the body, transportation and the cost of a casket are not normally covered.
she was preceded in death by her beloved sister, hazle neill of pagosa springs.
failure in government exams at the end of high school is high.
" "they are eager to try new things," char neill, one of the  children's hosts, said.
the $20 fee will pay for the costs of the program including signs and  publications listing the properties.
some younger native old timers had considered taking up their pens as "the next generation," and sharing their memories of pagosa springs past.
newsletter inserts believe it or not, it's once again time to bring us your inserts for the september quarterly newsletter, the chamber communique.
" and we can say, "we're glad you thought of us as a destination."
€ all people are of inherent and infinite worth.
following the dolores game are successive preseason games against powerful new mexico schools.
until some bankruptcies and other financial problems are settled, this situation probably will not get any better.
the menu includes beef barbecue brisket sandwich, mixed green salad with house dressing, baked beans, and fruit cobbler.
enjoy an evening of food, drink and excitement.
" at least that how it has seemed the past few weeks.
when you've paid off the home equity loan, keep saving.
access to the high  school complex by way of the aztec street bridge across the san juan river will  also be improved.
by john m. motter archuleta county's commissioners are determined to place sales tax renewal  on the nov. 6 general election ballot.
although incidents like this are rare in archuleta county, lowe said, the back of the mailbox that was hit has been changed to provide more security.
yet their faith that their dream will be realized is so strong we can't help but be affected and desirous to help in any way we can," the neills said.
the correct  form must be obtained from the clerk's office.
i don't  know how we can express ourselves on title agencies or realtors who did not do  their job.
the  incident was reported aug. 7.
a smile and a welcome from them make it a place where dreams and fantasies can be fulfilled.
many volunteers offered logistical support the entire morning.
the journey to secure their visas, a distance of less than 200 miles that takes 12 hours over the country's bad roads, was the first time they had seen port au prince, haiti's capital.
we have determined areas where we can negotiate with fairfield and we are working on putting the question of fusa fees into that negotiation equation.
(editors note: fairfield's fusa fee does not include a water availability fee.
please note prices and sign up soon if you wish to attend.
special districts must certify ballot information to madrid by sept. 12.
almost one-half an inch, 0.46 inches, fell sunday  night and monday morning.
it is assessed by the pagosa area water and sanitation district.)
sharon porter new technologies dear editor, because of the price of fuel and its volatility in price, we need to start  to develop new technologies that do not use natural gas or oil.
renewal of this 2 percent levy was approved for a second 7-year period during november of 1994.
grab a cup of coffee, curl up and relax.
an  amount that is now up to several thousand dollars.
and this time, a protagonist against the fees is hoping to garner enough support among others being assessed, to bring a class action suit to suspend efforts to collect.
at the junior high school level, susan garman was appointed to fill a mathematics department vacancy, mike blum was named an assistant football coach and melanie cowan appointed an assistant volleyball coach.
joshua lee wagner property: not listed price: not listed seller:
the buzz about bears and king's bees
games will begin sept. 11 and will be played at 4:30 p.m. tuesdays and thursdays.
the staff includes 18 teachers, two assistants, one supervisor, one secretary, three custodians, one driver and five administrative directors.
consequently, all elections in the county this year  must be by mail ballot, madrid said.
i have never used the fire  department or emergency medical facilities either.
numerous special seasons were also approved and will be available in the division of wildlifes 2001 waterfowl brochure.
arts line by helen l. richardson photgraphic show opens at gallery
(editors note: fairfield's fusa fee does  not include a water availability fee.
i don't know how we can express ourselves on title agencies or realtors who did not do their job.
i see this as a bottomless money pit over the next few years.
"the chances for rain are slight over the weekend.
library news by: lenore bright library internet - world wide wait www really stands for "world wide wait.
from 1999 through 2000,  comstock was a principal planner with durango.
canvasback ducks may only be harvested during the first segment of each  season to assure that populations do not fall below continent-wide objectives.
the correct form must be obtained from the clerk's office.
comstock has been employed in the planning field since 1975 when he  accepted a position with the city of fresno, calif.
however, cabaret diosa claims no responsibility for the actions engaged in by their throngs of devotees once the music takes over.
the san juan outdoor club won an award for most volunteers in the adopt a highway program, "spruce up colorado," sponsored by the state of colorado.
under the proposed exchange, lindner ranches would consolidate land  ownership by acquiring public land intermingled with private lands near the  east fork of the piedra river.
"chicken," rosa saica said.
"net scores in the 60s by mid- and high-handicappers prove that everyone has a chance to win in our league."
stevens field is the official local national weather service gauging station.
the last date to register or update a record and be eligible to vote is oct. 5.
all commission meetings are open to the public.
and i came in third with a 2:30.54.
"they  bought clothes for themselves, their siblings."
they have thought this thing out in detail, haven't they?
the bids averaged about 12 percent lower than davis engineering's estimated  construction cost.
general manager walt lukasik said, "one such case has been appealed by fairfield.
the school district and the state must conduct their elections  through the county election office.
"there's no way they would ever dream of coming to the states,"  he said.
complicating the issue was town voter approval in april of 1999 of an issue concerning an "up to 3 percent" sales tax.
schwicker also announced a mixed doubles tournament scheduled for sept. 8 beginning at 8 a.m. awards for the winning team and runner-up will be given.
75 years ago taken from sun files of august 20, 1926 an offender appeared before justice herbert loucks last saturday evening to answer to the charge of leaving a camp fire burning on the forest reserve.
i have not been diligent in reading it, nor do i use the ads since i live in ft.
please call betty at 731-3883 for more information about the ridge of pagosa springs.
a lone reference to recent colorado scholastic aptitude proficiency (csap)  test scores, involved his note that "training will be made available for  staff, not by teaching to the test, but by teaching concept understanding."
also at the elementary school level, the board named carolyn riedberger as a first grade teacher.
for more information, please give john and sara a call at 731-1056.
we have many of the items on display at the library that will be auctioned.
"every mistake in the book: a business how-not-to," by f.j. lennon is a lifesaving guide to help you learn from other peoples' mistakes in business.
sheriff captain bob grandchamp said the case is under investigation.
and this remedy to unclog a drain comes from the colorado extension: make a solution of equal parts of salt, vinegar and baking soda.
she had lived in aztec the past 35 years where she worked alongside her family in the family business, bea's greenhouse.
pagosa lakes by ming steen littleton, englewood contestants win triathlon titles
special  districts must certify ballot information to madrid by sept. 12.
i can't blame the next generation for not wanting to commit to producing a weekly column.
when asked to name their favorites, the children quickly switched from their native french to english.
for more information, contact beaber at 385-1205.nov.
only the 'bad guys' should pay for their services.
i wonder why they believe that elected officials can do as they please on the issue?
the pagosa springs golf club, 731-4755, will host and help put teams together.
the library internet connection has been down sporadically due to circumstances beyond our control.
complicating the issue was town voter approval in april of 1999 of an issue  concerning an "up to 3 percent" sales tax.
and what about the police department.
when burial occurs in other than a military post, state veteran or national cemetery, the headstone or marker must be applied for from va.
sincerely, phil bogert doesn't understand dear editor, it seems our commissioners need to be reminded who actually pays the taxes in this county.
bastien, who returned to haiti to start the school after spending 15 years  in the united states, said equipping the children of haiti with a knowledge of  god and a solid education was the best way to help them gain the tools to  improve conditions in their own country.
his emphasis was placed on the movie, "the battle of apache pass," which was recently filmed at moab, utah.
"the instructor will have a full-blown presentation with animation, music and focus of purpose," he said.
the town is also seeking to avoid any activity by county citizens to change the distribution of sales tax income.
the town recreation department is seeking sponsors for the upcoming soccer season.
in other business, the commissioners: following a public hearing, adopted changes to the limited impact section of county land use regulations approved a beer and liquor license renewal for the bavarian inn approved an agreement with the state, shifting responsibility for beanpole funding in southwest colorado from archuleta county to la plata county.
town authorities are making signs and have served notice that anyone dumping in other than authorized places will be subject to arrest and a heavy fine.
he hopes to report for work aug. 27, but could be delayed until sept. 4 because of prior work obligations.
price: $61,000 seller: margaret martinez buyer: h. j. and kathleen f. jackson property: town of pagosa springs, lot 4, block 48
but, when a group of taxpayers approached the county for  sponsorship and less than 1/10th that amount of money, they are told they just  do not know how "modern government" operates.
he weighed 6 pounds, 8 ounces and was 19 inches long.
home and garden tour the aug. 12 psac home and garden tour was a big success thanks to all the generous people who opened their homes and gardens and to all ticket holders.
by john m. motter three bids were opened friday for rebuilding light plant road from the  pagosa springs town limit south and eastward to light plant road's intersection  with u.s. 84.
on friday afternoons, music is added and students learn songs and study english.
a neighbor, hoping to stop construction on the lot and protect her view, he said, made him an offer of $11,000 (roughly 60 percent of what he paid for the property).
jim harris, a musician who recently moved here from new mexico, will entertain on his fiddle.
mass of christian burial was at 10 a.m. monday at st. francis and interment followed in the gomez family cemetery in dulce.
"you just scoop out a bit and chew it."
in the high school, jim shaffer was named an assistant varsity football coach and troy persson an assistant varsity golf coach.
phase 1 extends from the town limits southeastward to the mill creek bridge.
from 1995 to 1999, comstock was  city planner for spanish fork, utah, and from 1992-1995 a planning consultant  for high country planning of heber, ariz. the new county director earned a bachelor of arts degree in economics and  geography from california state university at fresno in 1973.
everyone was applauded, not just those finishing first.
" bohl reiterated, "this was all the result of a court decision.
in team competition, reid kelly, chantelle kay and molly enright topped the field with a 2:00.44.
local taxing entities, excepting the school district, may conduct elections apart from the county, according to madrid, but they still must be mail ballot elections.
"development director post to bayfield man by john m. motter greg comstock, a bayfield resident, accepted employment tuesday afternoon as director of county development for archuleta county.
they are then assisted in obtaining any services suffered by the community.
comstock has been employed in the planning field since 1975 when he accepted a position with the city of fresno, calif.
they are the first 'teachers' the students meet € all students have the right to receive effective instruction.
such an activity occurred when county citizens tried by initiative to change the current 50-50 county-town split.
that is primarily why they are here.
both of these folks are important members of our senior family and we are happy to honor them.
i wonder why they believe that elected officials  can do as they please on the issue?
the bidding at the livestock auction was more competitive than for some years and all livestock sold well.
it is an issue that won't go away.
at the pagosa early childhood center, the belief is that a high quality, early childhood program provides a safe and nurturing environment that promotes physical, social, emotional and cognitive development of young children while responding to the needs of families.
the walk-in access program will begin with the start of the pheasant season  in november and end on the last day of february.
currently, a 6.91 percent sales tax is levied on most retail sales in  archuleta county.
in other personnel action, errol hohrein was hired as a half-time person in maintenance, former transportation director john rose was transferred to a mechanic's position (after a one-hour board executive session to hear the final report on an investigation of charges against rose) and bruce knudsen was named to the transportation director post, pending his approval of the contract.
he added a  master's degree in urban and regional planning at the same university in 1976.
"we return on friday and on monday they must be back in class," he said.
mr. gomez was born aug. 27, 1926 in parkview, n.m., and attended dulce public school, st. francis elementary in lumberton, and lourdes academy in albuquerque.
when schmideler asked the board if members were aware "some of the  court decisions have been set aside here in archuleta county?"
august rainfall mounting fast but record seems safe by john m. motter august rainfall in pagosa country totaled 3.13 inches by 7 a.m. yesterday,  below the maximum ever recorded for august of 5.36 inches, but well above the  august average of 2.52 inches.
following in third place was mark campbell with 2 hours 3 minutes, 11 seconds.
some fairfield members get  reduced rates there, but those mostly are timeshare and condo users.
bids will be reviewed by davis engineering, contract engineers for the  county.
also attempting to get the contract were strohecker excavation, inc. of bayfield, and weeminuche construction authority of towaoc.
the court would schedule and hold a  hearing to determine the validity of the request and could decide to place the  question on the ballot for approval by the aspen springs electorate.
following acceptance of a bid, the county and successful bidder will negotiate a contract.
while passing through neosho, mo., t.j. injured his foot and the party spent 10 days there.
llc buyer: archuleta county property: see document for legal description
ballot information must be submitted to county clerk and chief elections  officer june madrid by sept. 12, madrid said, in order to be placed on the nov.  6 ballot.
they did not hesitate to give $200,000 to the airport - a constant drain on county coffers, serving less than 1 percent of the county population.
" and, he continues, "it really restores your faith in mankind, the way that people treated me, people i didn't even know.
the ones above those, called "supers," are where the honey is stored.
the sweet honey filled my mouth and flowed down my throat.
tv movies were in the chromo area at the harold and ernie schutz ranches last week filming marlboro country cigarette commercials.
why is it a commissioner who could find funds for unbudgeted road work, couldn't find funds to do something constructive for a change?
there will be a coaches' meeting at 6 p.m. aug. 21 in town hall and first practices will be aug. 27.
all performances are at 7 p.m. tickets for dinner and performance will be sold in advance only, at least 24 hours prior to show time.
tickets for the four corners folk festival are on sale at moonlight books and howlin' wolf music at advance prices through aug. 29.
" at time of purchase, he said, "no one, not fairfield representatives, the title company or anyone else ever mentioned the recreation fee.
strohecker bid $505,905 on phase 1 and  $622,476 on phase 2.
" director david bohl said, "people paying the fee have a very  legitimate complaint and have a right to take legal action.
it is a major fundraiser for archuleta county united way.
highs averaged 77 degrees, lows 53 degrees.
they would never take a poorly conceived gamble - one that, if it backfires, could destroy relations with the town and face residents of the county with the specter of reduced sales tax revenues.
stretton and his assistant coaches pushed 37 padless, grunting, first-team candidates through a series of wind sprints, jumping jacks, and special team exercises on monday, the first day of two-a-days.
the goal this year for archuleta county untied way is $60,000.
conviction can result in a fine of up to $250,000 and up to five years imprisonment.
the program, modeled  after successful programs in other states, will open private land previously  closed to many hunters.
the bears come around, leave a little sign, and maybe get their noses zapped, but they don't get inside the fence.
the town is also seeking to avoid any activity by county  citizens to change the distribution of sales tax income.
if you are offended by the mambo or the rumba or the cha cha cha the band is sorry and truly saddened.
the community health conference, held in pagosa springs monday under the auspices of the local parent-teacher association and the women's civic club, was successful in every way.
plpoa is not and should not be a party to the fee dispute except in negotiation.
" schmideler told the board he decided to sell the property and, after an  engineering feasibility study, was told it would cost $25,000 to $30,000 to  bring it up to grade.
"skies will be partly cloudy with a 20 percent chance for afternoon and evening showers and thunderstorms through thursday evening," chancy said.
the norming will involve eliminating the extremes  in educational philosophies to find a common track and the ultimate goal will  be performing."
the town's position, supported by the town's attorney according to town  manager jay harrington, is that the existing tax will expire, to be  automatically replaced jan. 1, 2003, by the town tax.
veteran intermediate school principal butch madrid, who retired at the end  of the last school year, was named tuesday night as the new dean of students at  pagosa springs elementary school.
the county position is, if it can show voter approval is a continuation of  the existing tax, then it becomes obvious the existing tax will not expire jan.  1,2003, and the town's tax will not automatically kick in.
at the institution univers, courses are offered in bible studies, writing, reading, languages (french and english), math, social studies, music and arts, sports, geography of haiti and history of haiti.
'special talents' developing on soccer field by richard walter
bee space was discovered by a fellow named langstroth, a 19th century congregational minister.
in the first week, he said, "the kids are normally sucking wind.
it is well done and fairly up-to-date.
over the weekend, monsoon conditions will be  replaced by a high pressure area west of colorado creating northerly wind flows  with drier air content.
trip winners: landscapes leave youngsters in awe by tess noel baker
colorado law limits sales tax levies to a total of 7 percent by  all entities, with a few minor exceptions.
he advised the board its goals should be: to provide a program of safety and health instruction for living in a change world to offer understanding and appreciation of the creative arts and science in the modern world to provide, through experiences in democratic living, understanding and appreciation of our form of government, emphasizing obligations of citizenship and social responsibility to develop understanding of and respect for all people, emphasizing their rights as world citizens and their responsibilities as such to encourage participation in community living by sharing in leadership and service experiences.
"the storming phase will come when there are times that we do not agree.
i,  too, want to sell, but cannot do so with the unpaid fees - for which i've  received no benefit - hanging over me.
here you see the beauty with the water coming out of the mountains and  the trees.
i would  encourage others to express their opinions on these issues.
i also think that all in all he has done a pretty good job as a commissioner.
the county promises to make a final decision on ballot wording either next  week or the following week, after receiving advice from the cdr.
"i see some special talents being exhibited on the practice field and evidence of melding together as a team already."
only five starters return from last year's champions.
but rick, who was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer last february and started his trek west in may, is philosophical.
in fact,  the commissioners hope to continue the 2 cent sales tax just as it was approved  by voters during november of 1994.
come by and see what you'd like to bid on.
our preseason schedule appears to be brutal again.
the work of many four corners artists appears in the four corners gallery of pagosa.
you enjoy hearing about other people's operations you get into heated arguments about pension plans you have a party and neighbors don't even realize it you no longer think of speed limits as a challenge
i guess that's just the way things are done here in the "ol'  west."
at the tuesday morning regular meeting of county commissioners, the board entered executive session to discuss hiring comstock.
price: not listed seller: dermod and diana kelleher buyer: kelleher revocable trust property: navajo river ranch, unit 1, tract 4 price: not listed seller: michael p. allen buyer: soterios and shelley d. gastouniotis property: north village lake, lot 115 price: $39,500 seller: duane and linda parrie buyer: joshua lee wagner property: 29-33-5e and 32-33-5w price: $175,000 seller: duane and linda parrie buyer:
the woman's civic club was entertained by mr. and mrs. clee woods at their double quill ranch on the san juan river on aug. 9.
"waterfowl bag limits left intact for new season the colorado wildlife commission approved waterfowl regulations for the 2001-2002 season aug. 9 including bag and possession limits similar to those of last year.
for example, noggle said, "the bus drivers are the mickey mouse of our schools.
there is just no better way to reach more people with fewer dollars.
know you are loved and please keep us in your prayers.
the involved counties are archuleta, la plata, san juan, montezuma, and dolores.
patricia also was introduced to photography in her teens.
working in a fire station, cleaning ambulances, assisting in traffic control . . .
comstock will be in charge of the county planning department responsible for developing and implementing regulations connected with county growth and development.
the school began in 1994 as a kindergarten "l'univers des petits, kindergarten" with 84 children and three teachers.
price: not listed seller: donald g. and fern d. shahan living trust buyer: don and fern shahan first family l.p. property: see document for legal description
visitation was at 4 p.m. and a rosary at 7 p.m. sunday, aug. 12, 2001 at saint francis church in lumberton.
lee sterling thanks again dear editor, after more years than i want to remember, i am not renewing my subscription to your fine paper.
this is an art gallery featuring traditional and southwest art, pottery, jewelry, sculptures, and hand-painted silk scarves.
the final 2 percent currently at issue and an addition to  the 2 percent already in effect in perpetuity was first approved by voters for  a 7-year term during november of 1988.
ken berg believable reasons dear editor, let me preface this letter by saying that i know alden ecker, i like him
the centauri falcons come to pagosa oct. 12, pagosa plays at bayfield oct. 19, and closes the regular season by hosting the monte vista pirates oct. 26.four
plpoa board president richard manley told schmideler the same type of  suggestion was broached during the annual meeting last month and that then, as  now, the board has no jurisdiction in such actions.
also, i have discovered another area in the west that i have  adopted - taos.
haitian students go 'old west' in pagosa visit
mr. crabtree again stuck his foot in his mouth by stating that a commissioners' meeting was not an open forum or the place to discuss a park.
" "they are eager to try new things," char neill, one of the children's hosts, said.
at long last, archuleta school district 50 joint has a nearly full complement of teachers for the beginning of the school year sept. 4, and there is one surprise in the mix.
he served as rio arriba county treasurer for four years, was active in the rio arriba county sheriff's posse for many years and was an active democrat his entire life.
currently the institution univers serves 640 children (300 girls, 340 boys) ranging in age from 2 1/2 to 11 years.
so tickets for that performance are $5 for adults and $3 for children under 12.
alan's response to whether or not he was missing home was an immediate,  "no."
the final 2 percent currently at issue and an addition to the 2 percent already in effect in perpetuity was first approved by voters for a 7-year term during november of 1988.
general  manager walt lukasik said, "one such case has been appealed by  fairfield.
but finally, i decided, the property is vacant, i don't occupy it and there is no structure on it.
please commissioners, don't think that your constituents are brainless.
they also carry a large selection of woods, knotty woods, stains and paint colors.
our senior of the week for last week was kent shaffer, and for this week is medina hamilton.
the first freeze of the season was reported the morning of august 8.
thanks, two concerns dear editor, two of the concerns before our county commissioners affect us all.
that's how hugues bastien, director of institution univers, a private christian school in rural haiti, describes the experience four of his students will have over the next few weeks as they explore three american destinations.
kurt-mason had 20 players on the field for the first day of practice monday morning, 26 tuesday afternoon, and expected several more to straggle in as family vacations and summer jobs end.
they currently have several preschool program options, the first of which is the colorado preschool program and head start program which both include part-day (morning) and part-year plans.
the coming jan. 1, 2003, expiration of 2 of the 4-cents-per-dollar local sales tax has elevated the sales tax issue to the top of the commissioners' agenda.
medical conditions are also poor with one doctor and two nurses attempting to serve everyone.
an additional 1  percent to be levied in perpetuity and split with the town was approved by  voters sept. 6, 1983.
we welcome all guests and returning members and hope they will join us more often.
the county commissioners approved a resolution may 1 specifying that this year's election be by mail ballot.
don't know the steps?
if you have never seen the poma ranch, i encourage you to do so - it will simply take your breath away.
county sales tax vote is assured
when the project is complete, conversion of the road from gravel to asphalt  pavement will facilitate entry into town from the southeast.
i was told there  would be an attorney here tonight with answers for us
the local thermometer has not reached 90 degrees this season.
"it's too early to predict how we'll turn out this year," stretton said.
from another section of the audience, schmideler's quest was taken up by  edie cook who told the board she is a california resident but owns two lots on  beaver circle in lake forest estates and leases out a home on the property.
"the plane is almost like a house," rose saica, age 8, said,  wide-eyed even describing the experience.
the ridge offers the largest year-round convention and banquet facility in the four corners area with complete meeting amenities.
to help resolve the issue, kathy wendt, the administrative assistant, was instructed to draft language as it may appear on the nov. 6 ballot and forward that draft to the colorado department of revenue.
" schmideler thanked the board for its time and "the great job you've  been doing.
there is nothing left to learn the hard way things you buy now won't wear out you can eat dinner at 4 p.m.
having been involved in some of the local  county and city government issues in other locations in the past, it is with  interest that i notice each location has its own self-appointed monitor of how  their taxes are being spent and who is benefiting the most.
no one expects you to run into a burning building people call at 9 p.m. and ask, "did i wake you?" people no longer view you as a hypochondriac
the adult flag football season will start in mid-september.
it's a great day for an anniversary dear folks, whaddya think?
price: not listed seller: donald g. and fern d. shahan living trust buyer: d. and f. shahan family limited partnership property: 19-32-2e price: not listed seller: donald g. and fern delight shahan living trust buyer: d. and f. shahan 1st
"i'll go to every school," he said, "so all members of the staff have an opportunity to meet with me and discuss programs and/or problems," and an accountability committee will meet monthly to review program progress.
here are several tips on using windfalls to make financial progress.
completion is expected some time next spring.
members of the united methodist church in pagosa springs have pledged to  build a pair of new classrooms for the school at a cost of around $7,000.
non-resident owners protest fusa fees to plpoa board by richard walter
the court would schedule and hold a hearing to determine the validity of the request and could decide to place the question on the ballot for approval by the aspen springs electorate.
but he's not going overboard with predictions.
the blurb on the cover says that this is a novel even wolcott could love.
the  staff includes 18 teachers, two assistants, one supervisor, one secretary,  three custodians, one driver and five administrative directors.
please bring those to us by aug. 29 for inclusion in the newsletter.
upgrade your work skills by taking classes pay off your credit cards or car loan.
work on  phase 1 begins this fall.
please contact her if you are willing to help.
let's make  it a private school and just those that have children would be required to  support it.
leadership is the key, the town of pagosa springs has it, the county of archuleta does not.
i don't think i'll ever leave again.
the town tax is scheduled to become effective when the existing 2 percent tax shared by the town and county expires jan. 1, 2003.
in other personnel action, errol hohrein was hired as a half-time person in  maintenance, former transportation director john rose was transferred to a  mechanic's position (after a one-hour board executive session to hear the final  report on an investigation of charges against rose) and bruce knudsen was named  to the transportation director post, pending his approval of the contract.
other private schools in the region, are too expensive for local families,  follow no standard of education and are crowded, having as many as 105 children  per classroom per instructor.
iml action begins oct. 5 on the ignacio bobcat field.
it is free and shipped at government expense; however, the va does not pay the cost of placement.
there had been four hives in a row, and the bear had torn one of them apart.
t.j., his tennessee walking horse, was bitten by a snake near cherokee, okla., and it was four days before they knew if t.j. would live.
assuming my plpoa dues were inclusive of such fees.
then students  are released to their classrooms for the regular academic program which lasts  until 1:30 p.m. from 3-5 p.m., an after-school program is offered.
the season will  now run from sept. 8 through sept. 14.
letters will be sent to all the people with boxes in the cluster from the inspection offices in denver, he said.
we  wand them to be encouraged to be lifelong learners.
" development director post to bayfield man
" when fairfield went into bankruptcy, he said, "we were told plpoa will take over operation of recreation facilities and i withheld payment thereafter, assuming my plpoa dues were inclusive of such fees.
postal service agents probing cluster box vandalism by tess noel baker a local cluster mailbox was the victim of vandals last week.
it is evident the agenda of at least two commissioners is either self-serving or serves the interest of the wealthy at the expense of the taxpayers.
after that they many be purchased at the gate at higher prices.
to think that you can take out six inches of clay, and fill it with gravel and thereby create an adequate base is ludicrous.
if a fee is required, something should be  provided for that fee.
here you see the beauty with the water coming out of the mountains and the trees.
these students, age 8-10, who started their vacation in pagosa springs this  last week, earned a trip to the united states by achieving top scores on their  annual academic tests.
if proponents of the park were scheduled to be on the agenda then any discussion regarding the park was in order until the matter was voted on or tabled by the board.
well right off i think someone is going to question the misspelling of "what do you think?
no early voting is possible under the mail-out process.
she is survived by a nephew, william cox of montrose; grand nephews david and steven bright; grand niece kristina embree and their families.
our old pal, eddie dale, joins us with a brand new business, 3-d inspection services (a division of dale construction, inc.).
and elena lopez gomez of lumberton; sisters and brothers miguelito, abel, gene and juan lino gomez jr. of lumberton; helen gomez romero of parkview; isabelle gomez eaton of daly city, calif.; and dolores gomez luna of tierra amarilla.
the division is working with community groups and private landowners in  northeastern colorado who will participate in the program.
this past week 1.27 inches of precipitation were measured at stevens field  from aug. 8 through aug. 14.
" "it is a general feeling of this board," he said, "that  something needs to be done.
the pirate schedule shows home and home against bayfield, and no games against any of the other teams in their league.
musetta needs volunteers to label photos and place them in albums, and to fill membership packets.
put what you were paying each month into a savings plan or mutual fund instead if you need better transportation, use a windfall to make the largest possible down payment on a vehicle consolidate all your loans into a single home equity loan.
the superintendent said a district support team representing business,  transportation, maintenance and food service divisions will meet every thursday  and make recommendations to the administration.
ballots will be mailed to voters no earlier than oct. 12 and no later than oct. 22.
other projected 2001 needs include playground equipment, a basketball/volleyball court, finishing supplies for the sixth grade classroom and a large school bus.
the occasional loud celebration should be allowed, or a small construction project by a handyman, or the occasional weed whacker use (my least favorite irritant), but not what i would call chronic noise.
next time i am walking from the airport  to my residence i can laugh at all those silly folk that are paying toll to  drive their cars around.
25 years ago taken from sun files of august 12, 1976
august rainfall mounting fast but record seems safe by john m. motter august rainfall in pagosa country totaled 3.13 inches by 7 a.m. yesterday, below the maximum ever recorded for august of 5.36 inches, but well above the august average of 2.52 inches.
in the pacific flyway, duck seasons will run from sept. 29 through oct. 14 and oct. 24 through jan. 20, 2002.
you can apply the windfall to your principal, which could save months of mortgage payments in the future; you can refinance the loan at a lower interest rate and add your windfall to the equity, which can lower your payments and save thousands of dollars; or you can refinance as a 15-year mortgage.
following acceptance of a bid, the county and  successful bidder will negotiate a contract.
according to the boy's mother, who wrote rick a letter, rick turned her son around.
this past week 1.27 inches of precipitation were measured at stevens field from aug. 8 through aug. 14.
we'd much prefer to settle amicably on a negotiated answer. "that doesn't mean that you, as a property owner, can't enlist others  in the same situation to join in your quest," he continued.
homes are made of concrete blocks, plywood, or sticks and mud.
pagosa dental provides patients with a full range of services to meet all dental needs, including cosmetic and restorative dentistry.
just think if we could make each street a toll-road, privately ran and operated.
both rose saica and rose judith, 8, said the trees  and flowers were their favorite parts of the landscape here.
renewals this week include ron and julia jones with the pagosa riverside campground; victoria (the vicksters) appenzeller with land properties, inc.; jerry and rose zepnick with lantern dancer gallery and gifts; gary lucas with rio grande savings and loan association; judy nicholson with civil design team, inc.; steve wirth with village interiors carpet one; bernard r. martinez with pine valley rental and sales, inc.; radine downey (new owner) with the best western oakridge; shirley luhnow with just gourd-jus; and eddie dale with dale construction, inc. our associate member renewals this week include rich and (diplomat) carol gunson; former chamber director, mamie lynch; longtime diplomats richard and lorraine raymond; and don and (diplomat) patsy braune.