the loser: easyjet  loses out because we couldn't find a way to get between pisa andvenice on our  selected travel date; we tried layovers in several different cities, but the  flight times were simply incompatible.
the independent traveler, inc.
by plane or by train? europe --
(check your bag at the airport and the fee doubles.)
eurail was the only option of the three that served all three of the cities we wanted to visit (ryanair and easyjet fly into pisa, not florence).
because the cities are relatively far apart, this itinerary favored easyjet over eurail.
a few other caveats: beauvais is probably the least convenient airport for paris-bound travelers, requiring a shuttle bus ride of over an hour to get into the center of the city.
because the search function on ryanair.com  won't make connections for you, we were forced to try out a variety of  connecting cities one by one.
please note: to ensure delivery of your free e-letters, please add news@independenttraveler.com to your address book.
the bottom line we learned quite a few things in the oft-laborious  process of testing all these itineraries -- first, that finding a good deal  takes time!
however, the more distance your itinerary covers, the more  appealing a plane is likely to look (unless you're willing to consider  overnight trains).
the lowest available price was  $137 for this itinerary, with a travel time of 12 hours.
our only choice would have been to stay overnight in the connecting city -- or to have skipped florence altogether and just flown on the convenient, nonstop flight from rome to venice.
the winner: easyjet came out on top with an affordable total cost ($304.90 if booked with a visa debit card or $313.79 with a non-visa electron credit card) and direct flights for all three legs.
with fares this cheap, does it make sense even to consider traveling by train anymore?
cut the travel time down to seven hours (by taking high-speed express trains) and the price goes up to $313.
because of the relative proximity of the three cities involved, this turned out  to be a much more train-friendly itinerary than our first test case.
we added  up a total of about 47 hours of travel time.
- home - travel tips - travel deals - destinations - trip reviews - forums - blog - x thank you for signing up!
while that's significant, keep in  mind that overnight trains are an option; these allow you to save time (and  money on a hotel room) by traveling while you sleep.
you may also  like europe travel deals and tips write about your trip to europe top 25 ways to save on europe travel planning a trip to europe: your 10-step guide get the free independent traveler newsletter!
if easyjet doesn't fly to your city of choice, there's a chance ryanair might.
the loser: easyjet loses out because we couldn't find a way to get between pisa andvenice on our selected travel date; we tried layovers in several different cities, but the flight times were simply incompatible.
these prices include one  checked bag on each flight, prebooked on the easyjet web site.
by plane or by train?
you might also want to consider combining your  options.
though easyjet.com, ryanair.com and raileurope.com are relatively easy sites to use, it often takes a bit of manipulation to get the itinerary you want, especially when connections are involved.
however, ryanair gets our vote for runner-up because  we did eventually manage to piece our itinerary together with 17 hours of  flights and layovers.
the winner: eurail won this round by a landslide, offering the shortest trip and most convenient itinerary.
while that's significant, keep in mind that overnight trains are an option; these allow you to save time (and money on a hotel room) by traveling while you sleep.
we assumed here that our test traveler flew from the united states into rome, usually the cheapest italian gateway city for americans.
the runner-up: ryanair offered somewhat similar pricing to easyjet -- $309.59 with a single checked bag up to 15 kilograms (33 pounds) or $376.35 with a single checked bag up to 20 kilograms (44 pounds) -- but, surprisingly, offered no direct flights from london to paris.
discount airfare deals rome - florence - venice - rome
and while ryanair.com was easy to use, there was no option to  search all london airports; instead, we had to test each of the three  individually.
we found the best deal on flights from london stansted to glasgow prestwick and then on to paris beauvais, but the extra flight and layover boosted our total travel time significantly.
type="text/javascript"&gt;&lt;/script&gt; deals
easyjet  offers direct flights for each leg of our itinerary, so booking was a breeze,  and the travel time was a little less than six total hours in the air.
the runner-up: ryanair offered somewhat similar pricing to easyjet -- $309.59 with a  single checked bag up to 15 kilograms (33 pounds) or $376.35 with a single  checked bag up to 20 kilograms (44 pounds) -- but, surprisingly, offered no  direct flights from london to paris.
(that doesn't even take into account how early you need  to arrive at the airport before your flights to get through security!)
keep in mind that flights may look shorter on paper, but you'll also spend more time going through security and transferring into the city you're visiting than you would for a journey on the rails.
easyjet's site was easier than ryanair's to use, allowing us to search "all london airports" when booking.
ryanair flies direct between paris beauvais andbarcelona's main international airport -- but beauvais is more than an hour by bus from downtown paris.
we found the best deal on flights from london  stansted to glasgow prestwick and then on to paris beauvais, but the extra  flight and layover boosted our total travel time significantly.
easyjet charges similar fees for checked baggage and for booking with certain types of credit or debit cards.
"  src="http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ta.cc.ind.tr.com.s/;pos=topleft;sz=728x90;kw=;abr=!ie;tile=1;ord=59906?"
these prices include one checked bag on each flight, prebooked on the easyjet web site.
the lowest available price was $137 for this itinerary, with a travel time of 12 hours.
in most cases you'll arrive at a train station near the center of each city, with quick, easy connections by subway to hotels and sightseeing.
discount airlines tend to fly into  secondary airports that are an hour or more outside of the city you're trying  to visit.
the fare above includes a  single checked bag of no more than 20 kilograms.
we tested fares on easyjet, ryanair and rail europe to see who had the  lowest price, the most convenient connections and the quickest journey.
top 25 ways to save on europe travel london -  paris - rome - london this popular itinerary was our first test subject  sincelondon is the cheapest gateway to europe for most americans.
sign up for our newsletter travel tips, trip planning & discount travel home > travel tips > europe > europe -- by plane or by train?
we assumed here that our test traveler flew from the united  states into rome, usually the cheapest italian gateway city for americans.
you may also like europe travel deals and tips write about your trip to europe top 25 ways to save on europe travel planning a trip to europe: your 10-step guide get the free independent traveler newsletter!
ryanair flies direct between paris beauvais andbarcelona's main international  airport -- but beauvais is more than an hour by bus from downtown paris.
--written by  sarah schlichter; updated by elissa leibowitz poma share  save to favorites    rss &lt;script  language="javascript"  src="http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ta.cc.ind.tr.com.s/home;pos=x55;sz=300x250;abr=!ie;tile=3;ord=68128?"
particularly for itineraries where the cities aren't far apart, the train may still be your most economical and even your quickest choice.
the loser: the train was the clear third  choice for this itinerary since the cities involved are so far apart.
however, the more distance your itinerary covers, the more appealing a plane is likely to look (unless you're willing to consider overnight trains).
the fare above includes a single checked bag of no more than 20 kilograms.
the winner: easyjet came out on top with an affordable total cost  ($304.90 if booked with a visa debit card or $313.79 with a non-visa electron  credit card) and direct flights for all three legs.
learn about  eurail passes the loser: ryanair is the loser by  default, as the airline doesn't fly to lisbon.
the discount  airlines, meanwhile, fly from stansted, luton or gatwick,not heathrow --  so be sure to allow plenty of time to transfer between airports if your  itinerary so requires.
(that doesn't even take into account how early you need to arrive at the airport before your flights to get through security!)
the answer: it depends.
easyjet's site was easier than ryanair's  to use, allowing us to search "all london airports" when booking.
it's  important to note that london has four different airports, and that most  americans will fly into heathrow or, less commonly, gatwick.
a few other  caveats: beauvais is probably the least convenient airport for paris-bound  travelers, requiring a shuttle bus ride of over an hour to get into the center  of the city.
the  initial fare quote was $298.82 for six flights -- 65 bucks more than the fast  trains -- and that's not including the checked bag fees.
even if you do net an incredibly affordable flight, government taxes and fees bump the price up to at least $25 or $30.
our second lesson  was that although discount airlines may be on the rise, you shouldn't dismiss  the train option altogether.
our only choice would have been to stay  overnight in the connecting city -- or to have skipped florence altogether and  just flown on the convenient, nonstop flight from rome to venice.
tips for finding cheap airfare finally, ultra-cheap flight offers aside, beware of the many hidden costs that  could significantly boost your price tag -- everything from baggage fees and  credit card surcharges to the price of transferring from one london airport to  another.
type="text/javascript"&gt;&lt;/script&gt; &lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ta.cc.ind.tr.com.s/home;pos=x55b;sz=300x250;abr=!ie;tile=3;ord=68128?"
the total  estimated time of all three legs was a vacation-eating 28 hours -- and the  price couldn't compensate for the transit time, adding up to $412 per person.
discount airlines tend to fly into secondary airports that are an hour or more outside of the city you're trying to visit.
on  ryanair, there are so many that the airline has put together a handytable so  you can see at a glance what you'll be charged for checked bags (with higher  rates during the summertime and december holiday "peak" periods),  online check-in, priority boarding, even purchasing a flight (you'll pay an  "administration fee" of 6 gbp unless you make your booking with a  mastercard prepaid debit card).
discount airlines  like ryanair and easyjet have made jetting around the continent quicker and  cheaper; in fact, ryanair often offers sales with fares as low as 8 gbp (about  $13.36 usd).
the discount airlines, meanwhile, fly from stansted, luton or gatwick,not heathrow -- so be sure to allow plenty of time to transfer between airports if your itinerary so requires.
discount train deals paris - barcelona - lisbon - paris this itinerary is a bit less common than our first two, and it proved impossible to book on ryanair, which doesn't offer flights to lisbon.
see  below to see how each travel provider stacked up on three common european  itineraries.
(check your bag  at the airport and the fee doubles.)
checking a single bag  for all of those flights will set you back an additional $222.36 to $266.52  (depending on weight and whether you travel during peak or off-peak seasons),  for a total price up to $565.34.
the price with taxes: $317.94 (if purchased with a visa electron card -- which is not available to americans), $332.64 if purchased with a visa debit card or $341.53 (if booked with another type of credit card).
the loser: the train was the clear third choice for this itinerary since the cities involved are so far apart.
trains, on the other hand, typically arrive in or near the center of  town, and usually link up easily with the city's mass transportation system.
particularly for itineraries where the cities  aren't far apart, the train may still be your most economical and even your  quickest choice.
this file may be downloaded for personal use only.
though easyjet.com, ryanair.com and raileurope.com are relatively  easy sites to use, it often takes a bit of manipulation to get the itinerary  you want, especially when connections are involved.
we used paris, another common gateway for u.s. travelers, as a starting point.
the bottom line we learned quite a few things in the oft-laborious process of testing all these itineraries -- first, that finding a good deal takes time!
by proceeding, you agree to ourprivacy policy and terms of use.
europe's extensive network of railroads was once the only affordable option for folks traveling around the continent, but lately the rails have lost their supremacy.
our second lesson was that although discount airlines may be on the rise, you shouldn't dismiss the train option altogether.
trains, on the other hand, typically arrive in or near the center of town, and usually link up easily with the city's mass transportation system.
discount airlines like ryanair and easyjet have made jetting around the continent quicker and cheaper; in fact, ryanair often offers sales with fares as low as 8 gbp (about $13.36 usd).
the runner-up: neither airline really shone in this comparison, with no direct flights between any of the cities on our itinerary.
because the search function on ryanair.com won't make connections for you, we were forced to try out a variety of connecting cities one by one.
checking a single bag for all of those flights will set you back an additional $222.36 to $266.52 (depending on weight and whether you travel during peak or off-peak seasons), for a total price up to $565.34.
it does fly elsewhere in  portugal, to porto and faro, both about three hours away from lisbon by train.
to search more than one  discount airline at a time, try skyscanner.net, which shows you estimated  prices for routes within europe on various airlines including ryanair, easyjet,  bmi, aer lingus and more.
--written by sarah schlichter; updated by elissa leibowitz poma share save to favorites rss   - deals - air deals - car rental deals - cruise deals - hotel deals - vacation deals - train deals - travel tips - air travel tips - packing tips - hotels and b&b's - car travel tips - international travel - money and insurance - safety and health - staying connected - travel troubleshooting - train travel tips - specialty travel - traveler's ed - trip reports - write a trip report
it does fly elsewhere in portugal, to porto and faro, both about three hours away from lisbon by train.
the winner: eurail won this round by a landslide, offering the  shortest trip and most convenient itinerary.
this itinerary is a common one for first-time visitors interested in seeing italy's highlights.
eurail was the only option of the three that served all three of the  cities we wanted to visit (ryanair and easyjet fly into pisa, not florence).
one more factor to take into account?
&lt;script language="javascript
easyjet may offer the cheapest fare for the first leg of your trip,  but the next leg may be better served by train.
because of the relative proximity of the three cities involved, this turned out to be a much more train-friendly itinerary than our first test case.
because the cities are  relatively far apart, this itinerary favored easyjet over eurail.
the winner: easyjet edged out  ryanair for first place based on convenience and total travel time.
easyjet charges similar fees for  checked baggage and for booking with certain types of credit or debit cards.
on ryanair, there are so many that the airline has put together a handytable so you can see at a glance what you'll be charged for checked bags (with higher rates during the summertime and december holiday "peak" periods), online check-in, priority boarding, even purchasing a flight (you'll pay an "administration fee" of 6 gbp unless you make your booking with a mastercard prepaid debit card).
email: name: zip: we're committed to protecting your privacy and will not rent or sell your e-mail address.
if easyjet doesn't fly to your  city of choice, there's a chance ryanair might.
however, ryanair gets our vote for runner-up because we did eventually manage to piece our itinerary together with 17 hours of flights and layovers.
then come the airlines' own fees.
it's important to note that london has four different airports, and that most americans will fly into heathrow or, less commonly, gatwick.
this  itinerary is a bit less common than our first two, and it proved impossible to  book on ryanair, which doesn't offer flights to lisbon.
keep in mind that flights may look shorter on paper, but you'll also  spend more time going through security and transferring into the city you're  visiting than you would for a journey on the rails.
the total estimated time of all three legs was a vacation-eating 28 hours -- and the price couldn't compensate for the transit time, adding up to $412 per person.
the runner-up: neither airline  really shone in this comparison, with no direct flights between any of the  cities on our itinerary.
cut the travel time  down to seven hours (by taking high-speed express trains) and the price goes up  to $313.
type="text/javascript"&gt;&lt;/script&gt; sign up  for our newsletter travel tips, trip planning & discount travel home > travel  tips > europe > europe --
the  price with taxes: $317.94 (if purchased with a visa electron card -- which is  not available to americans), $332.64 if purchased with a visa debit card or  $341.53 (if booked with another type of credit card).
with fares this cheap, does it make sense even to  consider traveling by train anymore?
to search more than one discount airline at a time, try skyscanner.net, which shows you estimated prices for routes within europe on various airlines including ryanair, easyjet, bmi, aer lingus and more.
top 25 ways to save on europe travel london - paris - rome - london this popular itinerary was our first test subject sincelondon is the cheapest gateway to europe for most americans.
note: for our three flights, we had to fly in and out of six different airports -- charles de gaulle and orly (paris), luton and gatwick (london), and fiumicino and ciampino (rome).
easyjet offers direct flights for each leg of our itinerary, so booking was a breeze, and the travel time was a little less than six total hours in the air.
one final perk of taking the train?
the runner-up: rail travel comes in at a distant second place, at $481 for a eurail select pass, which allows five days of train travel in three countries and is several hundred dollars cheaper than booking point-to-point tickets.
the winner: easyjet edged out ryanair for first place based on convenience and total travel time.
this itinerary is a common one for first-time visitors interested in seeing  italy's highlights.
for one thing, the discount airlines aren't actually quite as cheap as they appear.
see below to see how each travel provider stacked up on three common european itineraries.
we used paris, another  common gateway for u.s. travelers, as a starting point.
europe's extensive network of  railroads was once the only affordable option for folks traveling around the  continent, but lately the rails have lost their supremacy.
note: for our three flights, we had to fly in and out of six  different airports -- charles de gaulle and orly (paris), luton and gatwick  (london), and fiumicino and ciampino (rome).
we tested fares on easyjet, ryanair and rail europe to see who had the lowest price, the most convenient connections and the quickest journey.
the initial fare quote was $298.82 for six flights -- 65 bucks more than the fast trains -- and that's not including the checked bag fees.
learn about eurail passes the loser: ryanair is the loser by default, as the airline doesn't fly to lisbon.
- africa - asia - australia - canada - caribbean - europe - south america - mexico - usa - community - community guidelines - boards - blog - twitter - facebook - about us - about us - advertising - contact us - newsletter © 2012
the runner-up: rail travel comes in at a distant second place, at $481 for a eurail  select pass, which allows five days of train travel in three countries and is  several hundred dollars cheaper than booking point-to-point tickets.
other copying or reproduction is expressly prohibited.
you might also want to consider combining your options.
easyjet may offer the cheapest fare for the first leg of your trip, but the next leg may be better served by train.
for one thing, the  discount airlines aren't actually quite as cheap as they appear.
tips for finding cheap airfare finally, ultra-cheap flight offers aside, beware of the many hidden costs that could significantly boost your price tag -- everything from baggage fees and credit card surcharges to the price of transferring from one london airport to another.
even if you do  net an incredibly affordable flight, government taxes and fees bump the price  up to at least $25 or $30.
and while ryanair.com was easy to use, there was no option to search all london airports; instead, we had to test each of the three individually.
in most cases you'll arrive at a train  station near the center of each city, with quick, easy connections by subway to  hotels and sightseeing.
we added up a total of about 47 hours of travel time.
discount train deals paris - barcelona - lisbon - paris