however, when we were there  the satellite system was not operating reliably due to a lightning strike the  week before.
the railroad tracks running along several holes are heavily trafficked by  freight trains.
as senior writer and equipment editor for worldgolf.com, he has reviewed courses, resorts, and golf academies from california to ireland.
personally, i enjoyed communing with the spirit of the late john candy, incarnated as his character from the movie "planes, trains, and automobiles."
june 14, 2000 kiel christianson, senior writer kiel christianson has lived, worked, traveled and golfed extensively on three continents.
contrasting with most of the  fairways, this one is narrow at the landing area, but at least there's a pretty  view as you're dropping a ball to hit your second shot (okay, third--sheesh!).
and, just like steve martin's character in the film, i eventually did.
oh, and on nice days the odd jetski may buzz past just as you are stroking that eagle putt.
10 & 11), to carries over wetlands (e.g., nos. 7, 14, 17,  and 18).
lush bent grass runs from tee to green, and the bunkering is understated (read: even a lousy golf writer can stay out of most of them).
this constant source of irritation was compounded by the uncanny timing  of the airplanes.
in fact, this wooded, watery track can be reached via just about any mode of transportation you can imagine, be it by plane, train, or automobile.
contrasting with most of the fairways, this one is narrow at the landing area, but at least there's a pretty view as you're dropping a ball to hit your second shot (okay, third--sheesh!).
for those players who demand quiet seclusion in their courses, however,  the easy accessibility of thornapple pointe comes with a price.
the golf club at thornapple pointe: planes, trains and automobiles by kiel christianson, senior writer grand rapids, mi - step onto the turf at the golf club at thornapple  pointe in grand rapids, and you are bound to run into all breeds of  high-powered professionals--doctors, lawyers, company execs--who have ducked  out of the office to play hooky (i.e., golf).
the collection of par 3s isn't particularly memorable, but there is a fine variety of looks off the tee, from blind ones (e.g., nos. 1 & 2) to open ones (e.g., nos.
the greens are firm yet receptive, however several were quite seriously scarred with poorly repaired ball marks.
10 & 11), to carries over wetlands (e.g., nos. 7, 14, 17, and 18).
specifically,  the course's location next to the gerald r. ford international airport results  in dozens of up close and personal encounters throughout a round with the  underbellies of aircraft.
(or maybe you're just an aeronautics buff who likes to watch planes at they approach and take off.)
of the several quality courses in the grand rapids area, thornapple pointe  is perhaps the most centrally located and easily accessible.
the collection of par 3s isn't particularly memorable, but there is a fine  variety of looks off the tee, from blind ones (e.g., nos. 1 & 2) to open  ones (e.g., nos.
the overall layout of the course is appealing--tough but fair--although a  little confusing.
likewise,  the par 5s range from the reachable 487-yard 7th to the daunting 613-yard 5th.
the river runs from tee to  green on the left, so it's a very bad place to suddenly develop a pull hook  (trust me).
likewise, the par 5s range from the reachable 487-yard 7th to the daunting 613-yard 5th.
readhis golf blog here.
the fairway narrows into a tight neck up to the green, but a couple of good shots can leave you with a putt for birdie or a short chip for eagle.
as senior writer and equipment editor for worldgolf.com, he  has reviewed courses, resorts, and golf academies from california to ireland.
amenities are plentiful, with a three-tiered driving range, clubhouse grille and halfway house, well-stocked pro shop, and satellite yardage system on each cart (from which you can also order lunch).
be sure to follow the signs (which could stand to be larger).
however, if you're one of those well-paid execs taking the afternoon off,  you probably won't care how much you have to pay as long as you can get some  golf in over a long lunch.
each time a jet shattered my concentration on the tee, or a train vibrated my ball off line, or a car horn honked, i heard john chuckling in that chesty, conspiratorial way of his, trying to make me feel better.
however, when we were there the satellite system was not operating reliably due to a lightning strike the week before.
in fact, this  wooded, watery track can be reached via just about any mode of transportation  you can imagine, be it by plane, train, or automobile.
oh, and on nice days the odd jetski may buzz past just as you are  stroking that eagle putt.
another highlight is the 551-yard, par-5 13th.
if not for the proximity of the freeway across the river, this hole would be downright idyllic.
if not for the proximity of the freeway across the river, this hole would be  downright idyllic.
no. 5 is easily one of the best (and hardest) holes on the course.
the railroad tracks running along several holes are heavily trafficked by freight trains.
although the course has already racked up some impressive events--for example the 1997-8 qualifying rounds for the senior tour first of america classic--the rates, which range from $40 before 11 a.m. on weekdays to $60 during peak times on weekends, seem a bit high.
by kiel christianson, senior writer grand rapids, mi - step onto the turf at the golf club at thornapple pointe in grand rapids, and you are bound to run into all breeds of high-powered professionals--doctors, lawyers, company execs--who have ducked out of the office to play hooky (i.e., golf).
the fairways and greens are generous enough, but if you happen to be  hitting them crooked when you play here, you will burn through a good number of  balls.
and i-96 is at certain points little farther than a woodsian  drive away.
it rolls through a shallow valley with fescue-covered mounds on the left and a side channel of the thornapple river on the right.
each time a yardage needed to be communicated from farther  than ten yards away, a plane would roar overhead and drown out the message.
although the course has already racked up some impressive events--for  example the 1997-8 qualifying rounds for the senior tour first of america  classic--the rates, which range from $40 before 11 a.m. on weekdays to $60  during peak times on weekends, seem a bit high.
(or maybe you're just an aeronautics buff who  likes to watch planes at they approach and take off.)
and, truth be told, the challenging and well-designed links here occupy  land that would not be good for anything other than a golf course: no one would  want to live or work in a flight path like this.
the overall layout of the course is appealing--tough but fair--although a little confusing.
specifically, the course's location next to the gerald r. ford international airport results in dozens of up close and personal encounters throughout a round with the underbellies of aircraft.
the greens are firm yet receptive, however several were quite seriously scarred  with poorly repaired ball marks.
however, if you're one of those well-paid execs taking the afternoon off, you probably won't care how much you have to pay as long as you can get some golf in over a long lunch.
the fairways and greens are generous enough, but if you happen to be hitting them crooked when you play here, you will burn through a good number of balls.
lush bent grass runs from tee to green, and  the bunkering is understated (read: even a lousy golf writer can stay out of  most of them).
each time a yardage needed to be communicated from farther than ten yards away, a plane would roar overhead and drown out the message.
this said, if you are one of those aforementioned go-getters who derives  energy from commotion, who uses potential distraction to help focus your mind,  this course is perfect for you.
of the several quality courses in the grand rapids area, thornapple pointe is perhaps the most centrally located and easily accessible.
and, truth be told, the challenging and well-designed links here occupy land that would not be good for anything other than a golf course: no one would want to live or work in a flight path like this.
it  rolls through a shallow valley with fescue-covered mounds on the left and a  side channel of the thornapple river on the right.
as a golf course, however, the land is well suited.
worse yet, alternative yardage markers were somewhat hard to find.
for those players who demand quiet seclusion in their courses, however, the easy accessibility of thornapple pointe comes with a price.
and i-96 is at certain points little farther than a woodsian drive away.
and, just like steve  martin's character in the film, i eventually did.
june 14, 2000 kiel christianson, senior writer kiel christianson has lived, worked, traveled and golfed extensively on  three continents.
amenities are plentiful, with a three-tiered driving range, clubhouse  grille and halfway house, well-stocked pro shop, and satellite yardage system  on each cart (from which you can also order lunch).
this said, if you are one of those aforementioned go-getters who derives energy from commotion, who uses potential distraction to help focus your mind, this course is perfect for you.
the river runs from tee to green on the left, so it's a very bad place to suddenly develop a pull hook (trust me).
lots and lots of poor club choices make for a long day.
at 6,821 yards from the tips, this par-72 bill newcomb layout has a nice balance of long par 4s (ranging from 387 to 453 yards) and short ones (320 to 368 yards).
this constant source of irritation was compounded by the uncanny timing of the airplanes.
at 6,821 yards from  the tips, this par-72 bill newcomb layout has a nice balance of long par 4s  (ranging from 387 to 453 yards) and short ones (320 to 368 yards).
the fairway narrows into a tight neck up to the green, but a couple  of good shots can leave you with a putt for birdie or a short chip for eagle.
each time a jet shattered my concentration on the tee, or a train vibrated  my ball off line, or a car horn honked, i heard john chuckling in that chesty,  conspiratorial way of his, trying to make me feel better.
personally, i enjoyed communing with the spirit of the late john candy,  incarnated as his character from the movie "planes, trains, and  automobiles."