new york christmas tree buying guide -- find a real or artificial  christmas...
however, since trees are dormant in the winter, live trees should spend no more than a week indoors lest they “wake up” and begin to grow again in the warmth of your home.
if this happens there is a good chance  the tree will not survive once it is returned to the cold winter outdoors and  replanted.
some might make a case for fake trees, because they are re-used every year and thus don’t generate the waste of their real counterparts.
a part of the new york times company.
unfortunately many of these additives have been  linked to liver, kidney, neurological and reproductive system damage in lab  studies on animals.
in addition to  pvc, fake trees contain lead and other additives designed to make the otherwise  rigid pvc more malleable.
most popular how to reduce global warming what is the greenhouse effect which cookware is safest?
send it to: earthtalk, c/o e/the  environmental magazine, p.o. box 5098, westport, ct 06881; submit it at: www.emagazine.com/earthtalk/thisweek/, or e-mail: earthtalk@emagazine.com.
diy tomato cage xmas tree - how to make a tomato cage christmas tree -
the drawbacks of real christmas trees
so heed the advice of the  label on your fake tree, which tells you to avoid inhaling or eating any dust  or parts that may come loose.
however, since trees are dormant in the winter, live trees should  spend no more than a week indoors lest they “wake up” and begin to  grow again in the warmth of your home.
how safe are u.s. nuclear reactors?
most of those factory sites are actually in china, where 85 percent of the fake trees sold in north america originate.
new york christmas tree buying guide -- buy a real christmas tree in  manhat...
send it to: earthtalk, c/o e/the environmental magazine, p.o. box 5098, westport, ct 06881; submit it at: www.emagazine.com/earthtalk/thisweek/, or e-mail: earthtalk@emagazine.com.
but fake trees are made with polyvinyl chloride (or pvc, otherwise known as vinyl), one of the most environmentally offensive forms of non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic.
selected earthtalk columns are reprinted on about environmental issues by permission of the editors of e. larry west environmental issues guide ©2012 about.com.
most of those factory sites are actually in china, where 85  percent of the fake trees sold in north america originate.
in addition to pvc, fake trees contain lead and other additives designed to make the otherwise rigid pvc more malleable.
beyond the run-off issue, the sheer numbers of trees that get discarded after  every holiday can be a big waste issue for municipalities that aren’t  prepared to mulch them for compost.
some might make a case  for fake trees, because they are re-used every year and thus don’t  generate the waste of their real counterparts.
discuss in my forum from earth talk,see more about: while there is no crystal clear answer to the age-old “real versus fake” christmas tree debate, most environmentalists, “tree huggers” among them, would agree that real trees are the better choice, at least from a personal and public health standpoint.
labor standards  there don’t adequately protect workers from the dangerous chemicals they  are handling.
but fake trees are made with  polyvinyl chloride (or pvc, otherwise known as vinyl), one of the most  environmentally offensive forms of non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic.
so heed the advice of the label on your fake tree, which tells you to avoid inhaling or eating any dust or parts that may come loose.
therefore, while they are growing--and then again once they are discarded--they may contribute to pollution of local watersheds.
got an environmental question?
beyond the run-off issue, the sheer numbers of trees that get discarded after every holiday can be a big waste issue for municipalities that aren’t prepared to mulch them for compost.
christmas tree allergy - avoid pine, fir, spruce, or artificial christmas  t... larry west sign up for my newsletter headlines related searches known carcinogens fake trees  polyvinyl chloride rigid pvc christmas trees dangerous chemicals explore  environmental issues  must reads how much radiation is safe?
unfortunately many of these additives have been linked to liver, kidney, neurological and reproductive system damage in lab studies on animals.
the most  eco-friendly way to enjoy a christmas tree is to buy a live tree with its roots  intact from a local grower, and then replant it in your yard once the holiday  has passed.
labor standards there don’t adequately protect workers from the dangerous chemicals they are handling.
the primary downside of real christmas trees is that, because they are farmed as agricultural products, they often require repeated applications of pesticides over their typical eight-year lifecycles.
the most eco-friendly way to enjoy a christmas tree is to buy a live tree with its roots intact from a local grower, and then replant it in your yard once the holiday has passed.
fake christmas trees and other health problems
fake christmas trees and cancer furthermore, several known  carcinogens, including dioxin, ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride, are  generated during the production of pvc, polluting neighborhoods located near  factory sites.
the benefits and care of live christmas trees
-- r.m.  brandt, nutley, nj
what’s  better for the environment, a fake or real christmas tree?
selected earthtalk columns are reprinted on about environmental issues by  permission of the editors of e. eco-friendly christmas the hidden cost of christmas fun facts about mistletoe how to care for a live christmas tree the 10 most popular christmas trees a guide to tree planting suggested reading how to stop receiving junk mail why online bill paying is good for the environment change a light bulb and change the world related articles try a real tree this christmas - christmas tree farms near toronto -  select...
10 ways you can reduce global warming how to save the planet in 30 minutes fly or drive?
thechildren’s health environmental coalition warns  that fake trees “may shed lead-laced dust, which may cover branches or  shower gifts and the floor below the tree.”
thechildren’s health environmental coalition warns that fake trees “may shed lead-laced dust, which may cover branches or shower gifts and the floor below the tree.”
the primary downside of  real christmas trees is that, because they are farmed as agricultural products,  they often require repeated applications of pesticides over their typical  eight-year lifecycles.
therefore, while they are growing--and then again once  they are discarded--they may contribute to pollution of local watersheds.
if this happens there is a good chance the tree will not survive once it is returned to the cold winter outdoors and replanted.
fake christmas trees and cancer furthermore, several known carcinogens, including dioxin, ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride, are generated during the production of pvc, polluting neighborhoods located near factory sites.
earthtalk is a regular feature of e/the environmental magazine.
while there is no crystal clear answer to the age-old “real versus  fake” christmas tree debate, most environmentalists, “tree  huggers” among them, would agree that real trees are the better choice,  at least from a personal and public health standpoint.