- fake trees can't rot like real trees can.
sweet savory sweet & savory wine & beer a bit of everything non-food gifts for pets
a  more handy, safer and cost effective version may have taken their place.
artificial christmas trees can be set up much earlier and left  up longer.
on average, an artificial tree lasts about six years.
the home depot in that community reported a rise in the sale of prelit artificial trees.
buying artificial helps prevent the cutting down of a live tree.
a real tree also adds something  to christmas that a fake tree can't: a scent.
the needles on your artificial  tree will never shed.
fake trees won't bother you if you are allergic to the smell of pine.
- artificial trees are easy to assemble and store away.
insects may get into the carton while it is stored if not packed properly source: www.artificialchristmastreesonline.com
putting up and decorating christmas trees is a time-honored tradition, and many families are faced with choosing between artificial and real trees each year.
nine million artificial christmas trees were sold in 2004 according to the association, up from 7.3 million in 2001.
a more handy, safer and cost effective version may have taken their place.
artificial trees are safe and flame retardant.
artificial trees have a fuller, classier look.
gruyere havarti monterey jack mozzarella muenster parmigiano pecorino provolone swiss caviar clams crab lobster oysters salmon scallops shrimp tuna packaged pasta meat poultry seafood vegetarian champagne
christmas tree farms help sustain the rural economy and provide jobs another tree is planted for each one harvested to ensure a steady supply year after year cons: need constant maintenance can become a fire risk if not correctly maintained shed needles can only be left up for a limited time less economical
they also last for years, which makes them more economical.
coarse needles will never prick  you; so artificial trees are easier to decorate.
transporting the tree and disposing of it after use can be difficult artificial christmas trees pros: more cost-effective flame retardant no maintenance necessary can be left up for as long as you like no mess from needles huge assortment to select from cons: can look phoney and synthetic made from a non-renewable resource: petroleum
they said the friday after thanksgiving they ran out of trees and had to order more.
on average, an artificial tree lasts  about six years.
putting up and decorating christmas trees is a time-honored tradition, and  many families are faced with choosing between artificial and real trees each  year.
experts also say fake trees are safer because many of them are fire retardant.
the needles on your artificial tree will never shed.
experts also say fake trees are safer because many of them are fire  retardant.
only by price includes a variety of fresh fruits (bananas, pears, peaches, cherries, avocados, etc.)
the cash you save by buying an artificial tree can be spent on more  gifts for your family or perhaps other types of decoration.
indeed, there are good and bad things about each type of tree.
there are a variety of arguments for and against buying a live or an  artificial christmas tree.
artificial trees are easy to assemble and store away.
another good thing about artificial trees is that they do not need  to be watered and the needles will not drop off and make a mess in your house.
.......................... artificial vs. real christmas trees the neighborhood christmas tree lot and its newly cut pines may soon be a  rare sight if a new national study is correct about the artificial  competition's rising popularity.
for many families, cutting down a christmas tree is an annual tradition.
nine million artificial christmas trees were sold in 2004 according to the  association, up from 7.3 million in 2001.
here are the pros and cons of each: live christmas trees pros: fresh scent lots of unique selections to choose from
- another good thing about artificial trees is that they do not need to be watered and the needles will not drop off and make a mess in your house.
here are the pros and cons of each: live christmas trees
the traditional choice take in carbon dioxide and other harmful greenhouse gases and release fresh oxygen into the air.
for many families, cutting  down a christmas tree is an annual tradition.
there are a variety of arguments for and against buying a live or an artificial christmas tree.
do you really need a real tree to decorate your living room?
a fake tree on the internet runs anywhere from $100 to $1500,  a real tree at home depot costs from $25 to $50.
indeed, there are good and bad things about each  type of tree.
they also  last for years, which makes them more economical.
blue brie cheddar colby edam fontina goat gouda
a fake tree on the internet runs anywhere from $100 to $1500, a real tree at home depot costs from $25 to $50.
dessert wine red wine white wine by price bbq sauces hot sauces marinades mustard olives olive oil pasta sauces salsa spices & rubs spreads vinegar the neighborhood christmas tree lot and its newly cut pines may soon be a rare sight if a new national study is correct about the artificial competition's rising popularity.
a decline of 36 percent was reported for real tree sales - according to the national christmas tree association, sales dropped from 32 million to 23.4 million between 2000 and 2003.
in 2005 el pasoans said they had seen less lots compared to years past.
is it right to  cut down a living tree just because it looks and smells better?
here are a few things to remember when choosing which type of tree would be best suited for your needs: - artificial trees remove the hassle of having to choose a tree from the lot.
a real tree also adds something to christmas that a fake tree can't: a scent.
a decline of 36 percent was reported for real  tree sales - according to the national christmas tree association, sales  dropped from 32 million to 23.4 million between 2000 and 2003.
the  home depot in that community reported a rise in the sale of prelit artificial  trees.
fake trees can't rot like real trees can.
is it right to cut down a living tree just because it looks and smells better?
the cash you save by buying an artificial tree can be spent on more gifts for your family or perhaps other types of decoration.
- fake trees won't bother you if you are allergic to the smell of pine.
they said the friday after thanksgiving they ran out of trees and had to  order more.
artificial christmas trees can be set up much earlier and left up longer.
coarse needles will never prick you; so artificial trees are easier to decorate.
there is no advantage to the home economy, as a lot of fake trees are made abroad time required to assemble the tree requires storage space in the home
here are a few things to remember when choosing which type of tree would  be best suited for your needs: artificial trees remove the hassle of having to choose a tree from  the lot.