what is the current state of our water supplies?more...
more... different types of heating.
fortunately there are many  facilities, such as the mcrobies gully waste management centre in south hobart,  which provide a place for you to dispose of greenwaste and will mulch and  compost your real christmas tree – easy done.
more... guides and information to living greener.
others believe a case  can be made for fake trees, because they are re-used every year and thus  don’t generate the waste of their real counterparts.
search show 4 day forecast more tv guide warm magazine is out now.
if you feel you can take measures to adequately dispose of your real tree,  then nothing beats the adventure of driving out to select your own unique tree  rather than a mass-produced plastic one – a tradition among many families  at this time of year.
more... harness the power of the sun and ride the light waves.
more... advice to maintain comfort in your home.
more... travelling green can be easy – we look at how to do it.
more... recipes and purchasing suggestions from the experts.
whichever option you take, it is  important to make sure that the tree is extravagantly decorated and presents  are piled up underneath it.
if you do choose a fake tree, follow the instructions carefully to ensure  that it lasts for years to come.
email this story to a friend print this story
others believe a case can be made for fake trees, because they are re-used every year and thus don’t generate the waste of their real counterparts.
see how you can make your house more energy efficient.
but which is the most sustainable option?
fake trees are made with  polyvinyl chloride (pvc), which is a non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic  that generates several known carcinogens during its production.
whichever you prefer, here are a few facts to consider: fake christmas trees fake trees are a convenient and long-lasting option, however there are manufacturing processes, materials and possible health ramifications to consider.
more... is your garden really "green"?
unfortunately the more traditional option also has a few downsides.
this is true not only while the trees are growing, but once the dust from  the holiday season has settled, christmas party planners who opt for a real  tree must also consider its disposal carefully.
find out how simple it is to save energy and waste around your home.
read the latest digital edition of warm mag.
it’s christmas time again and so begins the real versus fake christmas tree debate.
more... advice for buying decisions that affect your everyday living.
more... find out what to buy and where to buy it.
read it here the warm.com.au newsletter is a monthly publication with lots of great articles about sustainable living, energy saving advice, yummy recipes and gardening advice.
fortunately there are many facilities, such as the mcrobies gully waste management centre in south hobart, which provide a place for you to dispose of greenwaste and will mulch and compost your real christmas tree – easy done.
more... register and view the latest warm newsletter.
whichever option you take, it is important to make sure that the tree is extravagantly decorated and presents are piled up underneath it.
more... view aurora's digital heating guide.
what's your biggest environmental concern?climate change view results show all poll results © 2009 aurora energy pty ltd abn 85 082 464 622
find out how climate change affects us right here in tasmania.
primarily christmas trees are farmed as agricultural products, and as such often require repeated applications of pesticides over their typical eight-year lifecycles, which means they may contribute to pollution of local watersheds.
it’s christmas time again and so begins the real versus fake  christmas tree debate.
our transport has a huge impact on the environment.
watch previous episodes of warm tvmore...
enormous fake vs real christmas trees
more... how is our water affected by climate change?
if you do choose a fake tree, follow the instructions carefully to ensure that it lasts for years to come.
and we don’t mean elves.
real christmas trees
this is especially important if you’re sharing christmas day with some little people.
loads of info here on where it all goes.
this is especially important if you’re sharing christmas day  with some little people.
you should also be sure to heed the advice on the label, which warns against inhaling or eating any dust or parts that may come loose.
unfortunately the more  traditional option also has a few downsides.
get hints and tips from our expert.
more... hints, tips and advice that anyone can follow in the workplace.
more... find out more from the aurora preferred experts.
more... it’s not just what you build, it can be how you build it.
fake trees are made with polyvinyl chloride (pvc), which is a non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic that generates several known carcinogens during its production.
here's some advice to help you purchase your new heater.
if you feel you can take measures to adequately dispose of your real tree, then nothing beats the adventure of driving out to select your own unique tree rather than a mass-produced plastic one – a tradition among many families at this time of year.
just be sure to select your tree from a tree farm or from entrepreneurial folks are selling real trees privately – trespassing on private property doesn’t fit with the christmas spirit.
explore the green energy alternatives.
what is warm and what does it offer to tasmanians?more...
more... some extra considerations for your heating purchase.
your email address field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.
more... what would you like to tell us about your warm experience?more... just how big is our footprint?more...
more... find out just what's so good about living in tassie.
but by far the most eco-friendly way to enjoy a christmas tree is to buy a live tree with its roots intact from a local grower, and then replant it in your yard once the holiday has passed.
you should also be sure to heed the advice on  the label, which warns against inhaling or eating any dust or parts that may  come loose.
more... view terms and conditions of the warm magazine 2011 competition.
so how do we travel greener?more...
more... enjoy your great outdoors in comfort and style.
whichever you  prefer, here are a few facts to consider: fake christmas trees fake trees are a convenient and  long-lasting option, however there are manufacturing processes, materials and  possible health ramifications to consider.
more... enter the latest warm competition for your chance to win.
this is true not only while the trees are growing, but once the dust from the holiday season has settled, christmas party planners who opt for a real tree must also consider its disposal carefully.
but by far the most eco-friendly way to enjoy a christmas tree is to buy a  live tree with its roots intact from a local grower, and then replant it in  your yard once the holiday has passed.
many environmentalists would agree that real trees are the better choice,  at least from a personal and public health standpoint.
just be sure to select your tree from a tree farm or from  entrepreneurial folks are selling real trees privately – trespassing on  private property doesn’t fit with the christmas spirit.
more... what happens to our waste?
many environmentalists would agree that real trees are the better choice, at least from a personal and public health standpoint.
primarily christmas trees are  farmed as agricultural products, and as such often require repeated  applications of pesticides over their typical eight-year lifecycles, which  means they may contribute to pollution of local watersheds.
comment: please note: all comments are subject to moderation prior to being posted on this website.