- on the other hand, once the lights fail (and we all know some will fail within 1 or 2 seasons), they are still stuck to the tree (you can't remove them) and you'll have to buy more lights and add them on top of the dead ones.
- cbs sunday morning had a story about live vs. artificial christmas trees on sunday december 10, 2006.
real christmas trees have a great scent - they smell like christmas
and  our other related websites!
after christmas, see this page for tree recycling and disposal options for your local area!
- safety - real christmas trees are involved in less than one-tenth of one percent of residential fires and only when ignited by some external ignition sources.
decorating tips holiday recipes holiday information and facts the history of the christmas tree christmas tree traditions around the world weather forecast for your area<
i do all of the programming, web design and updates myself.
after reading through these facts.. have a chuckle at thischristmas tree made of empty mountain dew cans and coat hangers.
in  2002, 21% of united states households had a real tree, 48% had an artificial  tree and 32% had no tree.
christmas trees remove dust and pollen from the air.
disposing or recycling your tree clip art fun stuff
on the other hand, once the lights fail (and we all know some will fail  within 1 or 2 seasons), they are still stuck to the tree (you can't remove  them) and you'll have to buy more lights and add them on top of the dead ones.
artificial trees will last for six years in your home, but for centuries  in a landfill.
disposing or recycling your tree clip art add your tree farm or stand to our website (free)
and our other related websites!
in the spring, go to www.pickyourown.org to find a farm to pick  strawberries, blueberries, raspberries and other fruits and vegetables!
safety - real christmas trees are involved in less than one-tenth of one  percent of residential fires and only when ignited by some external ignition  sources.
there is no comparison between buying a fake tree in wal-mart vs. taking your kids to a real tree farm, having a hayride to the field, chooing a tree that is growing and having it cut and tied to you car for you while you have some hot chocolate or apple cider!
in the spring, go to www.pickyourown.org to find a farm to pick strawberries, blueberries, raspberries and other fruits and vegetables!
- almost 10 million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.
just click the  button below and follow the instructions: our other free, informative sites you may like: ehso.com-  environmental health and safety information and guidance for the home consumerfraudreporting.org - information about identity theft, frauds and  scams; how to report them and how to protect your identity.
add your tree farm or stand to our website (free) website news which is the better christmas tree - real or artificial?
pyo apples, vegetables how to choose a farm selecting a tree tree variety guide caring for your tree history of the xmas tree easy holiday recipes christmas tree farms, tree lots, hayrides, sleigh rides and other winter fun real or fake christmas trees: which is better?
click on: how to add a farm to pickyourownchristmastree.org or write me at
all images and text © copyright benivia, llc 2004 - 2010    disclaimer - privacy policy permission is given to link to any page on  www.pickyourownchristmastree.org questions, corrections, suggestions or  want to recommend a farm to add?
- artificial trees will last for six years in your home, but for centuries in a landfill.
if you'd like to make  a donation to help me pay to keep the website going, please make a donation to  me at benivia through our secure donation processor.
most trash companies now recycle or chip the trees to make compost.
all images and text © copyright benivia, llc 2004 - 2010 disclaimer - privacy policy permission is given to link to any page on www.pickyourownchristmastree.org questions, corrections, suggestions or want to recommend a farm to add?
the u.s.  commerce dept. tracks theimport of fake trees most fake (artificial) trees (85%) in the u.s. are imported from china;  buying a fake tree is almost certainly making the national debt worse and  sending your dollars to china.
real or fake tree - which is better?click here!
the u.s. commerce dept. tracks theimport of fake trees - most fake (artificial) trees (85%) in the u.s. are imported from china; buying a fake tree is almost certainly making the national debt worse and sending your dollars to china.
59 percent of real christmas trees harvested are recycled in community  programs.
choose-and-cut-your-own christmas tree farms, a choose-and-they-cut, or a pre-cut christmas tree lot and other fun winter activities, like sleigh rides, hayrides and wagon rides!
here are some facts and pros and cons to help you make your decision!
- 59 percent of real christmas trees harvested are recycled in community programs.
- artificial trees often come prelit, so you don't need to add lights or take them down after christmas.
real christmas trees - have a great scent - they smell like christmas -
you can see more about real vs. fake trees and trees made in china on thencta website here.
if you'd like to make a donation to help me pay to keep the website going, please make a donation to me at benivia through our secure donation processor.
in 2002, 21% of united states households had a real tree, 48% had an artificial tree and 32% had no tree.
economically, environmentally, and emotional.. .there is no doubt; a real  tree is christmas; a fake tree is china; other: events, other information and related links: revised: 20-dec-2011 want to make a donation?
christmas home page start here!
almost 10 million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.
cbs sunday morning had a story about live vs. artificial christmas trees  on sunday december 10, 2006.
economically, environmentally, and emotional.. .there is no doubt; a real tree is christmas; a fake tree is china; other: christmas tree glossary events, other information and related links: revised: 20-dec-2011 want to make a donation?
just click the button below and follow the instructions: our other free, informative sites you may like: ehso.com- environmental health and safety information and guidance for the home consumerfraudreporting.org - information about identity theft, frauds and scams; how to report them and how to protect your identity.
click here to add this page to your favorites list!
there is no comparison between buying a fake tree in wal-mart vs. taking  your kids to a real tree farm, having a hayride to the field, chooing a tree  that is growing and having it cut and tied to you car for you while you have  some hot chocolate or apple cider!
the debate rages on in some families; shall we get a real tree or a fake  one?
pickyourown.org does not charge either farmers or consumers!
an acre of christmas trees provides for the daily oxygen requirements of  18 people.
tree farmers: business opportunities for christmas tree farms/farmers.
feedback suggest a farm farmers: add your farm farmers: minor corrections search the website what to expect tips to plan your trip how to use the website christmas gifts quick links home find farms in your state search for a phrase useful information tips for your trip to the farm selecting a tree tree varieties caring for a tree
- are environmentally friendly - growing christmas trees provides a habitat for wildlife.
you can see more about real vs. fake trees and  trees made in china on thencta website here.
recycled trees have been used to make sand and soil erosion barriers and  been placed in ponds for fish shelter.
i do all  of the programming, web design and updates myself.
fitnessandhealthscience.org - practical fitness, health and diet information that works.
the debate rages on in some families; shall we get a real tree or a fake one?
after reading through these facts.. have a  chuckle at thischristmas tree made of empty mountain dew cans and coat hangers.
see this page for where you can gather your own mistletoe!
the history of the christmas tree christmas tree traditions around the world weather forecast for your area<
artificial trees often come prelit, so you don't need to add lights or  take them down after christmas.
artificial christmas trees - artificial trees can be easy to assemble (but many are not) and don't require water.
are environmentally friendly - growing christmas trees provides a habitat  for wildlife.
this page to a friend find a christmas tree and winter events near you!
artificial christmas trees artificial trees can be easy to assemble (but many are not) and don't  require water.
- christmas trees remove dust and pollen from the air.
website news which is the better christmas tree - real or artificial?
- recycled trees have been used to make sand and soil erosion barriers and been placed in ponds for fish shelter.
fitnessandhealthscience.org - practical fitness, health and diet information  that works.
- an acre of christmas trees provides for the daily oxygen requirements of 18 people.
and here are easy, illustrated recipes to make a chocolate yule log, homemade cranberry sauce (even jellied cranberry sauce), pumpkin pie (from a pumpkin), roasted chestnuts, pumpkin soup, cheesecake and pumpkin bread.
click on: how to add a farm to pickyourownchristmastree.org  or write me at