plus, the microgrocer model allowsin.gredients to easily open in more austin neighborhoods without displacing existing buildings or requiring excess surface parking that displaces livable space.
as the environment changes, so may the best choice.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
leave a comment » christopher’s an all-star developer and partner/consultant with praecipio consulting and a part of in.gredients‘ founding team.
it’ll be ready in an hour!
and while iadore farmers’ markets, more often than not my schedule isn’t compatible with market days and times (unfortunately).
having lots of yummy fresh eggs is such a wonderful treat, but before you put up your coop, determine whether raising chickens is right for you.
most of the others vary wildly in what they mean.
written by jmalsky november 10, 2011 at 1:49 pm posted in food for thought, good ideas tagged with chemical, clean 15, contaminated, dirty dozen, environmental working group, ewg, fruits, grocer, health, local, organic, pesticide, produce, vegetables, veggies« older entries blog at wordpress.com.
(image: peaceful craziness) written by jmalsky november 28, 2011 at 1:58 pm posted in good ideas tagged with biodegradable, carbon, christmas, christmas tree, craigslist, cutting down, eco-conscious, environment, environmental, environmentalist, fake, goodwill, green, greener, grow, holiday, impact, invasive species, landfill, local, locally-sourced, ncta, non-recyclable, plastic, real, recycle, reduce, reuse, salvation army, state, tree, unconventional, vendor, wildlife, years with 2 comments thinking of getting some chickens for your backyard or garden?
fruits and veggies listed in “the dirty dozen” tend to be pretty “chemically” and are best to avoid when they aren’t available as organic.
the most important  thing is to do a bit of research, and make your decision based on the facts.
at in.gredients we take each product into consideration and inspect it from every angle.
i bet the possibilities are  endless!
last week the city of san francisco’s solid waste and recycling program,recology, collected its millionth ton of food scraps from household kitchens and businesses across the city.
can you make a cool tree from recycled and reclaimed materials?
hah!), or pass it on to someone else.
(image: peaceful craziness)
the answer’s pretty complex, with many factors to consider…and it really depends on where you live, so answers will be different for people in different parts of the country.
if a tree stores  “x” amount of carbon while it’s alive, but requires  “y” amount of carbon to be hauled to the middle of a desert, then  the environmental impact totally depends on how big “x” is compared  to “y.” some ideas on how to control these variables: choose a type of tree that  grows in your state, then you know it won’t have come far.
but at some point in time, even if  it’s 35 years later, that non-recyclable plastic will have to go to a  landfill.
if  that’s you, there are ways to make this option significantly greener  (please excuse pun…).
what’s more, in.gredients‘ future shoppers can find cool projects to work on by visiting the burlap bag’s blog - a great way to make use of the meanwhile beforein.gredients ‘ manor road storefront goes live!
however, if you’re not up for such a project, a well-timed trip to thrift store could win you a great tree and the satisfaction that it wont be seeing the landfill this year.
it will also never deviate from its path even if what it “chooses” doesn’t make sense given the bigger picture.
what’s more, i’ve found that even my favorite small, local grocery stores don’t have a great selection of local and organic produce.
other followerspowered by wordpress.com
it also doesn’t take any fossil fuel to go and grab the tree from the attic, so it’s definitely an energy-saver.
to start, we’ll talk about being a microgrocer by answering some recent faqs… “are you a specialty store?”
(image: wikimedia commons: “persimmons”) written by jmalsky december 1, 2011 at 3:42 pm posted in crowd-sourced recipes tagged with central, chicken salad, classic, fixins, healthy green kitchen, ingredients, local, pecans, persimmons, recipe, seasonal, texas with one comment it can be done, folks!
let me clarify – it’ll be easier to eat it because it’ll be easier to find it!
for some folks the fake tree will always be the better option because of geographic location, budget, and transportation among other reasons.
not all fake trees need be store-bought pvc saplings from china.
a little creativity and thinking out side the box could introduce some  new and exciting holiday traditions!
what’s more, it’s a great way to use leftover roast chicken or turkey!
behavioral programming, however, is bio-mimicry – a way of programming computers to act more like plants and animals so they’re better suited to adapt to change.
if a tree stores “x” amount of carbon while it’s alive, but requires “y” amount of carbon to be hauled to the middle of a desert, then the environmental impact totally depends on how big “x” is compared to “y.” some ideas on how to control these variables: choose a type of tree that grows in your state, then you know it won’t have come far.
but the window of opportunity to get at these farm-fresh goodies will be significantly wider, so no fret if you can’t make it to market day.
you can decrease your likelihood of chowing down on pesticides by using the ewg’s shopper’s guide to pesticides in produce.
but if you have to go to the bathroom food may need to wait… that is, unless the house is on fire.
i’m jessica malsky, the newest member of the in.gredients team.
the most important thing is to do a bit of research, and make your decision based on the facts.
written by brian nunnery april 30, 2012 at 12:50 pm posted in philosophy tagged with behavior, behavioral programming, beyond-organic, big-ag, bio-mimicry, biodynamic, cage-free, chemical, computer, environmental, free-range, gmo, grass-fed, grass-finished, heirloom, in.gredients, local, national, natural, organic, pastured, product, sustainable, the sims leave a comment » the title says it all – in.gredients is a microgrocer with a broad scope of products in a small, efficient space.
real trees contain no harmful chemicals, are 100% biodegradable, “locally-sourced” (local in this case is “grown in the us and canada”), and provide an added benefit of storing carbon while they are growing.
additionally, the carbon storage feature on real trees is great, but it’s counterproductive if trees are cut down.
you could do this by cutting down your own tree near your home, or asking the tree vendor which kind is the most “local.”
given this flow, the program will never consider if the house is on fire and will burn up.
today’s world is a complex array of terms both positive and negative, often with loose definitions like “natural.”
you’re still limited by the behaviors you’ve learned, but are more free to choose which behavior best fits your current environment.
trees are pretty heavy, so this could demand a hefty amount of fossil fuel.
written by jmalsky january 6, 2012 at 6:06 pm posted in in.gredients to me tagged with central texas, farm, fresh, in.gredients, local, produce, seasonal with 2 comments caldo verde is a traditional portuguese soup with kale, potatoes, and sausage or chorizo.
some fruits and vegetables carry with them more pesticide contamination than others.
the ncta makes a very convincing argument for choosing a real christmas tree, but there are still some drawbacks.
if you’re hungry, go get food.
it’s easy to make, relatively quick, and makes a delicious warm meal for a winter day.
why not open a bigger store?”
most are made of pvc plastic, so they aren’t recyclable.
the beauty of this recipe: if you live in central texas, you can get all the “fixins” for this salad locally, because as y’all know, ’tis the season for persimmons and pecans!
it also doesn’t take any fossil fuel  to go and grab the tree from the attic, so it’s definitely an  energy-saver.
as i’m an eco-friendly kind of gal, it’s been a personal goal of mine for some time to go local and organic, but it’s been tough going.
with 4 comments which is better for the environment, hosting a real christmas tree or a  fake one?
as the title of this post says, we’re a “grocery store in scope” and a “convenience store in scale” – meaning we’ll offer a broad selection of food (dairy, meat, produce, breads, household cleaners, …) in a dense, efficient space.
hah!),  or pass it on to someone else.
or, if  you’re a super-ambitious steward of the environment, consider this  unconventional idea: check with your local parks and wildlife services to find  out which trees in the area are considered invasive species and cut one of them  down!
josiah and lauren lowe, the burlap bag’s founders, are all about sustainability – and their blog has some great ideas for preparing for sustainable living, including tutorials on how to make suchin.gredients-handy things as diy spice shakers, diy vegetable broth, and diy room air-freshener.
can you make  a cool tree from recycled and reclaimed materials?
it’s a complex field to navigate.
it’s hard to say “term a” is more important than “term b” because in the real world few things are so cut-and-dry.
once trees are dead they don’t use any co2, so  they won’t be removing any more carbon from the air.
conclusions whether you chose a fake tree, real tree, (or no tree?)
the store’s stocked with artisan crafts as well as locally-made creative gifts and home decor.
most of the time when we think of “specialty store” we think of a small store offering organic spices and nuts and herbs.
but at some point in time, even if it’s 35 years later, that non-recyclable plastic will have to go to a landfill.
where does it come from, what are the ethos of the producer and the rest of the supply chain, are there alternative options we can compare it to…and, like in behavioral programming, make a calculated decision based on the decisions unique environment and the variables within it.
vintage leave a comment » jessica’s an austin native with a passion for environmental issues and an unshakable commitment to improving sustainability.
diy’ers what do you say?
you could give it to goodwill, the salvation  army, or maybe put it on craigslist.
better yet, you could buy a living tree with roots intact and plant it post-christmas.
written by jmalsky november 28, 2011 at 3:49 pm posted in news tagged with 2.7 million, business, compost, food, household, kitchen,  landfill, local, recology, recycling program, san fran, san francisco, scraps,  soil, solid waste, space o christmas tree!
for some folks the fake tree will always be the better option because of  geographic location, budget, and transportation among other reasons.
this year, knowing  the facts will help you arrive at the best eco-friendly solution.
but not to worry, for those of you who can’t keep feathered friends,in.gredients will have your back.
to get a program tobehave a particular way it has to be programmed to pick exactly the right path.
organic actually has a legal meaning, but there’s a lot of variation in how it’s applied.
christmas trees, which are usually firs or pines, need to be hauled to parts of the country where these species don’t grow.
(image: eco localizer) written by jmalsky november 28, 2011 at 3:49 pm posted in news tagged with 2.7 million, business, compost, food, household, kitchen, landfill, local, recology, recycling program, san fran, san francisco, scraps, soil, solid waste, space with 4 comments which is better for the environment, hosting a real christmas tree or a fake one?
in fact, some of the farms with booths at central texas farmers’ markets are the ones whose produce we’ll be carrying.
in its classic model the computer was programmed to make a “choice” given a set of rules that are obeyed.
trees are pretty  heavy, so this could demand a hefty amount of fossil fuel.
christmas trees, which are usually firs or pines, need to be hauled to  parts of the country where these species don’t grow.
it’s time to start talking about how our store will work and what to expect… we’re looking forward to finally opening our doors!
however, if you’re not up for such a project, a well-timed trip  to thrift store could win you a great tree and the satisfaction that it wont be  seeing the landfill this year.
if that’s you, there are ways to make this option significantly greener (please excuse pun…).
if anything changed, a program wasn’t equipped to adapt.
this is great if the computer is, for example, playing chess – it just needs to know the few million possible configurations, play out every game to the end in its head, and choose the move that means it’s most likely to win.
fake trees: benefits and drawbacks fake trees can last for decades, which is a great considering nothing is  going to waste during its life-span.
the national christmas tree association (ncta) says that real trees, hands-down, are better for the environment.
major props, san fran!
a set of behaviors are programmed in and depending on the most pressing need, a behavior emerges.
you could think of it this way: every day will be market day at in.gredients!
for a fake tree, this could be tricky.
so naturally, i’m really excited about the fact that when in.gredients debuts, it’ll be like having a supplementary farmers’ market on call 7 days a week.
the ncta makes a very convincing  argument for choosing a real christmas tree, but there are still some drawbacks.
we’ll have between one and “a couple to a few” options for every product we carry.
when she’s not busy blogging forin.gredients, she loves studying ecology, thrift store shopping, bees, and riding bicycles!
the answer’s pretty complex, with many factors to  consider…and it really depends on where you live, so answers will be  different for people in different parts of the country.
better yet, you could buy a living  tree with roots intact and plant it post-christmas.
check out “the clean 15″ though, where you’ll find some safer, less contaminated options.
real trees: benefits and drawbacks the national christmas tree association (ncta) says that real trees,  hands-down, are better for the environment.
we’re often asked how we select our products – i.e., what criteria’s most important in choosing products for the store.
the eco-conscious solution would be to re-use it some how (toilette brushes?
“why are you a microgrocer?
farmers’ markets seem to be the best bet in the hunt for seasonal/local/organic.
i bet the possibilities are endless!
written by jmalsky december 12, 2011 at 1:57 pm posted in crowd-sourced recipes tagged with caldo verde, chorizo, farm, kale, local, portuguese, potato, recipe, sausage, soup, vegan, winter with 2 comments here’s an interesting (and timely) seasonal twist on a classic favorite: achicken salad recipe from healthy green kitchen that calls for persimmons and pecans.
as with all things, there are pros and cons to consider.
if so, you’ll be delightfully surprised to learn of austin’s the burlap bag (502 west 30th street).
or, if you’re a super-ambitious steward of the environment, consider this unconventional idea: check with your local parks and wildlife services to find out which trees in the area are considered invasive species and cut one of them down!
not all fake trees need be store-bought  pvc saplings from china.
from legal restrictions to space requirements to weather factors, there are lots of things to take into consideration.
think of us as a grocery store for all your basics – milk, vinegar, toothpaste, flour, dishwashing detergent – as well as some “special” things like beer, wine, chicken feed, seeds, etc.
terms like organic, beyond-organic, biodynamic, local, heirloom, sustainable, green, natural, free-range, cage-free, pastured, grass-fed, grass-finished, gmo, chemical, big-ag, and toxic are thrown around.
for example, if you’re hungry, get some food – unless you have to go to the bathroom, and in that case go to the bathroom first.
we want to be a neighborhood store.
whether you chose a fake tree, real tree, (or no tree?) this year, knowing the facts will help you arrive at the best eco-friendly solution.
a little creativity and thinking out side the box could introduce some new and exciting holiday traditions!
theenvironmental working group (ewg) says that you should still eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, because their health benefits out-weigh the risk of pesticide exposure.
you could give it to goodwill, the salvation army, or maybe put it on craigslist.
written by brian nunnery april 12, 2012 at 5:20 pm posted in uncategorized tagged with austin, basics, beer, chicken feed, efficient, faq, grocery, in.gredients, local, microgrocer, milk, neighborhood, organic, seeds, small, toothpaste, wine leave a comment » have you ever found yourself looking online for hand-made goods (from craft-makers, artisans, and vintage enthusiasts) and thought to yourself, “wouldn’t it be great if this were a brick and mortar shop?”
one blogger likes this post.
one of the things i’ve become most excited about in anticipation of thein.gredients store opening: it’ll be so much easier to eat seasonal, local, organic/natural, produce.
the  eco-conscious solution would be to re-use it some how (toilette brushes?
however, for any tree, real or fake, you have think about where  it will go at the end of its life cycle.
many computer programs implement an algorithm or a repeatable set of “choices.”
we want to make it easy for you to find ingredients and easy for you to do things with those ingredients.
– but what should you do when it’s not?
for this caldo verderecipe (from allrecipes.com), you’ll need these veggies from your local farmer: kale, potatoes, onion, and garlic.
aside from farm-fresh veggies, you’ll need some olive oil and linguica sausage.
often times, a non-certified organic small farm may be a better environmental steward than a large national organic brand.
option: while sausage is traditional in this dish, it can be left out for a delicious vegan soup!
however, for any tree, real or fake, you have think about where it will go at the end of its life cycle.
the absence of one million tons of food scraps “saved 2.7 million cubic yards of landfill space and produced 600,000 cubic yards of finished compost.”
fake trees can last for decades, which is a great considering nothing is going to waste during its life-span.
once trees are dead they don’t use any co2, so they won’t be removing any more carbon from the air.
it’s a must-see for any diy enthusiast, and a fun trip for anyone!
i think we’re all too familiar with the fact that the vast majority of produce available at most grocery stores isn’t locally sourced (in part due to the constant consumer demand for non-seasonal produce) – something that kind of gets me down.
additionally, the  carbon storage feature on real trees is great, but it’s counterproductive  if trees are cut down.
the journalist v1.9 by lucian e. marin.
(image: the burlap bag) written by jmalsky march 1, 2012 at 6:01 pm posted in community tagged with artisan, austin, burlap bag, creative, diy, founder, goods, hand-made, handmade, in.gredients, josiah lowe, lauren lowe, local, project, spice shaker, sustainability, the burlap bag, vegetable broth,
there are still many neighborhoods in austin without walkable access to a neighborhood grocer – and we’d love to help fix that!
“so what about product selection?”
they aren’t really choices, though, because the computer will choose the same way every time.
and just like real-life, those variables may change in the future, and our decisions may have to react and adjust.
the idea is to simplify grocery shopping.
that’s a whoppingone million tons of solid waste that’s been spared from the landfill and put to good use rejuvenating local soil as compost.
when we open, you can count on us for delicious, responsibly-raised local eggs!
(image: earth911) written by jmalsky november 10, 2011 at 4:00 pm posted in good ideas tagged with backyard, chickens, earth 911, eggs, fresh, garden, legal, local ,raising, restrictions leave a comment » organic produce is the way to go when it’s available at your local grocer (it will be atin.gredients!)
real trees contain no harmful  chemicals, are 100% biodegradable, “locally-sourced” (local in this  case is “grown in the us and canada”), and provide an added benefit  of storing carbon while they are growing.
(image: eating for england)
computers are great at solving certain problems – and terrible at solving others.
you could do  this by cutting down your own tree near your home, or asking the tree vendor  which kind is the most “local.”