among the norfolk pine's main downsides as a holiday centerpiece is it's  tricky to find one as large as a traditional cut tree, its branches are not as  numerous nor dense and it's sensitive to pressure, generally unable to handle  too many decorations.
strike 3: it was left indoors much longer than the ten-day cutoff point.
a part of the new york times company.
it requires minimal care, and because it grows slowly will remain  small and attractive for many years indoors."
my colleague steve nix,  about.com's guide to forestry saysseven to ten days is an acceptable time lapse  to keep a living christmas tree indoors before putting it outside for eventual  planting.
some might make a case for fake trees, because they  are re-used every year and thus don't generate the waste of their real  counterparts.
is buying a new christmas tree every year the way to go or is purchasing  a not-quite-as-charming-but-reusable faux evergreen an eco thumbs up?
my colleague steve nix, about.com's guide to forestry saysseven to ten days is an acceptable time lapse to keep a living christmas tree indoors before putting it outside for eventual planting.
is there a living christmas tree that can stay inside year round?
discuss in my forum by evelyn reid, about.com guide november 26, 2010 follow me on: what's worse for the environment?
photo © evelyn reidabove: your humble guide's living christmas tree didn't make it past one month.
more on: how to care for a norfolk pine how to care for a living christmas tree meant to be planted outdoors choose and chop down your own christmas tree at one of these farms near  montreal what to do with your christmas tree after the holidays montreal christmas guide
strike 1: it was not a conifer suitable for indoor houseplant life.
notwithstanding that my lovely little evergreen came with zero instructions -- the florist didn't known what species it was either -- i suspect the problem was that it needed to go outside.
what's better  for the environment?
is buying a new christmas tree every year the way to go or is purchasing a not-quite-as-charming-but-reusable faux evergreen an eco thumbs up?
it requires minimal care, and because it grows slowly will remain small and attractive for many years indoors."
but fake trees are made with polyvinyl chloride (or pvc, otherwise known as vinyl), one of the most environmentally offensive forms of non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic.
notwithstanding that my lovely little evergreen came with zero  instructions -- the florist didn't known what species it was either --
above: your humble guide's living christmas tree didn't make it past one month.
strike 2: as a living christmas tree that was supposed to be planted outdoors, it should have never been fertilized -- which i did, unwittingly -- because that risks provoking new growth, awakening the dormant tree, which means it likely won't survive when the time comes to plant it outdoors.
above: your humble guide's living christmas tree didn't make it past  one month.
" either way, i'm not thrilled with either option, even though the city of  montreal makes good use of discarded christmas trees.
so last year i bought a living christmas tree.
above: a norfolk pine, one of the only conifers able to survive as a year-round indoor plant.
even if it can bear the weight, the branches might droop permanently from the overload.
and christmas lights dry out the norfolk pine quickly, making it require daily misting and moisture checks.
sign up discuss in my forum real vs. fake christmas trees:
photo by flickr user rosa sayabove: a norfolk pine, one of the only conifers able to survive as a year-round indoor plant.
some might make a case for fake trees, because they are re-used every year and thus don't generate the waste of their real counterparts.
he adds that some experts recommend shortening that to four days.
above: a norfolk pine, one of the only conifers able to survive as a  year-round indoor plant.
yes, there is one conifer that can withstand the rigors of indoor life:  the norfolk pine, a subtropical evergreen fromnorfolk island which would  quickly expire if youdid put it outside.
strike 3: it was  left indoors much longer than the ten-day cutoff point.
even if it can bear the weight, the branches might droop  permanently from the overload.
what's worse for the environment?
strike 2: as a living christmas tree that was supposed to be planted outdoors,  it should have never been fertilized -- which i did, unwittingly -- because  that risks provoking new growth, awakening the dormant tree, which means it  likely won't survive when the time comes to plant it outdoors.
i figured environmentalists would root for fake but
i figured  environmentalists would root for fake but according toearthtalk: "... most environmentalists, "tree huggers" among them,  would agree that real trees are the better choice, at least from a personal and  public health standpoint.
among the norfolk pine's main downsides as a holiday centerpiece is it's tricky to find one as large as a traditional cut tree, its branches are not as numerous nor dense and it's sensitive to pressure, generally unable to handle too many decorations.
i  suspect the problem was that it needed to go outside.
" either way, i'm not thrilled with either option, even though the city of montreal makes good use of discarded christmas trees.
but what about apartment dwellers and home owners with limited yard space?
my bio real vs. fake christmas trees ...
but fake trees are made with polyvinyl chloride (or pvc,  otherwise known as vinyl), one of the most environmentally offensive forms of  non-renewable, petroleum-derived plastic.
the debate by evelyn reid, about.com guide   november 26, 2010
free montreal newsletter!
according toearthtalk: "... most environmentalists, "tree huggers" among them, would agree that real trees are the better choice, at least from a personal and public health standpoint.
photo © evelyn  reid
and according to extension greenhouse and nursery crops specialist dr. leonard perry, you don't need much of a green thumb to handle the cone-bearing norfolk: "if you want to invest in a houseplant with a future, buy a norfolk island pine.
and  according to extension greenhouse and nursery crops specialist dr. leonard  perry, you don't need much of a green thumb to handle the cone-bearing norfolk: "if you want to invest in a houseplant with a future, buy a norfolk  island pine.
yes, there is one conifer that can withstand the rigors of indoor life: the norfolk pine, a subtropical evergreen fromnorfolk island which would quickly expire if youdid put it outside.
and christmas lights dry out the norfolk pine  quickly, making it require daily misting and moisture checks.
so last year i bought a  living christmas tree.
photo by flickr user rosa say