they arrive in the flower beds close to dusk and feed on the  phlox,monarda, and wild butterfly weed.
it is the  fleeting glimpse of a deer, a wild turkey or a red fox, or for those who prefer  their animal life less wild, herds of cows grazing in pastures or horses  trotting in fields.
after  all, isn't it wrong to cut down a tree to use just for a few weeks?
it is a continuous series of panoramic views, the boundaries of its limited right-of-way rarely apparent and miles of the adjacent countryside seemingly a part of the protected scene.
“the blue ridge parkway is many things.
it is the product of a series  of major public works projects that helped the appalachian region climb out the  depths of the great depression.
it never provided  a perch for a bird or had a butterfly rest on its branches.
it is miles of split-rail fence,  moss on a wood shingle roof, broomcorn and flax in a pioneer garden.
it's ok to use a real tree to wait for  santa on christmas eve.
so what if it's cut down?
it never felt the pull of the sun to make it break bud  and grow.
my father is 75 years old and recalls the days when  the parkway to be the only paved road in this part of the mountains.
whether easing through a foot of snow or driving in and out of clouds of  heavy fog, the blue ridge parkway is always a stunning reminder of the beauty  around us here in the blue ridge mountains.
the scent of it -- the feel of it -- can not be compared to  plastic.
it is the fleeting glimpse of a deer, a wild turkey or a red fox, or for those who prefer their animal life less wild, herds of cows grazing in pastures or horses trotting in fields.
a deer or bear  never brushed past it.
editor francis church's response to a little girl  questioning if there was a santa claus, has survived more than 100 years.
it is a series of parks providing the visitor access to high mountain passes, splendid natural “gardens” of flowering mountain plants, waterfalls and water gaps, deep forests and upland meadows.
we travel with our parents, hike the boulder and waterfall trails with our ten year old twin boys and chase or 2 year old little girl across the meadows at doughton park where we often fly kites in the spring and summer.
it is an elongated park,  protecting significant mountain landscapes far beyond the shoulders of the road  itself.
it is a series of parks providing the visitor access to high mountain  passes, splendid natural “gardens” of flowering mountain plants,  waterfalls and water gaps, deep forests and upland meadows.
beautiful place to fly kites!
below is a shallowtail  butterfly enjoying a rest on a huge joe pye weed.
the blue ridge parkway is all these things and much more, therefore it should come as no surprise that this is the most heavily visited unit of the national park service.” - http://blueridgeparkway75.org/more-than-a-road/history lil’ grandfather choose and cut is proud to be an integrated pest management farm (ipm).
it will make the jolly old elf smile to himself to  think that not all the traditions of yesteryear have not been forgotten.
in the  spirit of francis church, there is only one response.
by leaving wildflowers and field buffers  throughout the christmas trees and horse pastures, we provide habitat for all  sorts of creatures.
i may be a bit bias as that is my husband buddy and our little angel  helen!
editor francis church's response to a little girl questioning if there was a santa claus, has survived more than 100 years.
on aug 15, 2011  posted by: tagged in: untagged
it is a chain of recreational areas, offering motorists a spot to picnic in the woods, a place to sleep overnight in a campground or a charming lodge, as well as opportunities to refuel their vehicle, enjoy a meal, or purchase a piece of fine regional handiwork.
one of the many blessings of growing in laurel springs, nc was the long sunday drives my family always took north or south on the blue ridge parkway.
after all, the christmas tree reminds us  in the dead of winter of the beauty of nature and life.
my father is 75 years old and recalls the days when the parkway to be the only paved road in this part of the mountains.
it is the longest road planned as a single unit in the united states.
whether easing through a foot of snow or driving in and out of clouds of heavy fog, the blue ridge parkway is always a stunning reminder of the beauty around us here in the blue ridge mountains.
we are so blessed to  live in such a diverse and beautiful place!
" don't we have enough plastic from  china already in our lives?
that can't be done with  a big plastic brush.
"yes, virginia, it's  ok to use a real christmas tree!"
it is a “museum of the managed american countryside,” preserving the rough-hewn log cabin of the mountain pioneer, the summer home of a textile magnate, and traces of early industries, such as logging railways and an old canal.
it is an elongated park, protecting significant mountain landscapes far beyond the shoulders of the road itself.
hummingbird moths are one of our favorite inhabitants  of the farm.
feed real christmas trees from lil' grandfather choose and cut in north carolina i hope you enjoy this post by our friend dr. jill sidebottom.
come up the mountain and enjoy  one of my favorite national parks, you may just decide to stay!
it is the product of a series of major public works projects that helped the appalachian region climb out the depths of the great depression.
it is miles of split-rail fence, moss on a wood shingle roof, broomcorn and flax in a pioneer garden.
they arrive in the flower beds close to dusk and feed on the phlox,monarda, and wild butterfly weed.
another will be planted in its  place to provide a home for butterfly and bird.
should we feel guilty about enjoying a real tree?
people today question the use of a real tree to celebrate christmas.
by leaving wildflowers and field buffers throughout the christmas trees and horse pastures, we provide habitat for all sorts of creatures.
some reason  that using the same old plastic christmas "tree" is better for the  environment.
hummingbird moths are one of our favorite inhabitants of the farm.
it is a continuous  series of panoramic views, the boundaries of its limited right-of-way rarely  apparent and miles of the adjacent countryside seemingly a part of the  protected scene.
the blue ridge parkway is all these things and  much more, therefore it should come as no surprise that this is the most  heavily visited unit of the national park service.”
yes, virginia, it's ok to use a real christmas tree!in 1897 on this date, september 21, the most famous newspaper editorial ever written in the english language "yes, virginia, there is a santa claus" was printed in the new york sun.
it is the longest road  planned as a single unit in the united states.
visiting the blue ridge parkway is for the adventurer of any age.
it is a “museum of the managed american  countryside,” preserving the rough-hewn log cabin of the mountain  pioneer, the summer home of a textile magnate, and traces of early industries,  such as logging railways and an old canal.
the old tree will be recycled.
thanksgiving day 9 am until dark fridays and saturdays 9 am until dark sundays noon until dark landscape marketing solutions by landscapemarketer.com
come up the mountain and enjoy one of my favorite national parks, you may just decide to stay!
it is a chain of recreational areas, offering motorists a  spot to picnic in the woods, a place to sleep overnight in a campground or a  charming lodge, as well as opportunities to refuel their vehicle, enjoy a meal,  or purchase a piece of fine regional handiwork.
if the family accounted for all the trees cut down for the paper used in the  household through the year, this use of this one small tree fades into  insignificance.
lil’ grandfather choose and cut is proud to be an integrated  pest management farm (ipm).
- http://blueridgeparkway75.org/more-than-a-road/history on aug 25, 2011  posted by:lilgrandfatherchooseandcut tagged in: laurel springs nc  , doughton park ,  blue ridge parkway lil’ grandfather choose and cut is home to countless species of  butterflies and bees.
i hope you enjoy this post by our friend dr. jill sidebottom.
a fake "tree" was never alive.
i may be a bit bias as that is my husband buddy and our little angel helen!
but the real christmas tree is not  insignificant.
shouldn't a really great christmas have a great  real tree?
meadows of doughton park!
it's role as the center of the christmas festivities makes it a part  of the family.
go for adventure with your family this year!
visiting the  blue ridge parkway is for the adventurer of any age.
on sep 23, 2011 posted by: lilgrandfatherchooseandcut tagged in:laurel springs nc ,  blue ridge parkway our neighbor the blue ridge parkway - by lil' grandfather choose and cut one of the many blessings of growing in laurel springs, nc was the long  sunday drives my family always took north or south on the blue ridge  parkway.
we are so blessed to live in such a diverse and beautiful place!
below is a shallowtail butterfly enjoying a rest on a huge joe pye weed.
yes, virginia, it's ok to use a real christmas tree!
in 1897 on this  date, september 21, the most famous newspaper editorial ever written in the  english language "yes, virginia, there is a santa claus" was printed  in the new york sun.
as arthur sower with the us forest service wrote in 1949,  "...there is no reason why the joy associated with the christmas  evergreen may not be a means of arousing in the minds of children an  appreciation of the beauty and usefulness of trees; and keen appreciation of  the beauty and usefulness of trees is a long step toward the will to plant and  care for them.
we travel with our  parents, hike the boulder and waterfall trails with our ten year old twin boys  and chase or 2 year old little girl across the meadows at doughton park where  we often fly kites in the spring and summer.