in fact, the market for christmas trees means millions are planted each  year, each "sequestering" by expert estimates, anywhere from 40 to  300 pounds of carbon dioxide a year.
"the notion that people are going out in large numbers and harvesting  trees out of forests is not correct," chastagner says.
"these plants we are talking about -- christmas trees, wreaths, boughs, cut flowers -- they are grown as crops," chastagner says, not swiped from mother nature.
"it would still in many usage scenarios expose a young child to enough  lead to knock a couple of iq points off that child's intellectual ability," maas told wsbtv in atlanta in 2005.
his defection from the ranks of live-tree advocates was testament to conflicting gospels on what exactly constitutes an environmentally friendly tree.
maybe that would reserve agricultural  land for food -- or spare the environment from pesticides, herbicides and  erosion.
last  summer sharp and another big oregon grower started thecoalition of  environmentally-conscious growers, to certify sustainably grown trees.
we've started to see quail coming back where they had disappeared because of habitat loss."
the industry is "predominately family farms that are supporting rural  communities," at least in his state, says jeff owen, a christmas-tree  extension specialist at north carolina state university.
you may think you're saving a tree, but the plastic alternative has  problems too.
" talk back: how much would you pay for a christmas tree?
the bigger the tree, the more carbon dioxide  the tree scrubs from the atmosphere and the more oxygen it returns.
"these plants  we are talking about -- christmas trees, wreaths, boughs, cut flowers -- they  are grown as crops," chastagner says, not swiped from mother nature.
the problem with plastic
while the debate rages on, we've got some better ways to help the  planet this christmas.
in north carolina, discarded christmas trees are tied to sand dunes  to trap sand and slow erosion.
not eternal, perhaps, but from  the american perspective, darned close.
"for every tree we harvest, we replant," says joe sharp, owner of yule tree farm in oregon, the biggest christmas-tree-producing state.
they suck carbon  dioxide -- a huge contributor to global warming and respiratory disease -- out  of the air and turn it into wood.
but it's  still hard to find their labels.
the basics is a fake christmas tree the 'green' choice?
you may think you're saving a tree, but the plastic alternative has problems too.
maybe that would reserve agricultural land for food -- or spare the environment from pesticides, herbicides and erosion.
advertisement discuss in a message board digg
continued: green christmas tips 1 | 2 | next > rate this article click on one of the stars below to rate this  article from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).lowhigh view all top-rated articles e-mail us your comments on this article discuss in a message board msn privacy
if forests are falling, it's not because of christmas trees, points out  gary chastagner, a washington state university professor of plant pathology who  specializes in christmas-tree diseases and post-harvest quality.
"they were originally put up to show life in the dead of winter," says patrick downey, a christmas-tree grower in sherbrooke, quebec.
so, by buying a real tree, you're saving the earth, just a little, as well as sustaining what many would call the green heart and soul of christmas.
the bigger the tree, the more carbon dioxide the tree scrubs from the atmosphere and the more oxygen it returns.
because it lasts and lasts, a plastic tree could, in theory, spare  more live trees every year it is used.
christmas-tree farms, he says, are restoring wildlife -- rodents, songbirds, foxes, wild turkeys, birds of prey, bobcats, deer and -- it is rumored -- mountain lions.
doesn't plastic's everlasting nature, they ask, make it the least-awful  alternative?
but it's still hard to find their labels.
they suck carbon dioxide -- a huge contributor to global warming and respiratory disease -- out of the air and turn it into wood.
"the notion that people are going out in large numbers and harvesting trees out of forests is not correct," chastagner says.
a tree left in the ground removes many times that amount, year after year.
video on msn money how to choose a christmas tree lisa benenson of hallmark magazine gives some tips on choosing the perfect tree  and making it look great over the holiday season.
do your 'black friday' shopping online msn shopping's sales and deals bin have a tightwad's christmas msn's guide to the holidays choose-your-own tree farms grow in popularity
at the same time, live trees clean up air pollution.
the major reason the flowerdew faction is small,  however, is that the plastic-is-green rationale has more holes than a watering  can.
"putting up a plastic tree has no meaning whatsoever."
so, by buying a real tree, you're saving the earth, just a little, as well  as sustaining what many would call the green heart and soul of christmas.
last summer sharp and another big oregon grower started thecoalition of environmentally-conscious growers, to certify sustainably grown trees.
if you're thinking you're keeping a tree  alive by hanging on to an artificial tree for nine or 10 years, don't pat  yourself on the back just yet.
because it lasts and lasts, a plastic tree could, in theory, spare more live trees every year it is used.
this by marilyn lewis which is "greener," an artificial christmas tree or a real one?
"some of these counties, the quail had disappeared a generation ago.
his defection from the ranks of live-tree advocates was  testament to conflicting gospels on what exactly constitutes an environmentally  friendly tree.
"putting up a plastic tree has no meaning whatsoever.
a tree left in the ground removes many times that  amount, year after year.
doesn't plastic's everlasting nature, they ask, make it the least-awful alternative?
"some  of these counties, the quail had disappeared a generation ago.
fir flew (so to speak) last year when british organic gardening guru bob  flowerdew, author of "bob flowerdew's organic bible: successful gardening  the natural way," announced he was buying a fake christmas tree  to save the forests.
we've started to  see quail coming back where they had disappeared because of habitat loss.
fir flew (so to speak) last year when british organic gardening guru bob flowerdew, author of "bob flowerdew's organic bible: successful gardening the natural way," announced he was buying a fake christmas tree to save the forests.
continued: green christmas tips 1 | 2 | next >
"for every tree we harvest, we replant," says joe sharp, owner of  yule tree farm in oregon, the biggest christmas-tree-producing state.
the logic: manufacturing and shipping a plastic tree emits a small amount of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, but just once.
more from msn 10 ways to pay cash for christmas
the logic: manufacturing and  shipping a plastic tree emits a small amount of carbon dioxide into the  atmosphere, but just once.
"they were originally put up to show life in the dead of winter,"  says patrick downey, a christmas-tree grower in sherbrooke, quebec.
they're bundled and sunk into lakes to make a  habitat where fingerlings can hide from big predators.
while the debate rages on, we've got some better ways to help the planet this christmas.
cities and towns around  the country recycle trees after christmas by grinding them into garden mulch  that they sell -- or give -- back to the folks who discarded the trees in the  first place.
plastic trees also can cause more-immediate health problems.
once you're sick of the plastic tree, chastagner  says, it'll live on in a landfill for centuries.
after just a  week indoors, many artificial trees shed a dry dust containing lead, a powerful  neurotoxin, the university of north carolina's late environmental studies  director, richard maas, found in his research
which is "greener," an artificial christmas tree or a real one?
in fact, the market for christmas trees means millions are planted each year, each "sequestering" by expert estimates, anywhere from 40 to 300 pounds of carbon dioxide a year.
" credentials adding to their green credentials, live trees are often  recycled.
the flowerdew faction is small but earnest.
the industry is "predominately family farms that are supporting rural communities," at least in his state, says jeff owen, a christmas-tree extension specialist at north carolina state university.
christmas-tree farms,  he says, are restoring wildlife -- rodents, songbirds, foxes, wild turkeys,  birds of prey, bobcats, deer and -- it is rumored -- mountain lions.
"it would still in many usage scenarios expose a young child to enough lead to knock a couple of iq points off that child's intellectual ability," maas told wsbtv in atlanta in 2005.
after just a week indoors, many artificial trees shed a dry dust containing lead, a powerful neurotoxin, the university of north carolina's late environmental studies director, richard maas, found in his research