no … no … apparently i was going to cut it down.
can i get some coolness points for that at least?
it felt like a sauna.
-- captain ahab my mood ring is indigo
certainly they’ll think the axe they’ll use to cut it will be cool, right?
it held less than half of the ornaments we usually display.
first, when we got to the farm, the kind man who greeted us showed us four  different types of trees.
i went to the thermostat, which was in the corridor where i had taken the tree earlier that day, and it was 90+ degrees in the house.
i could’ve dragged it out the back door and around the house to the front curb.
i  strung it with lights, and the boys added ornaments.
it’s starting to show it’s wear, and i should’ve shopped for a replacement after christmas last year.
the boys thought i  needed help, but i eventually got it.
while i very much enjoyed getting the real tree, getting rid of it after the holidays wasn’t as easy.
but doing that in the snow seemed like more than i wanted to do.
the boys thought i needed help, but i eventually got it.
i strung it with lights, and the boys added ornaments.
getting a real christmas tree isn’t just about the tree itself but about the tree-acquiring experience.
i removed the cheap plastic cover and inside where pine needles that had lodged in the shut-off mechanism and weren’t allowing the heater to regulate off and on; it was just running constantly.
it seemed tall at the lot, but compared to our 9 foot artificial tree of years past, it really wasn’t that large.
the farm had a small shop with ornaments for sale, a fire in the fireplace, and hot cocoa.
it was weeks past christmas, and i decided to take the tree out.
join 626 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
there was snow all around up there, so it felt very christmas-y to go to the christmas tree farm.
that night, i woke up to an extremely hot house.
so far the boys aren’t too thrilled about going to get a real tree.
o christmas tree: part two 8
it seemed tall at the lot, but compared to our 9 foot artificial tree of  years past, it really wasn’t that large.
it wasn’t funny at the time, but i’m able to laugh at it now.
the first year we lived in an upstairs apartment and once we were done with it we threw it over the balcony to the ground below.
the next year we were in a house.
i want the boys to experience a real tree at least once and to see what we think about it as a possible tradition.
the walls had to eventually be repainted.
i removed the needles and turned on the a/c. i also went outside in the 30-degree weather and left the front door wide open to cool me (and the house) down.
jan the rest of the story … when the boys and i went to get our real christmas tree, it didn’t go  exactly as i’d thought.
it just felt like christmas when you were there.
he then gave me directions around his lot on where i  could find the different types, handed me a measuring stick to measure the  heights of the trees, and gave me a saw.
the trees come all neatly and tightly bundled and thus pretty easy to get in.
then i went to sawing it down.
well, not that bad actually.
it smelled wonderful, and was kinda nice just to do something new and different.
i hope things will be better once we actually get to the farm, pick our tree, watch it be hacked down, bundled up and bring it in our home.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
the dry pine branches and needles were not very gentle to the corridor walls, and the walls were badly scratched.
we found the type we wanted, and then found the tree we wanted.
a friend picked it up and took to his father’s pond.
so no more real trees after that year.
my knees got muddy and my hands were rubbed (a little) raw, but i succeeded in felling the tree and was quite proud of myself for doing a new, hard thing and for (hopefully) impressing the boys.
when their father and i lived in indiana we had a real tree twice.
it’s also such a big hassle to put on all the limbs and fold out each branch.
we all helped drag our tree to the truck.
so i decided to drag it out the front door, which meant i had to take it down a small corridor between the dining room and the front foyer.
but once you cut the cord and the branches poof out, it’s a bigger task to get the treeout.
i recall thinking to myself: can i actually  cut down a tree?
watching the lorax reading ahab's wife: or, the star-gazer: a novel singing god's not dead quoting "[words] mean one thing to one person and the opposite to another. ...
i carried into the house.
we bought a 9-foot after-christmas clearance special, and that’s been our tree for the last 10 years.
join 626 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
my knees got muddy and my hands were  rubbed (a little) raw, but i succeeded in felling the tree and was quite proud  of myself for doing a new, hard thing and for (hopefully) impressing the boys.
the rest of the story … when the boys and i went to get our real christmas tree, it didn’t go exactly as i’d thought.
it smelled wonderful, and was kinda nice just to do something new  and different.
he then gave me directions around his lot on where i could find the different types, handed me a measuring stick to measure the heights of the trees, and gave me a saw.
i thought they were going to cut down for me.
boys in front of the christmas tree, 2009 i’ve decided to get a real christmas tree this year, rather than put up our fake one.
it held less than half of the  ornaments we usually display.
first, when we got to the farm, the kind man who greeted us showed us four different types of trees.
we found the type we wanted, and then  found the tree we wanted.
words seem to be well-woven baskets ready to hold your meaning, but they betray you with rotted corners and splintered stays."
i recall thinking to myself: can i actually cut down a tree?