shaw uses 100 percent  of the cards and envelopes to create carpet backing for new carpet tiles.
here’s one more idea worth trying: send natural holiday cards that  come embedded with seeds.
or just decorate less.
try green field paper’sgrow-a-note cards or pretty plantable paperworks frombotanical paperworks.
once spring rolls around, the recipient can plant the  whole darn card, water it, and watch as flowers or even trees sprout from the  ground.
if you  can’t get out of the gift-giving cycle, buy local to support your  community’s economy and cut down on the fossil fuels used for packaging  and transportation.
and check out treehugger’sgift guide for eco-friendly ideas for everyone on your list.
this year i’m going to say no to disposable plates, cups, and silverware.
or go solar with these holiday  lights fromgaiam.
and check out treehugger’sgift guide for eco-friendly  ideas for everyone on your list.
until monday, posted at 06:03 am in around the house, green living | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e009879f2a883300e54f9883218833
when the recipients finish with the cards, they stick them in return envelopes and drop them in the mail.
if you don’t have enough glass dishes for your party, pick up  an assortment from salvation army or ask a friend to loan you some.
your information (name and email address are required.
and if you’re dreading cleaning all those dishes, enlist some help.
if you purchase a fake tree, make sure it’s a sturdy one that will last for quite some time so it’s worth the impact on the environment.
here are some easy ways to make this christmas a little greener and still  have fun—no grinches here!
in fact, i just read anational geographic news article that stated that americans produce 25 million tons of “festive rubbish” every year—yikes!
a festive candle here, an organically grown christmas tree strung with led lights there, stockings you made yourself hung by the chimney with care … what more do you really need?
and read up onsierra club’s tips for buying and giving holiday  trees.
you  can easily create your own wreaths, ornaments, and other décor.
(urls automatically linked.)
learn all about the benefits of buying balled and burlapped  trees for planting later fromthis article.
every year i get my girlfriends together for a fete at my place, during which  we overindulge in homemade treats and tasty drinks, listen to christmas music,  and catch up.
i absolutely love throwing holiday parties.
once spring rolls around, the recipient can plant the whole darn card, water it, and watch as flowers or even trees sprout from the ground.
then i’m switching to real  trees, because fake ones can have some pretty nasty ingredients in them, such  as pvc and even lead.
or consider  making donations to recipients’ favorite charities instead.
and that doesn’t even take into account all the energy wasted illuminating holiday lights, all the fuel consumed shipping gifts, and all the money spent on said gifts.
that’s what bookmarks are for, so you can come  back and try these pointers out in 2008!)
but there’s always room to go green.
and if  you’re dreading cleaning all those dishes, enlist some help.
(just be sure you label the recycling  clearly—last year my paper recycling bin ended up filled with  chocolate-covered strawberry tops!)
if so, look for organic tree  farms near you or ask around for vendors of sustainably grown trees in your  area.
if you don’t have enough glass dishes for your party, pick up an assortment from salvation army or ask a friend to loan you some.
(oh, and if it’s too late to implement some of these green tips this  year, don’t despair!
during the party, also be sure to set out bins or bags for recycling paper, aluminum, glass, and such.
if so, look for organic tree farms near you or ask around for vendors of sustainably grown trees in your area.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted at 06:03 am in around the house, green living | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00e009879f2a883300e54f9883218833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference how about a green christmas?: posted by: | this is only a preview.
what’s an eco-conscious person to do?
your comment has not yet been posted.
as a final step before posting your comment, enter the letters and numbers you see in the image below.
(they’re now available in most places where standard holiday lights are sold.)
led lights come in all sorts of shapes, sizes, and colors and, in addition to lasting a lot longer than standard christmas lights, can reap big energy savings for your home.
look for cards made with recycled paper.
led lights come in all sorts of shapes, sizes, and  colors and, in addition to lasting a lot longer than standard christmas lights,  can reap big energy savings for your home.
or if you insist on old-fashioned greetings (they are fun to give and receive, aren’t they?), look for cards made with recycled paper.
plus there’s the environmental impact of  manufacturing and shipping the trees.
a festive candle here, an organically grown christmas tree  strung with led lights there, stockings you made yourself hung by the chimney  with care … what more do you really need?
better still, buy a living christmas tree that you can plant once the  holiday is over.
(if the ground isn’t frozen in your part of the country yet but it might soon, dig a hole for your live tree now!)
with a glass of wine and your closest friends or family members armed with dish towels by your side, it’s not so bad!
better still, buy a living christmas tree that you can plant once the holiday is over.
if you’re sending holiday wishes this year, how about e-cards rather than print ones (which inevitably end up in the landfill, no matter how witty your prose).
every year i get my girlfriends together for a fete at my place, during which we overindulge in homemade treats and tasty drinks, listen to christmas music, and catch up.
having trouble reading this image?
learn all about the benefits of buying balled and burlapped trees for planting later fromthis article.
or just  decorate less.
this year i’m going to say no to disposable plates, cups, and  silverware.
plus there’s the environmental impact of manufacturing and shipping the trees.
for more eco-friendly holiday decorating and entertaining ideas, head over tothe
keep reading the blog this month too, because there are plenty more festive, green tips to come—next week i’ll fill you in on green gift-wrapping ideas, then later in the month i’ll highlight the best ways to recycle that lovely christmas tree (if you can’t plant it).
(oh, and if it’s too late to implement some of these green tips this year, don’t despair!
that’s what bookmarks are for, so you can come back and try these pointers out in 2008!)
or if you insist on  old-fashioned greetings (they are fun to give and receive, aren’t they?),
or buy small trees or tree-like potted plants that you can decorate for the holiday and keep around all year—that’s what my mom did last year, below, and it was adorable!
you can easily create your own wreaths, ornaments, and other décor.
if you can’t get out of the gift-giving cycle, buy local to support your community’s economy and cut down on the fossil fuels used for packaging and transportation.
string energy-efficient led holiday lights indoors and out.
when the recipients finish with the cards, they  stick them in return envelopes and drop them in the mail.
shaw uses 100 percent of the cards and envelopes to create carpet backing for new carpet tiles.
this prevents automated programs from posting comments.
buy fewer, more meaningful gifts.
it’s still got a few years of use left in it, so i’m going to keep assembling and taking it down until it croaks.
i’m intrigued by reproduct greeting cards and envelopes—the  cards come in two-way envelopes (sort of like netflix) with pre-paid return  postage to shaw industries.
for more eco-friendly holiday decorating and entertaining ideas, head over  tothe
string energy-efficient led holiday lights  indoors and out.
i’m intrigued by reproduct greeting cards and envelopes—the cards come in two-way envelopes (sort of like netflix) with pre-paid return postage to shaw industries.
name is required to post a comment please enter a valid email address invalid url
it’s still got a few years of use left in it, so i’m going to keep  assembling and taking it down until it croaks.
with a glass  of wine and your closest friends or family members armed with dish towels by  your side, it’s not so bad!
or consider making donations to recipients’ favorite charities instead.
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner better homes & gardens: 501 decorating ideas under $100 (better homes & gardens decorating) rsmeans and lexicon consulting, inc.: universal design ideas for style, comfort & safety editors of creative homeowner: the new smart approach to home decorating crissy trask: it's easy being green: a handbook for earth-friendly living the home depot: patios designs for living this work by lexicon consulting, inc. is licensed under a creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united states license.
or buy small trees or tree-like potted plants that you can decorate for  the holiday and keep around all year—that’s what my mom did last  year, below, and it was adorable!
when i was an apartment dweller, real trees weren’t allowed, so i bought a fake one at an after-christmas sale.
here’s one more idea worth trying: send natural holiday cards that come embedded with seeds.
email address will not be displayed with the comment.)
« hanging outdoor lights | main | christmas shopping organization  » december 07, 2007 how about a green christmas?
better homes & gardens: 501 decorating ideas under $100 (better homes  & gardens decorating) rsmeans and lexicon consulting, inc.: universal design ideas for style,  comfort & safety editors of creative homeowner: the new smart approach to home decorating crissy trask: it's easy being green: a handbook for earth-friendly living the home depot: patios designs for living technorati add me to your typepad people list creative commons this work by lexicon consulting, inc. is licensed under a  creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united  states license.
the letters and numbers you entered did not match the image.
are real, cut christmas trees more your style?
or go solar with these holiday lights fromgaiam.
in fact, i just read anational geographic news  article that stated that americans produce 25 million tons of “festive  rubbish” every year—yikes!
here are some easy ways to make this christmas a little greener and still have fun—no grinches here!
when i was an apartment dweller, real trees  weren’t allowed, so i bought a fake one at an after-christmas sale.
and that doesn’t even take into  account all the energy wasted illuminating holiday lights, all the fuel  consumed shipping gifts, and all the money spent on said gifts.
i absolutely love the holidays, but i’m acutely aware of how wasteful  this time of year can be.
if you purchase a fake tree, make sure  it’s a sturdy one that will last for quite some time so it’s worth  the impact on the environment.
if you’re sending holiday wishes  this year, how about e-cards rather than print ones (which inevitably end up in  the landfill, no matter how witty your prose).
what’s an  eco-conscious person to do?
(they’re now available in most places where standard  holiday lights are sold.)
and read up onsierra club’s tips for buying and giving holiday trees.
(just be sure you label the recycling clearly—last year my paper recycling bin ended up filled with chocolate-covered strawberry tops!)
keep reading the blog this month too, because there are plenty more  festive, green tips to come—next week i’ll fill you in on green  gift-wrapping ideas, then later in the month i’ll highlight the best ways  to recycle that lovely christmas tree (if you can’t plant it).
try green field paper’sgrow-a-note cards or pretty plantable  paperworks frombotanical paperworks.
then i’m switching to real trees, because fake ones can have some pretty nasty ingredients in them, such as pvc and even lead.
during the party, also be sure to set out bins or bags for recycling paper,  aluminum, glass, and such.
(if the ground isn’t frozen in  your part of the country yet but it might soon, dig a hole for your live tree  now!)
« hanging outdoor lights | main | christmas shopping organization » i absolutely love the holidays, but i’m acutely aware of how wasteful this time of year can be.