after the holidays, christmas trees can be recycled and used for purpose  including bird feeders/shelters, fuel chips and mulch.
what are fake trees made of?
regardless of how far the technology has come, it's still interesting to know the first fake christmas trees were really just big green toilet bowl brushes.
delta farm press recently addressed china's environmental crisis inthis article.
are fake trees really fireproof?
in fact, artifical christmas trees were recently added to thecenter for health, environment & justice's list of household products containing pvc.
see below for examples: lights on christmas tree spark kc house fire giving tree fire damage $1 million are fake trees better for the environment?are fake trees better for the environment?
the  plastic material, typically pvc, can be a potential source of hazardous lead.
where do they come from?
as mentioned before, most artificial trees are manufactured in china and contain pvc (polyvinyl chloride).
real christmas trees provide a comfortable habitat for a wide variety of  wildlife.
almost 10  million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.
the potential for lead poisoning is great enough that fake trees made in  china are required by california prop 65 to have a warning label.
the plastic material, typically pvc, can be a potential source of hazardous lead.
almost 10 million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.
real trees vs. fake trees real tree facts choose & cut farms take your family  on a holiday experience retail lots looking for a precut tree near you?
overloaded electrical outlets and faulty wires are the most common causes of holiday fires in residences - these are just as likely to affect artificial trees as real trees.
according to the children's health environmental coalition, the manufacture of pvc creates and disperses dioxins, which include the most toxic man-made chemical known.
wholesale trees buy loads of trees from growers real trees vs.  fake trees real christmas trees help filter dust and smog from the air and help stop  soil erosion.
michigan christmas  tree association
why did the usda quarantine some artificial trees?
things you might not know about fake trees
the u.s. commerce dept. tracks  theimport of fake trees what are the factories like where they're made?
this issue is especially concerning due to china's weak enforcement of  environmental regulations.
read more about the effects of lead poisoning.
as noted in the washington post, "on the concrete floors of zhang's  shuitou company factory, migrant workers, most earning about $100 a month,  squat in front of hissing machinery as they melt chips into moldable  plastic..." read the full article.
actually fake trees were invented by a company who made toilet bowl brushes, the addis brush company.
actually fake trees were invented by a company who made toilet bowl  brushes, the addis brush company.
information courtesy of the national christmas tree association.
overloaded electrical outlets and faulty wires are the most common causes  of holiday fires in residences - these are just as likely to affect artificial  trees as real trees.
this issue is especially concerning due to china's weak enforcement of environmental regulations.
read a warning about them from the children's health environmental coalition.
see below for examples: lights on christmas tree  spark kc house fire giving tree fire damage $1 million are fake trees better for the environment?
released into air or water, dioxins enter the food chain, where they accumulate in fatty tissues of animals and humans, a potential risk for causing cancer, damaging immune functions and impairing children's development.
who decided to make a fake christmas tree?who decided to make a fake christmas tree?
the u.s. commerce dept. tracks theimport of fake trees
what are the factories like where they're made?what are the factories like where they're made?
things you might not know about fake trees where do they come from?
christmas trees on a farm produce oxygen - a necessary component of life  for people.
delta farm press recently addressed china's  environmental crisis inthis article.
fake trees end up  in a landfill.
regardless of how far the technology has  come, it's still interesting to know the first fake christmas trees were really  just big green toilet bowl brushes.
some fake trees have a wooden center pole.
the potential for lead poisoning is great enough that fake trees made in china are required by california prop 65 to have a warning label.
learn more about lead in artificial trees.
homeconsumersmembersdirectorywholesaledirectory2directory3 calendarwholesale mapwholesale advanced search formsearchjust for kidsteacher  inforetail lotsreal tree factsenvironmental benefitsfire safetychoose & cut  farmstrees for troopstree care tipsmember benefitsapplication
released into air or water, dioxins enter the food  chain, where they accumulate in fatty tissues of animals and humans, a  potential risk for causing cancer, damaging immune functions and impairing  children's development.
in 2004, the u.s. department of  agriculture placed a quarantine on fake trees from china, which had a  potentially harmful beetle in the center pole.
most artificial christmas trees are made of metals and plastics.
most fake trees (85%) in the u.s. are imported from china.
in fact, artifical christmas trees were  recently added to thecenter for health, environment & justice's list of  household products containing pvc.
read the full article.
according to the children's health environmental coalition, the  manufacture of pvc creates and disperses dioxins, which include the most toxic  man-made chemical known.
who decided to make a fake christmas tree?
as mentioned before, most artificial trees are manufactured in china and  contain pvc (polyvinyl chloride).
why do some artificial trees carry a warning label?
learn more about the quarantine.
in 2004, the u.s. department of agriculture placed a quarantine on fake trees from china, which had a potentially harmful beetle in the center pole.
as noted in the washington post, "on the concrete floors of zhang's shuitou company factory, migrant workers, most earning about $100 a month, squat in front of hissing machinery as they melt chips into moldable plastic..."