similar to most environmental story plots, this one has a good environmentalist, the lorax, that holds the moral high ground and a bad, greedy, profit mongering, capitalist, the oncelor.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
the lorax is an odd, little character that intrepidly opposes a thneed manufacturing plant (whatever that is!)
the world of zero transaction costs is a fiction—but  a sometimes useful fiction, not unlike a vacuum in physics.
this conservation ethic has the power to enhance resource stewardship and environmental quality.
but coase’s emphasis was on the fact that the costs of transacting arenot zero, and nor are the costs associated with government action to deal with social cost problems.
q: why are concerns about equity so prominent in environmental  discussions of coase?
he is the author of many books and scholarly articles on the history of twentieth-century economics, with an emphasis on the work of ronald coase.
in this story the oncelor produces thneeds that appear to be in high demand.
the resilience of nature is recognized with an understanding that some places are more fragile than others.
but since most readers failed to pay attention to his  arguments beyond the coase theorem material (the first 15 pages of a 44-page  article), they didn’t seem to notice this.
at seasons end, real trees can be recycled and used for making everything from mulch to medicines, or to enhance wildlife habitat and prevent erosion.
fifteen years after its founding, moore parted with greenpeace.
for more of perc’s q&as, see the  series archive.
how has the coase theorem impacted discussions of environmental economics and environmental policy?
the very possibility that the “victims” of pollution should bribe the factory owners to reduce their pollution levels is anathema to many.
but will the planet notice?
“protecting biodiversity for its own sake has not worked,” he co-writes in the fall 2011 issue ofbreakthrough journal. to enhance conservation in today’s world requires us to “embrace human development” and “to integrate the value of nature’s benefits into [corporations] operations and cultures.”
patrick moore, a co-founder of greenpeace, was raised in a logging community and earned a phd in resource ecology and forestry.
yandle: there are success stories in both camps.
some continue to hew to what we might call a “pigovian” line—emphasizing that regulatory mechanisms or taxes are necessary to correct the problem—while others are more interested in exploring whether markets or market-like mechanisms can be utilized to resolve the problem.
my direct link into questions of the environment as we think of it narrowly –water, air — was a colleague i became associated with at clemson by the name of hugh macaulay.
so there are wonderful success stories there.
it starts in the financial sector, where the benefits of bankers’ actions are often and almost entirely privatized: they pocket the bonus if the bet pays off.
he sees a global landscape that has been touched by humans.
they are, i would say, hampered inasmuch as they are promoting it within the context of technology-based, systems-approach standards based on inputs, and that’s because of the statutes under which they operate.
as long as people continue to demand a fresh tree at christmas, farmers will continue to provide them.
rf: you have been a proponent of the process approach.
join 66 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
what coase showed was that, in the world of neoclassical economics, government regulation was unnecessary for an efficient resolution of social cost problems.
both were associated with a move from normative to positive economics and empirically-based studies.
coase is not about the coase theorem; he was a strong advocate of  comparative institutional analysis and that, at a minimum, economic benefits  and costs have an important role to play in evaluating policy options.
a billion dollar industry, supporting more than 14,000 jobs, exotic ranches have worked to bolster the populations of approximately 125 different endangered species.
if you want to understand the fundamentals of environmental problems look at the property rights and follow the incentives.
profit is a good motivator.
it actually has a long  history in jurisprudence and was held by none other than j.r. commons, a  prominent institutionalist economist and progressive in who worked during the  first half of the twentieth century.
but value judgments often get in the way of sound reasoning when it comes to things like externalities, so not everyone has gotten on board with coase’s notion of reciprocity.
in reality, it turns out, we all get a steady stream of free passes.
how do these costs affect the way we understand coase’s relevancy to environmental policy?
so, pigovian remedies are unnecessary in a pigovian (costless  transacting) world.
as paul schwennesen writes in the latest issue ofperc reports, however, “simply insisting that people ‘do what’s right’ doesn’t capture the full measure of greenfaith’s work; the group calls for their members to address the mundane as well as the celestial.
alternatively, you can buy a fake tree that is probably made in china.
q: we hear a lot about the coase theorem in environmental economics.
so i began writing on property rights and external effects, and that led naturally into questions of water quality, air quality, pollution, and so forth.
q: you suggest that the coase theorem is widely recognized among  environmental economists and taught in most textbooks, yet its relevance is  often viewed as extremely limited.
perc enviropreneur institute graduates fletcher harper (‘07) and stacey kennealy (‘10) are looking to these religious groups to take action and work toward improving environmental quality.
in his strategy to garner attention for conservation, dr. suess misses the fundamental motivator: incentives.
but “create  markets” or “we need government to solve the problem” takes  us nowhere.
publishers weekly recommends the locavore’s dilemma:
the incentive-based framework will complement other efforts in the region to keep the eastern population of the gopher tortoise off the endangered species list.”
the process approach is by far the oldest because common law is a process approach where there are rules of property, rules of liability, rules with respect to pollution that have been around for centuries, so that one cannot impose costs on his neighbor without your neighbor’s permission, or your neighbor has a cause of action against you.
industry and profit are not necessarily bad and harmful to the environment.
he also believes that “there do not seem to be any serious problems with the nonrenewable resources.”
· theme: tapestry theme by studiopress.
often found under the movements entitled “ecotheology” or “green faith,” religious practitioners of all denominations and creeds are acting to conserve what they consider to be god’s creation, following tenets many believe are already in line with their religious practices.
but there is broad general  agreement that social cost problems have their roots on the property rights  side, and this viewpoint owes to coase.
the first is  that markets/exchangecan work to resolve certain social cost issues.
but since most readers failed to pay attention to his arguments beyond the coase theorem material (the first 15 pages of a 44-page article), they didn’t seem to notice this.
frank takes a very simple game theory used to explain the arms race (and naively applies it to elk antlers, arguing that one elk grows big antlers and gets all the cows so that others must also grow such big ones to compete), applies it to market competition, and concludes that competition can lead to bad things for the group as a whole.
christmas tree plantations cover 350,000 acres of land in the us and are growing about 350 million trees.
a: probably because coase focused so heavily on  efficiency.
a: the coase theorem tells us that if property rights over the relevant resources are well-defined and the costs of transacting are zero, parties who disagree over the use of those resources will negotiate to an efficient solution, regardless of to whom the property rights are assigned.
in the case of elk, he claims that large elk antlers make elk as a species worse off because the antlers make it difficult for the bull elk to run through the woods and therefore more susceptible to wolf predation; obviously he has never seen a bull lay his head back so that the antlers are tucked neatly against his back and ribs and run through the thickest trees; never seen a bull use the antlers for defense against wolves; and doesn’t ask how it is that elk are thriving by moving to more open spaces in the presence of wolves–spaces which they occupied before human pressure moved them to the mountains.
medema is a professor of economics at the university of colorado denver and a 2011 perclone mountain fellow.
read the full article here in the spring issue of perc reports.
i have not yet seen “the lorax” movie but will think about how the storyline may differ given well specified property rights when i do.
yandle was the subject of a recent interview on environmental economics in theregion focus magazine by the richmond federal reserve bank, part of which appears below.
but coase’s emphasis was on the fact that the costs  of transacting arenot zero, and nor are the costs associated with  government action to deal with social cost problems.
this, too, can only be determined from careful and patient study.
therefore, incentives for conservation must be aligned with human needs and good stewardship.
perhaps more people should study economics.
these are difficult problems, and we seldom find that difficult problems have easy solutions.
in africa, private land owners are protecting rhinos from poaching; in the caribbean an alumnus of perc’s enviropreneur institute (pei) is working to help replant and regenerate dying coral reefs; and in the gulf of mexico, the environmental defense fund has joined perc in campaigning for property rights solutions to overfishing.
kareiva is the chief scientist for the nature conservancy, the world’s largest conservation organization.
a fake tree is usually an import from a foreign factory.
q: critics of coase often contend that transaction costs in markets are too high for coasian-type bargaining to occur: negotiations can be costly, multiple parties can be affected, and information is diffuse.
if property rights are assigned over the resources in question and there are no costs of transacting, the parties will efficiently resolve the problem through negotiation.
though much of the  early reaction to the theorem was negative, the discussion has evolved into one  that focuses somewhat less on the theorem per se (that is, with its highly  restrictive assumptions) and somewhat more on departures from these conditions  and how coase-theorem-like processes may be operative under more realistic  conditions.
is this view accurate?
perc has helped us understand new tools and perspectives on how to achieve this goal.”
this, in the end, is also lost because the oncelor puts himself out of business by extricating every last truffala tree which are a needed input for thneed production.
he is the author of many books and scholarly  articles on the history of twentieth-century economics, with an emphasis on the  work of ronald coase.
“the central teaching of ecology is that we are part of nature and interdependent with it,” writes moore in his 1995 book,pacific spirit.
no data, no theory, no knowledge of wild species,  but lots of rhetorical arguments.
moore sees the forest and the trees that provide habitat, ecosystem services, and wood products.
a: probably because coase focused so heavily on efficiency.
what is the “coase theorem” and how has it evolved in economic thought?
i do care about the environment, both near and far.
if you would like to learn more about market-based approaches for conservation, such as the approach gartner began formulating as a perc enviropreneur fellow, thenapply to perc’s enviropreneur institute by march 5.
the question is which ones, and this can only emerge from careful and patient  study.
in contrast to the historical ideal of manifest destiny, in which the conquest of the land was held to be a biblical right imbued to god’s loyal followers, a contemporary breed of religious practitioners are working to combine faith and ecology in new ways.
that is, if a is  generating smoke that harms b, b may be said to be as much the  “cause” of the harm as a, since b could mitigate damages by, e.g.,  moving away.
q: over the years, people have come to refer to a hypothetical world of zero transaction costs as a “coasian world.”
at common law, people downstream hold property rights to water quality and people upstream cannot destroy that with impunity.
the first is that markets/exchangecan work to resolve certain social cost issues.
see coase as important because he emphasized that social cost problems are  ultimately problems related to incomplete property rights.
the funds collected from hunting a small percentage of the endangered animals gives ranchers the money they need to continue to run their ranches.
that is a lot of trees.
finally, frank argues that  taxes can fix the problems–and yes, of course, most importantly the  problem of global warming.
read terry anderson and shawn regan’s article, “shoot an elephant, save a community,” to see how assigning economic value to animals in africa is also working to conserve wildlife.
originally posted at environmental trends.
how smart economics can save the world, and is an economist at the environmental defense fund.
this week’s q&a is with bruce yandle, a distinguished professor at clemson university and george mason university and a senior fellow atperc.
trees are renewable and through proper forest management we can harvest timber while enhancing environmental quality.
but there was good reason for this—it was the language in  which the welfare economics of social cost issues had been discussed for a  half-century.
at 45°n and 4,820 feet elevation, perc needs your help to keep its dedicated perc staff warm this winter season!
more digg print filed under: climate change, environmental education, history,  institutions, law, q&a, regulation tagged with: economics, environment don’t bother with “the darwin economy” october  26, 2011 by terry l. anderson
a live tree means removing a tree from the forest, or tree plantation, as it may be.
one can only come to grips with these  things on a case-by-case basis, weighing the benefits and costs associated with  alternative courses of action and recognizing that both markets/exchange and  government activity have associated with them certain costs—often  substantial.
sincerely, terry l. anderson executive director it is the time of year for the seasonal debate over the family christmas tree: live or artificial?
both generate imperfect solutions, and the question is that of which of these imperfect solutions is best for dealing with the problem at hand.
but there is broad general agreement that social cost problems have their roots on the property rights side, and this viewpoint owes to coase.
though much of the early reaction to the theorem was negative, the discussion has evolved into one that focuses somewhat less on the theorem per se (that is, with its highly restrictive assumptions) and somewhat more on departures from these conditions and how coase-theorem-like processes may be operative under more realistic conditions.
the scimitar horned oryx, the addax, the dama gazelle – endangered animals one would expect to encounter in africa.
basically what protected air and water quality in the united states up until the late 1960s was the process approach based on common law, with a lot of state and local ordinances and statutes supplementing it.
interestingly, though, coase talks about larger concerns  (“aesthetics and morals”) toward the end of “the problem of  social cost.”
but there was good reason for this—it was the language in which the welfare economics of social cost issues had been discussed for a half-century.
the idea concedes that increased conservation will come when people personally recognize the benefits.
q: ronald coase’s 1960 article on “the problem of social cost” had a tremendous impact on economics, including perc’s workon free market environmentalism.
[continue reading at region focus...]
medema is a professor of economics at the university of colorado denver and  a 2011 perclone mountain fellow.
how has the coase theorem impacted discussions of environmental  economics and environmental policy?
we are all a part of nature and nature will be as we steward it.
it is time for conservationists from all walks to shed old paradigms of doom and gloom and look at the world as it really is.
coase avoids this term.
wagner points out that it has become acceptable to say that markets don’t work, just look at “the demise of lehman brothers and the subsequent swoon of the global economy.”
coase is not about the coase theorem; he was a strong advocate of comparative institutional analysis and that, at a minimum, economic benefits and costs have an important role to play in evaluating policy options.
during production he clear cuts every last trufulla tree, smogs the air, and clogs the water.
indeed, the global trend over several decades has been better property rights, more economic freedoms, and increased prosperity.
is this view  accurate?
thus, greenfaith has used lessons garnered from pei to attract new congregations to their certification program by touting the benefits of financial savings, as well as engaging new and younger members.
what is  the “coase theorem” and how has it evolved in economic thought?
the upshot of the theorem is that private negotiations or other market-like processes can efficiently resolve social cost (“externality”) problems such as those associated with air and water pollution.
there are some wonderful success stories: epa is now promoting process with respect to river basin management approaches for water quality and we’ve got some pretty interesting success stories going on there.
greenfaith’s mission is to inspire, educate, and mobilize people of religious backgrounds to protect the earth as a moral and sacred responsibility.
save your money, and if you get a complimentary copy, save your time by
in praise of the 10,000 mile diet, co-authored by former perc fellows pierre desrochers and hiroko shimizu, as a book to watch for in 2012.
they are an aggregator of wishes and desires, however misguided they may be.
two or three seedlings are planted for nearly every single christmas tree cut.
two years ago in perc reports todd gartner wrote about his efforts at “helping the american forest foundation develop a market-based habitat credit trading system in portions of georgia and alabama.
q: you suggest that the coase theorem is widely recognized among environmental economists and taught in most textbooks, yet its relevance is often viewed as extremely limited.
a: those who refer to such a world haven’t read coase very closely.
the world of zero transaction costs is a fiction—but a sometimes useful fiction, not unlike a vacuum in physics.
and i see things getting better, they really are!
a: those who refer to such a world haven’t read  coase very closely.
q: what can we take away from coase’s work and apply to the area of free market environmentalism?
these are difficult problems, and we seldom find that difficult  problems have easy solutions.
the evaluation of how society should deal with such problems thus involves a comparison of the benefits and costs of alternative courses of action—including the possibility of allowing the problem to persist if the costs of “curing” it are worse than the disease itself.
• wally thurman • bruce yandle • terry anderson • roger meiners • bobby mccormick •
q: what can we take away from coase’s work and apply to the  area of free market environmentalism?
interestingly, though, coase talks about larger concerns (“aesthetics and morals”) toward the end of “the problem of social cost.”
a: if one adopts an efficiency-based perspective on these  things, the point to be taken is that there is no such thing as a determinate  optimal solution to social cost problems.
the major force driving greenfaith’s success, therefore, has not been morals, but the promise of growth – and this strategy is having success.
p.j. hill •jane s. shaw • donald leal • holly fretwell •jonathan h. adler •
if you want to change behavior, change the incentives.
this, too,  can only be determined from careful and patient study.
how has coase’s work influenced the way we think about external costs?
but the costs are socialized: bankers pay but a tiny fraction of the costs of their failed bets; society pays.
now is the moment when improving the environment by utilizing property rights and markets rather than big government can truly benefit america as the nation works to deal with its fiscal crisis.
lomborg concludes that we are living in a healthier, wealthier, and cleaner environment than ever before thanks to human innovation.
that is the moral of my story.
why then are so many environmental economists interested in coase?
economics is about a way of thinking.
your tax-deductible gift will help fund innovative research, convene conferences, publish the results inperc reports and other venues, and add to the growing number of environmentalists implementing perc’s ideas.
although some regions are better cared for than others, there are more reasons for optimism than pessimism.
he was disturbed by the misinformation that was being disseminated and the unwillingness of organization leaders to compromise to work toward realistic solutions.
they do so not to prove their conservation ethic, rather as an investment in timber for future production.
furthermore, how can we say that markets don’t work when we are “far from having anything approaching a free market?”
so what can be done?
a bit of green pr doesn’t hurt, either.
q: ronald coase’s 1960 article on “the problem of  social cost” had a tremendous impact on economics, including perc’s  workon free market environmentalism.
“it’s about mobilizing the faith-based sector – one of the largest social networks in the country – to make it actually happen.
some continue to hew  to what we might call a “pigovian” line—emphasizing that  regulatory mechanisms or taxes are necessary to correct the problem—while  others are more interested in exploring whether markets or market-like  mechanisms can be utilized to resolve the problem.
there has been plenty of confusion surrounding the work of ronald coase since his article “the problem of social cost” appeared in 1960 – so much, in fact, that two scholarswrote in 1992 that the so-called coase theorem has “generated a negative externality for economists.”
stiff regulations can make forests a liability by decreasing permissible harvest and increasing management costs.
this makes  coase’s analysis the natural starting point for the analysis of social  cost issues.
following years of data collection and analysis, lomborg changed his tune.
a: the coase theorem tells us that if property rights over  the relevant resources are well-defined and the costs of transacting are zero,  parties who disagree over the use of those resources will negotiate to an  efficient solution, regardless of to whom the property rights are assigned.
i purchased the darwin economy: liberty, competition, and the common good by robert frank thinking i would learn something.
rf: how did you become interested in the economics of the environment?
q: over the years, people have come to refer to a hypothetical  world of zero transaction costs as a “coasian world.”
no data, no theory, no knowledge of wild species, but lots of rhetorical arguments.
as a student, lomborg was pessimistic about the future of the environment.
there are transaction-cost problems and enforcement-cost problems that lead to situations where people will understandably develop a systems approach.
for more perc q&as, see theq&a archives.
it actually has a long history in jurisprudence and was held by none other than j.r. commons, a prominent institutionalist economist and progressive in who worked during the first half of the twentieth century.
few know more about the legendary economist and his impact on economic thought thansteven medema.
you don’t tell people how to do things; you say this is the outcome that must be achieved, or it’s going to be costly for you.
problems such as those associated with air and water pollution.
the list of movie sponsors is a bit surprising, to say the least.
values need to be specific and actionable.”
one can view this in two ways.
“in short, the best way to reduce the carbon footprint of agricultural production is to produce food where it can be done most efficiently and to engage in international trade.
it was also a  bedrock assumption of mainstream economics for ages, including of the economics  against which coase was reacting in “the problem of social cost.”
the gopher tortoise conservation marketplace is testing a new strategy, which provides financial incentives to private landowners who manage their woodlands for habitat and candidate species.
so when i joined that faculty, there was a senior faculty member who was working on this.
if property rights are assigned over the resources in question and there are no  costs of transacting, the parties will efficiently resolve the problem through  negotiation.
the question is which ones, and this can only emerge from careful and patient study.
in a process approach, you identify goals and outcomes, develop some rules of the game, and then let the process take hold, holding accountability with respect to outcome.
yandle: what some people refer to as the “externality revolution” was occurring in economics when i was a doctoral student in the late 1960s.
unfortunately, too many economists and policy makers do not want to hear such things.
a: my sense is that most environmental economists see coase as important because he emphasized that social cost problems are ultimately problems related to incomplete property rights.
but “create markets” or “we need government to solve the problem” takes us nowhere.
they are even used as biomass to create energy.
this is no doubt often the case, yet transaction costs are also present in the political process.
reed watson • laura huggins •shawn regan • brandon scarborough • guest contributors enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
a: my sense is that, at a minimum, he impressed upon some  that social cost problems, or externalities, are reciprocal in nature.
dedicated to improving environmental quality through property rights and markets.
markets, in fact, work all too well.
with this came a great concern about the costs associated with government action—costs that he (rightly) believed had been underplayed or ignored in the theory and practice of social cost policy.
his latest book,the hesitant hand: taming  self-interest in the history of economic ideas, was awarded the 2010 book  prize by the european society for the history of economic thought.
what do you mean by these terms?
now, thanks to perc, the largest and oldest think-tank focusing on market solutions to environmental problems, fme is being tried and tested around the world.
what coase showed was that, in the world of neoclassical economics, government  regulation was unnecessary for an efficient resolution of social cost problems.
this is no doubt  often the case, yet transaction costs are also present in the political  process.
in the case of elk, he claims  that large elk antlers make elk as a species worse off because the antlers make  it difficult for the bull elk to run through the woods and therefore more  susceptible to wolf predation; obviously he has never seen a bull lay his head  back so that the antlers are tucked neatly against his back and ribs and run  through the thickest trees; never seen a bull use the antlers for defense  against wolves; and doesn’t ask how it is that elk are thriving by moving  to more open spaces in the presence of wolves–spaces which they occupied  before human pressure moved them to the mountains.
of course,  transaction costs are never zero, and much of the discussion of the theorem  over the years has attempted to work out the possibilities and limitations of  negotiated solutions when transaction costs are positive.
a: my sense is that, at a minimum, he impressed upon some that social cost problems, or externalities, are reciprocal in nature.
q: critics of coase often contend that transaction costs in markets  are too high for coasian-type bargaining to occur: negotiations can be costly,  multiple parties can be affected, and information is diffuse.
he also was once a greenpeace supporter.
i purchased the darwin economy: liberty, competition, and the  common good by robert frank thinking i would learn  something.
similar to lomborg and moore, peter kareiva puts humans at the center of conservation.
yandle’s contributions to the field are numerous.
so, pigovian remedies are unnecessary in a pigovian (costless transacting) world.
the statute says you will define “best available control technology” and require it of all users of these particular streams.
abject opposition to logging is one case in point.
why then are so many  environmental economists interested in coase?
“we are not overexploiting our renewable resources,” he writes in his 2001 book,the skeptical environmentalist.
but by showing how property-rights-based solutions can generate  private, efficiency-enhancing moves, the theorem opened the door to the  subsequent analysis of exchange solutions in the real world, and thus to both  theories and policies that employ such a framework.
the fundamental mismatch, as evidenced by the collapse of lehman brothers, has enormous consequences for the rest of us.
while it is still popular in some regions, such as here in montana, to head to the local national forest to cut a tree, the majority of christmas trees are grown on tree farms.
though not a new idea, it is often dismissed, even discouraged, by environmental thinkers.
when people think about economics, wagner writes, “their minds turn to business and finance.
few know more about the legendary economist and his impact on economic  thought thansteven medema.
of course, the  coase theorem is an idealized construct that does not reflect the world in  which we live.
the second is that neither markets nor government are panaceas.
weyerhaeuser, for example, is proud to announce that they plant millions of trees every year.
but by showing how property-rights-based solutions can generate private, efficiency-enhancing moves, the theorem opened the door to the subsequent analysis of exchange solutions in the real world, and thus to both theories and policies that employ such a framework.
environmental problems are the result of conflicting demands on resources.
don’t miss gernot wagner’s latest piece in the washington post.
while there doesn’t seem to be much in common between those placing their faith in markets and those putting faith in the divine, harper and kennealy’s interfaith coalition, greenfaith, recognizes that incentives matter.
join 66 other followers return to top of page blog at wordpress.com.
unfortunately, too many  economists and policy makers do not want to hear such things.
one can only come to grips with these things on a case-by-case basis, weighing the benefits and costs associated with alternative courses of action and recognizing that both markets/exchange and government activity have associated with them certain costs—often substantial.
i wrote my dissertation on externalities in housing and the rise of what were then called slums and the programs that were addressing them, urban renewal.
yandle: a systems approach is where the “brightest and best” get together and look at a problem and come up with what they believe to be the best solution.
generally, when you have crises, systems approaches tend to take over — that is, we move to hierarchies, just as we are seeing now with japan and nuclear power.
if christmas is your holiday and you desire a tree, buy your christmas tree with pride knowing that by purchasing a tree you are helping to plant several more.
i learned that i should not have purchased it.
wagner teaches at columbia, is the author of
a:  my sense is that most environmental economists
but aren’t there success stories that the systems approach has enjoyed?
well specified property rights encourage long-term stewardship and ensure accountability.
as this 60 minutes segment shows, by allowing a number of these animals to be hunted for a high price, exotic wildlife ranches have achieved a major feat in wildlife conservation.
his latest book,the hesitant hand: taming self-interest in the history of economic ideas, was awarded the 2010 book prize by the european society for the history of economic thought.
second, a may be imposing harm on b, but to restrain a’s  activity in favor of b is to impose harm on a. some see this as a  “right-wing” sort of point, but it is not.
they can be cut into firewood and burned for home heat or as the centerpiece for your next weenie roast.
“economics is organized common sense,” and as wagner points out, ”if there is anything we need right now to guide our economy and the planet out of this dual malaise, it’s more common sense.”
and as we all know, there are plenty of occasions when the dictates of efficiency collide with some people’s sense of what is “right.”
a: i think that its central impact has been in the way of making scholars—and later policy makers—aware of the possibility of using the exchange process to deal with social cost issues.
when perc opened its doors in 1980, free market environmentalism (fme) was considered an oxymoron; environmentalists saw markets as an enemy, not an ally.
second, a may be imposing harm on b, but to restrain a’s activity in favor of b is to impose harm on a. some see this as a “right-wing” sort of point, but it is not.
the next time you hear someone say this, you can tell them they’re wrong for two reasons: lehman brothers is more asymptom of what happened rather than the underlying cause, and it was guided by much larger forces than itself.
though humans have touched nearly every place on earth, our increased prosperity has brought enhanced environmental quality.
the rub comes in where one goes from there.
q: discussions of environmental economics often center around externalities.
he was one of the early pioneers of environmental economics as a distinct sub-discipline in the 1970s and has authored or edited 14 books on regulation and environmental policy.
the new paradigm acknowledges humans as an important part of nature and is grounded in a realistic view of the state of the world.
with  this came a great concern about the costs associated with government  action—costs that he (rightly) believed had been underplayed or ignored  in the theory and practice of social cost policy.
save your money, and if you get a complimentary copy, save your time by not reading it.
about 30 million live christmas trees are sold in the us every year.
there has been plenty of confusion surrounding the work of ronald coase  since his article “the problem of social cost” appeared in 1960  – so much, in fact, that two scholarswrote in 1992 that the so-called  coase theorem has “generated a negative externality for  economists.”
they describe the system that can be installed that will lead to a solution of the problem and so it tends to be top-down.
selecting food based on its affordability, availability, and quality is a better way to help the planet than focusing on food miles.”
here is how the gopher tortoise candidate conservation marketplace is being designed and piloted: with 87 percent of southern forests in private ownership, protecting species like the gopher tortoise requires an innovative approach.
regardless, forest service permits to harvest a tree are issued to help manage the forest under agency guidelines.
to clear up some of the confusion, we talked with steven  medema for the next installment of perc’s q&a series.
artificial trees are not biodegradable, nor are they a good fuel source.
then epa says, ok, members of this watershed community, tell us how you would like to achieve that goal.
q: why are concerns about equity so prominent in environmental discussions of coase?
all in the name of profit.
rf: in your writings about environmental economics, you’ve described a “systems approach” and a “process approach” to environmental policy issues.
filed under: environmental education, forestry tagged with:  christmas trees q&a with steven medema on the coase theorem and  environmental economics november 30, 2011 by perc
one can  view this in two ways.
that is, somehow we all survived until the 1970s without having a systems approach imposed from the top for the environment in a consistent way.
he believes that both protected forests and managed forests involve human action, which can enhance the benefits provided to society.
q: discussions of environmental economics often center around  externalities.
q: we hear a lot about the coase theorem in environmental  economics.
both  generate imperfect solutions, and the question is that of which of these  imperfect solutions is best for dealing with the problem at hand.
the  upshot of the theorem is that private negotiations or other market-like  processes can efficiently resolve social cost (“externality”)
rf: you mentioned transaction costs.
as a result of the oncelor’s insensitive activities the brown bar-ba-loots go hungry for there is no more truffala fruit, the swomee swans can no longer croak a note, and the gills of the humming fish have become gummed.
a: i believe that there are two key insights.
the percolator the free market environmentalism blog a curious model for conservation is taking the stage.
it is grounded in protecting landscapes and species but adds humans to the mix.
it was also a bedrock assumption of mainstream economics for ages, including of the economics against which coase was reacting in “the problem of social cost.”
how much of an obstacle are transaction costs to environmental protection under the process approach?
using statistical information bjorn lomborg, a statistician, has systematically analyzed global environmental issues.
of course, transaction costs are never zero, and much of the discussion of the theorem over the years has attempted to work out the possibilities and limitations of negotiated solutions when transaction costs are positive.
in addition to that, there was the revolution that was formed by the rise of public choice as an analytical device, primarily associated with gordon tullock and james buchanan’s 1962 book, the calculus of consent.
first, it takes two to tango.
but value judgments often get in the way  of sound reasoning when it comes to things like externalities, so not everyone  has gotten on board with coase’s notion of reciprocity.
thus, hunting endangered species in texas has provided economic incentives for ranchers to continue to conserve and protect the species.
how has coase’s work influenced  the way we think about external costs?
i just have to change the names on the axes from “housing” to “water,” then i’ve got my model.
a: i think that its central impact has been in the way of  making scholars—and later policy makers—aware of the possibility of  using the exchange process to deal with social cost issues.
given well specified rights, negotiation will motivate the highest valued resource use.
our christmas tree harvesting activities result in growing more trees, not less.
and as we all know, there are plenty of occasions when the  dictates of efficiency collide with some people’s sense of what is  “right.”
the lorax, a dr. seuss classic, is hitting the big screen this weekend.
of course, the coase theorem is an idealized construct that does not reflect the world in which we live.
“in the end, greenfaith isn’t just about teaching people that god wants a healthy environment,” said harper.
frank takes a very simple game theory used to explain the arms race (and  naively applies it to elk antlers, arguing that one elk grows big antlers and  gets all the cows so that others must also grow such big ones to compete),  applies it to market competition, and concludes that competition can lead  to bad things for the group as a whole.
fossil fuel subsidies and various other loopholes and distortions make the playing field uneven.
we have gotten to the point now where the epa is identifying maximum loads that can be imposed on a stream; that’s an outcome.
how do these costs affect the way we understand coase’s  relevancy to environmental policy?
yet, as some texas ranches are proving, helping to bring back large numbers of these endangered species can be a profitable pastime.
but economics goes beyond these fields, and the difference between business and economics goesbeyond size.”
this ethic has been supported by three iconic conservation players.
the only conservation that makes sense to kareiva is one that considers human needs and desires.
this makes coase’s analysis the natural starting point for the analysis of social cost issues.
the evaluation of how  society should deal with such problems thus involves a comparison of the  benefits and costs of alternative courses of action—including the  possibility of allowing the problem to persist if the costs of  “curing” it are worse than the disease itself.
given ownership, however, the oncelor is more likely to invest in future trees to ensure the possibility of future production.
as you can imagine, the motivator of many of these sponsors is not just good green ethics as much as good for the bottom line.
to clear up some of the confusion, we talked with steven medema for the next installment of perc’s q&a series.
he was writing on, as he put it, “dirty water.”
finally, frank argues that taxes can fix the problems–and yes, of course, most importantly the problem of global warming.
here are some specific things that your donation to perc can accomplish: i assure you that your tax-deductible contribution will promote environmental quality with less government and more individual freedom .
for more of perc’s q&as, see the series archive.
check out shimizu’s piece in perc reports where she outlines three myths about eating local.
if the truffala forest was open access for anyone to cut, it is possible that the oncelor and others would race to harvest every last tree.
i thought, my work transfers directly.
the very possibility that the “victims” of  pollution should bribe the factory owners to reduce their pollution levels is  anathema to many.
that is, if a is generating smoke that harms b, b may be said to be as much the “cause” of the harm as a, since b could mitigate damages by, e.g., moving away.
more significantly, we violate one of the most basic tenets of economics, that there is no free lunch.
today, gartner, in collaboration with josh donlan and james mulligan of advanced conservation strategies, are ready to launch their first pilot transactions.
though we often hear otherwise, his analysis shows that global forest coverage has not changed much in the last 50 years.
a: if one adopts an efficiency-based perspective on these things, the point to be taken is that there is no such thing as a determinate optimal solution to social cost problems.