annual farm day april 11, 2012 (all day)
the beach is open 8 a.m.
community events east bay bike party bike-friendly public  transportation in san francisco when planning your next getaway, consider bringing your bike.
see  website for specific peak hour restrictions.
sonoma international film festival search this site for getaway ideas: what is om?
here are our picks for the 22 best bike events in the bay area.
keeping watch at the edge of the earth (in marin county), the rugged,  wind-swept point reyes national seashore is a pristine strip of  quintessential california coast—just north of san francisco and yet  worlds away.
mode: bart allow bikes:
these modes  of transportation allow bikes on board and generally free of charge.
regardless of the time  of day, bikes aren’t allowed in the first three cars of the train.
these modes of transportation allow bikes on board and generally free of charge.
gas powered bikes are not allowed.
there are tons of activities available in point reyes, so  it’s best to check in first at the bear valley visitor center, where the  friendly crew 10 best san francisco bay area bike rental shops you don’t have to shell out hundreds (or even thousands) of dollars  for a flashy bike worthy of the tour de france in order to enjoy all of the  beautiful trails that the bay area has to offer.
choose to be eco-friendly and  paycheck-friendly by checking out one of our top 10 bike rental shops in the  bay area.
escape the city to visit national parks, restaurants, and vineyards for spectacular views of the real or fake?
community events east bay bike party when planning your next getaway, consider bringing your bike.
if your idea of a fun bike ride doesn’t involve full-body spandex and  an all-day trek up an insurmountable hill, then look no further than the  10-mile ride.
10 best bay area views though living in one of the most photographed cities in the world, city  dwellers have a tendency to forget the unparalleled, natural beauty sitting  just outside the man-made structures of san fran proper.
the editorial  staff has mapped out and explored hot spots outside of san francisco - without a car.
we’re talking christmas trees, of course, and which is better for the environment.
is it better to cut down more of our already disappearing forests or to set up ticking time bombs of chemicals in our living rooms?
mode: bart  allow bikes:
sign up for our newsletter!
so what’s a treehugger to do when located a quick ferry ride from san francisco, the oft-overlooked island of alameda is home to a wide variety of unique attractions, including the quiet, lovely crown memorial state beach, an unassuming two-and-a-half-mile stretch of sand with calm waters, a bird sanctuary, and a fascinating visitor’s center.
from training-wheel-friendly family jaunts to rides with urban cycling up 71% since 2006, according to the san francisco municipal transit authority, and an electric bike-share on the way, it’s no surprise the bay area is host to a wide variety of annual bike events, from adventurous club outings to celebrity-run fundraisers to casual neighborhood rides.
with passionate arguments on both sides, it looks like the jury is still out on this problem.
if your idea of a fun bike ride doesn’t involve full-body spandex and an all-day trek up an insurmountable hill, then look no further than the 10-mile ride.
so embrace public transportation and welcome to om. the offmetro network offmetro ny: new york city getaways offmetro sf:
upcoming events march 7, 2012 8:00 am berkeley wine festival march 9, 2012 (all day) 2012 california senior games championships march 29, 2012 6:30 pm taste of the nation san francisco march 30, 2012 11:30 am 43rd
blazing saddles | 2715 hyde street | san francisco boasting best 10-mile bike rides around san francisco bay
adventure day trips day trip: things to do in point reyes
although the nine-mile loop in our own beloved golden gate park may seem hard to beat with its scenic gardens, historic windmills, and grazing bison, we discovered there are plenty of short-but-sweet trails near sf worth exploring.
from training-wheel-friendly family jaunts to rides 22 best biking events in the bay area with urban cycling up 71% since 2006, according to the san francisco  municipal transit authority, and an electric bike-share on the way, it’s  no surprise the bay area is host to a wide variety of annual bike events, from  adventurous club outings to celebrity-run fundraisers to casual neighborhood  rides.
we’ve been embroiled in this debate for years now.
the quiet shores are a great spot for picnicking,  flying kites, or just snoozing in the sun.
with passionate arguments on both sides, it looks like the jury is still  out on this problem.
remind yourself why your east coast friends are jealous of your nor cal life by taking a good, long look at it.
it’s a fact: you simply don’t get much more incredible than  this.
escape the city to visit national parks, restaurants, and vineyards  for spectacular views of the day trip: christmas tree farms in half  moon bay and beyond real or fake?
although the nine-mile loop in our own beloved golden gate park  may seem hard to beat with its scenic gardens, historic windmills, and  grazing bison, we discovered there are plenty of short-but-sweet trails near sf  worth exploring.
about | reviews | advertise | privacy and terms ©2012 offmetropolis, llc
there are tons of activities available in point reyes, so it’s best to check in first at the bear valley visitor center, where the friendly crew you don’t have to shell out hundreds (or even thousands) of dollars for a flashy bike worthy of the tour de france in order to enjoy all of the beautiful trails that the bay area has to offer.
though living in one of the most photographed cities in the world, city dwellers have a tendency to forget the unparalleled, natural beauty sitting just outside the man-made structures of san fran proper.
yes restrictions: bikes aren’t allowed on bart during peak hours in the downtown oakland stations.
san francisco getaways offmetro way off: getaways around the world offmetro.com: view all cities
so what’s a treehugger to do when day trip:  crown memorial beach in alameda located a quick ferry ride from san francisco, the oft-overlooked island of  alameda is home to a wide variety of unique attractions, including the quiet,  lovely crown memorial state beach, an  unassuming two-and-a-half-mile  stretch of sand with calm waters, a bird sanctuary, and a fascinating  visitor’s center.
see website for specific peak hour restrictions.
keeping watch at the edge of the earth (in marin county), the rugged, wind-swept point reyes national seashore is a pristine strip of quintessential california coast—just north of san francisco and yet worlds away.
it’s a fact: you simply don’t get much more incredible than this.
blazing saddles | 2715 hyde street | san francisco boasting
the quiet shores are a great spot for picnicking, flying kites, or just snoozing in the sun.
we’ve been embroiled in this debate for  years now.
is it better to cut down more of our already disappearing  forests or to set up ticking time bombs of chemicals in our living rooms?
offmetro is a travel guide for native san franciscans  and tourists alike, promoting a "greener" lifestyle.
more cities coming soon!
choose to be eco-friendly and paycheck-friendly by checking out one of our top 10 bike rental shops in the bay area.
remind yourself why  your east coast friends are jealous of your nor cal life by taking a good, long  look at it.
we’re talking christmas trees, of course, and which is better  for the environment.
yes restrictions: bikes aren’t allowed on bart  during peak hours in the downtown oakland stations.
regardless of the time of day, bikes aren’t allowed in the first three cars of the train.