it might be too late for this season, but if you're considering swapping your boring old white radiator for a more stylish design - yet want to make it energy efficient - let us introducebisque.
for as little as £35 a tree can be your year after year.
so carry anything you don't want to your local charity shop and help them as  well as helping yourself.
if more electricity than you need is produced you can sell it back to the grid.
a real tree doesn't only bring holiday cheer into your house; filling each room with a delightful scent; it also many other positive uses.
b&q loft pod - environmentally friendly and simple to install?
valentine's day will come and go, and we like to think that people celebrate their love each and every single day rather on a day made popular by a greetings card company to sell more cards...
reduce the mess in your home.
also ensure you have a nice sunny roof or wall to fix it on, as there is no  point having the panels if the sun doesn't reach them.
this is  truly a shame as there are so many great options available.
so far the build is 40 per cent finished with a new roof constructed, and under floor heating installed.
but do you think about what you carry your products home in when you go shopping?
according to guardian.co.uk, government subsidies have tripled the amount  of solar power in the uk over the past year as people, largely homeowners, look  to make nearly £1,000 a year as a result of installing solar panels.
the bio natura is an all-natural mattress made of 100% premium cotton and  pure coconut fiber, featuring an orthopedic center that increases the mattress  life and prevents the middle from caving in.
go through places where  'things' tend to accumulate - closets, the top shelf of the kitchen cupboard,  the attic, under your bed, and anywhere else you're likely to have stored items  that will be 'dealt with later'.
blok is priced from £514.80 and  ellisse is priced from £700.80 eco mattress for a wholesome sleep by parisha vaja on september 2,  2011 comments (3) share tweet ibtimes brings to our attention today the bio natura mattress, offering a  healthier kip.
by elisabeth  edvardsen on april 1, 2011 comments (7) share tweet have you been thinking about installing solar panels on your house to  produce your own energy?
the eco-friendly house has been in the plans for a long time, as the 36-year-old has spent more than a year battling to win planning permission.
the loft was built off site in 21 days and delivered early in the morning as the b&q innovation experts got to work.
the blok and ellisse ranges are available in the bisque london showroom now and nationally from february 2012.
so why not invest in products that will help you feel good and care for the environment?
now it's up to prime minister cameron and his helpers to decorate it beautifully.
photo: john birdsall/pa benefits of installing solar panels on your house
a great way to add a special touch to your new year's party!
now you can reduce your  energy usage in workable steps, and not get overwhelmed by everything that  needs to be taken care of.
remember when we wrote about solar panels and the benefits of installing them on your house?
bees are in danger of disappearing, and while you can ensure their continued well-being by planting the right flowers you could also consider taking up beekeeping.
photo: www.christmastree.org.uk the greener option for christmas trees
you can make money of it: yes that's right.
these can be anything from wasting less food to drinking more water.
donate unwanted things to charity.
by elisabeth edvardsen on  january 5, 2011 comments (2) share tweet most of us have goals and resolutions for the new year.
a standard home solar panel system could save around 1 tonne of co2 yearly.
also if you  buy your tree from a certified bctga grower you can be certain they are  sustainably grown and haven't caused any damage to local wildlife.
these days, you'll find a growing number of  counter-movements springing up that advocating for a more sustainable and  responsible way of dealing with our environment and bringing nature back to our  cities.
so far the build is 40 per cent finished with a new roof constructed, and  under floor heating installed.
and most importantly, once you've got your solar panels installed and ready, invest in some energy efficient appliances that will help you maximise the electricity that is produced!
the bio natura is an all-natural mattress made of 100% premium cotton and pure coconut fiber, featuring an orthopedic center that increases the mattress life and prevents the middle from caving in.
and with the growing availability of potted or rented trees, you don't even need to cut one down - simply chose which one to get, and either plant it in your garden after christmas or send it back to the farm until next season.
got any tips on how to green spring clean your home?
forget about valentine's day, it's all about the green spring clean!
if looked after properly, it could end up bringing christmas cheer to the household for years - and perhaps save a couple of pennies too!
aminach actually translates to 'my people rest' - if you insist!
it's designed by israeli bedding companysapapa by aminach who don't mess about, apparently, when it comes to a good ol' slumber courtesy of a quality mattress.
many of the uk's 24 bumble bee species are today endangered - two species even became extinct in the last 70 years!
the flat will then slowly cool down, and you'll be out the door before it cools completely!
while you might want your garden to look fashionable with large and colourful plants, it's important to remember that bees, and other insects, live in your flowerbeds and these amazing looking plants can be "hostile" towards insects making it difficult for them to access the pollen and nectar.
two half-loads uses more energy than one full load.
visit therecycle for london website to find your nearest reuse and recycling centre.
my green city - back to nature with attitude and style (gestalten, £35.00) is a compilation of the ideas and projects from  around the world that are promoting a more environmentally friendly lifestyle -  from urban farming initiatives and architectural visions that are changing our  cities, to furniture and other everyday objects that can make our streets and  homes greener.
then work your way through the to-do list towards a more energy  efficient home life.
simply place an order via the website, wait for the tree to be delivered, keep  it over christmas and then watch it go back to the field it came from once the  festive season is over.
got any helpful energy saving tips for hippyshopper?
making sure your place is  properly insulated is a given but what about your radiators?
however, to keep bees you need some equipment - some to keep you safe when  handling the bees - and also a hive for the bees to live in.
head over to eco age's online store to get your hands on an aerogarden for £130.00.
with news that several energy providers going to increase their electricity prices, it's time to have a look at how you can save energy - and money - at home.
reducing your room temperature with only 1°c could cut your heating bills by up to 10%.
so once you've invested in a system, it could help cut your electricity bills  with 40%.
by the time the house is completed, it is estimated that it will have reduced its carbon output by at least 80 per cent.
however, if you would rather do-good than buy a real tree, check out urban  tree planting charitytrees for cities to buy a gift that will keep on giving.
however, there has been an increase in the popularity of artificial trees over the years as they last season after season, as well as offer a solution to the 'needle drop' problem.
their green gifts are sustainable and will make a real and lasting difference  to uk communities and around the world.
most significantly though, it swears to be free of any harmful chemicals  which means your body won't be exposed to as many toxins whilst your snoring  the night away.
an old bed sheet can be made into several dishcloths.
source: energy saving trust image: home gas services most of us have goals and resolutions for the new year.
because you don't have  any use for that old jacket or the kitchen pans, chances are someone else will.
but do you think about  what you carry your products home in when you go shopping?
so not only are they more energy efficient, they may also  lower your bills!
(they must all be loyal hippyshopper readers)
with the combination of nasa space technology and expert design, the new  loft and home of the future plays host to a range of unusual products that  b&q claim will be the norm in years to come in a bid to create sustainable  homes.
reducing your  room temperature with only 1°c could cut your heating bills by up to 10%.
if you don't have double glazing, invest in thick curtains that you can close  at dusk to stop heat escaping.
available from the natural history museum's online shop for £18.00 +  delivery.
the council-run trial included b&q providing an energy audit of homes to locate which changes would reduce both carbon output and bills, followed by a loan from the council which is then paid back over 25 years.
you can find out more information on the project here: www.diy.com/eco former england and manchester united footballer gary neville has finally been given the green light to build his new partially underground pad.
it will have four bedrooms, a children's play area and a swimming pool - all nicely located in its petals.
if opted for the real thing, keep in mind the tree is a living object that needs some tender loving care in the weeks it embellishes your house.
the blok and ellisse ranges are available in the bisque london showroom now  and nationally from february 2012.
the loft was built off site in 21 days and delivered early in the morning  as the b&q innovation experts got to work.
promising stuff or nothing new?
if you haven't you definitely should, because the  benefits of solar electricity are many: it will cut your carbon footprint: it is a green,  renewable energy source that doesn't release any harmful co2 or other  pollutants.
alternatively, if you have a garden, place your tree outside and let animals inhabit there, or chip it to create mulch that can be used around other trees and shrubs.
exactly  that on their roofs!
read more about it onthe energy saving trust's website.
set your fridge and freezer to the right temperature.
the eco-friendly house has been in the plans for a long time, as the  36-year-old has spent more than a year battling to win planning permission.
flip the switch and you could end up saving pretty pennies.
for only £6.99 these bags can be used time and time again - and will  brighten up those dark and rainy months ahead!
read more about how to  best care for your real tree and recycling here.
commonly used leaning products are known to contain lots of nasty things  that you really don't want your children/animals/skin to get in touch with.
heating on for a few hours, and let the flat start to cool down 30 mins before you go to bed.
you can do your bit by choosing  plants that have this new 'bee label' - it's shaped like a bee - that indicate  which flowers and plants are best to help bees and butterflies.
what's more the instant loft conversion took just half a day to install.
the last few decades have been dominated by urbanisation, digitalisation  and an admiration for consumption.
check all windows and doors for drafts and place draft excluders  wherever possible.
previous 1 2 3 4 next bean sprouts blog | my zero waste | ecofriend | be more eco | the edge of the forest | ecofabulous | ecorazzi | goggleblog | great green goods | green my style | haute nature | holy moly | smart planet | the gin lady | personalised cards | treehugger | the alternative consumer | the hunger site©2012
so it's actually two gifts in one!
shiny digital privacy policy
we liked the book so much that we have teamed up with gestalten to give one lucky hippyshopper reader the chance to add 'my green city' to their book collection.
do the  same in the evening.
the transformation of the home came in the same week as the government announced that it is to offer homeowners a £10,000 loan to help create eco-homes across britain.
heating on for a few hours, and let the flat start to cool  down 30 mins before you go to bed.
over six million real trees are bought every christmas, manifesting  britain's unceasing love for the real thing.
however, there has been an  increase in the popularity of artificial trees over the years as they last  season after season, as well as offer a solution to the 'needle drop' problem.
february is halfway through; spring is hopefully around the corner (unless  we get another cold snap!)
look onwww.recyclenow.com to find your local tree collection points.
a crane was used to lift the  loft into position as residents looked on and by the end of the day the home  had gained an extra room.
by  elisabeth edvardsen on december 15, 2010 comments (2) share tweet
the new generation of aluminium bisque radiators for 2012 are made from  re-cycled aluminium and are the first radiators to combine sleek italian design  with energy efficient technology.
the converted loft came fully wired, insulated and painted with b&q's  recycled home eco paint.
if you haven't you definitely should, because the benefits of solar electricity are many: it will cut your carbon footprint: it is a green, renewable energy source that doesn't release any harmful co2 or other pollutants.
eco savvy there are great options out there for  those wanting to do their bit for the environment while still enjoying all that  the festive season can offer.
by  elisabeth edvardsen on december 16, 2010 comments (1) share tweet
keep the tree in water (or the pot) outside until you're ready to bring it indoors, where it should be placed away from direct heat and keep watered throughout the season - it will drink at least a quarter of a gallon of water each day.
this is truly a shame as there are so many great options available.
because you don't have any use for that old jacket or the kitchen pans, chances are someone else will.
the economic value of honey and bumble bees as pollinators of commercially grown insect pollinated crops in the uk has been estimated at over £200 million per year!
keep the  tree in water (or the pot) outside until you're ready to bring it indoors,  where it should be placed away from direct heat and keep watered throughout the  season - it will drink at least a quarter of a gallon of water each day.
and it will  look great in your garden too!
so once you've invested in a system, it could help cut your electricity bills with 40%.
your boring old white radiator for a more stylish design - yet want to make it  energy efficient - let us introducebisque.
a standard home solar panel system could save around 1 tonne of co2  yearly.
the council-run trial included b&q providing an energy audit of homes  to locate which changes would reduce both carbon output and bills, followed by  a loan from the council which is then paid back over 25 years.
despite offering a quick solution that will last for years, most artificial  trees are made of metal and plastics, and have been transported from the far  east.
these days vinyl records  aren't found in most homes, but with this clever new use of the classic item,  you can add a bit of retro style to you home.
if your christmas present receiver is an urban dweller with no garden  space, why not wrap this sleek looking aerogarden and place it under the tree?
choose locally grown christmas trees that have been cultivated in a  sustainable manner (visitwww.christmastree.org.uk to source).
now this is a great gift for any music aficionado.
photo: www.christmastree.org.uk with christmas eve just one month away, and the british christmas tree growers association (bctga) warning of a christmas tree shortage, it is time to think about which tree to get: real or fake?
look onwww.recyclenow.com to find  your local tree collection points.
by elisabeth edvardsen on  june 9, 2011 comments (71) share tweet summer is fastening its grip yet again, the flowers are in bloom and people  appear to be much happier - amazing what some sunshine and warm weather can do!
this is the first time such technology has been combined under one roof, making it one of the greenest houses in the uk.
a crane was used to lift the loft into position as residents looked on and by the end of the day the home had gained an extra room.
as well as underfloor heating, the house boasts skirting boards which also act as radiators.
if you are an avid gardener check outthe royal horticultural society's (rhs) 'perfect for pollinators plant list' to find out which plants and flowers are best for the insects that live on your plot of land.
an indoor hydroponic garden that allows you to easily grow a variety of herbs, lettuce, cherry tomatoes or even chilli peppers, the aerogarden is an energy-efficient, organic-based environment to see if you have been blessed with 'green fingers'.
outside of the capital, local authorities, as well as diy retailers and garden centres, offer recycling services.
wear slippers and add another layer of clothing before you turn up the  heat.
you can find out more information on the project here: www.diy.com/eco gary neville's eco house gets the green light by elisabeth edvardsen  onmay 11, 2011 comments (3) share tweet former england and manchester united footballer gary neville has finally  been given the green light to build his new partially underground pad.
and with the  growing availability of potted or rented trees, you don't even need to cut one  down - simply chose which one to get, and either plant it in your garden after  christmas or send it back to the farm until next season.
if this is your  choice, don't buy the tree earlier than 1st december to ensure that it keeps  for the length of the festivities.
we applaud you for fighting for it gary!
the economic value of  honey and bumble bees as pollinators of commercially grown insect pollinated  crops in the uk has been estimated at over £200 million per year!
this is the first time such technology has been combined under one roof,  making it one of the greenest houses in the uk.
this is italian design at its best  but with an eco twist!
we wonder if mtv cribs will want to visit environmentally aware gary neville's home when it's finished.
quick and easy to set up, you can start the growing process immediately.
rooms in a pod could be available to homeowners of the future as such new  build techniques prove to be easier and faster than current industry practice  (though presumably the cost of hiring a crane etc wouldn't be cheap).
the house will then be open to the public to see what the home of the future looks like.
according to guardian.co.uk, government subsidies have tripled the amount of solar power in the uk over the past year as people, largely homeowners, look to make nearly £1,000 a year as a result of installing solar panels.
available from the natural history museum's online shop for £18.00 + delivery.
what's more the  instant loft conversion took just half a day to install.
february is halfway through; spring is hopefully around the corner (unless we get another cold snap!)
my green city - back to nature with attitude and style (gestalten, £35.00) is a compilation of the ideas and projects from around the world that are promoting a more environmentally friendly lifestyle - from urban farming initiatives and architectural visions that are changing our cities, to furniture and other everyday objects that can make our streets and homes greener.
the design is spacious enough for two species of bee to nest for their full fourteen weeks and holes for sugary drink to provide sustenance.
it will have four bedrooms, a  children's play area and a swimming pool - all nicely located in its petals.
the more you can recycle and donate the less ends up on the skip!
for as little as £35 a tree can be your year  after year.
this is italian design at its best but with an eco twist!
make it more fun by making your own unique draft excluders!
if you have no need for mulch, your local authority would welcome it as they use it to create paths and hiking trails or at playgrounds.
its 'loft-pod', which uses nasa technology, has been brought to a humble  end of terrace in eastleigh to create a sustainable home.
the last few decades have been dominated by urbanisation, digitalisation and an admiration for consumption.
if your christmas present receiver is an urban dweller with no garden space, why not wrap this sleek looking aerogarden and place it under the tree?
you don't need planning permission for most solar electricity systems as long as they're under a certain size, but check with your local planning officer before you invest in one.
if you don't feel like making your own cleaning products (think hot water, vinegar, baking soda and a hint of lemon),ecover's ecological selection of products is a good place to start as they are made from plant-based ingredients that will leave no nasty residues or irritants on your skin.
the coasters are made from abandoned records that have been pressed into  shape and coated for durability.
so not only are they more energy efficient, they may also lower your bills!
also if you buy your tree from a certified bctga grower you can be certain they are sustainably grown and haven't caused any damage to local wildlife.
a great way to add a special touch to your new  year's party!
the  design is spacious enough for two species of bee to nest for their full  fourteen weeks and holes for sugary drink to provide sustenance.
please share them in the comments below.
and it seems like many of you out there may agree, as over six million real trees are bought every year in the uk.
- only hippyshopper facebook page fans will be eligible to win the prize.
with flowers also come bees and as you are preparing your garden for the  summer season it could be worth keeping the humble bumble bee in mind.
christmas trees provide a great source for production of oxygen, each acre of trees producing enough oxygen for the daily need of 18 people, and for every tree cut this season at least one more will be planted in its place.
for bigger items, list them onfreecycle and see if anyone wants to take them off your hands.
christmas trees provide a great source for production of oxygen, each acre  of trees producing enough oxygen for the daily need of 18 people, and for every  tree cut this season at least one more will be planted in its place.
honey bees are under attack from the varroa mite and only  treatment and care provided by beekeepers can keep their colonies alive.
you may argue that real trees get cut down and also end up on some landfill  come january, but being a bit
to enter the competition simply like hippyshopper's facebook page, http://www.facebook.com/hippyshopper and leave us a comment below telling us which city in the world you think is greenest and why.
b&q then supplied the product to get the job done.
aminach actually translates to 'my people rest' - if you  insist!
stack them up next to your bed/sofa for a unique side table.
and it will look great in your garden too!
summer gardening: the importance of bees
christmas trees provide a great source for production of oxygen, each acre  of trees producing enough oxygen for the daily need of 18 people!
all bctga  growers subscribe to a code of conduct that ensures their crops are sustainable  and do not cause damage to the local wildlife.
now it appears that householders are rushing to put
if opted for the real thing, keep in mind the tree is a living object that  needs some tender loving care in the weeks it embellishes your house.
wear slippers and add another layer of clothing before you turn up the heat.
giveaway: win 'my green city', the essential read for a more sustainable  urban lifestyle
happy christmas tree shopping!
not too cold and  not too warm, just right as goldilocks would say.
( www.bbka.org.uk) bees are in danger of disappearing, and while you can ensure their  continued well-being by planting the right flowers you could also consider  taking up beekeeping.
defrost food in the fridge  overnight instead of microwaving it.
an indoor hydroponic garden that allows you to easily grow a variety of  herbs, lettuce, cherry tomatoes or even chilli peppers, the aerogarden is an  energy-efficient, organic-based environment to see if you have been blessed  with 'green fingers'.
in fact, there are far too many  great eco-friendly ideas to mention!
so why not start planning how to spring clean your home in the most green way?
read more about it  onthe energy saving trust's website.
there are plenty of other things that will help you tidy up your house, all ready for the new season.
gary will now start building the flower-shaped property - which has a striking resemblance to the set of popular kids' tv show teletubbies - on the grounds of his £8 million estate.
all i want for christmas 3 december: a real christmas tree
diy chain b&q reckons it has created one of the uk's most environmentally friendly properties with a revolutionary new type of loft conversion.
there is a wide choice of hives available on the market, but we particularly like this cute'bee station' on eco age that is designed to support british bees!
with a low water content - using 85% less water than your standard radiator  - bisque aluminium radiators take a shorter time to heat up and cool down,  meaning they use less energy to heat your flat and respond to changes in  temperature faster.
turn off lights when you're not in the room, and use energy saving lightbulbs wherever possible.
read on for tips on how to reduce your household waste.
commonly used leaning products are known to contain lots of nasty things that you really don't want your children/animals/skin to get in touch with.
stack them up next to  your bed/sofa for a unique side table.
last year, 33 london boroughs offered christmas tree recycling schemes.
so  why not invest in products that will help you feel good and care for the  environment?
this actually draws more energy than you may think, and  will add up over the months.
head over to eco age's online store to get your hands on an aerogarden for  £130.00.
honey bees are under attack from the varroa mite and only treatment and care provided by beekeepers can keep their colonies alive.
first do something about obvious energy wasters (no, that doesn't include the cat that does nothing else than sleep on the sofa and eat): leaving the light on; heat escaping through the windows; a flat as hot as a sauna.
only boil enough water to fill the cup or cups of tea  you're making.
source: energy saving trust go green with these gorgeous shopping bags
is your home hot as a sauna?
two half-loads  uses more energy than one full load.
also, all their  bottles and containers are made from plant-astic, a renewable, reusable and  recyclable plastic derived from sugarcane - ecover is the first cleaning brand  in the uk to manufacture its bottles from this material.
downing street - a tradition that has been going for over a decade.
all bctga growers subscribe to a code of conduct that ensures their crops are sustainable and do not cause damage to the local wildlife.
now it's up to  prime minister cameron and his helpers to decorate it beautifully.
but there are also some companies that offer free solar panel systems in return for a cut of your income.
top tips for saving energy 1.
if you can, set your heating on a timer to go on an hour before you have to get up in the morning and off when you actually get up.
if you like feeling toasty once in bed, swap the electric  blanket for a hot water bottle and wear socks to bed.
these days, you'll find a growing number of counter-movements springing up that advocating for a more sustainable and responsible way of dealing with our environment and bringing nature back to our cities.
remember to recycle hippyshopper readers of course know the importance of recycling, but unfortunately only 10% of real christmas trees are recycled each year.
the more you can recycle and donate  the less ends up on the skip!
bisque: stylish radiators with an eco edge by elisabeth edvardsen on  october 12, 2011 comments (1) share tweet with tales of cold arctic winds possibly hitting the british isles in the  next few weeks and winter just around the corner, you're probably considering  how to keep your house warm over the coming months.
read more about how to best care for your real tree and recycling here.
towel dry your hair as much as possible.
these can be  anything from wasting less food to drinking more water.
cluttering some landfill for centuries after having been discarded for a newer,  more fashionable version.
available from josoblu.
outside of the capital, local authorities, as well as diy retailers and  garden centres, offer recycling services.
with tales of cold arctic winds possibly hitting the british isles in the next few weeks and winter just around the corner, you're probably considering how to keep your house warm over the coming months.
most significantly though, it swears to be free of any harmful chemicals which means your body won't be exposed to as many toxins whilst your snoring the night away.
defrost food in the fridge overnight instead of microwaving it.
as well as the loft-pod, the house received a  pre-made garden-pod which is the energy hub of the home.
for more information on how to keep honey or bumble bees visit the british  beekeepers association website.
by  elisabeth edvardsen on december 3, 2010 comments (0) share tweet i don't know about you, but for me there is no christmas without a real  christmas tree.
the coasters are made from abandoned records that have been pressed into shape and coated for durability.
the house will then be open to the public to see what the home of the future  looks like.
despite offering a quick solution that will last for years, most artificial trees are made of metal and plastics, and have been transported from the far east.
by the time the house is completed, it is estimated  that it will have reduced its carbon output by at least 80 per cent.
to enter the competition simply like hippyshopper's facebook page,  http://www.facebook.com/hippyshopper and leave us a comment below telling us  which city in the world you think is greenest and why.
this will cut down the time you need to use your hairdryer for.
however, if you would rather do-good than buy a real tree, check out urban tree planting charitytrees for cities to buy a gift that will keep on giving.
all bees are vital to our food chain, in fact one third of the food we eat would not be available was it not for the keen workers.
also, all their bottles and containers are made from plant-astic, a renewable, reusable and recyclable plastic derived from sugarcane - ecover is the first cleaning brand in the uk to manufacture its bottles from this material.
this is most likely a result of the introduction of feed-in tariffs (fits) last year, which pay individuals and businesses for generating green energy.
most fake trees are also non-bio degradable, and are likely to end up cluttering some landfill for centuries after having been discarded for a newer, more fashionable version.
you don't need planning permission for most solar electricity systems as  long as they're under a certain size, but check with your local planning  officer before you invest in one.
making sure your place is properly insulated is a given but what about your radiators?
there is a wide  choice of hives available on the market, but we particularly like this cute'bee  station' on eco age that is designed to support british bees!
the roof has photo voltaic panels so that the house  can produce its own hot water.
only boil enough water to fill the cup or cups of tea you're making.
while  you might want your garden to look fashionable with large and colourful plants,  it's important to remember that bees, and other insects, live in your  flowerbeds and these amazing looking plants can be "hostile" towards  insects making it difficult for them to access the pollen and nectar.
check all windows and doors for drafts and place draft excluders wherever possible.
many of the uk's 24 bumble bee species are today endangered - two species  even became extinct in the last 70 years!
photo: natural history museum.
but spring cleaning is not just about the products.
simply place an order via the website, wait for the tree to be delivered, keep it over christmas and then watch it go back to the field it came from once the festive season is over.
visit therecycle for london website to find your nearest reuse and recycling  centre.
the wall insulation is also a lot thinner than most homes in the uk, as technology from cruise liners has been adopted to make the house virtually sound proof.
so you don't need to worry, even if you're lacking the gardening gene.
among the many inspirational projects included in this book, some of our favourites are: vacant lot allotment garden by what if: projects (shoreditch, london may 2007) which took use of vacant and unloved city spaces and turned them into temporary allotment gardens; the ann demeulemeester shop in seoul, korea by mass studies which is covered in grass on the exterior surfaces; the many varieties of seed bombs - the munitions of guerrilla gardeners in the fight against the neglect of public spaces.
if you don't feel like making your own cleaning products (think hot water,  vinegar, baking soda and a hint of lemon),ecover's ecological selection of  products is a good place to start as they are made from plant-based ingredients  that will leave no nasty residues or irritants on your skin.
why not make one of your resolutions to ditch those nasty plastic carrier bags, and invest in one of these gorgeous reusable shoppers from re-uz london?
for bigger items, list them onfreecycle and see if  anyone wants to take them off your hands.
if this is your choice, don't buy the tree earlier than 1st december to ensure that it keeps for the length of the festivities.
remember to recycle hippyshopper readers of course know the importance of recycling, but  unfortunately only 10% of real christmas trees are recycled each year.
christmas trees provide a great source for production of oxygen, each acre of trees producing enough oxygen for the daily need of 18 people!
it doesn't take much to save a little here and there, and in the long run all small energy savings can help you reduce outgoings - and it is greener too!
b&q then  supplied the product to get the job done.
so carry anything you don't want to your local charity shop and help them as well as helping yourself.
all bees are vital to our food chain, in fact one third of the food we eat  would not be available was it not for the keen workers.
it doesn't take much to save a little here and there, and in the long run  all small energy savings can help you reduce outgoings - and it is greener too!
as well as underfloor heating, the house boasts skirting boards which also  act as radiators.
please  share them in the comments below.
top tips for saving energy at home
rooms in a pod could be available to homeowners of the future as such new build techniques prove to be easier and faster than current industry practice (though presumably the cost of hiring a crane etc wouldn't be cheap).
these days vinyl records aren't found in most homes, but with this clever new use of the classic item, you can add a bit of retro style to you home.
got lots of books that have no home?
downing  street - a tradition that has been going for over a decade.
it might be too late for this season, but if you're considering swapping
produced by a pottery in stoke-on-trent, the bee station is described as a  "bee refuelling and nesting site that sits on your flowers bed".
if you like feeling toasty once in bed, swap the electric blanket for a hot water bottle and wear socks to bed.
if you have no need for mulch, your local authority would  welcome it as they use it to create paths and hiking trails or at playgrounds.
its 'loft-pod', which uses nasa technology, has been brought to a humble end of terrace in eastleigh to create a sustainable home.
so why not start planning how to spring clean your  home in the most green way?
if looked after properly, it could end up  bringing christmas cheer to the household for years - and perhaps save a couple  of pennies too!
with the combination of nasa space technology and expert design, the new loft and home of the future plays host to a range of unusual products that b&q claim will be the norm in years to come in a bid to create sustainable homes.
gary will now start building the flower-shaped property - which has a  striking resemblance to the set of popular kids' tv show teletubbies - on the  grounds of his £8 million estate.
their green gifts are sustainable and will make a real and lasting difference to uk communities and around the world.
and most importantly, once you've got your solar panels installed and  ready, invest in some energy efficient appliances that will help you maximise  the electricity that is produced!
as well as the loft-pod, the house received a pre-made garden-pod which is the energy hub of the home.
this actually draws more energy than you may think, and will add up over the months.
put any saved money towards your next holiday or a girl's night out.
among the many inspirational projects included in this book, some of our  favourites are: vacant lot allotment garden by what if: projects (shoreditch,  london may 2007) which took use of vacant and unloved city spaces and turned  them into temporary allotment gardens; the ann demeulemeester shop in seoul,  korea by mass studies which is covered in grass on the exterior surfaces; the  many varieties of seed bombs - the munitions of guerrilla gardeners in the  fight against the neglect of public spaces.
so you  don't need to worry, even if you're lacking the gardening gene.
if the idea of cutting a tree down is unbearable, buy a container grown tree and replant it in january.
we'll pick the winner  based on our favourite message, so don't be shy!
byelisabeth edvardsen on february 14, 2012 comments (0) share tweet valentine's day will come and go, and we like to think that people  celebrate their love each and every single day rather on a day made popular by  a greetings card company to sell more cards...
we liked the book so much that we have teamed up with gestalten to give one  lucky hippyshopper reader the chance to add 'my green city' to their book  collection.
all i want for christmas 16 december:
choose between an apple tree in addis  ababa or an ice cream tree in peru for £10, or give children in urban  areas a tree-mendous experience trough trees for cities' community greening  projects for as little as £15 .
heat is pushed out through the boards to keep whole rooms at a constant temperature.
it's designed by israeli bedding companysapapa by aminach who  don't mess about, apparently, when it comes to a good ol' slumber courtesy of a  quality mattress.
take a good look around your house or flat and note down where energy might be wasted on a piece of paper - that's your to-do list.
heat is pushed out through the boards to keep whole rooms at  a constant temperature.
this is most likely a result of the introduction of feed-in tariffs (fits)  last year, which pay individuals and businesses for generating green energy.
with a low water content - using 85% less water than your standard radiator - bisque aluminium radiators take a shorter time to heat up and cool down, meaning they use less energy to heat your flat and respond to changes in temperature faster.
always leaving your tv / kinect on standby, or laptop and mobile phone charging unnecessarily?
take a good look around your house or flat and note down where energy might  be wasted on a piece of paper - that's your to-do list.
what are the greener options?
for only £6.99 these bags can be used time and time again - and will brighten up those dark and rainy months ahead!
photo: john birdsall/pa have you been thinking about installing solar panels on your house to produce your own energy?
with flowers also come bees and as you are preparing your garden for the summer season it could be worth keeping the humble bumble bee in mind.
blinds similar to the nasa space shuttle have been used on all of the  single glazed windows as they keep more heat in than any triple glazed window.
by elisabeth edvardsen on  november 23, 2010 comments (2) share tweet with christmas eve just one month away, and the british christmas tree  growers association (bctga) warning of a christmas tree shortage, it is time to  think about which tree to get: real or fake?
always leaving your tv / kinect on standby, or laptop and mobile phone  charging unnecessarily?
first do something about obvious energy wasters (no,  that doesn't include the cat that does nothing else than sleep on the sofa and  eat): leaving the light on; heat escaping through the windows; a flat as hot as  a sauna.
also ensure you have a nice sunny roof or wall to fix it on, as there is no point having the panels if the sun doesn't reach them.
b&q is just one of the retailers which is in talks with the government to discuss the opportunities surrounding the green deal and can offer insight into how the deal might work, as it has just completed a similar trial in the london borough of sutton.
in fact, there are far too many great eco-friendly ideas to mention!
the designs for the kitchen and upstairs bathroom have also been finalised and the house is set to be habitable by july.
the transformation of the home came in the same week as the government  announced that it is to offer homeowners a £10,000 loan to help create  eco-homes across britain.
the wall insulation is also a lot thinner than most homes in the uk, as  technology from cruise liners has been adopted to make the house virtually  sound proof.
blinds similar to the nasa space shuttle have been used on all of the single glazed windows as they keep more heat in than any triple glazed window.
not too cold and not too warm, just right as goldilocks would say.
are you planning on installing solar panels to your roof?
only wash clothes when you have enough for a full load.
a real tree doesn't only bring holiday cheer into your house; filling each  room with a delightful scent; it also many other positive uses.
solar power on private homes is latest craze in britain
choose between an apple tree in addis ababa or an ice cream tree in peru for £10, or give children in urban areas a tree-mendous experience trough trees for cities' community greening projects for as little as £15 .
the new generation of aluminium bisque radiators for 2012 are made from re-cycled aluminium and are the first radiators to combine sleek italian design with energy efficient technology.
if you don't have double glazing, invest in thick curtains that you can close at dusk to stop heat escaping.
for more information on how to keep honey or bumble bees visit the british beekeepers association website.
there are plenty of  other things that will help you tidy up your house, all ready for the new  season.
we wonder if mtv cribs will want to visit environmentally aware gary  neville's home when it's finished.
competition conditions - competition closes on friday 27th may 2011 at 23:59.
the converted loft came fully wired, insulated and painted with b&q's recycled home eco paint.
and line dry whenever possible.
you may argue that real trees get cut down and also end up on some landfill come january, but being a bit eco savvy there are great options out there for those wanting to do their bit for the environment while still enjoying all that the festive season can offer.
if the idea of cutting a tree down is unbearable, buy a container grown  tree and replant it in january.
alternatively, there are many rent-a-tree companies, like trees for rent,  popping up these days to help make christmas as eco-friendly as possible.
over six million real trees are bought every christmas, manifesting britain's unceasing love for the real thing.
the roof has photo voltaic panels so that the house can produce its own hot water.
blok is priced from £514.80 and ellisse is priced from £700.80 ibtimes brings to our attention today the bio natura mattress, offering a healthier kip.
all i want for christmas 15 december: an aerogarden from eco age
reuse anything you can.
we'll pick the winner based on our favourite message, so don't be shy!
turn your thermostat down.
however, to keep bees you need some equipment - some to keep you safe when handling the bees - and also a hive for the bees to live in.
by elisabeth edvardsen on january  12, 2011 comments (11) share tweet
alternatively, if you have a garden, place your tree outside and let  animals inhabit there, or chip it to create mulch that can be used around other  trees and shrubs.
now it appears that householders are rushing to put exactly that on their roofs!
with news that several energy providers going to increase their electricity  prices, it's time to have a look at how you can save energy - and money - at  home.
why root for british grown christmas trees?
go through places where 'things' tend to accumulate - closets, the top shelf of the kitchen cupboard, the attic, under your bed, and anywhere else you're likely to have stored items that will be 'dealt with later'.
summer is fastening its grip yet again, the flowers are in bloom and people appear to be much happier - amazing what some sunshine and warm weather can do!
not only are they pretty  to look at, they will also make you become greener and help the environment.
installing a solar panel system will set you back around £12,000 + vat (the energy saving trust).
if you  are an avid gardener check outthe royal horticultural society's (rhs) 'perfect  for pollinators plant list' to find out which plants and flowers are best for  the insects that live on your plot of land.
your electricity bills will be slashed: sunlight is free!
but there are also some companies that offer  free solar panel systems in return for a cut of your income.
earlier this week, london received its annual norwegian christmas tree for  trafalgar square, and today thebctga are delivering a 16ft tree to 10.
choose locally grown christmas trees that have been cultivated in a sustainable manner (visitwww.christmastree.org.uk to source).
then work your way through the to-do list towards a more energy efficient home life.
installing a solar panel system will set you back around £12,000 +  vat (the energy saving trust).
this will cut down the time  you need to use your hairdryer for.
if more  electricity than you need is produced you can sell it back to the grid.
produced by a pottery in stoke-on-trent, the bee station is described as a "bee refuelling and nesting site that sits on your flowers bed".
an old bed sheet can be made into  several dishcloths.
by elisabeth edvardsen on may 18, 2011 comments (18)
the mini-garden monitors itself to create ideal growing conditions for each  plant and alerts you when it's time to add more water and nutrients.
now you can reduce your energy usage in workable steps, and not get overwhelmed by everything that needs to be taken care of.
but when choosing whether to go for a real or a fake tree it is important  to put your eco hat on and consider: which is most environmentally friendly?
earlier this week, london received its annual norwegian christmas tree for trafalgar square, and today thebctga are delivering a 16ft tree to 10.
turn off lights when you're not in the room, and use energy saving  lightbulbs wherever possible.
you can do your bit by choosing plants that have this new 'bee label' - it's shaped like a bee - that indicate which flowers and plants are best to help bees and butterflies.
by shinychris on may 12, 2011 comments (2) share tweet diy chain b&q reckons it has created one of the uk's most  environmentally friendly properties with a revolutionary new type of loft  conversion.
by elisabeth  edvardsen on april 28, 2011 comments (11) share tweet remember when we wrote about solar panels and the benefits of installing  them on your house?
the designs for the kitchen and upstairs  bathroom have also been finalised and the house is set to be habitable by july.
not only are they pretty to look at, they will also make you become greener and help the environment.
recycled record coasters
and it seems like many of you out there may agree, as over six  million real trees are bought every year in the uk.
i don't know about you, but for me there is no christmas without a real christmas tree.
most fake trees are also non-bio degradable, and are likely to end up
do the same in the evening.
if you can, set your heating on a timer to go on an hour before you have  to get up in the morning and off when you actually get up.
b&q is just one of the retailers which is in  talks with the government to discuss the opportunities surrounding the green  deal and can offer insight into how the deal might work, as it has just  completed a similar trial in the london borough of sutton.
the mini-garden monitors itself to create ideal growing conditions for each plant and alerts you when it's time to add more water and nutrients.
flip the switch and you could end up saving pretty  pennies.
alternatively, there are many rent-a-tree companies, like trees for rent, popping up these days to help make christmas as eco-friendly as possible.
why not make one of  your resolutions to ditch those nasty plastic carrier bags, and invest in one  of these gorgeous reusable shoppers from re-uz london?
better yet, all sales support the natural history museum's research into  understanding diseases like malaria and conserving biodiversity of our planet.
give your tree a bit of tlc
better yet, all sales support the natural history museum's research into understanding diseases like malaria and conserving biodiversity of our planet.
but when choosing whether to go for a real or a fake tree it is important to put your eco hat on and consider: which is most environmentally friendly?
the flat will then  slowly cool down, and you'll be out the door before it cools completely!