regardless of how far the technology has  come, it's still interesting to know the first fake christmas trees were really  just big green toilet bowl brushes.
according to the children's health environmental coalition, the manufacture of pvc creates and disperses dioxins, which include the most toxic man-made chemical known.
view a 2007 report from cnn on the dangers of lead in holiday decorations, such as fake trees and wreaths: some fake trees have a wooden center pole.
released into air or water, dioxins enter the food  chain, where they accumulate in fatty tissues of animals and humans, a  potential risk for causing cancer, damaging immune functions and impairing  children's development.
the potential for lead poisoning is great enough that fake trees made  in china are required by california prop 65 to have a warning label.
who decided to make  a fake christmas tree?
see below for examples: lights on christmas tree spark  kc house fire giving tree fire damage $1 million
in 2004, the u.s. department of agriculture placed a quarantine on fake trees from china, which had a potentially harmful beetle in the center pole.
* are fake trees really fireproof?
regardless of how far the technology has come, it's still interesting to know the first fake christmas trees were really just big green toilet bowl brushes.
read more about the effects of lead poisoning.
most fake trees (85%) in the u.s. are imported from china.
view a 2007 report from cnn on the dangers of lead in holiday  decorations, such as fake trees and wreaths: * why did the  usda quarantine some artificial trees?
overloaded electrical outlets and faulty wires are the most common causes of holiday fires in residences - these are just as likely to affect artificial trees as real trees.
overloaded electrical outlets and faulty wires are the most common causes  of holiday fires in residences - these are just as likely to affect artificial  trees as real trees.
* what are the factories like where they're made?
* why did the  usda quarantine some artificial trees?
home | trees | members | news/media | teachers | kids & fun | recycling produced by: web developers, inc. legal notices *
released into air or water, dioxins enter the food chain, where they accumulate in fatty tissues of animals and humans, a potential risk for causing cancer, damaging immune functions and impairing children's development.
most artificial christmas trees are made of metals and plastics.
* are fake trees better for the environment?
in 2004, the farmington hills fire department in metropolitan detroit  conducted a test of how real and artificial trees react in a house fire.
almost 10 million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.
learn more about lead in artificial trees.
the  artificial tree, which was advertised as “flame retardant,” did  resist the flames for an amount of time, but then was engulfed in flames and  projected significant heat andtoxic smoke, containing hydrogen chloride gas and  dioxin.
the potential for lead poisoning is great enough that fake trees made in china are required by california prop 65 to have a warning label.
in 2004, the farmington hills fire department in metropolitan detroit conducted a test of how real and artificial trees react in a house fire.
some fake trees have a wooden center pole.
* are fake  trees really fireproof?
before during after compare the above photos to those of the well-cared-for real tree, which  remained mostly intact, as seen below: before after .
delta farm press recently addressed china's  environmental crisis inthis article.
home | about | contact | tree search | site searchhome | about | contact | tree search | site search
as noted in the washington post, "on the concrete floors of zhang's shuitou company factory, migrant workers, most earning about $100 a month, squat in front of hissing machinery as they melt chips into moildable plastic..."
beforebefore compare the above photos to those of the well-cared-for real tree, which remained mostly intact, as seen below:before as mentioned before, most artificial trees are manufactured in china and contain pvc (polyvinyl chloride).
where do they come from?
what you might not know about fake christmas trees *
who decided to make a fake  christmas tree?
the artificial tree, which was advertised as “flame retardant,” did resist the flames for an amount of time, but then was engulfed in flames and projected significant heat andtoxic smoke, containing hydrogen chloride gas and dioxin.
what are fake trees made of?
as noted in the washington post, "on the concrete floors of  zhang's shuitou company factory, migrant workers, most earning about $100 a  month, squat in front of hissing machinery as they melt chips into moildable  plastic..."
the  plastic material, typically pvc, can be a potential source of hazardous lead.
learn more about the quarantine.
read a warning about them from the children's health environmental coalition.
according to the children's health environmental coalition, the  manufacture of pvc creates and disperses dioxins, which include the most toxic  man-made chemical known.
home | about | contact | tree search | site search
actually fake trees were invented by a company who made toilet bowl brushes, the addis brush company.
* why do some artificial trees carry a warning label?
as mentioned before, most artificial trees are manufactured in china and  contain pvc (polyvinyl chloride).
*  are fake trees better for the environment?
delta farm press recently addressed china's environmental crisis inthis article.
in fact, artifical christmas trees were recently added to thecenter for health, environment & justice's list of household products containing pvc.
this issue is especially concerning due to china's weak enforcement of  environmental regulations.
actually fake trees were invented by a company who made toilet bowl  brushes, the addis brush company.
* what are the factories like  where they're made?
the plastic material, typically pvc, can be a potential source of hazardous lead.
below are the before, during and after photos of the artificial tree.
this issue is especially concerning due to china's weak enforcement of environmental regulations.
see below for examples: lights on christmas tree spark kc house fire giving tree fire damage $1 million
in fact, artifical christmas trees were  recently added to thecenter for health, environment & justice's list of  household products containing pvc.
why do some artificial trees carry a warning label?
in 2004, the u.s. department  of agriculture placed a quarantine on fake trees from china, which had a  potentially harmful beetle in the center pole.
* what are fake trees made of?
read the full article.
what are the  factories like where they're made?
almost 10  million fake trees were sold worldwide in 2003.