there have been many interesting and promising inventions that have come out of the consumer electronics show (ces) over this past week.
the graph below is a  clear depiction of the increasing number of electronics in our lives and the  increasing speed of adoption.
is technology part of the solution or part of the problem?
website - what arlington is doing - what businesses can do - what individuals can do twitter updates follow me on twitter « don’t just do a green resolution
smart phones, ipods, gameboys, laptops, microwaves,  tvs, dvd players, yadda yadda yadda...
it is a nearly impossible equation for the average consumer to figure out.
the graph below is a clear depiction of the increasing number of electronics in our lives and the increasing speed of adoption.
i feel a similarly about technology that is supposed to help us leave a lighter footprint on the environment.
welcome subscribe to this blog's feed - about this blog - welcome from county chairman contact us - aire website - visit arlington's website - send us email
while i don't think that electronics are the only answer, i do think they could be part of the solution for many arlingtonians.
this year – spread  the word, too | main | warren buffett a "climate killer?"
leave  a comment below and let your voice be heard!
while i don't think that  electronics are the only answer, i do think they could be part of the solution  for many arlingtonians.
leave a comment below and let your voice be heard!
related resources - commuterpage.com - energy star - epa climate change website - families saving energy - green building and remodeling resources - green living challenge - the green miles (blog)
electric bicycles, smart grid technologies, ebooks, oled tvs and portable solar chargers are not only easy but cool.
no matter  what you feel about electronics, they are here in our lives and only gaining in  numbers.
this year – spread the word, too | main | warren buffett a "climate killer?"
no matter what you feel about electronics, they are here in our lives and only gaining in numbers.
this is a graph i find very fascinating and have posted at my desk.
there have been many interesting and promising inventions that have come  out of the consumer electronics show (ces) over this past week.
is it better to keep the tv you have even if it uses more power rather than switch to an oled tv that sips energy but requires the extraction, processing, manufacturing, and transportation of an entirely new product?!
posted by adam segelmoss at 03:01 pm | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341f68c953ef0120a7b74afb970b
or is there something else that strikes you about our everyday conundrums?
smart phones, ipods, gameboys, laptops, microwaves, tvs, dvd players, yadda yadda yadda...
we commented earlier about   the imperfect decision between a real christmas trees vs. a fake  christmas tree in this post.
posted by adam segelmoss at 03:01 pm | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341f68c953ef0120a7b74afb970b listed below are links to weblogs that reference are green electronics jumbo shrimp?: comments the comments to this entry are closed.
we commented earlier about the imperfect decision between a real christmas trees vs. a fake christmas tree in this post.
often if something isn't easy, fun or saves  money -- people won't adopt it.
» january 08, 2010 are green electronics jumbo shrimp?
arlington initiative to reduce  emissions (aire) on facebook twitter updates follow me on twitter « don’t just do a green resolution
is "green technology" as much of an oxymoron as jumbo shrimp?
it is a nearly impossible equation for the  average consumer to figure out.
theoretically these devices offer us the opportunity to use less power, but at what cost?
theoretically these devices offer us the opportunity to use  less power, but at what cost?
fresh aire archives - october 2011 - september 2011 - july 2011 - june 2011 - may 2011 - april 2011 - february 2011 - december 2010 - november 2010 - october 2010 categories - books - business - cfl lighting - current affairs - energy - events - film - food and drink - general - recycling - remodeling - science - television - transportation - travel - web/tech - weblogs more on aire arlington initiative to reduce emissions (aire) on facebook - main aire
electric bicycles,  smart grid  technologies,  ebooks,  oled tvs  and  portable solar  chargers are not only easy but cool.
is it better to keep the tv you have even  if it uses more power rather than switch to an oled tv that sips  energy but requires the extraction, processing, manufacturing, and  transportation of an entirely new product?!
i feel a similarly about  technology that is supposed to help us leave a lighter footprint on the  environment.
or is there  something else that strikes you about our everyday conundrums?
this is a graph i find very fascinating and  have posted at my desk.
often if something isn't easy, fun or saves money -- people won't adopt it.