are real trees making a comeback?
new study finds temporal artery  thermometers superior » business insight: joseph sharp real vs. artificial christmas trees 12/03/2007 - dawn house salt lake tribune joseph sharp, president of yule tree farms in canby, ore., oversees the  harvesting of more than 3,800 acres of trees.
the trees are  grown on farmland just like other row crops such as corn, grain or berries.
the trees are grown on farmland just like other row crops such as corn, grain or berries.
don't artificial trees take pressure off land dumps?
founded by yule tree farms and holiday tree farms in august, the coalition of environmentally conscious growers is a not-for-profit 501(c)(6).
©2012 rosica public relations.
explain the  coalition.
«  forget the carats.
approximately 30 million  to 35 million real christmas trees are sold in the country every year.
real trees are biodegradable, and an increasing number are mulched and used as  compost or used to prevent beach and stream erosion.
additionally, the organization has developed hang tags to mark  trees that have been certified as having been grown under stringent  environmental criteria.
more than 200,000 [oregon] trees will bear the tags  this year, and about a dozen other farms are on the certification waiting list  from states such as michigan and north carolina.
public relations contact: rosica strategic public relations this entry was posted on december 4th, 2007 at 10:11:33 am by rosica and is filed underclient news, media placements.
a new  organization, the coalition of environmentally conscious growers, is certifying  growers who are environmentally responsible.
on top of that, they can often contain lead dust, pvc and  insects, and are not environmentally friendly.
the first of its kind, the certification evaluates growers on  erosion control/soil conservation, integrated pest management and tributary  protection.
approximately 30 million to 35 million real christmas trees are sold in the country every year.
additionally, the organization has developed hang tags to mark trees that have been certified as having been grown under stringent environmental criteria.
additionally, real trees are ecologically better than fake, and consumers are becoming aware of this.
real trees are sustainable and are actually the best choice for the environment.
over the past few years, christmas  tree prices have stabilized and although there are competitive prices in  certain areas, the toughest competitor to the american-grown tree is the  chinese-made artificial tree.
link: http://www.sltrib.com/ci_7620328 real vs. artificial christmas trees 12/03/2007 - dawn house salt lake tribune joseph sharp, president of yule tree farms in canby, ore., oversees the harvesting of more than 3,800 acres of trees.
for every tree harvested, at least one other is planted in its place.
for  every tree harvested, at least one other is planted in its place.
coinciding with its formation was the creation of a  grower's certification audited by freer consulting, an independent party based  in seattle.
on top of that, they can often contain lead dust, pvc and insects, and are not environmentally friendly.
it is dedicated to sustainable growing practices and  consumer education.
real trees are biodegradable, and an increasing number are mulched and used as compost or used to prevent beach and stream erosion.
additionally, real trees are ecologically better  than fake, and consumers are becoming aware of this.
christmastreeoregon.com/cecg.html.
what about the  sale of real trees and deforestation?
public relations contact: rosica strategic public relations this entry was posted on december 4th, 2007 at 10:11:33 am by rosica and  is filed underclient news, media placements.
artificial christmas  trees, with their average life of four years, will survive in a landfill for  hundreds of years.
more than 200,000 [oregon] trees will bear the tags this year, and about a dozen other farms are on the certification waiting list from states such as michigan and north carolina.
it is dedicated to sustainable growing practices and consumer education.
artificial christmas trees, with their average life of four years, will survive in a landfill for hundreds of years.
rosica pr news and public relations case studies including cause marketing.
founded by yule tree farms and holiday tree farms  in august, the coalition of environmentally conscious growers is a  not-for-profit 501(c)(6).
what about the sale of real trees and deforestation?
explain the coalition.
coinciding with its formation was the creation of a grower's certification audited by freer consulting, an independent party based in seattle.
real trees are  sustainable and are actually the best choice for the environment.
are real  trees making a comeback?
for more information on the coalition, visit www.
over the past few years, christmas tree prices have stabilized and although there are competitive prices in certain areas, the toughest competitor to the american-grown tree is the chinese-made artificial tree.
a new organization, the coalition of environmentally conscious growers, is certifying growers who are environmentally responsible.
the first of its kind, the certification evaluates growers on erosion control/soil conservation, integrated pest management and tributary protection.