plus, in 2010, a panel of scientists that tested nearly 5,000 trees  harvested in the united states and canada, found that the trees themselves did  not have any trace amounts of chemicals on the trees consumers were buying.
this is especially true  at christmas time!
unfortunately, with the manufacturing of plastic petroleum based trees, manufacturers are not using a renewable resource!
your decomposing tree, will not only be a host to many other forms of animal life – but will also release nutrients back into the soil.
but when you decide to trade in your plastic tree  – it will never fully disappear.
your decomposing tree, will not  only be a host to many other forms of animal life – but will also release  nutrients back into the soil.
you should also know that your fake tree that you believe is saving the  universe, is a petroleum by-product, which means it is not carbon neutral.
if you cannot decide and worry that your purchase of a live tree this season will be an environmentally negligent decision, you should know it won’t!
the live trees that you purchase are grown in reputable and sustainable  farms in the united states and canada.
with such stringent regulations on farms these days, christmas trees farms are a renewable resource.
for a lot of people, this has  become a ‘green decision,’ in an effort to simply not be part of  the major movement of cutting down trees needlessly, only to toss them in the  trash once the holiday is over.
it is estimated that because of christmas tree production around 45  million trees are planted each and every year in the united states and canada  alone.
contact | newsletter| register| sign in - home - family - relationships - living - health & beauty - food & beverage - pets - your home - info - video home > living > holidays > christmas > articles - money - travel - career - holidays & seasons - birthdays & celebrations - entertaining - technology
in fact, according to the national christmas tree association the debate should be over because their research and findings is in defense of live/real christmas trees for the holiday season as an environmentally friendly option.
in fact, research shows that they stay  in landfills an indefinite amount of years.
nothing can put you in the holiday mood more than the smell of pine sap in your home.
interestingly, live trees absorb carbon dioxide and release these essential  elements into the soil when they decompose.
and this  powerful emotion can also lead to confusion for others who just want to make  the right decision.
it is estimated that because of christmas tree production around 45 million trees are planted each and every year in the united states and canada alone.
when you consider how many  trees are grown for the sole purpose of farming for christmas, experts believe  that live christmas trees actually sustain the environment, whereas the  factories that produce the fake christmas trees take away from the environment.
and this debate, along with others such as  whether cloth diapers are better for the environment than disposable ones has  become quite heated.
- one huge defense of live christmas trees is that they 100% biodegradable where as the plastics and metals (often including pvc) of fake trees is not!
many people wait  until after christmas every year to buy their plastic version of the holiday  tree and drag down from the attic every year.
in fact, research has proven over and over again that when it comes to your christmas tree, the healthy choice – the smart choice, is a live one.
considering the fact that the us and canada purchase  more trees than any other country in the world, it only make sense that we  should capitalize on our own purchases.
unfortunately, with the  manufacturing of plastic petroleum based trees, manufacturers are not using a  renewable resource!
- real trees are produced through farming, which is environmentally friendly as opposed to factory manufacturing, which produces harmful emissions into the atmosphere.
but comparing live trees to fake trees is really unnecessary – especially if your concerns are environmental in nature.
fake christmas trees also include a healthy dose of lead in the manufacturing process which can make them a health hazard in the home.
additionally, the christmas tree business ensures that around 500  million trees are safe and growing annually, which is extremely environmentally  friendly.
- popular articles - becoming a freelance writer - summer jobs for teenagers - if you think your day job is tough, try staying home with the kids - how much have food prices increased since 1960 - featured articles - gifts from santa versus mom and dad - worried about paying off christmas debt - photos with santa - children make christmas special - the cost of christmas continues to increase - buying furniture for christmas - buying christmas presents for your daughter - the amount spent on christmas presents vs what should spend on gifts - those who believe receive - a christmas story - family - babies - baby names - children - teenagers - nutrition - education - motherhood - adoption - grandparents - relationships - weddings - marriage advice - divorce - general info - living - travel - career - holidays & seasons - birthdays & celebrations - entertaining - technology - health & beauty - fitness - general health - addictions - fashion - holistic - nutrition - food & beverage - coffee & tea - cold drinks - meat - fruit - desserts - interesting topics - beer - wine - pets - cats - fish - horses - pet adoption - dog breeders - cat breeders - pet insurance - products - portraits - transport - pet pictures - videos - your home - kitchens - bathrooms - bedrooms - living room - decorating - furniture - flooring - gardening & plants - real estate - auto - enviroment - info - site map - advertising - newsletter - the project - authors - contribute - blogs - video
and if you are truly worried, then think about purchasing a potted  christmas tree that you can plant in your yard after the holidays are over.
and if you are truly worried, then think about purchasing a potted christmas tree that you can plant in your yard after the holidays are over.
in fact, research has proven over and over again that when it  comes to your christmas tree, the healthy choice – the smart choice, is a  live one.
would you rather your children be inhaling the fresh smell of a recently cut tree or the dioxins from your plastic masterpiece?
plus, in 2010, a panel of scientists that tested nearly 5,000 trees harvested in the united states and canada, found that the trees themselves did not have any trace amounts of chemicals on the trees consumers were buying.
for a lot of people, this has become a ‘green decision,’ in an effort to simply not be part of the major movement of cutting down trees needlessly, only to toss them in the trash once the holiday is over.
on  the contrary, the plastic tree in your living room is constantly dispersing  dioxins into the air in your home – which has been found to be one of the  most dangerous cancer causing compounds known to man and animals.
- while it is true that most farmers do use some pesticides to keep the trees healthy, scientists have found that the run-of and waste material from the production of fake trees is 90 times worse than the chemicals used on live tree farm.
if you cannot decide and worry that your purchase of a live tree this  season will be an environmentally negligent decision, you should know it  won’t!
in addition to that, the disposal of your live christmas tree is not harmful to the environment.
nothing can put you in the holiday mood more than the  smell of pine sap in your home.
every family, does things in their own way and they shouldn’t be chastised for doing so.
following are just some of the reasons that purchasing a live tree for your  holiday decorating is such a good idea.
in addition to that, the disposal of your live christmas tree is not  harmful to the environment.
interestingly, live trees absorb carbon dioxide and release these essential elements into the soil when they decompose.
live trees in general support the eco-system.
additionally, the christmas tree business ensures that around 500 million trees are safe and growing annually, which is extremely environmentally friendly.
home > living > holidays > christmas >  articles
considering the fact that the us and canada purchase more trees than any other country in the world, it only make sense that we should capitalize on our own purchases.
following are just some of the reasons that purchasing a live tree for your holiday decorating is such a good idea.
whereas around 85% of all fake christmas trees are made in china.
in defense of a real christmas tree quick links christmas travel shop any home improvement store or department store and its easy to see  that fake, pre lit christmas trees are as popular as ever.
whereas around 85% of all fake christmas  trees are made in china.
with such stringent regulations on farms these days, christmas trees farms  are a renewable resource.
fake christmas trees also include a healthy dose of lead in the manufacturing  process which can make them a health hazard in the home.
the problem is that people often find themselves on one side of the fence,  unrelentingly being able to let go of their feelings about the matter.
and this powerful emotion can also lead to confusion for others who just want to make the right decision.
every family, does things in their own  way and they shouldn’t be chastised for doing so.
comments - create your free online surveys with surveymonkey, the world's leading questionnaire tool.
- live trees in general support the eco-system.
while it is true that most farmers do use some pesticides to keep the  trees healthy, scientists have found that the run-of and waste material from  the production of fake trees is 90 times worse than the chemicals used on live  tree farm.
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
in  fact, according to the national christmas tree association the debate should be  over because their research and findings is in defense of live/real christmas  trees for the holiday season as an environmentally friendly option.
this is especially true at christmas time!
in fact, research shows that they stay in landfills an indefinite amount of years.
most importantly, as a consumer you should adopt a live and let live  approach to the christmas tree debate.
not only do farmers replant trees annually, but they  are making richer soils with their farming techniques.
when you consider how many trees are grown for the sole purpose of farming for christmas, experts believe that live christmas trees actually sustain the environment, whereas the factories that produce the fake christmas trees take away from the environment.
but when you decide to trade in your plastic tree – it will never fully disappear.
most importantly, as a consumer you should adopt a live and let live approach to the christmas tree debate.
but comparing live trees to fake trees is really  unnecessary – especially if your concerns are environmental in nature.
would you rather your children be inhaling the  fresh smell of a recently cut tree or the dioxins from your plastic  masterpiece?
the live trees that you purchase are grown in reputable and sustainable farms in the united states and canada.
not only do farmers replant trees annually, but they are making richer soils with their farming techniques.
in defense of a real christmas tree quick links - general holidays - easter - christmas - travel shop any home improvement store or department store and its easy to see that fake, pre lit christmas trees are as popular as ever.
- you should also know that your fake tree that you believe is saving the universe, is a petroleum by-product, which means it is not carbon neutral.
on the contrary, the plastic tree in your living room is constantly dispersing dioxins into the air in your home – which has been found to be one of the most dangerous cancer causing compounds known to man and animals.
© 2012 professors house.
real trees are produced through farming, which is environmentally  friendly as opposed to factory manufacturing, which produces harmful emissions  into the atmosphere.
one huge defense of live christmas trees is that they 100% biodegradable  where as the plastics and metals (often including pvc) of fake trees is not!
many people wait until after christmas every year to buy their plastic version of the holiday tree and drag down from the attic every year.
the problem is that people often find themselves on one side of the fence, unrelentingly being able to let go of their feelings about the matter.
and this debate, along with others such as whether cloth diapers are better for the environment than disposable ones has become quite heated.