a part of the new york times company.
when: late november to december 24, 2011 from  9 a.m. to 5 p.m., thursdays to sundays.
hot dogs, baked beans, pancakes, spaghetti,sugar shack style meals and other goodies as well as hot chocolate and coffee sold on location.
geropa christmas tree farm photo courtesy of geropa christmas tree  farm free wagon rides, free hot chocolate, free candy canes, christmas  tree pickers have the choice of first-grade white pine or white spruce  varieties.
christmas tree faq top picks for christmas tree stands evelyn reid sign up for my newsletter headlines forum related searches christmas tree farms st  cuthbert request admission christmas trees environmental choice point of  contention explore montreal  must reads montreal things to do: february 2012
admission $5 on weekends only, free for youth (covers cost of activities).
montreal christmas must-sees related articles - montreal santa claus parade: the big one - montreal christmas parade: the smaller one - montreal christmas events - a montreal christmas events guide 2010 - try a real tree
this christmas - christmas tree farms near toronto - select... - open and closed in montreal on christmas and new year's - what's op...
what's better for the environment: real, fake or living christmas trees?
perrot sud,  notre-dame de l'île-perrot (map) travel time: roughly 35  minutes from montreal
free horse-led sleigh rides available on request.
also open december 19, 20, 21 and 22, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. more info: (450) 294-1152 more montreal christmas tree info - when, where and how do i discard my old christmas tree?
tractor rides offered.
more info: (613) 525-3828 4.
sign up - montreal - things to do - neighborhoods - things to know discuss in my forum montreal christmas trees: pick your own
geropa christmas tree farm photo courtesy of geropa christmas tree farm free wagon rides, free hot chocolate, free candy canes, christmas tree pickers have the choice of first-grade white pine or white spruce varieties.
the following pick-your-own montreal christmas tree farms are a 30 to  90-minute drive from the city and in many cases, propose additional activities  and holiday fun for the whole family.
sapinière les sapins de noël photo courtesy of  sapinière les sapins de noël competitive prices compared to  other pick-your-own christmas tree plantations, sapinière les sapins de  noël charges roughly $6 per square foot in height, minimum $30 per tree.
plantation j.l.s. photo courtesy of plantation j.l.s. plantation j.l.s. takes montreal christmas tree picking a step further for  families with a special guest poised to welcome the little ones: santa claus.
also open december 19, 20, 21 and 22, 2011 from 9  a.m. to 4 p.m. more info: (450) 294-1152 more montreal christmas tree info when, where and how do i discard my old christmas tree?
perrot sud, notre-dame de l'île-perrot (map) travel time: roughly 35 minutes from montreal
cash only (closest atm machine is 12 km away).
cash  only (closest atm machine is 12 km away).
call beforehand to confirm.
possible to pick up trees on weekdays but family activities are offered only on weekends.
in addition to pick-your-own christmas trees, quinn farm also proposes wagon rides, sleigh rides, "mama claus" cooking workshops, and gift baskets with home-made jams, jellies, honey, pickles, teas, coffees, home baked goods and quebec maple syrup.
where:: 5 chemin saint-françois, sainte-angèle-de-monnoir (map) travel time: roughly 45 minutes from montreal when: november 26 to december 18, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., weekends only.
by evelyn reid, about.com guide filed in: montreal christmas trees: pick your own - montreal events - > attractions by holiday
possible to pick up trees on weekdays but family activities are offered only on  weekends.
in addition to  pick-your-own christmas trees, quinn farm also proposes wagon rides, sleigh  rides, "mama claus" cooking workshops, and gift baskets with  home-made jams, jellies, honey, pickles, teas, coffees, home baked goods and  quebec maple syrup.
- christmas tree faq - top picks for christmas tree stands evelyn reid montreal guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches christmas tree farms st cuthbert request admission christmas trees environmental choice point of contention explore montreal must reads most popular - montreal things to do: february 2012 - coming up: valentine's day - 10 free things to do in montreal - weather: what to expect, what to wear - anti-flatulence pea soup à la evelyn free montreal newsletter!
a real christmas tree that lasts for a few weeks or a fake one that can be reused for years?you might be surprised by what environmentalists have to say.
toronto -  select... open and closed in montreal on christmas and new year's - what's op...
coming up: valentine's day 10 free things to do in montreal weather: what to expect, what to wear anti-flatulence pea soup à la evelyn most popular
montreal christmas must-sees montreal santa claus parade: the big one montreal christmas parade: the smaller one related articles montreal christmas events - a montreal christmas events guide 2010 try a real tree this christmas - christmas tree farms near
sign up - montreal nuit blanche - montreal high lights festival - montreal postal codes - free things to do in montreal - february in montreal by category - montreal events - real estate & apartments - arts, culture & museums - food & wine - montreal nightlife - getting around town - shopping - neighborhoods - sports, recreation & parks - montreal living - career, education, language - government & city services - history, people & places - day trips and weekend getaways montreal - about.com - cities & towns - montreal - montreal events - attractions by holiday - montreal christmas trees - pick montreal christmas trees - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
where:: 3000 route bélanger, st. cuthbert ( map) travel time: roughly 70 minutes from montreal when: november 26 to december 18, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; santa claus appearances  and kid-approved activities on weekends only from 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. more info: (450) 836-2403 2.
plantations fernet photo courtesy of plantations fernet pick  your own christmas tree and plantations fernet will have one of their  "elves" chop it down for you.
when: late november to december 24, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., thursdays to sundays.
more info: (514) 346-8882 3.
christmas wreaths, decorations, coffee and hot chocolate  on location.
montreal christmas trees picked by you
plantation j.l.s. photo courtesy of plantation j.l.s. plantation j.l.s. takes montreal christmas tree picking a step further for families with a special guest poised to welcome the little ones: santa claus.
where:: 2640 montée bullock, henryville (map) travel time: roughly 60 minutes from montreal when: november 24 to december 18, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., thursday to sunday.
where:: 20723, conc 9, alexandria ( map) travel time: roughly 90 minutes from montreal when: due to overwhelming demand from the previous year, geropa is closed for the 2011 christmas season "or until the new crop of trees is ready," depending on mother nature's cooperation.
wagon and sometimes 4x4 rides offered to the little ones.
sapinière les sapins de noël photo courtesy of sapinière les sapins de noël competitive prices compared to other pick-your-own christmas tree plantations, sapinière les sapins de noël charges roughly $6 per square foot in height, minimum $30 per tree.
and it's hard to argue with the visual aesthetic and aroma permeating a home adorned with a freshly cut christmas conifer, particularly one picked by you and yours.
an annual point of contention, what's the better environmental choice?
santa claus generally on location.
where:: 20723, conc 9, alexandria ( map) travel time:  roughly 90 minutes from montreal when: due to overwhelming demand  from the previous year, geropa is closed for the 2011 christmas season "or  until the new crop of trees is ready," depending on mother nature's  cooperation.
- about.com - cities & towns - montreal montreal search free montreal newsletter!
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
christmas wreaths, decorations, coffee and hot chocolate on location.
more info: (514) 453-1510 5.
a real christmas tree that lasts for a few weeks or a  fake one that can be reused for years?you might be surprised by what  environmentalists have to say.
hot dogs, baked beans, pancakes, spaghetti,sugar  shack style meals and other goodies as well as hot chocolate and coffee sold on  location.
includes a wagon ride and a chance to meet santa, on weekends only.
plantations fernet photo courtesy of plantations fernet pick your own christmas tree and plantations fernet will have one of their "elves" chop it down for you.
and it's hard to argue with the visual aesthetic  and aroma permeating a home adorned with a freshly cut christmas conifer,  particularly one picked by you and yours.
- what's better for the environment: real, fake or living christmas trees?
where:: 5 chemin saint-françois,  sainte-angèle-de-monnoir (map) travel time: roughly 45  minutes from montreal when: november 26 to december 18, 2011 from 9  a.m. to 4 p.m., weekends only.
"bring a food item to donate to a food bank and get free admission to the farm."
quinn farm johannes simon / getty images
"bring a food item to donate to a food bank and get  free admission to the farm."
free montreal newsletter!
the following pick-your-own montreal christmas tree farms are a 30 to 90-minute drive from the city and in many cases, propose additional activities and holiday fun for the whole family.
where:: 3000 route bélanger, st. cuthbert ( map) travel time: roughly 70 minutes from montreal when: november 26 to december 18, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; santa claus appearances and kid-approved activities on weekends only from 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. more info: (450) 836-2403 2.
sign up discuss in my forum montreal christmas trees: pick your own montreal christmas trees picked by you by evelyn reid, about.com guide filed in: > attractions by holiday montreal christmas trees: pick  your own an annual point of contention, what's the better  environmental choice?
admission $5 on  weekends only, free for youth (covers cost of activities).
includes a wagon ride and a chance to  meet santa, on weekends only.
where:: 2640 montée  bullock, henryville (map) travel time: roughly 60 minutes from  montreal when: november 24 to december 18, 2011 from 9 a.m. to 4  p.m., thursday to sunday.