in south korea, for example, there’s a policy requiring all  users of sites that allow online comments to be identity-checked.
but there are many legitimate reasons for using a pseudonym or  “non-de-plume” that are mixed in with people’s profession,  identity and safety.
in south korea, for example, there’s a policy requiring all users of sites that allow online comments to be identity-checked.
the full article is available here as html.
read the original article.
we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no derivatives.
you think i'm acting in bad faith, i think i am acting in good faith by being up front about my anonymity (not like other commenters on this site who are using sock puppets).
mechanical engineer logged in via email @gmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - you can refrain from commenting.
so i'm conflicted about this.
please reply to this email with either a copy of your government issued id, which we will dispose of after review.
leave your comments below.
thus, posting with an alias makes this goal very difficult to achieve.
we  prefer “author name, institution” (for example “bruce  mapstone, csiro”).
logged in via twitter score: insightful + unconstructive - what of homeless people who rely on the internet to feel connected with society?
one of the more high-profile suspensions was of limor fried, also known as ladyada or adafruit industries.
similarly, nobody is forcing you to comment on this article.
the issue is even more insidious as the automated systems that google uses to find accounts that are not 'real' names have a very western idea of what is a name.
you could have spent more time going into the suicides and assaults of people who have been tracked down after online arguments.
others, it seems, have not been so fortunate.
there are plenty of places where you can be anonymous on the internet and i am quite certain they will continue to exist.
i'm not in a place to enforce the rules, but i would like to respectfully, politely request that you honour them.
after a brief outcry, fried’s account was reactivated with no  explanation.
what of someone testifying against a person who didn't want you to?
google’s reliance on automating these decisions is bound to lead to  indiscriminate mistakes.
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - feel free to give me all the respect anonymous comments deserve.
this means any name google has determined is not the person’s real  name has resulted in an automatic suspension.
google, along with many other internet companies, bowed to this policy on  its sites, including youtube, and blocked people from uploading videos unless  they had verified their names.
in these days where potential employers/clients check your facebook before your resume, online anonymity is the only way to maintain a separation between one's private and professional lives.
this is not facebook, i can't block people from viewing my words.
google, along with many other internet companies, bowed to this policy on its sites, including youtube, and blocked people from uploading videos unless they had verified their names.
companies such as google and facebook face an ongoing public relations juggling act between achieving their commercial goals and providing a service supporting a major social infrastructure.
the irony of this is that, allegedly, mark zuckerberg’s dog has a facebook account under an alias (yes, this is the real case of “on the internet, nobody knows you are a dog”).
in addition to selling electronic kits, her business’s website features videos which show how to “hack” electronics to do everything from creating a remote that switches off any television, to creating glowing cufflinks from apple mac power buttons.
the  company has been suspending accounts because they contravene google’s  community standards – ostensibly to stop fake or spam accounts being  created.
the university of western australia is a founding partner of the conversation.
exactly how many users have been affected by this action is not known but  it is enough to have mobilised google+ users to voice their displeasure.
this has nothing to do with anti-spam and everything to do with data mining.
26 july 2011, 7.07am aest google+ requires real name, or else … a fresh storm has blown into google’s new google+ service.
the suspension has also, in some cases, removed access to all other google services, including email.
respect for us, and the site's owners, and its contributors, requires you to accept the same terms and conditions that we have, or to shift to a site more accomodating to your concerns.
you have to credit the conversation and link back to our home page as  provided in the html.
real name has resulted in an… author director, centre for software practice at university of western australia disclosure statement david glance does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive  funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article,  and has no relevant affiliations.
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - good article.
some proof of your qualifications would be nice too.
what are your views on google+?
there are plenty of alternative online outlets where you can express your opinions under a pseudonym.
we have reviewed your appeal and need more information in order to verify that the name entered “doctor popular” is your common name.
now that's not because there are compromising pictures of me or that i've done anything illegal, just the usual venting and frustration that goes with political activism...
there are alternatives if you want to be anonymous; for instance, just stick with facebook, why would you move to google+ if you don't like their terms and conditions?
at least you know you're talking to a pseudonym.
licence to republish we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no  derivatives.
yeah it seems kinda silly to me; obviously you just use john smith or something.
we  therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest  before publication.
this is especially the case with the un’s recent declaration that  internet access is ahuman right.
given this can then lead to an automatic suspension of  your email account with no warning, the consequences are severe.
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - can you please post a copy of your drivers license to prove you're really troy barry.
logged in via twitter score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
what of those who have given up a child for adoption and don't want to be found?
if the account is suspended i'll come back under another pseudonym, but i won't make it obvious i am hiding my identity.
as for the orwellian request; if i received an email from someone known only as 'geoff' claiming to be from google demanding a copy of my governement issued id, i would immediately think scam and delete it.
( http://theconversation.edu.au/terms_and_conditions)
you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple guidelines, which are summarised here: the full article is available here as html.
it seems this site and many of it's users do not understand why anonymity can be important online.
for the true anonymous experience just head on over to 4chan.
another difficulty that google, in particular, faces with the implementation of this policy is that it does so using a computer program that uses an algorithm to determine what is real and what is fake.
one of the more high-profile suspensions was of limor fried, also known as  ladyada or adafruit industries.
you can republish individual articles, but you can’t automatically  republish all of our articles unlessapproved by us.
some users have been automatically  suspended from all google services.halilgokdal a fresh storm has blown into google’s new google+ service.
click here to get a copy of this article to republish.
at the end of the day, however futile this opinion may be, companies such as google and facebook need to understand that an individuals health, wellbeing and safety is more important than business and financial gain.
i assume users, like me, post on the conversation because we like the system here, we have more respect for opinions delivered under real names and we have some distrust for voluminous opinions delivered anonymously.
i know that there are large pr companies who swamp comment threads and facebook - and doubtless now google+ - with fake opinion about climate change etc etc.
sincerely, geoff the google profiles support team" copyright © 2010–2012, the conversation media group
this means any name google has determined is not the person’s
exactly how many users have been affected by this action is not known but it is enough to have mobilised google+ users to voice their displeasure.
what of those who are the victims of crime, harassment, stalking or abuse who do not want their attackers to find them?
this means any name google has determined is not the person’s real name has resulted in an automatic suspension.
the issue quickly escalates to one of suppression of free speech and, as  such, makes its enforcement one more example of companies trying to create an  internet that is, in essence, simply commercial.
to comment, sign in or sign up.
there are real reasons to keep your identity secret online; real world ramifications.
it is the somewhat orwellian use of the "government issued id" that is so bizarre: "hi, thank you for contacting us with regard to the name used in your google profile.
much like the internet filter, it's an idea that would only block innocents from innocent content; those who want to circumvent the system will do so with ease.
another difficulty that google, in particular, faces with the  implementation of this policy is that it does so using a computer program that  uses an algorithm to determine what is real and what is fake.
republish you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple  guidelines, which are summarised here: you can’t edit our material unless you have the author’s  express permission or you are adjusting for relative changes in time, location  and editorial style.
if the internet is a human right than everyone has the right to shield their identity should they choose to.
not to mention i could just bounce through a proxy and look like i'm coming from a country that doesn't require me to register.
this means that a native american for instance is more likely to be asked for government issued id than say robert x. cringely, the pseudonymous tech blogger.
in addition to selling electronic kits, her business’s website  features videos which show how to “hack” electronics to do  everything from creating a remote that switches off any television, to creating  glowing cufflinks from apple mac power buttons.
after a brief outcry, fried’s account was reactivated with no explanation.
facebook also courted controversy recently when the company closed the  account of a chinese commentator calledmichael anti and told him he needed to  use the name on his chinese government id card.
the university of western australia is a founding partner of the  conversation.
the company has beensuspending accounts because they contravene google’s community standards – ostensibly to stop fake or spam accounts being created.
just look at the socks created by tobacco lobbyists to rally against the plain packaging laws (if you don't know about that, look into these new "all pregnancies must be registered" ads and thetruthdective blog; the truth detective is a tobacco lobbyist).
this means any name google has determined is not the person’s real name has resulted in an… director, centre for software practice at university of western australia david glance does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.
the  company has beensuspending accounts because they contravene google’s  community standards – ostensibly to stop fake or spam accounts being  created.
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive -
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
we've already got one user here stating they've been told they've missed out on a job because of opinions expressed online.
theconversation, from what i understand, is largely reliant on people being upfront about their identity, their credibility and any conflicts of interest they may have.
social media, google, internet, web technologies subscribe to our daily e-mail newsletter to receive our top stories each day—delivered straight to your inbox.
or those with alternative lifestyle predilictions?
at the end of the day, it will always be about business, so discussions about google’s apocryphal mantra – “don’t be evil” – are moot.
yet you feel some desire to try to enforce them...
companies such as google and facebook face an ongoing public relations  juggling act between achieving their commercial goals and providing a service  supporting a major social infrastructure.
how do you police it without requiring people to register an internet identity?
the suspension has also, in some cases, removed access to all other google  services, including email.
frankly, my views on climate change and feminism have no impact on how i do my job, but they are issues that inflame emotions and have the potential to cause me to be looked over for a contract.
if you are not willing to, you need not comment.
read the original  article.
rockstar philosopher logged in via email @gmail.com score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
the irony of this is that, allegedly, mark zuckerberg’s dog has a  facebook account under an alias (yes, this is the real case of “on the  internet, nobody knows you are a dog”).
the issue of enforcing “real names” is a contentious one on the internet.
like all things, the argument is not simple.
to make material edits, pleasecontact us you can run the first few lines of the article only, if you say:  “read the full article atthe conversation” with a link back to the  article page on our site.
fried was recently featured on the front cover of wired magazine with an article in that issue about diy electronics.
governments and services will argue that using a real name policy will help cut down spam,internet trolling) and general bad behaviour.
if the owners of the site have issue with this, they can contact me and hopefully address my concerns (it would be odd, given that they have approved this article).
our goal is to ensure the content is not compromised in any way.
once we receive this information we can review your appeal and come to a final decision.
governments and services will  argue that using a real name policy will help cut down spam,internet trolling)  and general bad behaviour.
or those afflicted with mental illness(es) who do not wish to be judged and discriminated?
at the end of the day, it will always be about business, so discussions  about google’s apocryphal mantra – “don’t be  evil” – are moot.
if users don't like to reveal their own names here there are thousands of other websites they can express themselves on instead.
we therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest before publication.
university of western australia score: insightful + unconstructive - i hope you all realise that nobody is forcing you to use google+ or even any of their e-mail services.
say my name the issue of enforcing “real names” is a contentious one on the  internet.
according to the terms and conditions you are obliged to use your real name when commenting on this site.
that needs to be reined in, but how do you do that if you allow pseudonyms and anonymous sign ups?
many people may be willing to wear their politics on their sleeve as a badge of honour, but all people who are posting on this site are announcing to the world where they stand on certain issues (not only that, those snooping you will not have the context of a conversation, so you will not get to defend or explain your words).
mechanical engineer logged in via email @gmail.com score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
director, centre for software practice at university of western australia score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - an email received by "doc pop" on appealing his suspension from google+.
mixed identity like all things, the argument is not simple.
you can put our articles on pages with ads, but you can’t sell our  material separately.
facebook also courted controversy recently when the company closed the account of a chinese commentator calledmichael anti and told him he needed to use the name on his chinese government id card.
there are a multitude of cases of real world physical violence that has played out because of disagreements online.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - i'm someone who has explicitly been told that i didn't get a job because of my online persona.
this article was originally published at the conversation.
but there are many legitimate reasons for using a pseudonym or “non-de-plume” that are mixed in with people’s profession, identity and safety.
any of the above using their real name online could have severe ramifications on future employment, housing opportunites and quality of life.
there is also a real chance it could lead to discrimination, assault, abuse, isolation and in some circumstances, self harm and/or suicide.
fried was recently featured on the front cover of wired magazine with an  article in that issue about diy electronics.
given this can then lead to an automatic suspension of your email account with no warning, the consequences are severe.
you seem pretty keen to engage with me though.
a fresh storm has blown into google’s new google+ service.
i also can't stop people from being prejudiced.
mechanical engineer logged in via email @gmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - i don't write the terms and conditions, i just read and abide by them out of respect for the site's owners and other users.
you have to credit our authors and partner institutions in the byline.
the issue quickly escalates to one of suppression of free speech and, as such, makes its enforcement one more example of companies trying to create an internet that is, in essence, simply commercial.
this is especially the case with the un’s recent declaration that internet access is ahuman right.
i also cannot comment on a political website *without being political*.
you think i'm acting in bad faith, i think i am acting in good faith by being up front about my anonymity (not like other commenters on this site who are using sock…show full comment
you must link to us and include links from our story, as well as our page  view counter.
google’s reliance on automating these decisions is bound to lead to indiscriminate mistakes.
any…show full comment what of homeless people who rely on the internet to feel connected with society?
i think there is a place for anonymous forums and a place for true identity forums on the web.
the company has been suspending accounts because they contravene google’s community standards – ostensibly to stop fake or spam accounts being created.