- fake trees won't bother you if you are allergic to the smell of pine.
here are the pros and cons of each: live christmas trees
on average, an artificial tree lasts about six years.
artificial trees are safe and flame retardant.
the needles on your artificial  tree will never shed.
putting up and decorating christmas trees is a time-honored tradition, and many families are faced with choosing between artificial and real trees each year.
there is no advantage to the home economy, as a lot of fake trees are made abroad time required to assemble the tree requires storage space in the home
indeed, there are good and bad things about each  type of tree.
in 2005 el pasoans said they had seen less lots compared to years past.
they also  last for years, which makes them more economical.
they said the friday after thanksgiving they ran out of trees and had to  order more.
artificial christmas trees can be set up much earlier and left  up longer.
a real tree also adds something  to christmas that a fake tree can't: a scent.
here are the pros and cons of each: live christmas trees pros: fresh scent lots of unique selections to choose from
a  more handy, safer and cost effective version may have taken their place.
a more handy, safer and cost effective version may have taken their place.
another good thing about artificial trees is that they do not need  to be watered and the needles will not drop off and make a mess in your house.
a real tree also adds something to christmas that a fake tree can't: a scent.
for many families, cutting down a christmas tree is an annual tradition.
- artificial trees are easy to assemble and store away.
fake trees can't rot like real trees can.
the  home depot in that community reported a rise in the sale of prelit artificial  trees.
experts also say fake trees are safer because many of them are fire retardant.
coarse needles will never prick you; so artificial trees are easier to decorate.
they also last for years, which makes them more economical.
nine million artificial christmas trees were sold in 2004 according to the association, up from 7.3 million in 2001.
here are a few things to remember when choosing which type of tree would be best suited for your needs: - artificial trees remove the hassle of having to choose a tree from the lot.
.......................... artificial vs. real christmas trees the neighborhood christmas tree lot and its newly cut pines may soon be a  rare sight if a new national study is correct about the artificial  competition's rising popularity.
the cash you save by buying an artificial tree can be spent on more  gifts for your family or perhaps other types of decoration.
a fake tree on the internet runs anywhere from $100 to $1500, a real tree at home depot costs from $25 to $50.
fake trees won't bother you if you are allergic to the smell of pine.
on average, an artificial tree lasts  about six years.
dessert wine red wine white wine by price bbq sauces hot sauces marinades mustard olives olive oil pasta sauces salsa spices & rubs spreads vinegar the neighborhood christmas tree lot and its newly cut pines may soon be a rare sight if a new national study is correct about the artificial competition's rising popularity.
christmas tree farms help sustain the rural economy and provide jobs another tree is planted for each one harvested to ensure a steady supply year after year cons: need constant maintenance can become a fire risk if not correctly maintained shed needles can only be left up for a limited time less economical
a decline of 36 percent was reported for real tree sales - according to the national christmas tree association, sales dropped from 32 million to 23.4 million between 2000 and 2003.
- another good thing about artificial trees is that they do not need to be watered and the needles will not drop off and make a mess in your house.
putting up and decorating christmas trees is a time-honored tradition, and  many families are faced with choosing between artificial and real trees each  year.
the home depot in that community reported a rise in the sale of prelit artificial trees.
here are a few things to remember when choosing which type of tree would  be best suited for your needs: artificial trees remove the hassle of having to choose a tree from  the lot.
a fake tree on the internet runs anywhere from $100 to $1500,  a real tree at home depot costs from $25 to $50.
artificial christmas trees can be set up much earlier and left up longer.
blue brie cheddar colby edam fontina goat gouda
is it right to  cut down a living tree just because it looks and smells better?
a decline of 36 percent was reported for real  tree sales - according to the national christmas tree association, sales  dropped from 32 million to 23.4 million between 2000 and 2003.
experts also say fake trees are safer because many of them are fire  retardant.
artificial trees are easy to assemble and store away.
they said the friday after thanksgiving they ran out of trees and had to order more.
- fake trees can't rot like real trees can.
the traditional choice take in carbon dioxide and other harmful greenhouse gases and release fresh oxygen into the air.
only by price includes a variety of fresh fruits (bananas, pears, peaches, cherries, avocados, etc.)
the cash you save by buying an artificial tree can be spent on more gifts for your family or perhaps other types of decoration.
there are a variety of arguments for and against buying a live or an artificial christmas tree.
coarse needles will never prick  you; so artificial trees are easier to decorate.
there are a variety of arguments for and against buying a live or an  artificial christmas tree.
the needles on your artificial tree will never shed.
nine million artificial christmas trees were sold in 2004 according to the  association, up from 7.3 million in 2001.
sweet savory sweet & savory wine & beer a bit of everything non-food gifts for pets
gruyere havarti monterey jack mozzarella muenster parmigiano pecorino provolone swiss caviar clams crab lobster oysters salmon scallops shrimp tuna packaged pasta meat poultry seafood vegetarian champagne
transporting the tree and disposing of it after use can be difficult artificial christmas trees pros: more cost-effective flame retardant no maintenance necessary can be left up for as long as you like no mess from needles huge assortment to select from cons: can look phoney and synthetic made from a non-renewable resource: petroleum
buying artificial helps prevent the cutting down of a live tree.
for many families, cutting  down a christmas tree is an annual tradition.
insects may get into the carton while it is stored if not packed properly source: www.artificialchristmastreesonline.com
indeed, there are good and bad things about each type of tree.
artificial trees have a fuller, classier look.
is it right to cut down a living tree just because it looks and smells better?
do you really need a real tree to decorate your living room?