until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 8, 2009 in around the house , decorating , garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorating, design, diy, do-it-yourself, herbs, home, home improvement, house, houseplants, improvement, indoor planters, plant stands ,tables whether you believe in making new year’s resolutions or not, you have to admit that the start of a new year is a great time to contemplate positive improvements to your life—and the place you live.
keep waste out of the landfill and stay warm by  opting for recycled insulation.
you have to admit, that’s pretty doable.
plus, wool captures carbon dioxide from the atmosphere which, according to the company website, gives thermafleece a negative global warming potential.
however, window manufacturers offer heat-reflective films and coatings for windows that still allow natural light inside while keeping your home cool.
problem is when i’m at the thrift store, consignment shop, or what have you, i don’t see these “finds.”
(online shops are often a great  place to start not only because they’re informative but also because  listings are typically posted by the owner, cutting out the middleman and  lowering the price.)
(i won’t hold it against you if your only dishwasher is yourself, though.
in this case, think jeans and a t-shirt.
problem is when i’m at the thrift store, consignment shop, or what  have you, i don’t see these “finds.”
use green cleaning products.
the goal with the green around the house challenge isn’t to overwhelm  you with eco-friendly to-dos.
and whatever you do, don’t recycle water  from a washing machine used to wash baby diapers or water from the toilet.
everything from your cardboard boxes to  your christmas tree can be reused.
here’s how it’s going to work: at least once every week in 2009, you’ll see a post onthe home know-it-all related to going green around the house.
and who wants to unplug the dvr when you’ll miss recording your favorite shows, anyway?
learn more: clotheslineshop.com brondell perfect flush this one won’t be  available until may, but i wanted to share it with you anyway because  it’s going to be worth the wait.
until later... the home know-it-all posted by jim stepp on december 20, 2009 in around the house , cleaning & organizing , garden & outdoor , general , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
other members can then send messages and organize a pick up time for the item.
biobased insulation was the first polyurethane spray foam insulation to  earn greenguard certification.
a rental furniture outlet’s quiet warehouse of no longer rentable furniture might make more sense.
lately i’ve been obsessed with blogs like daily danny and design*sponge that teach you how to recreate a flea market find into a stunning interior-decorating masterpiece.
installinga low-flow showerhead can be an inexpensive repair (showerheads range anywhere from $10 to $200) that is too easy not to do.
every item pops with color and distinct personality.
theumass extension offers some handy guidelines for safely using gray water.
also contact your local utility or visit their website for additional information, or talk to your heating and cooling contractor.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on april 8, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cabinets, charity, diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly, environment, habitat for humanity, lexicon, molding, recycle, remodel, remodeling, reuse, save, saving want an easy, green project for your wednesday afternoon?
and that’s why i can’t take my eye off the simple, timeless wirework cachepots from gardener’s supply company ($44.95/set of three).
but what about the tools you use?
the gray water is great for  ornamental plants and shrubs, but you should use fresh water for the food  you’ll eventually eat.
when you’re finished, take a deep breath and appreciate that clean air.
until monday, the home know-it-all related posts: what we're loving: wine bottle plant nannies what we're loving: egg press cards what we're loving: amy butler design gift wrap green collection
there are five different technologies  that have earned the energy star rating and, depending on which technology you  choose, you’ll reduce your heating bills anywhere from 7.5 to 55 percent.
part of the reason is that although you probably use hot water infrequently (for hand-washing, bathing, and dish-washing), your water heater is always hard at work keeping water warm so it’s ready for you on demand.
and they don’t play well with other plastics, making them a challenge to recycle.
lcd tvs, however, are available in smaller sizes, making them the lesser of the two evils and saving you up to $115 more per year to operate.
as i mentioned above,  that unmistakable stench coming from your shower curtain is polyvinyl chloride  (pvc), a (sadly) popular plastic also known as vinyl.
that’s a lot of water, particularly since the national energy policy act of 1992 mandated that toilets use no more than 1.6 gallons of water per flush—and some of today’s models use considerably less than that.
americans use 5.8 billion gallons of water to flush their toilets every day — and that doesn’t include how much water is wasted from leaky toilets.
or try an  all-purpose cotton drop sheet from reaves, which is made from 90 percent  post-consumer recycled content, is washable, and will decompose when you decide  it’s time to toss it.
tighten another  1.5 turns with a wrench to secure it.
the next time you're about to whip up dinner for friends and family, reconsider your cooking methods.
so you can imagine our surprise when we recently learned that not all cfls are equal—even those bearing the energy star label.
so before you spend the cash on a gray water system, be sure to check state and local gray water laws and policies.
a gray water system includes a surge tank into which all gray water drains,  a filter to remove particles that might clog the system, and irrigation pipes  or lines that move the gray water from the house to your plants.
if it's lacking, you can try insulating your attic yourself.
the traditional open container of baking soda is a tried-and-true method that works well too.
it’s becoming easier than ever to find non-pvc shower curtains and liners, because many major retailers and manufacturers are pulling the plug on the pesky plastic.
according to the environmental working group (ewg), some cfls have a lower mercury content than others, and some last longer than others, making them a better, safer lighting option.
the spigot/sillcock is now outside, with the pipe nipple inside.
but if you still have an old cathode ray tube hanging around, stick with it—it’s the greenest of all tvs.
and as promised, our first challenge is greening your shower  curtain.
even if your bags look clean, washing them every few uses is a good idea.
but it doesn’t have to, which is why
a recent study by the center for health, environment & justice, a grassroots environmental organization based in falls church, virginia, revealed disturbing facts about pvc shower curtains—that’s why it’s called volatile vinyl.
avoid wrapping the tape above the threads, as it will show after the showerhead is installed.
for this one, you’ll need to head to the kitchen and get ready to tackle what may be your least favorite chore: dishwashing.
when it comes to household applications, however, salt is pretty much always a handy mineral.
moving on to paint trays, you can’t beat a quality, reusable metal  paint tray.
sprinkle a little on your carpet, let it sit overnight to absorb odors, and sweep up as much as possible before vacuuming the rest.
and don’t forget egg nog and other cardboard food containers—just give them a good scrub before dropping them in the recycling box.
click the “donate products” link to see how you can help.
your best bet is to  purchase unscented candles.
get more bug-free picnic tips from thisdo it yourself article.
be sure to spray in problem areas—behind your pet's ears, around the head, at the base of the tail, and in the armpits.
so before you spend the cash on a  gray water system, be sure to check state and local gray water laws and  policies.
some of my favorites include: what other tools do you find useful for monitoring home energy use?
or check for a hazardous-waste collection program in your area.
read what energy star® and  treehugger have to say.
according togreenyour.com, the process is as easy as cutting the  insulation to fit the length and diameter of your pipes, slipping the  insulation onto the pipes, and securing the insulation every foot or so with  tape.
batteries because of all the toxic metals in rechargeable batteries—think mercury,  lead acid, nickel cadmium, alkaline, and nickel metal hydride—it’s  important that you dispose of them properly.
but green candles—as in,  environmentally friendly pillars and tea lights adding ambience to your  home—are even nicer.
but unplugging all those appliances and gadgets all the time can be a real pain.
the sump pump hose will connect to the outside of the barrel.
and for good reason.
green around the house challenge is all about greening your painting routine.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on december 30, 2010 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0)
plant your evergreens in a row, about 15 feet apart.
and if your candles are scented, you’re also putting your health at  risk.
keeping plenty of these good looking and eco-friendly alternatives around will make it easy to remember to use them.
or search online—there are plenty of other ways creative folks have  made their own rain barrels.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 11, 2009 in decorating , green living | permalink  | comments (7) | trackback (0) technorati tags: ace hardware, bio pulp, biodegradable, canvas drop cloth,  color, cotton drop sheet, disposable, drip catcher, eco drop, eco-friendly,  eco-friendly paint, ecology, envirobrush, environmental, know-it-all, lexicon,  low-voc paint, lowe’s, metal paint tray, no-voc paint, old sheets, paint  clean up, paint tray, painting, post-consumer recycled content, recycled,  recylable, reusable, teflon, the home know-it-all, trimacoworktools, washable,  whizz green brush, whizz green roller, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com march 05, 2009 track your energy use this week’s
or to avoid having so many drips in the first place, consider purchasing adrip catcher.
the little plastic pieces will keep it centered.
the stores sell used and surplus building materials donated by supply stores, contractors, demolition crews, and individual homeowners.
fortunately, slashing your water heater energy consumption is easier than you might think.
the transmitter is so sensitive that you’ll  see the jump in energy use simply by turning on a light or opening the  refrigerator.
recycled toilet paper options are becoming increasingly available — and they do the job just as well as other types of tp.
in fact, according to the epa, just one gas-powered lawn mower releases 11 times the air pollution of a new car for each hour it’s operated.
lucky you, today’sgreen around the house challenge shows you how to cut back on the water use, waste, and pollution that  originates from this bathroom staple.
(that’s almost half the price of other eco-friendly mattresses!)
they created this disappearing clothesline, which can be mounted any distance apart up to 16.5 feet and disappears out of sight when it’s not in use—just remove it from its brackets and store it in the cupboard.
installation tightly wrap your new teflon tape clockwise around the wall pipe's threads four or five times.
if you don’t want all that excess water shooting out the  overflow hole you drilled in your barrel, you can place the male connector end  of a sump pump hose, pointing outward, into the overflow hole at the top of the  barrel.
you must be in an existing home to qualify and it must be your primary place of residence.
not to mention it takes more energy to produce.
rosemary, basil, catnip, lemon balm, and rose geraniums are all smart picks for warding off insects, according to thismother earth news story.
beeswax candles are naturally fragrant, nontoxic, soot-free, and allergen-free (just make sure you’re buying candles made from 100 percent beeswax).
what else do you do to conserve water around the house?
if color appears in the bowl within 15  to 30 minutes, it’s time to repair.
screw on the lid,  flush the toilet, and place the jug in the tank.
then you need misprint hanging lanterns ($69) to brighten up your deck or patio on warm summer nights.
hemp is durable and naturally  mildew-resistant.
use a 7/8-inch hole saw to cut a hole 3 inches up from the bottom of the barrel for your spigot/sillcock.
within the misprint collection, you’ll also find messages for your potting shed and bedroom, too.
but green candles—as in, environmentally friendly pillars and tea lights adding ambience to your home—are even nicer.
choosing a space heater with a thermostat and adjustable power levels allows you to set the temperature and power as low as possible to comfortably heat your room and avoid energy waste.
it switches them off automatically after a room has been vacant for 30 minutes—and you can still flick the switch yourself whenever you please too.
or to avoid having so many drips in the first  place, consider purchasing adrip catcher.
call your local utility to find out what options are available and what restrictions apply.
so all you have to do to understand why it’s important to paint voc-free (and where you can find paint sans vocs) isread this post.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 27, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: beeswax, candles, diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, environmental, green, palm oil, paraffin, recycling, soy, synthetic fragrances, wax, wicks lower winter energy bills, heat individual rooms, and reduce the amount of waste that goes to the landfill—all at once.
one recycled-content insulation that has received quite a lot of press  lately isultratouch natural cotton fiber insulation, produced by bonded logic.
the last time i had a mystery smell coming from my dishwasher (after it had been emptied, mind you), i ran a load with 1 cup of baking soda and was greeted with a fresher scent when i opened the door.
this not-so-pleasant plastic has been linked to a slew of nasty  health and environmental problems, including cancer, liver damage, and  reproductive and immune system problems.
and if it happens to be a pre-1980 model?
for every 10 degrees  you reduce your water heater temperature, you can save 3 to 5 percent on energy  costs according to the u.s. department of energy.
it’s also important to remember, however, that environmental activism  isn’t something that can happen once a year.
storing these bags near your grocery list can be helpful too.
the lid usually only fits one way; line that up  by referring to the hole you drilled near the top of the barrel when you cut  off the top.
so what’s a candle-lover to do?
heat pump water heater (hpwh) technology uses liquid refrigerant to move  heat from the surrounding air to the water in an enclosed tank rather than  generating heat directly.
here’s why you should too: the problem plastic revealed
from garage sales to estate sales to even rental furniture outlets, there are lots of places to purchase pre-owned merchandise.
insert the vacuum’s wand into the hose and remove as much lint as possible.
and thanks to the battery act of 1996, recycling rechargeable nicard, nimh, lithium-ion, and sealed lead-acid batteries is easier than ever.
but it’s not likely that all of these locations will suit your fancy.
when it comes to paint brushes or rollers, opt for quality, durable  supplies that can be washed and reused.
we’ve already stressed the importance of anorganic mattress, but experts agree that your sheets, pillow, and comforter should also be natural.
and although you can buy some pretty nice-looking rain catchers from gardener’s supply, you can also make your own—even if you’re not all that handy.
wipe any residual oil or  liquid from the barrel.
and i did, thanks to a build your own rain barrel workshop last summer at theecology action center in bloomington, il.
your bedding should also be organic.
we’re going to roll out the first challenge next tuesday, when katie fills us in on how to green our shower curtains.
so it’s raised off the ground—this makes it easier to get to the  spigot when it's time to hook up the hose or fill up your watering can.
call your local restore to see if they’ll take your used materials.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on february 12, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bulbs, cfl recycling, cfls, compact fluorescent light bulbs, energy costs, energy efficiency, energy savings, environment, green living, incandescent, lexicon, light, light bulbs, living green, mercury, mercury, recycle, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com
but  unplugging all those appliances and gadgets all the time can be a real pain.
a square foot of  well-drained, loamy soil can soak up about a half gallon of gray water per week.
in fact, most manufacturers offer to build custom designs at minimal added cost.
many communities have disposal programs.
for more ideas on how to recycle  gift wrap, head on over tocraft stew. christmas tree and finally, you can’t forget the  tree.
i was thinking blue, as in my blue bathroom color scheme.
hemp processing is clean and low on dust.
just be sure to use only the varieties designed for use on pets.
icky pesticides and fertilizers are sprayed on cotton crops, tainting our environment and causing your cotton covers to off-gas—or release volatile organic compounds (vocs).
fortunately, forgetting to switch off the lights when you leave  the room isn’t a problem anymore if you install this sensor.
and, perhaps best of all, when you’re done with it, greensulate will rapidly break down, enriching the soil and even helping nearby waste breakdown too.
the sump  pump hose will connect to the outside of the barrel.
the result is the potential of reduced monthly energy costs.
shopper’s guide to home tissue products by the nrdc.
once you have your supplies, hop on over to this post on painting basics to study up before you begin.
and there’s no better time than  winter to give your décor a boost with plants and herbs housed in  decorative containers.
it may make up the difference in being able to justify the more expensive yet more energy-efficient product.
you can learn more about gray water basics from this helpfulnatural home article.
(did we mention that this is all for free?)
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on march 25, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, energy savings, green, green challenge, home, know-it-all, lexicon, light switches, light switches, motion light switches, motion sensors, motion switches, occupancy sensors, saving energy, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com if your toilet has been around since before 1995, it probably uses as much as 3.5 gallons of water per flush.
another spray-in option: soy-based polyurethane, produced bybiobased insulation.
solutions if ice dams form on your home before you're able to ventilate and insulate your attic, you may want to call in a licensed contractor to remove them safely and effectively.
if you’re an avid magazine reader like me, there’s themisprint magazine rack ($89) that perfectly cozies up to any wall and stores a ton of glossies.
and it’s easy to see why: these gems use 75 percent less energy than standard incandescent bulbs and can last up to 10 times longer.
for more information on quick, all natural drain-cleaning tips, visit care2.com, or for additional green living advice, drop by greenyour.com.
lucky us, both problems are solved with the belkin conserve.
to find out their responses, visit theirwebsite.
(we used newspapers to absorb the liquid.
but did you know google can  help you monitor your energy use too?
beeswax candles are naturally  fragrant, nontoxic, soot-free, and allergen-free (just make sure you’re  buying candles made from 100 percent beeswax).
others will require a bit more manpower or money.
by its very nature, a sphere has 1/3 less surface area than a comparable box-style structure, which allows air to pass over the dome with less resistance.
another option: biodegradable disposable paint trays made from recycled pulp  fiber frombio pulp works, also available at lowe’s.
if you’re in the market for a new water heater this year, you’re in luck.
follow these simple steps and you'll have it made in the shade.
eliminate standing water.
then head to the hardware store  and buy insulation (usually $2 to $4 per strip), a utility knife, and acrylic  or duct tape.
the light turns blue to indicate a cold spot and red if it’s hot, so you can easily identify leaks.
simply  rinse out a half-gallon juice jug, add a couple of inches or sand or pebbles to  weigh the jug down, then fill the rest of the jug with water.
in addition to a push mower, put your rakes and handheld hedge trimmers into service toburn calories and get your yard looking great in no time.
fortunately, there’s a system that can help: leed.
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner better homes & gardens: 501 decorating ideas under $100 (better homes & gardens decorating) rsmeans and lexicon consulting, inc.: universal design ideas for style, comfort & safety editors of creative homeowner: the new smart approach to home decorating crissy trask: it's easy being green: a handbook for earth-friendly living the home depot: patios designs for living this work by lexicon consulting, inc. is licensed under a creative commons attribution-noncommercial-no derivative works 3.0 united states license.
(icynene is  free of formaldehyde too.)
and i’ll be sure to post any furniture  makeovers of my own.
i was thinking blue, as in my blue bathroom  color scheme.
that’s why there’s only one per week.
diatomaceous earth, a natural rock dust consisting of fossilized algae, contains microscopic particles that are sharp enough to penetrate a flea's exoskeleton and dehydrate it until it dies.
for instance, you’ll want to determine fuel  costs in your area and whether or not it makes sense to purchase a  self-contained firebox insert or a freestanding stove.
plus, you can save at least $30 in energy costs per year over the course of each bulb’s lifetime.
if you’re really short on space like me, there’s the diminutivebamboo tabletop shelf from improvements catalog ($19.97, on sale).
but the shower liner reeked of pvc.
an  energy star ® tv uses 30 percent less energy than standard units.
if it faces south, opt for deciduous trees.
store your shoes in your entryway—or better yet, the garage—to avoid tracking mud and dirt through your home.
use the hacksaw or jigsaw or sabresaw to remove the top of the barrel.
another option is to purchase a downspout diverter, like this one from garden water saver.
home expertdon vandervort digs into the intricacies of how a pellet stove operates.
try one—or all—of them as part of the home  know-it-all’s green around the house challenge and start saving!
mosquitoes mosquitoes pose a two-part problem: their bites not only leave an unpleasant itch but can also infect your pet with heartworm.
moving on to paint trays, you can’t beat a quality, reusable metal paint tray.
consider overall costs.
keep a spray bottle of soapy water around for insect sightings too—a well-aimed shot or two will dispatch them handily.
according to vandevort, pellet stoves can be complicated and require occasional maintenance and regular attention, so you might be better off signing a service contract rather than trying to maintain the stove yourself.
all you do is measure the circumference of the intake and outtake pipes.
instead, it can be used to water your yard.
until later…the home know-it-all posted by jim stepp on january 28, 2010 in around the house , general , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: air conditioner, air conditioning, appliance, diy, do-it-yourself, energy star, energy-efficient, furnace, home know-it-all, major appliance, rebates, repair, tax credit all good times come to an end.
green around the house challenge, i’m giving you the scoop on how i built the rain barrel so you can too, after hunting down a food-grade plastic barrel and a few other supplies at your local hardware store.
using a wet/dry vacuum with a hose, suck out any visible lint inside the trap.
whether it’s organizing a neighborhood cleanup, mailing letters to our congressmen and women, or riding a bike to work, we here at the home know-it-all can’t wait to do our part this year!
screw the pipe  nipple into the spigot/sillcock.
but they corral several plants at once and therefore save space.
place the metal washer over the pipe  nipple.
this is the easiest green move on the  list.
(bonus: turning down the water heater to 120 degrees is a smart safety move that prevents scalding.)
while you’re in insulation  mode, why not take care of your water heater pipes too?
kohl’s has also recently announced a solar  initiative to power many of its stores by the sun.
and don’t forget egg nog and  other cardboard food containers—just give them a good scrub before  dropping them in the recycling box.
and before tearing things apart,  try to arrange a new home for the item.
place one in a drafty room to supplement heat, rather than crank up your furnace, and you'll save energy and money.
for more eco-bedding options, visit evo’s site.
yep, you read that right.
or look for clean-burning wax made from palm oil (palm oil comes  from coconuts, so no living plants are destroyed in the making of the oil).
green around the  house challenge is getting serious about conserving—and  reusing—water.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 3, 2009 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bedding, cotton, diy, do-it-yourself, duvet cover,  eco-friendly, environmental, green, mattress, mattress pad, organic mattress,  pillow, recycled, sheets, sleep, wool january 29, 2009 cool green tools conserving water and energy at home is an ongoing task for two groups of  people: the ecologically-minded and the budget-focused.
or collect and reuse water from your dehumidifer.
the greenest option is usually the reusable option.
nothing says hello spring (or winter or fall or any season for that matter) like a fresh coat of paint on the walls, on a favorite piece of furniture, or even on a canvas hung on the wall.
if you’re in the market for a new  water heater this year, you’re in luck.
but if not, you don’t need to rid your house of them—any cfl is better than a standard incandescent bulb.
use a spray bottle to apply the solution to your pet's body.
screw the pieces to the sides of the barrel near the top, with at least 1 inch protruding above the barrel.
apply to the metal and let sit for 15 minutes.
although they may be  made from paraffin, recycled candles are an environmentally friendly option  because you’re reusing candle wax that was already produced rather than  buying new.
the typical american family spends about $1,900 a year on home utility bills, according to theu.s. department of energy—and a good portion of that energy is needlessly wasted.
in particular, avoid detergents with “softening power,” phosphates,  boron, and chlorine.
according to the report, pvc shower curtains can release as many as 108 volatile organic chemicals (vocs) into the air you regularly breathe.
wipe any residual oil or liquid from the barrel.
everything from your cardboard boxes to your christmas tree can be reused.
some candle-makers—like my  friend cara who sells her mary marie line of candles atetsy—even use old  glass jars, mugs, and the like for containing their candles.
because they provide wind protection for up to 20 times their height, you can plant them a greater distance from your house.
however, many commercial pest solutions are pumped so full of chemicals that they may do more harm than good.
plant with pests in mind.
get the scoop on exchange programs fromconsumer reports.
green around the house challenge, aqus system, colorado state university extension, diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly, environment, epa, gray water, graywater, graywater central, graywater system, green living, greywater, greywater guerillas, lexicon, natural home magazine, the home know-it-all, umass extension, water waste you may find it hard to believe, but you can recycle almost everything that comes out of your home during a remodel.
not flushing when there are just liquids in the bowl saves gallons of water each day.
rather than throw it away, pass it through the shredder and use it as filler for other presents.
technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, earth day, eco-friendly,  eco-friendly building materials, eco-sensitive beauty products, energy savings,  environment, environmentally friendly, green, lexicon, recycle, recycled  building materials, reduce, reuse, soy products april 16, 2009 going for gray water
for a rustic tabletop plant display, try the  carved wooden cachepots from pottery barn ($24–$34.00, depending on  size).
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on april 8, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cabinets, charity, diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly, environment, habitat for humanity, lexicon, molding, recycle, remodel,  remodeling, reuse, save, saving march 25, 2009 turn off the lights.
when eating indoors, quickly clean up bug-attracting crumbs and sticky spots, and cover all food containers.
hemp is durable and naturally mildew-resistant.
also use the 7/8-inch hole saw to cut a  hole about 2 to 3 inches from the top of the barrel.
removing an ice dam can be dangerous.
we’ll see—the rain we’re expecting this weekend will be the test.
well, it is time to take off the lights and decorations.
my bathroom is teeny-tiny, so the liner’s icky,  plastic-y odor infiltrated the space within minutes—and lingered.
depending on where you position your rain barrel, overflow may be a concern.
make a list ahead of time of everything you need.
post items they're willing to give away for free.
that’s a lot of time in bed!
when shopping for a pellet stove, opt for one with a built-in thermostat—this feature ensures better temperature control.
if that’s not enough to cause you to toss your unnatural sheets,  consider this: non-organic fibers are often harvested overseas, where no  fair-labor laws exist.
ewg identified seven cfls that  outweigh the competition.
it's that time again!
here’s how it’s going to work: at least once every week in  2009, you’ll see a post onthe home know-it-all related to going green  around the house.
here are some tips to keep them away.
here’s how they work: you pour pellets into a refillable hopper.
the product is widely available at lawn-and-garden centers.
visitthe recycling  center’s website to find a center in your town, or check with local  grocery stores to see if they accept boxes.
the  spigot/sillcock is now outside, with the pipe nipple inside.
baking soda also works wonders if fido has a little accident on your carpet.
tighten another 1.5 turns with a wrench to secure it.
(i just added a jug to one of our toilets this weekend and so far no one has even noticed!)
price: to be determined.
here’s a rundown on each, thanks to information from the u.s. department  of energy.
when installed (which should take less than half an hour), this handy gadget turns your everyday toilet into a dual-flush model.
replace your  light switches with occupancy sensors!
plug everything into this surge protector and all you have to do is switch it  off with the included remote control to stop power flow.
today's question: what is this year’s most unique and revolutionary green decorating product?
the structures are eye-catching and have many advantages over conventional homes.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 8, 2009 in around the house , decorating ,  garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: decorating, design, diy, do-it-yourself, herbs, home,  home improvement, house, houseplants, improvement, indoor planters, plant stands ,tables january 06, 2009 take the green around the house challenge whether you believe in making new year’s resolutions or not, you  have to admit that the start of a new year is a great time to contemplate  positive improvements to your life—and the place you live.
the rhyme “if it’s yellow let it mellow, if it’s brown flush it down” causes many people to cringe.
(click umbra’s name above to learn how you can test your wicks to see if  they include lead.)
it’s easy—just follow these steps.
regularly check and drain birdbaths, wading pools, gutters, birdbaths, flowerpots, and any other spot where water can collect after a rain shower.
when you’re done, promptly pack the remainders back up.
that’s why we’re going to present you with a project that we’re calling the green around the house challenge.
(“green” cotton isn’t necessarily organically grown, but it is cheaper, making it the next best option.)
from there, a motorized auger feeds these pellets into a burn pot, where they combust.
for example, the vapors from vicks vaporub, when applied to your pet's coat, tend to keep mosquitoes at bay.
screw the pieces to the sides of  the barrel near the top, with at least 1 inch protruding above the barrel.
also check your attic insulation.
again, if you have a cat, it would be best not to use this technique!
then, detach the wires and reconnect them to your new sensor using wire nuts.
once you have your supplies, hop on over to this post on painting basics to  study up before you begin.
be sure to visit morton® salt’s website to share your favorite "salt secret."
plus, each planter in the set is a different size—small, medium, and large.
green around the house challenge: water heating accounts for up to 15.5 percent of the energy used in your home—second only to hvac systems in regard to residential energy consumption, according to energy star®.
the light turns blue to indicate  a cold spot and red if it’s hot, so you can easily identify leaks.
if you go too dressy, you’ll be uncomfortable and a seller might  increase his price because he thinks you can afford more.
technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly, energy star,  environment, gas condensing water heater, green, green around the house  challenge, green water heater, green water heater, heat pump water heater,  high-efficiency gas storage water heater, hot water heater, insulating pipes,  insulation, lexicon, plumbing, saving energy, solar water heater, tankless  water heater, u.s. department of energy, water heater blanket, water temperature ,waterheater, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com february 18, 2009 greener tv buying i’m the lucky owner of a brand new lcd tv.
boxes if you’re lucky enough to have curbside recycling, it’s likely the program will accept both flat and corrugated cardboard.
what’s more, some of these chemicals were found in the  air 28 days after a pvc shower curtain was opened and hung.
these independent salvage yards are popping up all over the place, and because they don’t operate to fill the needs of a certain consumer, they accept a wider variety of building materials.
by providing suppliers in developing countries a decent wage and promoting social and environmental integrity in all dealings, the body shop is not only eco-friendly—it’s also socially friendly.
their wide and thick canopies are perfect for shading your house in the summertime, and because they lose their leaves when the temperature drops, the sun can still warm your home in the wintertime.
or buy a heavy-duty  canvas drop cloth, which can be used over and over again.
this insulation is made from 85 percent post-industrial cotton (think denim  manufacturing scraps).
sweep up all that dirt, hair, and other debris scattered on your floors at least once a week—more often if you have pets.
as of january 1, 2009, you can purchase energy star® water heaters.
leave a comment  here!
it’s the first step to making meaningful changes in energy consumption, which leads to less reliance on fossil fuels, yes, but also reduced energy bills (and more money in your bank account).
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on august 25, 2010 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) my wife and i just moved out of our apartment, which brought with it the necessity to venture into the long-neglected recesses of our refrigerator.
and it’s effective: studies estimate that just knowing about your household’s energy consumption can lead to a 5 to 15 percent reduction in your energy bill.
soy  is another candle option that’s biodegradable, vegan, soot-free, and  long-lasting.
there are also cedar oil sprays and shampoos sold in pet stores that function as natural insect repellents.
and, as long as the bee  population doesn’t diminish anymore, beeswax is a renewable resource.
here are a few of our favorite uses for salt.
today's question: what suggestions do you have for making our reader’s kitchens more energy-efficient?
thermostat and adjustable power levels
and, as long as the bee population doesn’t diminish anymore, beeswax is a renewable resource.
go green year-round by following some of ourgreen living suggestions and choosing the right products.
and that’s what i’m talking about in today’s
flea market  finds & how to restore them ($7.98) and flea market style ($20.90) are both filled with tips and tricks on decorating with  “found” objects.
if you recently purchased a pvc shower curtain, let it air out for a month  before hanging it.
reusable cloth grocery bags are a great way to help drastically reduce the number of plastic "disposable" grocery bags that end up in landfills.
a number of gadgets make gauging your energy consumption easy.
lcd is the way to be.
then there’s theenvirobrush, which features disposable bristles that lock into a reusable (and recyclable!) plastic handle.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on september 30, 2010 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
with all that looming over your head—and filling your lungs—it’s more important than ever to whip your air into shape, and that’s an easy, breezy thing to do.
although soap and detergent is biodegradable, it can  cause problems if you use gray water for a long time (because excessive amounts  of sodium salts, present in many cleaning agents, can damage soil and plants).
if it’s warm to the touch, it’s time to insulate.
the solution: i’ve put together a guideline that’ll help me spot these makeovers-waiting-to-happen.
(click umbra’s name above to learn how you can test your wicks to see if they include lead.)
best of all, two of  the plugs stay active even when the others are shut off, so you can keep items  such as clocks, wireless internet routers, or your precious dvr box on all the  time.
i’m excited to see what’s next!
the watertight steel pots feature a crisp white finish and are accented by a simple scalloped wirework design.
learn about the pluses and minuses of each atgreenyour.com.
and the week after that?
a recent study by the center for health, environment  & justice, a grassroots environmental organization based in falls church,  virginia, revealed disturbing facts about pvc shower  curtains—that’s why it’s called volatile vinyl.
learn more:blackanddecker.com belkin conserve energy-saving surge protector plugged-in home electronics suck energy even if they’re not in use.
when shopping for tp, just be sure to verify the percentage of post-consumer waste (pcw) in the product.
then sit back, relax, and enjoy your new color!
if you’re in the market for a new dining room table, consult furniture stores to see what a new version goes for, and then check outcraigslist, ebay, or goantiques to learn the going-rate of used pieces and see what’s available.
use the 4-inch hole saw to cut a hole in the top of the barrel for your downspout.
you’ll also want to hop on over to consumer reports, where  you’ll find all kinds of important considerations for selecting the best  stove for your heating needs.
but i’m a realist and i know that part of the allure of candles is the wonderful scent they give off (even when they’re not burning—the soy candles sitting in the sconces on my dining room wall emit a wonderful aroma every time i walk by them).
although many folks would argue it’s still not enough, we snooze  more than a third of our lives away.
theumass extension offers some handy guidelines for safely using gray  water.
for more information on recycling after a remodel, see what the professional remodeler has to say.
green around the house challenge is all about energy.
never use salt or calcium chloride to melt the snow because the chemicals are highly corrosive and will damage metal gutters, downspouts, and flashings.
pillow try: wheat dreamz buckwheat pillow ($40.00-$50.00),abundant earth organic cotton/wool pillow ($29.95-$65.95), natura organic wool pillow ($79.99-$117.99).
if every household in the united states replaced just one roll of virgin fiber toilet paper (500 sheets) with 100 percent recycled ones, we could save 423,900 trees, according to the natural resources defense council (nrdc).
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 24, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: build a rain barrel, diy, do-it-yourself, earth day,  eco-friendly, eco-friendly, food-grade plastic barrel, garden, gardening, going  green, green, harvesting rainwater, healthy landscape, lexicon, money savings,  rain barrel, rainwater, spigot, water conservation, water savings april 22, 2009 happy earth day!
the lid usually only fits one way; line that up by referring to the hole you drilled near the top of the barrel when you cut off the top.
if you’d rather not pour used water on your plants at all but would  still like to conserve, here’s another use for your gray water: toilet  flushing.
another drawback: if you don’t have a thermostat in every room, the heat from the stove might trick nearby thermostats into thinking the temperature in the area is at the set level.
heck, you can even buy amisprint waste can ($35).
and if your candles are scented, you’re also putting your health at risk.
there's a reason why radar towers in antarctica incorporate the geodesic design!
odds are, if you do much yard work, you rely on power equipment to get the job done.
local charities and second-hand stores.
break down all those boxes from your new electronics and toys and send them to the curb.
and, perhaps best of all, when you’re done with it,  greensulate will rapidly break down, enriching the soil and even helping nearby  waste breakdown too.
an occupancy sensor is a device that automatically turns the light on when  you walk into a room and off when you walk out.
but i feel the generous square footage more than makes up for that.)
a two-button control allows you to dispense less water to  flush liquids and more for solids, which can cut your household water use by up  to 50 percent.
after its removal, clean the wall pipe's threads of any residual teflon tape or pipe compound.
tighten it by hand as far as possible.
this is the easiest green move on the list.
but don't forget the cost of finishing the interior, wiring for electricity, installing plumbing, and all the other work that goes into making a house habitable.
from  there, a motorized auger feeds these pellets into a burn pot, where they  combust.
fortunately, switching to more environmentally friendly outdoor tools is easier than you might think.
yet many areas regulate the  use of gray water—and some even ban it.
understanding what you qualify for can be tricky, so here are the basics:
what other tools do you find useful for monitoring home energy use?
if you’re  looking for a temporary fix, check out trimaco’s eco drop biodegradable  paint tarps, which are available for $3 at many lowe’s stores.
get there early and come back late.
on top of that, once the bedding is made, it’s often coated in formaldehyde—a probable carcinogen—to minimize wrinkling.
in the united states, candle manufacturers voluntarily stopped using lead wicks for this very reason.
to find a broad selection of reusable cloth grocery bags in styles and patterns you'll be proud to carry with you, visitreusit.com.
(and that’s a good thing!
here are a few easy tips for getting rid of those unwanted odors without replacing your fridge or using harsh chemicals.
these independent  salvage yards are popping up all over the place, and because they don’t  operate to fill the needs of a certain consumer, they accept a wider variety of  building materials.
whew—you made it through another whirlwind christmas.
whether you categorize  yourself as one or both (as so many folks do these days), it never hurts to  have a little help on your conquest to conserve.
the problem is, some of us  don’t have a yard for or don’t want the permanence of an in-ground  line.
simply  leave a bowl in the sink or a pail in the shower to catch water for giving  thirsty plants a drink.
stick with fresh water for vegetable gardens.
kohl’s has also recently announced a solar initiative to power many of its stores by the sun.
break down all those boxes from your new electronics  and toys and send them to the curb.
and even though it’s only a 32-inch, i’m proud of it—not only because it saved me big bucks when i bought it but also because it’ll save more moolah when it comes to my electricity bill.
so get ready to get green.
pretty darn doable, eh? buy energy star.
according to the epa, emissions from lawn mowers, chain saws, leaf vacuums, and other outdoor power equipment are a considerable source of pollution.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on april 22, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, earth day, eco-friendly, eco-friendly building materials, eco-sensitive beauty products, energy savings, environment, environmentally friendly, green, lexicon, recycle, recycled building materials, reduce, reuse, soy products the average american household consumes 90 gallons of fresh drinking water each day, according to the u.s. environmental protection agency.
umass extension actually recommends not using kitchen sink or  dishwasher water because it may contain higher levels of grease, food  particles, and other materials.
ikea, for example, phased out pvc shower curtains 11 years ago, according to u.s. news & world report.
place an o-ring on the  pipe nipple, as close to the sillcock as possible.
and it enters  your body when you least expect it, whether through inhalation or direct skin  or eye contact.
another is a tip-over switch, which shuts off the unit if it falls over.
and if that’s not enough incentive for you to switch, installing occupancy sensors is as easy as pie.
sheep’s wool is safe and easy to handle and, unlike traditional insulation, won’t cause itching and skin irritation.
because there is no need for load-bearing walls to hold up the roof, the interior of your dome is open to accommodate any design or layout you can envision.
the typical american family spends about $1,900 a year on  home utility bills, according to theu.s. department of energy—and a good  portion of that energy is needlessly wasted.
on top of that, once the bedding is made, it’s  often coated in formaldehyde—a probable carcinogen—to minimize  wrinkling.
conduct a thorough cleaning.
the current program expires december 31, 2010.
i have to admit, i certainly wasn’t thinking green when i bought my  shower curtain a couple years ago.
soy is another candle option that’s biodegradable, vegan, soot-free, and long-lasting.
after your rain barrel is complete, all you have to do is position it near  your downspout.
what it does developed by the u.s. green building council, leed gives builders and homeowners a specific framework for green construction.
and stay tuned: you may have more incentive to switch soon if the greener gardens bill passes.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 18, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
or try recycled polyester plastic.
it's a long-term project, but a full-grown tree can be a great air conditioner.
after a while, you'll instinctively reach for the bags when you grab the list.
water you use at home for dishwashing, showering, washing hands, and laundry—called gray water—comprises 50 to 80 percent of residential water waste, according tograywater central.
or for a more thorough inspection, have the technician clean the dryer ducts and the inside of the dryer for you.
however, you should avoid  polyester, which is largely made of non-renewable petroleum.
not all wicks are bad, but some candlewicks contain lead and release soot and  toxins into the air when they’re burned.
learn more:belkin.com/conserve watt stopper passive infrared wall switch vacancy sensor it happens to the best of us—you rush out of the house only  to discover hours later upon your return that you left all of the lights in the  house blazing.
the next time you complete an energy-saving renovation project in your home, you may qualify for federal, state, and local tax credits based on the costs of those improvements.
flower freshener blending a little salt and baking soda with the water in your flower vase can help to extend the longevity of your bouquet.
for more odor-eating ideas, check out this reader's digest article.
but gray water doesn’t have to go to waste.
apply gray water directly to the soil surface rather than splashing it  around or pouring it all over plants.
simply visit freecycle.org.
take the 4-inch plastic disc that you cut out of the top of the barrel and use a saw to cut it in fourths, like a piece of pie.
some of their pointers include: use the right soaps.
let’s start with paraffin, the most common candle ingredient.
a dramatic decrease in your energy bill.
one is overheat protection, which automatically turns off the unit when the heat rises to high.
(and, asumbra points out, like anything that burns, candles give off particles and vapors that can irritate your respiratory system.)
then head to the hardware store and buy insulation (usually $2 to $4 per strip), a utility knife, and acrylic or duct tape.
whenever my garbage disposal smells funny, i grind leftover lemon or orange peels because it leaves behind a fresh, fruity scent.
why we’re going to present you with a project that we’re calling  the green around the house challenge.
batteries is easier than ever.
encompassing all building types, the leed system emphasizes and awards credits based on nine key areas: finding a leed certified builder
stop flushing prescriptions!
so if you can’t do  without yummy smells, at least opt for those light sticks that get their scents  from essential oils.
posted by katie on august 7, 2009 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
on top of that, you receive a tax deduction equal to the price for which the items are sold.
when shopping for  a pellet stove, opt for one with a built-in thermostat—this feature  ensures better temperature control.
most gas furnaces have a life expectancy of 15 to 20 years.
bonus: you'll get a pretty shot of color too.
vanilla extract and fresh coffee grounds can also absorb unwanted scents when placed in the fridge.
plus, you can save at least $30 in energy costs per year over the  course of each bulb’s lifetime.
a drop of 60 percent or more is suggested for windows that are frequently exposed to sun.
or try an all-purpose cotton drop sheet from reaves, which is made from 90 percent post-consumer recycled content, is washable, and will decompose when you decide it’s time to toss it.
your best bet is to purchase unscented candles.
the watertight steel pots feature a crisp white finish and are accented by a  simple scalloped wirework design.
want to know how you can  get involved?
use the 1 ¾-inch hole saw to cut a hole about 2 inches below the open top of the barrel.
(i just added a jug to one of our toilets this  weekend and so far no one has even noticed!)
when it comes to protecting your floors and furniture, do you have any old sheets you aren’t using anymore?
to use any of these plants to your advantage, crush their leaves to release their scents.
although it’s unlikely you’ll find a piece of furniture in mint condition, be sure the damage is something you’re able to repair affordably.
go green year-round by  following some of ourgreen living suggestions and choosing the right products.
but if you still have  an old cathode ray tube hanging around, stick with it—it’s the  greenest of all tvs.
this everyday object might be causing more problems than you think, starting with air pollution.
they’re best suited for spaces used less often—like the garage, basement, or utility closet.
the first and most important step to painting greener is to select low- or no-voc paint.
google is  working on thepowermeter, which will receive information from utility smart  meters and energy management devices to show you your electricity consumption  in real-time (for free) right on your igoogle homepage.
technorati tags: burner pans, cooking, dishwashing, energy efficiency, green around the house challenge, meals, microwave, oven, pans, posts, pressure cooker, stove
today, hundreds of millions of  people and more than 180 countries participate in the earth day celebration.
any bigger, it’ll waste substantially more energy  than a smaller size.
it fits neatly in any corner, and there’s a  shelf underneath for extra display space.
if you just don't want to part with the tree, you can set it up in your yard as a combination feeder/shelter for birds and other wildlife.
and if you hate the thought of bargaining at an estate sale, perhaps an online auction is more up your alley.
that’s a  long time, folks!
because cloth bags can be made from a variety of materials, including hemp, bamboo, and burlap, check the bags for any washing instructions.
of course, you could say sayonara to emissions altogether (aside from those produced in the production and transport of your new tools) by opting for good old elbow grease.
a charming alternative to gas or electric heating, pellet stoves don’t require epa certification because they emit so little pollution.
additionally, the curve of the sphere causes internal air to circulate much more efficiently.
i have to admit, i certainly wasn’t thinking green when i bought my shower curtain a couple years ago.
for us, it didn’t make sense to spend $600 when the furnace would most likely last another 3 to 5 years before we would need to replace it.
in kind is the 12th largest charity in the united states, and it also will accept your product donations to redistribute to needy individuals.
another common method, according to thecolorado state university extension is  to drain your washing machine water directly onto outside vegetation (although,  admittedly, this method is illegal in most states).
launch your search for eco-friendly options atgaiam, health goods, pristine planet, and ikea.
or buy a heavy-duty canvas drop cloth, which can be used over and over again.
keep waste out of the landfill and stay warm by opting for recycled insulation.
if it has metallic specks or is very thin, you can’t send it to the recycle center.
with the right  planning and preparation, you can practically skip ordering a dumpster.
so you can imagine our surprise when we recently learned that not all cfls  are equal—even those bearing the energy star label.
and just so you’re as informed on the topic as possible, i also recommend reading theu.s. department of energy’s energy efficiency and renewable energy guide to wood and pellet heating.
when planting your tree, remember to give it room to grow, as a little sapling can turn into a giant.
depending on where you position your rain barrel, overflow may be a  concern.
and there’s no better time than winter to give your décor a boost with plants and herbs housed in decorative containers.
these pots come in a variety of glossy or metallic hues, such as silver, espresso, and scarlet red.
when you spot  something you think you like, consult your list to see where it could  potentially work.
end the toxic relationship—for good so, aside from that unmistakable stench, how can you tell if your shower curtain is made from pvc?
and be sure to share your going green success
an air purifier can help eliminate second-hand tobacco smoke, animal dander, pollen, and mold and mildew, but before you lug one home, do your research.
wrapping your water heater in an insulation  blanket can reduce water heating energy consumption by 4 to 9 percent.
you may win a $1,000 amex gift card!
and unlike your standard hearth, pellet stoves produce zero creosote.
you can  find it on most types of units.
the body shop: since it opened its doors in 1976, this cosmetic company has sold only ethical, eco-sensitive beauty products.
we really do want to hear from you!
at flea markets,  auctions, and other day sales, the true bargains are often gone by the time 9  a.m. rolls around, so if you want to spot a true find, go early.
okay—plant stands aren’t exactly containers.
and as promised, our first challenge is greening your shower curtain.
gifts in kind  international.
this department store buys 236 million kilowatt-hours of  green power each year, making it the second-largest retail purchaser of green  power in the country.
many reusable cloth bags can be thrown in the washing machine alongside your clothes.
simply leave a bowl in the sink or a pail in the shower to catch water for giving thirsty plants a drink.
energy star® approved.
best of all, two of the plugs stay active even when the others are shut off, so you can keep items such as clocks, wireless internet routers, or your precious dvr box on all the time.
spray-in foam starts out as a liquid and, once it is sprayed, expands and solidifies, working as an air barrier to stop more than 90 percent of air infiltration and minimizing allergens and pollution in your house.
the body shop: since it opened its doors in 1976, this cosmetic company has  sold only ethical, eco-sensitive beauty products.
some spray-in foam is loaded with chemicals, but others, like icynene, are water-blown and don’t offgas nasty chemicals.
if you’d rather not pour used water on your plants at all but would still like to conserve, here’s another use for your gray water: toilet flushing.
skip anything dark-colored or bold-patterned, which attracts mosquitoes.
seems like a fantastic price, right?
after all, what could be easier than that?
but i’m a realist and i know that part of the  allure of candles is the wonderful scent they give off (even when they’re  not burning—the soy candles sitting in the sconces on
now that’s  eco-friendly!
cleaning some grocery items can be messy, especially meat, produce, and frozen food.
that’s what i did, only the gutter wasn’t very cooperative and, to be honest, i’m not sure that it’s a very reliable setup.
traditional cleaning supplies are filled with toxic chemicals that leach into your air and eventually your lungs, so take our suggestions and clean with nontoxic products instead.
of course, once you set your sights on a newer, healthier shower curtain, another issue arises: getting rid of the old one.
so be sure to keep your receipts!
and consider purchasing a vacuum with a hepa filter, which sucks up even more airborne particles.
but it’s not likely that all of these locations will suit  your fancy.
technorati tags: chain saw, consumer reports, diy, do-it-yourself, environmentally friendly, epa, green around the house challenge, green living, greener gardens bill, lawn mower, leaf blower, outdoor power equipment, pollution, the daily green, the home know-it-all, trimmer, yard work i’m moving to a new apartment soon and am looking for ways to spice up the bland white walls.
thanks to the rebate and tax incentives, we were able to select a 95 percent energy-efficient, variable-speed furnace and air conditioning system (it made financial sense to invest in and install a new air conditioner at the same time, because our old one was installed at the same time as the spent furnace).
arecent study by the university of bonn in germany found that dishwashers use half the energy, one-sixth the water, and less soap than hand-washing.
or look for clean-burning wax made from palm oil (palm oil comes from coconuts, so no living plants are destroyed in the making of the oil).
use this guide the next time you go shopping for light bulbs.
it may take a bit of time to get used to, but the change is well worth it.
fortunately, the aussies know what to do.
testing company approved always look for space heaters that have been tested and labeled by a nationally recognized and reputable testing company such as theunderwriter's laboratories inc. (ul).
some of my  favorites include: kill a watt.
recycled toilet paper options  are becoming increasingly available — and they do the job just as well as  other types of tp.
as you know, our 15-year-old furnace recently developed a hole in the combustion chamber, which left us scrambling to answer this question: do we repair it or replace it?
if that’s not enough to cause you to toss your unnatural sheets, consider this: non-organic fibers are often harvested overseas, where no fair-labor laws exist.
should you happen to break a mercury-containing bulb, keep people and pets away and open a window.
both lcd and plasma tvs are made  with icky nitrogen trifluoride, a chemical that contributes to global warming,  and even though in a smaller size a plasma tv wastes only a sliver more energy  than an lcd, the bigger you get the more energy a plasma wastes.
luckily, the decision was easier than we thought.
try one—or all—of them as part of the home know-it-all’s green around the house challenge and start saving!
while you’re at it, why not go a step further—for the good of the environment and your health—with environmentally friendly insulation?
thread the brass lock nut (or the steel conduit locknut)  over the pipe nipple.
it may be a little chilly when you get back, but you’ll breathe much easier.)
spray-in foam starts out as a liquid and,  once it is sprayed, expands and solidifies, working as an air barrier to stop  more than 90 percent of air infiltration and minimizing allergens and pollution  in your house.
and i’ll be sure to post any furniture makeovers of my own.
dress for bug-free success.
yet many areas regulate the use of gray water—and some even ban it.
fortunately, forgetting to switch off the lights when you leave the room isn’t a problem anymore if you install this sensor.
fortunately, my chic blue-and-white embroidered curtain of choice was made of cotton.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by randall on june 25, 2009 in cleaning & organizing , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: clothes, clothes dryer, diy, do-it-yourself, dryer ducts, eco-friendly, energy, environment, fire, green, green around the house challenge ,save energy, vacuum, vents ready for your next green around the house challenge?
a rental furniture  outlet’s quiet warehouse of no longer rentable furniture might make more  sense.
like ants, flies hate mint and cloves, so leaving some around the house will serve double duty in the fight on critters.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on february 27, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly, energy star, environment, gas condensing water heater, green, green around the house challenge, green water heater, green water heater, heat pump water heater, high-efficiency gas storage water heater, hot water heater, insulating pipes, insulation, lexicon, plumbing, saving energy, solar water heater, tankless water heater, u.s. department of energy, water heater blanket, water temperature ,waterheater, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com i’m the lucky owner of a brand new lcd tv.
have someone hold the spigot outside while you place an o-ring on the pipe  nipple inside the barrel.
learn more:brondell.com until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 29, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: belkin conserve, black & decker thermal leak detector, brondell perfect flush, clothesline, diy, do-it-yourself, dryer, dual-flus, eco-friendly, energy-saving, green, insulating, light switch, phantom loads, sealing, surge protector, toilet, vacancy sensor, versaline, water-saving, watt stopper, wattstopper sure, green-hued candles are nice.
i think these messages would be a festive, appropriate addition to my new kitchen.
as i’ve mentioned before, harvesting rainwater at home is a great way to save money, save water, and keep your yard or garden looking great.
if you’re looking for more step-by-step info on making a rain barrel,  watch sherry & john in action over atthis young house as they build their  own.
it’s treated with a natural fire retardant, is 100 percent recyclable, and is voc-free.
be aware that by committing to special finance assistance, you may be sacrificing rebate incentives.
learn more:wattstopper.com versaline disappearing clothesline one of the easiest ways to save energy when it’s laundry time is to stop using the dryer altogether.
simmons natural care by danny seo: affordable and eco-friendly, these mattresses seem too good to be true.
finding a contractor who shares your vision, securing environmentally responsible materials and appliances, and juggling the typical stress of building a home can be overwhelming.
but if your candles weren’t made in the united states, they may still have lead in the wicks.
and if that’s not enough incentive for you to switch, installing  occupancy sensors is as easy as pie.
luckily, it's possible to fight even the nastiest of odors with one of these natural remedies.
displacing just that half-gallon of water with each flush can end up saving you more than 240 gallons of water per month.
and if you hate the thought of bargaining at an estate sale, perhaps an  online auction is more up your alley.
learn more about it from thisfine homebuilding video.
recycle tableware posted by home know-it-all on july 10, 2009 in garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bag, bin, compost, crafts, decorating, eco-conscious, eco-friendly, green, picnic, recycling, summer, tableware go green, save money, and prevent fires in one fell swoop by vacuuming out your dryer ducts at least twice a year.
this department store buys 236 million kilowatt-hours of green power each year, making it the second-largest retail purchaser of green power in the country.
as you very well know by now, i’m a fan of classic  style.
recycled insulation may be made from a number  of materials, including melted minerals and sand or recycled glass  (fiberglass), recycled newspaper (cellulose, paper), recycled steel slag  (rockwool), and mill waste and low-grade and recycled cotton (cotton).
they created this disappearing  clothesline, which can be mounted any distance apart up to 16.5 feet and  disappears out of sight when it’s not in use—just remove it from  its brackets and store it in the cupboard.
if you're unable to view the video, click here to watch it on youtube.
start with the lint trap inside your dyer.
sprinkling any of these in a small line around the entry will create a barrier the colony won't cross.
perhaps you repurpose an antique chair or end table to fit your  needs instead.
as you very well know by now, i’m a fan of classic style.
although leaks often go unnoticed,  figuring out whether your toilet leaks is pretty easy.
black & decker thermal leak detector hunting down air leaks is as easy as pointing and shooting this handy tool.
instead, here are some non-toxic, homemade remedies to send those invasive insects packing.
if so, you're definitely not alone, but you're also wasting precious money on needless products and hurting the environment in the process.
but one green challenge a week?
water trickles down from the top reservoir into each pocket, and  excess water collects in the bottom tray—not on your furniture.
to find a leed certified builder in your area, visit theusgbc member directory.
here are three moves you can do this weekend, plus info on  water heater upgrades that will save you considerably in the long run.
though cloth grocery bags are more environmentally friendly, their longer life spans mean they can become moldy or messy with frequent reuse.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 11, 2009 in decorating , green living | permalink | comments (7) | trackback (0) technorati tags: ace hardware, bio pulp, biodegradable, canvas drop cloth, color, cotton drop sheet, disposable, drip catcher, eco drop, eco-friendly, eco-friendly paint, ecology, envirobrush, environmental, know-it-all, lexicon, low-voc paint, lowe’s, metal paint tray, no-voc paint, old sheets, paint clean up, paint tray, painting, post-consumer recycled content, recycled, recylable, reusable, teflon, the home know-it-all, trimacoworktools, washable, whizz green brush, whizz green roller, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com this week’s
if you’re really short on  space like me, there’s the diminutivebamboo tabletop shelf from  improvements catalog ($19.97, on sale).
and that’s when i wised up to the dangers of pvc.
network can point you in the right direction.
it’s becoming easier than ever to find non-pvc shower curtains and  liners, because many major retailers and manufacturers are pulling the plug on  the pesky plastic.
place an o-ring on the pipe nipple, as close to the sillcock as possible.
they’re best suited for  spaces used less often—like the garage, basement, or utility closet.
pvc is produced with toxic additives that can evaporate or leach out of the product.
evergreen trees, which maintain their foliage year round, are recommended for north-facing yards to break cold winter winds.
throw them down as drop cloths.
elegant trellises trellises not only serve as attractive and elegant additions to your outdoor aesthetic; they also provide great shade.
green around the house challenge, aqus system,  colorado state university extension, diy, do-it-yourself, eco, eco-friendly,  environment, epa, gray water, graywater, graywater central, graywater system,  green living, greywater, greywater guerillas, lexicon, natural home magazine,  the home know-it-all, umass extension, water waste april 08, 2009 remodeling recycling you may find it hard to believe, but you can recycle almost everything  that comes out of your home during a remodel.
green around the house challenge.
that’s why i made sure my shiny new one came with the approval.
it would offer a federal tax credit of 25 percent off the price up to $1,000 of an electric, hybrid, or alternative-energy mower and other lawn gear.
it fits neatly in any corner, and there’s a shelf underneath for extra display space.
to find out which small appliances consume  the most energy, plug this device into a power outlet and then plug the  appliance (or a small electronic item) into thekill a watt.
there are plenty of easy steps you can take to reduce your energy use  today, including greening yourwater heater (last week’s challenge),  replacing standard incandescent bulbs withcfls, and getting rid of phantom  loads.
an attachment  placed on the face of your power meter reads the meter and sends info to a  wireless display located inside your house.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on march 25, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0)
the petroleum-free insulation  is priced similar to standard rigid board insulation (like styrofoam) and has a  comparable r-value.
to make sure that clean air is circulated, turn on ceiling fans or strategically position oscillating fans around your house.
nothing says hello spring (or winter or  fall or any season for that matter) like a fresh coat of paint on the walls, on  a favorite piece of furniture, or even on a canvas hung on the wall.
if you don’t want all that excess water shooting out the overflow hole you drilled in your barrel, you can place the male connector end of a sump pump hose, pointing outward, into the overflow hole at the top of the barrel.
and  because they prevent you from accidentally leaving a light on for an extended  period of time, many folks reduce the energy their lights consume by up to 90  percent.
score more tipshere for eliminating standing water.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 3, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bedding, cotton, diy, do-it-yourself, duvet cover, eco-friendly, environmental, green, mattress, mattress pad, organic mattress, pillow, recycled, sheets, sleep, wool conserving water and energy at home is an ongoing task for two groups of people: the ecologically-minded and the budget-focused.
but  there’s something more important than those two qualifications, and  it’s essential to your health.
it’s made with soybean oil, so there aren’t any petrochemicals, and you won’t have to worry about mold growth (or pests eating it).
hempflax insulation mats are made from natural hemp fibers with some polyester fiber for reinforcing.
you can also try making an anti-tick citrus solution by placing a sliced lemon in boiling water and letting it steep overnight.
then all you have to do isseal and insulate to reduce your heating and cooling costs by up to 20 percent!
here’s why you should  too: the problem plastic revealed
you can find it on most types of units.
and while deet, the active ingredient in most chemical bug repellents, is considered safe in small doses, overexposure can result in skin irritation, headaches, nausea, and neurological damage.
as i mentioned above, that unmistakable stench coming from your shower curtain is polyvinyl chloride (pvc), a (sadly) popular plastic also known as vinyl.
if you go too dressy, you’ll be uncomfortable and a seller might increase his price because he thinks you can afford more.
ewg identified seven cfls that outweigh the competition.
opt for shower and bathtub water first.
now go forth and conquer yet another green around the house challenge.
until next time, the home know-it-all related posts: green cleaning supplies air purifiers cleaning and sealing air ducts easy being green easy ways to go green around the house posted by randall on june 1, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: air purifier, attic fan, breathe easier, cadr, clean air delivery rate, cleaning products, diy, do-it-yourself, dust, fans, hepa, hepa filter, houseplants, lexicon, outdoor air, remove dangerous toxins, shoes, storage, sweep, vacuum, windows for today’s
but if your candles  weren’t made in the united states, they may still have lead in the wicks.
also use the 7/8-inch hole saw to cut a hole about 2 to 3 inches from the top of the barrel.
for more in-depth instructions and description of how occupancy sensors work, read this article fromelectronic construction & maintenance magazine .
if gray water systems aren’t allowed in your area, perhaps you can start a movement to change policymakers’ minds.
you’d never guess by looking at the beautiful decking that it’s  made from plastic sacks.
and when you get that tv, we can tell youhow to mount it.
plastic, glass, cabinetry, batteries, doors, trim, sinks, tubs, and much  more can all be recycled.
a unit with a higher heat output but no oscillating fan leaves a room feeling colder than one with a lower output and a fan.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by katie on september 9, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: air fresheners, baking soda, breeze, citrus peels, coffee grounds, essential oils, flowers, fresh air, natural home air fresheners, newspaper, vanilla extract as i'm sure you've figured out by now, we here at the home know-it-all love to recycle.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on november 15, 2010 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0)
in the dog days of summer, air conditioning bills can go through the roof.
use gray water only on established plants, not seedlings.
then there’s theenvirobrush, which features  disposable bristles that lock into a reusable (and recyclable!) plastic handle.
(icynene is free of formaldehyde too.)
also don a wide-brimmed hat and avoid applying heavily scented perfumes, colognes, and lotions.
here’s to healthy breathing and safer showers.
all you do is measure the  circumference of the intake and outtake pipes.
what’s your favorite item in this line?
here’s what i’ve come up with: 1.
if you've been thinking of building your own home, why not build an energy-efficient, weather resistant, affordable, and totally unique one?
stay  tuned for cool green tools that can help you detect air leaks around your house  and more.
when in doubt, hand wash bags in hot, soapy water and let them air dry.
what does all this mean for you?
here’s what i’ve come up  with: 1.
the website is "changing the world one gift at a time," by letting its members (membership is free too!)
made of renewable solid mango wood, these hand-carved planters add simplicity and warmth.
some offer curbside pick for a short period.
placing one plant approximately every 10 square yards can do wonders for your air quality.
solar water heaters use the sun’s thermal energy to heat water and  can be used alone or with a backup conventional water heating system.
this everyday object might be causing more problems than you  think, starting with air pollution.
for some, the mere thought of the crowd and rows and rows of vendors at a flea market is enough to make them shudder.
(and who isn’t all for saving money right now?)
in addition to providing housing for needy families, habitat for humanity also owns retail outlets calledhabitat restores.
replace your light switches with occupancy sensors!
to eliminate fridge odors, soak a few cotton balls with vanilla extract.
perhaps best of all, everything is made from misprinted or smudged sheet metal, such as soup, soda, and juice cans that would otherwise be sent to the landfill because of their initial imperfections.
and  when you get that tv, we can tell youhow to mount it.
start your search by visiting the database of state incentives for renewables & efficiency.
some units even have infrared sensors that cut off power if anything gets too close to the heater—a handy feature for those with kids or pets.
additional benefits geodesic dome houses are totally customizable—you can add windows, skylights, and additional rooms off the center sphere with little effort.
while you’re in insulation mode, why not take care of your water heater pipes too?
rotate gray water and fresh water applications to avoid contaminant  buildup.
nothing beats a cozy house when you're surrounded by snow.
check your phonebook to find one in your area.
(ticks are much easier to spot against light or white clothing, anyway.)
that way  you can keep everything in good working order.
talk to your heating and cooling contractor, who can assess the condition of your furnace and give you advice on how to proceed.
posted by randall on august 25, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: free, freecycle, gifts, recycle, what we're loving
check outcheapawnings.com to find an awning that matches your home's style.
in honor of all the baseball games, picnics, barbecues, hikes, gardening, and other outdoor activities you’ll want enjoy this summer sans bug bites, i bring you your next green around the house challenge: repelling bugs naturally.
it’s a good idea to stack some bricks beneath the barrel
like its name suggests, the tiered shelf’s metal frame resembles bamboo, and its got three shelves to hold your favorite petite plants.
and, of course, it never hurts to look around you.
fortunately, my chic blue-and-white embroidered curtain of choice  was made of cotton.
and after the fact, check out ourpainting cleanup  pointers to make life easier.
applying the tape in a clockwise direction will make sure the showerhead won't work against the tape seam when you tighten it during installation.
you can purchase a pre-cut jacket or blanket for $10 to $20 from your local  hardware or home improvement store.
thankfully, we’ve pretty much got you covered in that department.
did you know the air quality in your apartment or home can be five times worse than the air outside?
if your toilet has been around since before 1995, it probably uses as much  as 3.5 gallons of water per flush.
we’ll  see—the rain we’re expecting this weekend will be the test.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 6, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, environmentally friendly, green living
technorati tags: christmas, composting, eco-friendly, green, tree, xmas scared of that real christmas tree?
examine it from top to bottom before buying.
you’ll also want to hop on over to consumer reports, where you’ll find all kinds of important considerations for selecting the best stove for your heating needs.
but this year instead of chucking it all in the trash, i’m going to recycle.
when shopping for liners, opt for one made of nylon.
to ensure your covers pass the natural test, look for “organic”  cotton, which means the fiber was produced without pesticides or genetic  engineering.
so make your own or buy recycled.
the neck of the showerhead should be flat where it meets the wall pipe—this is meant for your wrench.
the more outdoor air you bring inside, the better.
this not-so-pleasant plastic has been linked to a slew of nasty health and environmental problems, including cancer, liver damage, and reproductive and immune system problems.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on february 12, 2009 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bulbs, cfl recycling, cfls, compact fluorescent light  bulbs, energy costs, energy efficiency, energy savings, environment, green  living, incandescent, lexicon, light, light bulbs, living green, mercury,  mercury, recycle, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com february 03, 2009 green bedding basics
learn how you can make your own essential oil-based air fresheners here.
but you should know, dishwashers are nearly always more efficient than you, so if possible use the machine.
those traces harm streams, the fish that live in them — and, in high doses, even human health.
(and who isn’t all for saving money  right now?)
lowe’s can help you do the math.
they’re made  from natural latex, soy-enhanced foam, and sustainably harvested wood—and  they only cost between $2,500 and $4,500.
it’s an incredibly easy way to improve energy efficiency.
prices are  often steeper in the morning, however, so be sure to check back later in the  evening when the seller’s only choice is to sell it or haul it home.
or check for a hazardous-waste collection  program in your area.
leave a  commenthere to share your ideas with your fellow the home know-it-all readers!
and  that’s when i wised up to the dangers of pvc.
use the hacksaw or jigsaw or sabresaw  to remove the top of the barrel.
these bulbs contain minimal mercury and last anywhere from 8,000 to 15,000 hours.
the problem is, some of us don’t have a yard for or don’t want the permanence of an in-ground line.
the energy detective (ted).
and be sure to share your going green success stories—not to mention the challenges you might face—in the comments section below each blog post.
these sun-shielding awnings can save energy by dropping indoor temperatures by as much as 15 degrees fahrenheit.
this includes food residue, open food sources, and any standing or dripping water.
roaches roaches are known as one of the most determinedly difficult insects to eliminate.
plus you can attach ted to your computer for real-time data  logging, graphing, charting, and more using ted footprints software.
the petroleum-free insulation is priced similar to standard rigid board insulation (like styrofoam) and has a comparable r-value.
it switches  them off automatically after a room has been vacant for 30 minutes—and  you can still flick the switch yourself whenever you please too.
sheets try: native organic cotton sheets  ($120.00-$180.00);white lotus organic cotton sheets ($150.00-$285.00); or sage  creek organic jersey sheet set ($105.00).
why not try putting nature to work against nature instead?
the planter comes in two  forms: an indoor kit, which hangs on the walls, and a freestanding kit, which  is a floor display.
and, while you’re at it, make certain the toilet paper was processed chlorine-free (pcf), which means it wasn’t whitened with chlorine bleach (a nasty pollutant that ends up in water supplies).
in some areas, you may even be able to exchange your gas-powered lawn mower for an electric one.
this will be at the narrow  part of the barrel and is where you will start to cut off the top of the barrel  with your saw.
trust us, you’ll be glad you did.
finally, screw in the outlet cover and  switch the power back on.
you’ll have to wait a while to try it out—it probably won’t be available as insulation until the end of 2010 (although you can buy other greensulate products, such as coolers, now).
it’s a petroleum byproduct—in other words, even if you ride your bike to the store to buy those pretty candles to burn, you’re relying on fossil fuels.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on october 29, 2010 in decorating , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) when fido or mittens is assaulted by fleas, it's easy to run to the pet store and grab the first anti-flea treatment you can find.
for readers just joining us, we're bringing you the video of our interview with martin amado—a renowned home decor and lifestyle expert best known for hosting hgtv's small space, big style and appearing as a guest designer on that network's decorating cents.
you’d never guess by looking at the beautiful decking that it’s made from plastic sacks.
you can purchase a pre-cut jacket or blanket for $10 to $20 from your local hardware or home improvement store.
displace water in the tank.
flies leaving cloth scraps with a few drops of eucalyptus oil on them will keep flies away in problematic areas.
knowing what you qualify for in rebates and tax credits is important when making your decision.
that’s a lot of water, particularly since the national energy  policy act of 1992 mandated that toilets use no more than 1.6 gallons of water  per flush—and some of today’s models use considerably less than  that.
look for a “3” within the plastic recycling symbol or  check to see if there’s a “v” stamped in the plastic.
here’s a list of our favorite eco-friendly companies: trex: this manufacturer of composite deck, railing, and fencing materials  is one of the nation’s largest users of recycled grocery bags.
pesticide-free wool is another alternative, and because it’s a breathable fabric, it’s a good choice for warm sleepers.
it’s an  incredibly easy way to improve energy efficiency.
gauging by the mound of garbage at my door, i’d say things went pretty well here.
whenever possible, open as many windows as you can.
yet another device for  keeping an eye on your home’s energy use,ted can help you save 10 to 20  percent on your energy bill.
when planting trees, consider which direction your yard faces.
perhaps you repurpose an antique chair or end table to fit your needs instead.
when you spot something you think you like, consult your list to see where it could potentially work.
it’s a petroleum  byproduct—in other words, even if you ride your bike to the store to buy  those pretty candles to burn, you’re relying on fossil fuels.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on july 30, 2010 in cleaning & organizing , green living |permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) as much as we all dislike pests, most of us are leery of spraying chemicals around our homes as a means to get rid of them.
the first and most important step to painting greener is to select low- or  no-voc paint.
until next time, the home know-it-all related topics: chase away pests and critters naturally wild for wildlife take the green around the house challenge posted by katie on june 3, 2009 in garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0)
brass, copper, and pewter polish dissolve one teaspoon of salt in a cup of distilled white vinegar and stir until it becomes a paste.
here are a few of my favorites: \ white  delight.
for the first time  ever, 20 million people stood in unison against oil spills, toxic factories,  pesticides, wildlife extinction and much more.
gray water systems, which can capture and recycle as much as half of your daily household water, are growing increasingly common in newly built homes and are being retrofit into many existing residences.
but what to do with the tree?
a two-button control allows you to dispense less water to flush liquids and more for solids, which can cut your household water use by up to 50 percent.
finally, screw in the outlet cover and switch the power back on.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 19, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: conservation, conserve, displace toilet water, eco, environment, flushing prescriptions, green, green around the house challenge, nrdc, post-consumer waste, recycled toilet paper, save water, toilet leaks, water you’ve heard it here before: painting is one of the easiest, most affordable ways to spruce up your home.
not sure  if your water heater needs the extra insulation?
if i can do it, you can do it.
an energy star ® tv uses 30 percent less energy than standard units.
fortunately, slashing your water heater energy consumption is easier than  you might think.
you’ll save big bucks on your energy bill and decrease the number of light bulbs headed to the landfill.
or if disposable is a must, look for  options made from recycled materials, such as the worktools whizz green brush  with a renewable bamboo handle and the whizz green roller made from recycled  post-consumer waste.
we’ve already stressed the  importance of anorganic mattress, but experts agree that your sheets, pillow,  and comforter should also be natural.
it might be a small thing, but it'll irk you later.
an lcd display on  the meter shows electricity consumption so you can calculate how much energy  each item uses per day, week, month, or year.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by lucas on july 31, 2009 in around the house , garden & outdoor ,green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: air conditioner, awnings, cooling, cooling, deciduous, evergreens, glass, glazing, green, passive, techniques, trees nothing says summer quite like a backyard bbq, but hosting one can be an eco-friendly hassle.
not flushing when there are  just liquids in the bowl saves gallons of water each day.
warning: do not use vinegar or washing soda if you have already applied a commercial drain cleaner—these ingredients can react with other chemicals, creating harmful or even lethal gas fumes.
for some, the mere thought of the crowd and rows and rows of  vendors at a flea market is enough to make them shudder.
besides feeling the joy of diverting waste from landfills, you also help those less fortunate than yourself.
you can learn more about picking the right toilet paper froma
what great green insulation options did i miss?
here are some tips on storing and cleaning your cloth bags, including how to remember to use them each time you go to the store.
my bathroom is teeny-tiny, so the liner’s icky, plastic-y odor infiltrated the space within minutes—and lingered.
glass glazing windows on the east and west side of home naturally let in a lot of sunlight, which can raise indoor temperatures.
but instead of wood, they burn pellets: compressed sawdust, corn, wood shavings, and other wood waste that would normally go to the landfill.
some candle-makers—like my friend cara who sells her mary marie line of candles atetsy—even use old glass jars, mugs, and the like for containing their candles.
sounds like the perfect green around the house challenge for you if you ask  me.
before stepping outdoors, pull on boots or other close-toed shoes instead of sandals, especially if you’re in a particularly mosquito-heavy area.
rinse with warm water.
after your rain barrel is complete, all you have to do is position it near your downspout.
not too hard, right?
and if you must use the trash? follow the guidelines of  the white house office of national drug control policy for proper disposal  (available in thisdownloadable pdf).
if you’ve heard that  flushing old prescription drugs down the toilet is the best way to dispose of  them, think again.
what we're loving: itso modular storage posted by katie on may 15, 2009 in around the house , decorating , garden & outdoor , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: color, decorating, diy, do-it-yourself, entryway, favorites, garden, hooks, imperfections, lanterns, letters, magazine rack, misprint garden messages, reclaim, recycle, sheet metal, the home know-it-all, trash can, vivaterra, watering can, what we’re loving man
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 18, 2009 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cathode ray tube, eco-friendly, electricity, energy, energy savings, green, lcd, plasma, projection, savings, television, tv, utilities
like its name suggests, the tiered  shelf’s metal frame resembles bamboo, and its got three shelves to hold  your favorite petite plants.
and it enters your body when you least expect it, whether through inhalation or direct skin or eye contact.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 13, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, green, green around the house challenge, hemp, indoor air pollution, organic cotton, pvc, shower curtains, shower liners, vinyl whether lined up in a row, clustered in groups, or standing solo, planters are an easy way to spruce up a deck or patio.
of course, once you set your sights on a newer, healthier shower curtain,  another issue arises: getting rid of the old one.
sure, i see them, but i must not really see them, or i’d see the potential.
and who wants to unplug the dvr when you’ll miss recording your favorite  shows, anyway?
you can also visit energy star's website for tips on filling out tax forms and a list of energy star products that qualify for rebates.
want to know how you can get involved?
your best line of defense?
sink de-clogger a strong salt-water solution can reduce odors, eliminate minor clogs, and cut down on grease buildup.
(according tothis blog post, mixing a few grounds into hand soap can eliminate nasty food odors that reside on your hands.
enjoy outdoor living?
green daily offers some ideas for putting that old vinyl curtain to good use.
some local utilities partner with lending institutions to provide competitive loan interest rates to purchase eligible equipment.
for more ideas on how to recycle gift wrap, head on over tocraft stew. christmas tree and finally, you can’t forget the tree.
restaurants, shops, and others’ homes are fantastic motivators.
hand-washing: using a dishwasher: until next time, the home know-it-all posted by randall on june 10, 2009 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cleaning, dishwasher, dishwashing, dishwashing buying guide, dishwashing soap, eco-friendly, environment, environmental, green, method ,mrs. meyer's mosquitoes, ticks, fleas, and chiggers all know how to put a pesky bite in your summer fun.
pillow try: wheat dreamz buckwheat pillow  ($40.00-$50.00),abundant earth organic cotton/wool pillow ($29.95-$65.95),  natura organic wool pillow ($79.99-$117.99).
so i may be going back and drilling that overflow hole, then sticking with the original downspout adaptor after all.
according to vandevort, pellet stoves can be complicated and require  occasional maintenance and regular attention, so you might be better off  signing a service contract rather than trying to maintain the stove yourself.
with these smart techniques, you’ll save water and energy, which in turn save you money.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 13, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, green, green around the house  challenge, hemp, indoor air pollution, organic cotton, pvc, shower curtains,  shower liners, vinyl january 08, 2009 great indoor planters whether lined up in a row, clustered in groups, or standing solo, planters  are an easy way to spruce up a deck or patio.
many homeowners own gas-powered lawn mowers, trimmers, blowers, and more.
although it’s unlikely you’ll  find a piece of furniture in mint condition, be sure the damage is something  you’re able to repair affordably.
if gray water systems aren’t allowed in your area, perhaps you  can start a movement to change policymakers’ minds.
it’s still in  prototype mode, but guaranteed i’ll be trying it out the second it goes  live.
if something has gone bad or you suspect it has passed its prime—pitch it!
check out the pellet stove buying guide atplanet green.
just check out some ofthese and you’ll  be riproaring and ready to head to the flea market too.
while you’re at it, also check out thislist of herbs that repel insects (and animals too) from dearborn farms.
so gather it up and get ready to save the planet.
but gray water doesn’t have  to go to waste.
while you’re cleaning your dryer, it’s also a good idea to inspect the exhaust hood on the exterior of your home.
and a good portion of that water goes to waste.
check its clean air delivery rate (cadr), a number based on the cubic feet of air purified in one minute.
green around the house challenge is getting serious about conserving—and reusing—water.
it quickly became clear that we had not been especially diligent in keeping our refrigerator at its cleanest or best-smelling.
want more proof you should green your tv?
you’re looking at 5 gallons headed down the pipes every time it’s  used.
(“green” cotton isn’t necessarily organically  grown, but it is cheaper, making it the next best option.)
your tv should be no  bigger than 40 inches.
new models that are coated with teflon make cleanup even easier—and they’re a cinch to find at stores such as ace hardware.
cedar insecticides intended for garden or outdoor use can be hazardous to your pet's health.
stories—not to mention the challenges you might face—in the  comments section below each blog post.
specifically, it’s all about gray water.
gifts in kind international.
that’s because many scented candles contain synthetic fragrances.
although they may be made from paraffin, recycled candles are an environmentally friendly option because you’re reusing candle wax that was already produced rather than buying new.
thread the brass lock nut (or the steel conduit locknut) over the pipe nipple.
next up, use water from the  bathroom sink, utility sink, washing machine, kitchen sink, and dishwasher in  that order.
but one of the most important moves you can make is actually tracking how  much energy your family uses.
if you’re tackling installation yourself (don’t worry, it’s a piece of cake), the u.s. department of energy provides ahandy guide that shows you how.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 27, 2009 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: beeswax, candles, diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly,  environmental, green, palm oil, paraffin, recycling, soy, synthetic fragrances,  wax, wicks january 19, 2009 heat things up with pellet stoves lower winter energy bills, heat individual rooms, and reduce the amount of  waste that goes to the landfill—all at once.
if you can track down the ants' point of entry into your home, create a "fence" of cinnamon, coffee grounds, or cayenne pepper.
furnace repair and replacement is rarely a planned expense, but you may qualify for incentives.
keep your family safe and go green by vacuuming your dryer ducts regularly.
as of january 1, 2009, you can  purchase energy star® water heaters.
the home know-it-all posted by randall on april 22, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0)
today, hundreds of millions of people and more than 180 countries participate in the earth day celebration.
(hint: you can save 50 percent on  the purchase of a kill a watt if you buy it now atamazon.com!)
just one mosquito can lay 300 eggs in one capful of water, according to the national park service.
if color appears in the bowl within 15 to 30 minutes, it’s time to repair.
try spreading bay leaves around the house, or get a hold of some hedgeapples—the fruit of the osage orange tree—and leave one in every room in the house.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 16, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: >
it’s the first step to making meaningful  changes in energy consumption, which leads to less reliance on fossil fuels,  yes, but also reduced energy bills (and more money in your bank account).
learn  about the pluses and minuses of each atgreenyour.com.
(and, asumbra points out, like  anything that burns, candles give off particles and vapors that can irritate  your respiratory system.)
recycling programs will involve 'chipping' the trees for use as mulch or compost.
or if disposable is a must, look for options made from recycled materials, such as the worktools whizz green brush with a renewable bamboo handle and the whizz green roller made from recycled post-consumer waste.
you can learn more about picking the right toilet paper froma  shopper’s guide to home tissue products by the nrdc.
okay—plant stands aren’t  exactly containers.
the unpleasant odors in the fridge come from decomposing food—not something you want to keep alongside your future meals.
sheets try: native organic cotton sheets ($120.00-$180.00);white lotus organic cotton sheets ($150.00-$285.00); or sage creek organic jersey sheet set ($105.00).
both lcd and plasma tvs are made with icky nitrogen trifluoride, a chemical that contributes to global warming, and even though in a smaller size a plasma tv wastes only a sliver more energy than an lcd, the bigger you get the more energy a plasma wastes.
this will be for the overflow.
next, unscrew your old showerhead.
here’s a list of our favorite eco-friendly companies: trex: this manufacturer of composite deck, railing, and fencing materials is one of the nation’s largest users of recycled grocery bags.
and if you must use the trash? follow the guidelines of the white house office of national drug control policy for proper disposal (available in thisdownloadable pdf).
and in that form, salt is a mixed blessing—great for de-icing and traction, but bad for the metal on our vehicles.
and  it’s effective: studies estimate that just knowing about your  household’s energy consumption can lead to a 5 to 15 percent reduction in  your energy bill.
don’t limit yourself.
the spherical design also distributes stress more evenly, reducing the effect of strong winds, tectonic shifting, and large amounts of snow.
if it’s  warm to the touch, it’s time to insulate.
you’ll have to wait a while to try  it out—it probably won’t be available as insulation until the end  of 2010 (although you can buy other greensulate products, such as coolers, now).
or if you really want to get serious, read create an oasis with  greywater or the builder’s greywater guide.
according to theu.s. department of energy, 25,000 residential fires are started every year as a result of space heaters, leading to more than 300 deaths and 6,000 emergency room visits for burns.
(it's often one of the easiest rooms in your house to insulate.)
comparable costs though costs vary, you can expect to pay less than $40,000 for a 40-foot-diameter dome, which provides about 2,000 square feet of interior space.
(it’s also a good idea to  check your owner’s manual first, however, as some specifically state that  the tank shouldn’t be insulated.)
learn  about the different types of solar water heatershere, then make sure the one  you ultimately choose has an energy star label to guarantee even more savings.
some of these ideas will be easy tips you can do in minutes.
by ventilating your attic, you make sure the warm air from inside your home is being replaced with colder outdoor air and the temperature inside your attic stays as close to the temperature outside as possible.
you can do this by properly ventilating and insulating your attic.
wondering whether it’s good to use “dirty” water on your  yard?
asgreenyour points out, air-drying some or all of your wet laundry saves you as much as $135 in energy costs every year, prevents tons of co2 from entering the atmosphere, and results in less wear on your clothing.
also repair leaky outdoor pipes and faucets, and get rid of any unnecessary open containers that collect water.
a gray water system includes a surge tank into which all gray water drains, a filter to remove particles that might clog the system, and irrigation pipes or lines that move the gray water from the house to your plants.
although many folks would argue it’s still not enough, we snooze more than a third of our lives away.
when i go a little heavy on the garlic while whipping up dinner, i open up my patio doors and let soft breezes air things out.
they’re made from natural latex, soy-enhanced foam, and sustainably harvested wood—and they only cost between $2,500 and $4,500.
invites, plates, food, and garbage can give a little party a big ecological footprint.
here are a few of my favorites: \ white delight.
it’s easy with theaqus system, which captures water from the bathroom sink, filters and disinfects it, and sends it into the toilet for use when flushing.
they are available in several  thicknesses for insulating roofs, walls, and floors.
here are some natural, healthy ways to eliminate or prevent pet pests.
and a good  portion of that water goes to waste.
actually, it isn’t, thanks to a little something called a pellet stove.
scour magazines, websites, and books for  ideas.
these pots come in a variety of glossy or metallic hues,  such as silver, espresso, and scarlet red.
but all will be geared toward making your home a healthier, more environmentally friendly place.
and swapping toilet paper brands is an easy change that yields big results:
though you should keep your pet on a regular regimen of heartworm medication as prescribed by your vet, some additional topical solutions can help.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 19, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: conservation, conserve, displace toilet water, eco,  environment, flushing prescriptions, green, green around the house challenge,  nrdc, post-consumer waste, recycled toilet paper, save water, toilet leaks,  water march 11, 2009 eco-friendly painting you’ve heard it here before: painting is one of the easiest, most  affordable ways to spruce up your home.
here’s a rundown on each, thanks to information from the u.s. department of energy.
many people have misconceptions about troubles christmas trees can pose.
hooray for awareness!
as a preventive measure, try sprinkling your pet's coat with brewer's yeast.
(common culprits: a faulty flapper or worn plunger ball.)
another spray-in option: soy-based polyurethane,  produced bybiobased insulation.
oscillating blower fan a space heater with an oscillating blower fan warms a space quickly and efficiently.
(specifically, they contain chemicals such as phthalates, which have been shown to disrupt hormones.)
it’s the first week of the green around the house challenge.
with the exception of lamps, which can easily be rewired, avoid anything fueled by electricity—unless you have the know-how to repair it.
visitthe recycling center’s website to find a center in your town, or check with local grocery stores to see if they accept boxes.
though it's a difficult space to reach, cleaning underneath your fridge will have a significant effect on smell too—fans under the fridge can bring outside odors in.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 5, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cfl, eco, eco-friendly, energy, energy bills, energy consumption, energy savings, fossil fuel, google powermeter, green, green around the house challenge, home energy audit, home know-it-all, kill a watt, lexicon, living green, phantom load, power cost monitor, smart savings, ted, the energy detective, the home know-it-all, u.s. department of energy, water heater, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com here’s a little factoid to convince you to participate in today’s
recent u.s. environmental protection agency surveys have  found trace levels of more than 100 different pharmaceutical drugs in water  samples, including drinking-water sources.
unfortunately, that includes the end of the holidays and enjoyment of your tree.
when shopping for liners,  opt for one made of nylon.
sure, i see them, but i  must not really see them, or i’d see the potential.
that way you can keep everything in good working order.
use the 4-inch hole saw to cut a hole in the top  of the barrel for your downspout.
bags with plastic inserts in the bottom for rigidity should be hand washed.
then  all you have to do isseal and insulate to reduce your heating and cooling costs  by up to 20 percent!
have someone hold the spigot outside while you place an o-ring on the pipe nipple inside the barrel.
perhaps you can repurpose it back in your renovated space, but if not, check with the following companies to see if they’ll accept your donations.
i like the deep finish of thepowell contemporary merlot plant stand from  stacks and stacks ($95).
(but if you don’t want to do it, i won’t tell.)
and it’s easy to see why: these gems use 75 percent  less energy than standard incandescent bulbs and can last up to 10 times  longer.
it’s the first week of the green around the house  challenge.
then rub the essential oil on your skin.
vocs are known to cause allergies, asthma, and even cancer.
so if you can’t do without yummy smells, at least opt for those light sticks that get their scents from essential oils.
want to get more technical?
but they also add charm indoors  too—especially during winter.
that’s why i tracked down these cool tools designed to help you  reduce your use.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 19, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, fireplace insert, heat, heating, home improvement, pellet stove, pellet stoves, wood waste january 13, 2009 green your shower curtain get excited!
rather than throw it away, pass it through the  shredder and use it as filler for other presents.
gauging by the mound of garbage at my door, i’d say things went pretty  well here.
head to your water heater, figure out where the temperature setting is,  and turn it down to “normal” or 120 degrees.
hempflax insulation mats are made from natural hemp  fibers with some polyester fiber for reinforcing.
energy efficiency because a geodesic dome has less exposed surface area than a conventional home, outside weather has less impact on indoor temperatures, making the dome an extremely efficient structure to heat and cool.
the goal with the green around the house challenge isn’t to overwhelm you with eco-friendly to-dos.
coffee grounds lessen the unpleasantness of a freezer failure by leaving a few bowls of coffee grounds in the freezer overnight—it'll put spoiled food smells in their place.
think of it like a fireplace insert or freestanding stove—these devices typically heat individual rooms rather than the entire house (although they can do that too), so that you can turn down the thermostat.
plus, wool captures carbon dioxide from the atmosphere which,  according to the company website, gives thermafleece a negative global warming  potential.
displacing just that  half-gallon of water with each flush can end up saving you more than 240  gallons of water per month.
it’s a good idea to stack some bricks beneath the barrel so it’s raised off the ground—this makes it easier to get to the spigot when it's time to hook up the hose or fill up your watering can.
gently push the new switch into the wall box and attach it with mounting screws.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 17, 2009 in around the house , decorating , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bargain shopping, bargains, bargains, diy, do-it-yourself, finds, flea market, lexicon, online shopping, savings, thrift, thrift store, thrifty, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com we here at the home know-it-all are big proponents of compact fluorescent light bulbs (cfls).
or, if you’re in the market for a new shower curtain but haven’t purchased one yet, shop for an eco-friendly cloth version—try organic cotton or linen (just make sure you have good ventilation to ward off mildew).
another dangerous culprit in these seemingly benign products: the wicks.
should you happen to break a mercury-containing bulb,  keep people and pets away and open a window.
in the united states, candle manufacturers  voluntarily stopped using lead wicks for this very reason.
do you have a great way of using salt around your home?
so it makes sense that we look for bedding that’s comfortable and durable.
as it turns out, purchased air fresheners contain unhealthy ingredients that can cause more harm than good.
the rhyme “if  it’s yellow let it mellow, if it’s brown flush it down”
it worked well but it can get incredibly messy.)
you’ll save big bucks on your  energy bill and decrease the number of light bulbs headed to the landfill.
many companies manufacture cheap imitations of popular brands, but these devices are untested and possibly dangerous.
curious to see how your existing cfls fare?
no wonder i got a headache while putting on makeup in the bathroom each morning.
and the collection appears to be growing, as new items are regularly added.
boxes if you’re lucky enough to  have curbside recycling, it’s likely the program will accept both flat  and corrugated cardboard.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 24, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: build a rain barrel, diy, do-it-yourself, earth day, eco-friendly, eco-friendly, food-grade plastic barrel, garden, gardening, going green, green, harvesting rainwater, healthy landscape, lexicon, money savings, rain barrel, rainwater, spigot, water conservation, water savings exactly 39 years ago today, gaylord nelson, a u.s. senator from wisconsin, established the first nationwide environmental protest.
performing your own home energy audit  (or, better yet, hiring a professional to do one) can give you clues about  where exactly you’re losing energy around the house.
this insulation isn’t made solely  from mushrooms.
if you’re interested in learning more about watering plants the gray  way, visit thegreywater guerillas website or check out this article from natural home magazine that covers the nuts and bolts of gray water use.
catnip—for homes without cats—serves as an excellent roach repellant.
just think deconstruction, not demolition.
gas condensing water heaters are similar to gas water heaters, but to  increase efficiency heat from the combustion gases is transferred to the water  instead of being vented outside.
if every household in the united states replaced just one  roll of virgin fiber toilet paper (500 sheets) with 100 percent recycled ones,  we could save 423,900 trees, according to the natural resources defense council  (nrdc).
and that generates much-needed heat.
lucky for you, i’ve written on that very topic before.
try peace lilies, bamboo palms, english ivy, mums, and gerbera daisies, which can remove dangerous toxins like formaldehyde, carbon monoxide, and benzene.
instead of tossing unused drugs, check with your local pharmacy to see if they have a take-back program.
technorati tags: cathode ray tube, eco-friendly, electricity, energy,  energy savings, green, lcd, plasma, projection, savings, television, tv,  utilities february 17, 2009 flea market finds
they are available in several thicknesses for insulating roofs, walls, and floors.
whole-home gas tankless water heaters heat water similarly to standard gas  water heaters.
gently push the new switch into the wall  box and attach it with mounting screws.
in the end, the cost is about the same as other homes.
use recycled toilet paper.
learn more:brondell.com until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 29, 2009 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: belkin conserve, black & decker thermal leak detector, brondell perfect flush, clothesline, diy, do-it-yourself, dryer, dual-flus,  eco-friendly, energy-saving, green, insulating, light switch, phantom loads,  sealing, surge protector, toilet, vacancy sensor, versaline, water-saving, watt  stopper, wattstopper january 27, 2009 green candles sure, green-hued candles are nice.
have a qualified service technician come take a look at it.
weather resistance a geodesic dome is one of the strongest building designs because it is comprised of triangular panels that form a sphere.
newspaper sweaty sneakers and musty suitcases don't stand a chance if you stuff them with wads of moisture- and odor-absorbing newspaper.
and don’t forget to share with us what other steps you’re taking to improve your indoor air quality.
(that’s almost half the price  of other eco-friendly mattresses!)
vacuum and dust often.
learn more (and order one)here.
the federal government offers tax incentives for purchasing energy-efficient appliances.
not able to sleep at night because of what you heard about the fresh tree you are thinking of purchasing?
with the exception of lamps, which  can easily be rewired, avoid anything fueled by electricity—unless you  have the know-how to repair it.
for specific instructions, visit the u.s. department of energy'ssite.
for information on repelling other species of insect pests, visit eartheasy.com until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on june 29, 2010 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
fortunately, you have a variety of ways to recycle after your party and make your summer shindig a green affair.
and after the fact, check out ourpainting cleanup pointers to make life easier.
but that warm home may cause ice dams.
wear clothing that limits skin exposure, such as long-sleeve shirts tucked into pants.
here are a few suggestions: comforter try: natura organic wool comforter ($352.50-$535.00);organic inspirations organic cotton/wool comforter ($320.00-$470.00); orecobedroom natural pure-grow wool comforter ($324.00-$462.00).
cool awnings the most important feature of an awning is its drop.
soy-based polyurethane is also free of cfcs and vocs.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by katie on january 19, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, fireplace insert, heat, heating, home improvement, pellet stove, pellet stoves, wood waste get excited!
the drop is the distance between the top of the awning and the base of the window.
at flea markets, auctions, and other day sales, the true bargains are often gone by the time 9 a.m. rolls around, so if you want to spot a true find, go early.
the home know-it-all posted by julie on february 27, 2009 in green living | permalink |  comments (2) | trackback (0)
we filled you in last year on how to recycle it, but just in case  you’ve forgotten how, read all about ithere.
as they form, ice dams force water under your roof covering and into your attic or exterior walls, causing serious damage to your home.
want to see what they look like—or find one that would suit your home?
in this case, think jeans and a  t-shirt.
wrapping paper not all wrapping paper is recyclable.
inadequate ventilation, high humidity, and many household products are jeopardizing the air you breathe, and an increased number of indoor air pollutants can cause eye, throat, and nose irritations, as well as headaches, dizziness, nausea, and fatigue.
the planter comes in two forms: an indoor kit, which hangs on the walls, and a freestanding kit, which is a floor display.
another drawback: if you don’t have a thermostat in every room, the heat  from the stove might trick nearby thermostats into thinking the temperature in  the area is at the set level.
when we do become aware of the problem, fixing it can get demoted to the bottom of our to-do list—after all, it stillworks , right?
but it can get incredibly messy.)
for example, adding a little apple-cider vinegar to your pet's water helps make the animal less appealing to the unpleasant arachnids from the inside out.
storing cloth grocery bags are reasonably inexpensive and don't take up much room, so my wife and i both keep several in our cars—then there's no way we can leave home without them.
green around the house challenge: water heating accounts for up  to 15.5 percent of the energy used in your home—second only to hvac  systems in regard to residential energy consumption, according to energy  star®.
shine the leak detector light on the wall to set a reference temperature, then  point it at different areas around your house.
new models that are coated with teflon make cleanup even  easier—and they’re a cinch to find at stores such as ace hardware.
when you turn the light on, the heat infuses the room with fresh fragrance.
learn more: clotheslineshop.com brondell perfect flush this one won’t be available until may, but i wanted to share it with you anyway because it’s going to be worth the wait.
want an easy, green project for your wednesday afternoon?
the stores sell used  and surplus building materials donated by supply stores, contractors,  demolition crews, and individual homeowners.
in 2008,energy star delivered cost and energy savings estimated at $19 billion.
after all, i’m in the same boat.)
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on december 19, 2008 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cotton fiber, cotton fiber insulation, diy, do-it-yourself ,energy saving, environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly insulation,  green, green insulation, hemp, hemp insulation, home improvement, insulation,  mushroom insulation, mushrooms, r-value, recycled, recycled insulation, sheep's  wool insulation, sheep’s wool, soy, soy insulation, spray-in foam,  spray-in foam insulation, voc-free insulation january 2011 sun mon tue wed thu fri sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
let me know how it goes!
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on december 15, 2010 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) with winter upon us, we in the midwest can expect plenty of icy roadways covered in salt.
it’s easy with theaqus system, which captures water from the  bathroom sink, filters and disinfects it, and sends it into the toilet for use  when flushing.
learn more about the inspiration behind the misprint collectionhere.
until monday, the home know-it-all posted by julie on december 19, 2008 in around the house , green living | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cotton fiber, cotton fiber insulation, diy, do-it-yourself ,energy saving, environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly insulation, green, green insulation, hemp, hemp insulation, home improvement, insulation, mushroom insulation, mushrooms, r-value, recycled, recycled insulation, sheep's wool insulation, sheep’s wool, soy, soy insulation, spray-in foam, spray-in foam insulation, voc-free insulation
if you're considering the purchase of a major appliance or home upgrade, visit theirwebsite to determine what meets qualification for federal tax credit.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on february 17, 2009 in around the house , decorating ,  green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: bargain shopping, bargains, bargains, diy, do-it-yourself, finds, flea market, lexicon, online shopping, savings, thrift, thrift store,  thrifty, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com february 12, 2009 choosing the best cfls we here at the home know-it-all are big proponents of compact fluorescent  light bulbs (cfls).
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on november 5, 2010 in green living , kitchen & bath | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
it’s treated with a natural fire retardant, is 100  percent recyclable, and is voc-free.
after exploring all our options, we decided to install a new system.
(download the  volatile vinyl reporthere.)
but they also add charm indoors too—especially during winter.
head to your water heater, figure out where the temperature setting is, and turn it down to “normal” or 120 degrees.
you may find it's a bit reluctant to unscrew, particularly if it's been in use for many years.
want to see what they look like—or find one that would suit your  home?
or if you really want to get serious, read create an oasis with greywater or the builder’s greywater guide.
there are plenty of easy steps you can take to reduce your energy use today, including greening yourwater heater (last week’s challenge), replacing standard incandescent bulbs withcfls, and getting rid of phantom loads.
never fear, because you don’t  have to forsake your candle habit altogether.
those traces harm streams, the fish  that live in them — and, in high doses, even human health.
not sure what move is best for you?
that’s what i did, only the gutter wasn’t very  cooperative and, to be honest, i’m not sure that it’s a very  reliable setup.
these plans vary and may include a six-month same-as-cash option.
earth911 explains how to safely  recycle your spent bulbs.
asgreenyour points out, air-drying some or all of your wet  laundry saves you as much as $135 in energy costs every year, prevents tons of  co2 from entering the atmosphere, and results in less wear on your clothing.
one recycled-content insulation that has received quite a lot of press lately isultratouch natural cotton fiber insulation, produced by bonded logic.
mosquitoes breed in standing water—and it doesn’t take a lot before you’ve got a bug problem.
delightful, eh? it gets even worse.
(download the volatile vinyl reporthere.)
then, detach the wires and reconnect them  to your new sensor using wire nuts.
learn more:belkin.com/conserve watt stopper passive infrared wall switch vacancy sensor it happens to the best of us—you rush out of the house only to discover hours later upon your return that you left all of the lights in the house blazing.
a little factoid to convince you to participate in  today’s
here's what to look for when buying one.
place the lid of the barrel back on the barrel.
for every 10 degrees you reduce your water heater temperature, you can save 3 to 5 percent on energy costs according to the u.s. department of energy.
empty your refrigerator and scrub the interior with a mixture of water and baking soda.
want to know why you should undertake it?
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on december 29, 2008 in around the house , cleaning & organizing , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: after-christmas, batteries, boxes, diy, do-it-yourself, post-holiday, recycling, trash, trees, wrapping paper we’ve talked about the importance of insulating your home to save energy and money.
we’re all busy with work and family and friends and diy projects.
just make sure that you properly dispose of it at the end of its lifespan so harmful mercury vapor isn’t released.
though it's difficult to remember the expiration dates on everything that enters your fridge, it's worthwhile to try.
you’re looking at 5 gallons headed down the pipes every time it’s used.
and swapping toilet paper brands is an easy change that  yields big results:
just check out some ofthese and you’ll be riproaring and ready to head to the flea market too.
and  even though it’s only a 32-inch, i’m proud of it—not only  because it saved me big bucks when i bought it but also because it’ll  save more moolah when it comes to my electricity bill.
learn more about it from thisfine  homebuilding video.
get a second opinion.
and before tearing things apart, try to arrange a new home for the item.
simply rinse out a half-gallon juice jug, add a couple of inches or sand or pebbles to weigh the jug down, then fill the rest of the jug with water.
but this year instead of chucking it all in the trash, i’m  going to recycle.
other communities have drop-off locations for disposal or recycling.
be careful to avoid cross threading the new showerhead with the threads on the wall pipe—this is particularly easy to do with aluminum, since it's a fairly soft metal.
nearby rooms become cold, and you end up raising your thermostat anyway.
push the pipe nipple through the outside of the barrel to the inside.
if you’re tackling installation yourself  (don’t worry, it’s a piece of cake), the u.s. department of energy  provides ahandy guide that shows you how.
when heat escapes from your attic, it melts the snow on your roof, and if it's cold enough outside, that melting snow may refreeze, creating ice dams.
essential plant oils dab a few drops of clove, peppermint, or eucalyptus oil on a cool light bulb.
in 1998, theu.s. consumer product safety commission estimated that clothes dryers were associated with 15,600 fires, 20 deaths, and 370 injuries.
technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, energy savings, green,  green challenge, home, know-it-all, lexicon, light switches, light switches,  motion light switches, motion sensors, motion switches, occupancy sensors,  saving energy, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com march 19, 2009 green your toilet
plus, each planter in the set is a different  size—small, medium, and large.
or if you’re feeling  mighty crafty, try your hand atpaper beads.
butgreensulate is made from agricultural waste  products—think rice and buckwheat hulls—combined with mycelium,  which is a fibrous network created by mushrooms.
or if you want to brighten up your entryway and corral clutter at the same time, consider the misprint hooks in “go” ($29) and “green” ($42).
but that’s not the worst of it—lint-filled ducts can also cause fires.
for more information on amado's work, visit his website.
if i had to bet, i'd guess you have multiple cleaners, several scrub brushes, and at least one roll of paper towels lurking underneath your kitchen or bathroom sink.
your next green around the house challenge—and it may be your simplest yet.
according to the report, pvc shower curtains can  release as many as 108 volatile organic chemicals (vocs) into the air you  regularly breathe.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on december 7, 2010 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) a stubborn drain clog can be difficult to remove, but before you head for the dangerously potent commercial drain cleaner, try these natural, easy-on-the-environment mixtures that will get the job done too.
leave a commenthere to share your ideas with your fellow the home know-it-all readers!
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by randall on december 29, 2008 in around the house , cleaning  & organizing , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: after-christmas, batteries, boxes, diy, do-it-yourself,  post-holiday, recycling, trash, trees, wrapping paper december 19, 2008 green insulation we’ve talked about the importance of insulating your home to save  energy and money.
take the 4-inch plastic  disc that you cut out of the top of the barrel and use a saw to cut it in  fourths, like a piece of pie.
wrapping paper not all wrapping paper  is recyclable.
pesticide-free  wool is another alternative, and because it’s a breathable fabric,  it’s a good choice for warm sleepers.
(the higher the drop, the more shade an awning will provide.)
in kind is the 12th largest charity in the united  states, and it also will accept your product donations to redistribute to needy  individuals.
overheat protection and tip-over switch
these bulbs contain minimal mercury and last anywhere  from 8,000 to 15,000 hours.
they may even cause respiratory disease, heart disease, and cancer.
so imagine my happiness when i stumbled upon the eclecticmisprint collection from vivaterra.
and that can make even the most unpleasant chore a little more bearable.
(in the wintertime, try opening a window or two just slightly when you know you’ll be away for a short amount of time.
in general, you’ll need a purifier with a cadr that’s three-fourths as big as your square footage.
home envy has some great advice, as does the diy network.
the misprint kitchen messages that spell out “eat & drink” ($98 for the complete set).
a grouped display that adds  dimension.
you know those glittering icicles hanging from your home?
propane or electric trimmers and blowers are a more environmentally friendly solution.
so if you’re dining outdoors, keep food wrapped up and stored until you’re ready to dig in.
but there’s something more important than those two qualifications, and it’s essential to your health.
use a 7/8-inch hole saw  to cut a hole 3 inches up from the bottom of the barrel for your  spigot/sillcock.
it’s made with soybean oil, so there  aren’t any petrochemicals, and you won’t have to worry about mold  growth (or pests eating it).
my trigger-happy habit lasted until i readthis time magazine article.
never fear, because you don’t have to forsake your candle habit altogether.
visit the u.s. department of energy's database of state and local incentives, and check out the alliance to save energy's list of federal assistance.
one is to place activated charcoal in a small bowl at the back of your refrigerator to start pulling residual smells out.
there are five different technologies that have earned the energy star rating and, depending on which technology you choose, you’ll reduce your heating bills anywhere from 7.5 to 55 percent.
read all about ewg’s lighten up in ’09 campaignhere.
(visit buying bedding basics and bed pillow buying guide to refresh your memory.)
or, if you’re in the market for a new shower curtain  but haven’t purchased one yet, shop for an eco-friendly cloth  version—try organic cotton or linen (just make sure you have good  ventilation to ward off mildew).
currently 136 million tons of waste is transported to landfills from renovation projects a year.)
typical reductions range from 35 to 45 percent, according to the california energy commission.
watch out for any leaks or drips on your reusable bags that could cause mold or contaminate other foods.
when it comes to paint brushes or rollers, opt for quality, durable supplies that can be washed and reused.
habitat for humanity.
our gas usage has noticeably dropped on our monthly utility bill, so we are satisfied with the choices we made.
bigger isn’t always better.
if you recently purchased a pvc shower curtain, let it air out for a month before hanging it.
if you plan to remove the dams yourself, avoid getting on the roof.
and just so you’re  as informed on the topic as possible, i also recommend reading theu.s.  department of energy’s energy efficiency and renewable energy guide to  wood and pellet heating.
the big difference: they don’t have a storage tank.
(common culprits: a faulty flapper or  worn plunger ball.)
actually, it isn’t, thanks to a little something called a pellet  stove.
and, while you’re at it, make  certain the toilet paper was processed chlorine-free (pcf), which means it  wasn’t whitened with chlorine bleach (a nasty pollutant that ends up in  water supplies).
some of their pointers include: if you’re interested in learning more about watering plants the gray way, visit thegreywater guerillas website or check out this article from natural home magazine that covers the nuts and bolts of gray water use.
don’t be afraid to ask their opinion, as they are motivated to keep you as a satisfied client.
if you’ve heard that flushing old prescription drugs down the toilet is the best way to dispose of them, think again.
it's easy to lose track of how long food has been refrigerated, and it doesn't take long before the resulting smells seem ingrained in the very composition of the refrigerator.
so gather it up and get ready to save the  planet.
however, you should avoid polyester, which is largely made of non-renewable petroleum.
know how much gray water your yard can handle.
to make sure everything is working properly, inspect it while you have clothes in the dryer.
water you use at home for dishwashing, showering, washing hands, and  laundry—called gray water—comprises 50 to 80 percent of residential  water waste, according tograywater central.
whether it’s organizing a neighborhood cleanup, mailing letters to  our congressmen and women, or riding a bike to work, we here at the home  know-it-all can’t wait to do our part this year!
no matter if your dishwasher is a human being or a machine, we’ve got tips to make dishwashing more efficient.
soy-based polyurethane is also free of cfcs and  vocs.
whether you hang it above your sofa or place  it in your entryway, theindoor living wall planter from gardener’s supply  company ($189) is quite the conversation starter.
stay tuned for cool green tools that can help you detect air leaks around your house and more.
use the 1  ¾-inch hole saw to cut a hole about 2 inches below the open top of the  barrel.
eventually you are going to have to let go and dispose of it, though.
exactly 39 years ago today, gaylord nelson, a u.s. senator from wisconsin,  established the first nationwide environmental protest.
those plastic bags, which are made from nonrenewable petrochemicals, can take more than 1,000 years to decompose!
lcd tvs,  however, are available in smaller sizes, making them the lesser of the two  evils and saving you up to $115 more per year to operate.
and heating and cooling units can take a serious toll on the environment; the u.s. department of energy estimates that such units emit a half billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year.
if possible, switch on the attic fan and keep doors open to allow the air to move freely about your home.
if it has metallic specks or is very thin, you can’t send  it to the recycle center.
if your new showerhead comes with a rubber washer, place the washer inside the showerhead and hand-tightenonly.
although in your head you know you need a tv stand, the piece of furniture you purchase doesn’t necessarily have to be a tv stand.
trust me, it’s worth it.
then disconnect the duct from behind the dryer.
and because they prevent you from accidentally leaving a light on for an extended period of time, many folks reduce the energy their lights consume by up to 90 percent.
over-tightening (as is prone to happen with a wrench) will force the washer into the wall pipe, creating all manner of trouble.
for more in-depth instructions and description of how occupancy sensors  work, read this article fromelectronic construction & maintenance magazine .
compare the square footage of your room to the purifier’s cadr.
insulate your pipes.
so what else are you recycling this year?
recycled insulation may be made from a number of materials, including melted minerals and sand or recycled glass (fiberglass), recycled newspaper (cellulose, paper), recycled steel slag (rockwool), and mill waste and low-grade and recycled cotton (cotton).
click the “donate products” link to see how you can  help.
vocs are known to cause allergies, asthma, and even  cancer.
you begin wondering if there might be more needles on the floor than on the tree.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on january 6, 2009 in around the house , green living |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: diy, do-it-yourself, eco-friendly, environmentally  friendly, green living december 29, 2008 post-holiday recycling
instead of tossing unused drugs, check with your local pharmacy to see if  they have a take-back program.
or if you’re feeling mighty crafty, try your hand atpaper beads.
ikea, for example, phased out pvc shower curtains 11 years  ago, according to u.s. news & world report.
hemp processing is clean  and low on dust.
until next time, the home know-it-all related posts: make a rain barrel going for gray water take the green around the house challenge posted by julie on may 19, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
simply install a transmitter in your breaker box,  plug the display unit into an electric outlet, and you’re ready to get  readings on current energy consumption in kilowatts, current energy costs,  energy consumed (and how much it costs) this billing cycle, historical data for  the past 13 months, and more.
but all will be geared toward  making your home a healthier, more environmentally friendly place.
the next time you’re out and about swing  by a local retail store like home depot, wal-mart, or target to drop off your  dead rechargeable batteries to be recycled.
a charming alternative to gas or electric heating, pellet stoves  don’t require epa certification because they emit so little pollution.
a grouped display that adds dimension.
think you’ve found a steal?
to create an anti-roach solution, simmer catnip in water and then spray it around the house.
the excess dripping of a showerhead, for instance, might go unnoticed day after day.
what’s wrong with standard candles?
if your style is more cutting-edge  contemporary, then you’ll like the sleek style of the column-shapeself  watering cubico flower pots from indoor flower pots.com (prices range from  $29.90–$289.95 depending on size; if you want the sub-irrigation system  included, add $60.85).
after all, they carry the food that will end up on your plate!
there are several ways to try freshening your fridge's air.
many utilities are encouraged to offer incentives to customers who purchase energy-efficient appliances.
research incentives.
i like the deep finish of thepowell contemporary merlot plant stand from stacks and stacks ($95).
purchase an air purifier.
add a few drops of food  coloring to the tank and avoid flushing.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on march 5, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: cfl, eco, eco-friendly, energy, energy bills, energy  consumption, energy savings, fossil fuel, google powermeter, green, green  around the house challenge, home energy audit, home know-it-all, kill a watt,  lexicon, living green, phantom load, power cost monitor, smart savings, ted,  the energy detective, the home know-it-all, u.s. department of energy, water  heater, www.lexiconconsultinginc.com february 27, 2009 green your water heater here’s
here are three moves you can do this weekend, plus info on water heater upgrades that will save you considerably in the long run.
although purchasing a low-flow toilet is probably the best way to reduce your toilet water use, you don’t have to fork over the cash for a new one to save.
as is the case with much of what  we’re including in our green around the house challenge, you just have to  shop smarter: buy natural candles.
your beloved garden might have more bug-repelling power than you think, depending on what’s growing.
for easy ideas on keeping common household bugs such as ants, fleas, and cockroaches at bay naturally, hop on over to this eartheasyarticle.
screw the pipe nipple into the spigot/sillcock.
end the toxic relationship—for good so, aside  from that unmistakable stench, how can you tell if your shower curtain is made  from pvc?
(it’s also a good idea to check your owner’s manual first, however, as some specifically state that the tank shouldn’t be insulated.)
yet you don’t have to install a complex system to reuse water.
when installed (which should take less  than half an hour), this handy gadget turns your everyday toilet into a  dual-flush model.
they're a telltale sign that ice dams are forming, and your home is losing heat and energy much faster than it should be.
sheep’s wool is safe and easy to  handle and, unlike traditional insulation, won’t cause itching and skin  irritation.
if your showerhead doesn't come with a washer, tighten it firmly with a wrench.
here's a greatstep-by-step guide on how to build your own trellises.
before you start trying to get rid of any pest, though, take the obvious first step—remove any attractants that are keeping them around.
once it’s set up, try making  an easy energy-saving move, then see how it affects the data on the display.
green around the house challenge, we’re headed outside.
grape and wisteria vines grow like wildfire and shed their leaves in the winter to allow the sun's heat to warm your home.
we filled you in last year on how to recycle it, but just in case you’ve forgotten how, read all about ithere.
this insulation isn’t made solely from mushrooms.
so i may be going back and drilling that overflow hole, then  sticking with the original downspout adaptor after all.
as handy as these tools might be, they’re pretty darn hazardous to your health—not to mention the environment.
earth911 explains how to safely recycle your spent bulbs.
if you’re looking for more step-by-step info on making a rain barrel, watch sherry & john in action over atthis young house as they build their own.
water trickles down from the top reservoir into each pocket, and excess water collects in the bottom tray—not on your furniture.
biobased insulation was the first polyurethane spray foam insulation to earn greenguard certification.
think of it like a fireplace insert or freestanding stove—these  devices typically heat individual rooms rather than the entire house (although  they can do that too), so that you can turn down the thermostat.
(specifically, they contain chemicals such as phthalates, which have been shown  to disrupt hormones.)
according togreenyour.com, the process is as easy as cutting the insulation to fit the length and diameter of your pipes, slipping the insulation onto the pipes, and securing the insulation every foot or so with tape.
plug everything into this surge protector and all you have to do is switch it off with the included remote control to stop power flow.
because mercury is something you don’t want to mess with—it can cause brain and kidney damage—ewg is pushing for lower mercury content in cfls and believes product labels should disclose the specific mercury content in each bulb.
when it comes to  protecting your floors and furniture, do you have any old sheets you  aren’t using anymore?
it's a bit funny how we tend to overlook the things we use most often.
prevention the best method for dealing with ice dams is to prevent them from forming.
here are some of the urban myths that have been flying around: the national christmas tree association has worked hard to bust these urban myths.
so it  makes sense that we look for bedding that’s comfortable and durable.
but instead of  wood, they burn pellets: compressed sawdust, corn, wood shavings, and other  wood waste that would normally go to the landfill.
because mercury is something you don’t want to mess with—it can  cause brain and kidney damage—ewg is pushing for lower mercury content in  cfls and believes product labels should disclose the specific mercury content  in each bulb.
an occupancy sensor is a device that automatically turns the light on when you walk into a room and off when you walk out.
until tomorrow, the home know-it-all posted by julie on april 16, 2009 in green living | permalink | comments  (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: >
just be aware that you will have to pay the purchase and installation costs upfront and wait for the rebate and tax credit.
not sure if your water heater needs the extra insulation?
for instance, you’ll want to determine fuel costs in your area and whether or not it makes sense to purchase a self-contained firebox insert or a freestanding stove.
the solution: i’ve put together a guideline that’ll help me  spot these makeovers-waiting-to-happen.
and that’s what i’m talking about in  today’s
nearby rooms become cold, and you end up raising  your thermostat anyway.
the little plastic  pieces will keep it centered.
although leaks often go unnoticed, figuring out whether your toilet leaks is pretty easy.
just make sure that you properly dispose of it at the end of its lifespan  so harmful mercury vapor isn’t released.
until the next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on november 9, 2010 in green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) here is the final installment of fridays with designer martin amado .
push the  pipe nipple through the outside of the barrel to the inside.
lately i’ve been obsessed with blogs like daily danny and  design*sponge that teach you how to recreate a flea market find into a stunning  interior-decorating masterpiece.
thermafleece sheep’s wool  insulation is produced bysecond nature.
currently 136 million tons of waste is  transported to landfills from renovation projects a year.)
read what energy star® and treehugger have to say.
the average american household consumes 90 gallons of fresh drinking water  each day, according to the u.s. environmental protection agency.
track your home’s electricity  use in real time with this easy-to-install digital monitor.
coffee pot cleaner mixing salt, water, lemon and ice together makes a powerful, all-natural cleaning agent that won't distort the flavor of your coffee after cleaning and doesn't leave soap residue.
that’s a long time, folks!
the flaps should be moving smoothly, without any restrictions.
this insulation is made from 85 percent post-industrial cotton (think denim manufacturing scraps).
but one of the most important moves you can make is actually tracking how much energy your family uses.
be sure to tune in next friday for another of amado's informative answers to our design and green living questions.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on october 12, 2010 in general , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) photo courtesy of timberline geodesics.
call your local restore to see if  they’ll take your used materials.
now that’s eco-friendly!
that’s why i tracked down these cool tools designed to help you reduce your use.
home  expertdon vandervort digs into the intricacies of how a pellet stove operates.
use this guide the next time you go shopping for  light bulbs.
with the right planning and preparation, you can practically skip ordering a dumpster.
pvc is produced with  toxic additives that can evaporate or leach out of the product.
plus, you’ll save time sweeping and vacuuming each week.
it's disagreeable to fleas and harmless if your pet licks it off.
although in your head you know you need a tv  stand, the piece of furniture you purchase doesn’t necessarily have to be  a tv stand.
you can learn  more about gray water basics from this helpfulnatural home article.
there are a lot of options available right now.
clogged dryer ducts reduce airflow, causing your clothes to take longer to dry, gobbling energy, and raising the temperature inside your dryer.
learn more:wattstopper.com versaline disappearing clothesline one of the  easiest ways to save energy when it’s laundry time is to stop using the  dryer altogether.
part of the reason is that although you probably use hot water infrequently  (for hand-washing, bathing, and dish-washing), your water heater is always hard  at work keeping water warm so it’s ready for you on demand.
and a number oflawn mower options —including electric and reel mowers—make cutting the grass less harmful.
in fact, we've already taught you how to recycle everything from yourchristmas tree to your batteries, but now we're going to teach you how to recycle just about everything else.
pvc shower curtains clog  already-full landfills because they don’t break down.
green around the house challenge is all  about greening your painting routine.
my dining room wall  emit a wonderful aroma every time i walk by them).
oh man do i have a weekend project for you.
while trees may take years to grow, trellises—and the deciduous vines you plant around them—can get the job done in relatively no time at all.
prices are often steeper in the morning, however, so be sure to check back later in the evening when the seller’s only choice is to sell it or haul it home.
scour magazines, websites, and books for ideas.
they emit high levels of carbon monoxides, hydrocarbons, and nitrogen oxides, which can impair lung function, inhibit plant growth, and more.
plastic, glass, cabinetry, batteries, doors, trim, sinks, tubs, and much more can all be recycled.
sound too good to be true?
(bonus: turning down the  water heater to 120 degrees is a smart safety move that prevents scalding.)
add a few drops of food coloring to the tank and avoid flushing.
technorati tags: boots, bug-free, bugs, chemical repellents, chiggers, clothing, deet, diy, do-it-yourself, essential oils, fleas, green around the house challenge, hats, herb repellent, insects, mosquitoes, natural bug repellent, natural repellent, pests, picnics, plants, standing water, the home know-it-all, ticks here’s
flea market finds & how to restore them ($7.98) and flea market style ($20.90) are both filled with tips and tricks on decorating with “found” objects.
add these ingredients to your grocery list and replace those toxic chemicals and tree-hogging brushes and paper towels today:add these ingredients to your grocery list and replace those toxic chemicals and tree-hogging brushes and paper towels today: posted by randall on september 11, 2009 in cleaning & organizing , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: baking soda, bathroom, broom and dustpan, cleaning, green, kitchen, microfiber towels, newspaper, sink, toxic cleaners, vinegar any time the kitchen or living room reeked in my old apartment (my neighbors smoked in the hallway), i pulled the trigger—of bottled air freshener, that is.
(but if you  don’t want to do it, i won’t tell.)
first, turn off the power and unscrew your  current light switch from the wall.
by providing suppliers in  developing countries a decent wage and promoting social and environmental  integrity in all dealings, the body shop is not only  eco-friendly—it’s also socially friendly.
simmons natural care by danny seo: affordable and eco-friendly, these  mattresses seem too good to be true.
for more information on geodesic homes, visit timberline geodesics.
you already knew you could search the  internet, check your e-mail, and more with google.
while you’re at it, why not go a step further—for  the good of the environment and your health—with environmentally friendly  insulation?
ticks many of the same tricks that work with fleas can be used against ticks, since both pests feed on your pet's blood.
avoid lead-containing wicks.
this weekend, make it a priority to treat yourself to a more enjoyable shower, lower heating bill, and good feelings from helping out the environment.
pvc shower curtains clog already-full landfills because they don’t break down.
launch your search for eco-friendly options atgaiam,  health goods, pristine planet, and ikea.
geodesic domes are available in manufactured kits that allow you (yes, you personally!) to build a home with only minimal construction knowledge and a handful of common tools.
so unless you’re planning a trip to a mosquito- or tick-infested area, why not just go the natural route for keeping bugs at bay?
let’s start with  paraffin, the most common candle ingredient.
another option: biodegradable disposable paint trays made from recycled pulp fiber frombio pulp works, also available at lowe’s.
from garage sales to estate sales to  even rental furniture outlets, there are lots of places to purchase pre-owned  merchandise.
icky pesticides and fertilizers are sprayed on cotton crops, tainting our  environment and causing your cotton covers to off-gas—or release volatile  organic compounds (vocs).
for those of our readers just joining us, we're bringing you the video of our interview with martin amado—a renowned home decor and lifestyle expert best known for hosting hgtv's small space, big style and appearing as a guest designer on that network's decorating cents.
gray water systems, which can capture and recycle as much as half of your  daily household water, are growing increasingly common in newly built homes and  are being retrofit into many existing residences.
although purchasing a low-flow toilet is probably the best way to reduce  your toilet water use, you don’t have to fork over the cash for a new one  to save.
first, turn off the power and unscrew your current light switch from the wall.
recent u.s. environmental protection agency surveys have found trace levels of more than 100 different pharmaceutical drugs in water samples, including drinking-water sources.
invest in houseplants.
your tv should be no bigger than 40 inches.
go enjoy your new shower!
no wonder i got a  headache while putting on makeup in the bathroom each morning.
but don't worry, there's an easy solution to this problem.
causes many people to cringe.
both create instant drama.
butgreensulate is made from agricultural waste products—think rice and buckwheat hulls—combined with mycelium, which is a fibrous network created by mushrooms.
fortunately, many new heaters come with great safety features.
high-efficiency gas storage water heaters work much the same as standard  gas storage water heaters but benefit from improved insulation, heat traps, and  efficient burners.
another common method, according to thecolorado state university extension is to drain your washing machine water directly onto outside vegetation (although, admittedly, this method is illegal in most states).
fleas to get rid of fleas, try sprinkling diatomaceous earth on your pet's coat, bedding, and even the floors of your home.
examine it  from top to bottom before buying.
made of renewable solid mango wood, these hand-carved planters add  simplicity and warmth.
screw on the lid, flush the toilet, and place the jug in the tank.
so what do you get out of this?
plus, you’ll never have to remember to turn off lights again.
bonus: watering is easier than you think.
but one  green challenge a week?
leave a comment here!
shine the leak detector light on the wall to set a reference temperature, then point it at different areas around your house.
americans use 5.8 billion gallons of water  to flush their toilets every day — and that doesn’t include how  much water is wasted from leaky toilets.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on january 4, 2011 in green living | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) a space heater eats plenty of energy, but it doesn't use nearly as much as your furnace.
find out how long your food stays safe when the power goes out.
and your saving landfills from hundreds of reusable items—for free.
batteries because of all the toxic metals in rechargeable batteries—think mercury, lead acid, nickel cadmium, alkaline, and nickel metal hydride—it’s important that you dispose of them properly.
wondering whether it’s good to use “dirty” water on your yard?
this should remove any trace of forgotten spills or food bits that have slipped through the cracks and gone unnoticed.
your tree has most likely started to have a brown tint to it and the fragrance isn't as noticeable as it was when you first set it up.
my personal favorite?
(sadly, there’s a no-painting policy at this apartment.
here are a few suggestions: comforter try: natura organic wool comforter  ($352.50-$535.00);organic inspirations organic cotton/wool comforter  ($320.00-$470.00); orecobedroom natural pure-grow wool comforter  ($324.00-$462.00).
fresh flowers plop a bunch of your favorite posies in a vase and let their sweet fragrance waft through the room.
if a builder is leed certified, you can be certain that they will build your house to the highest green standards.
while you’re researching online, learn more about why leaf blowers are bad and get the scoop on four alternatives fromthe daily green.
as is the case with much of what we’re including in our green around the house challenge, you just have to shop smarter: buy natural candles.
if your cfls made the list, congrats.
if your style is more cutting-edge contemporary, then you’ll like the sleek style of the column-shapeself watering cubico flower pots from indoor flower pots.com (prices range from $29.90–$289.95 depending on size; if you want the sub-irrigation system included, add $60.85).
wrapping your water heater in an insulation blanket can reduce water heating energy consumption by 4 to 9 percent.
we’re going to roll out the first challenge next tuesday, when katie  fills us in on how to green our shower curtains.
instead, use a roof rake and push broom to pull the ice and snow down the slope of your roof while you're on the ground.
any bigger, it’ll waste substantially more energy than a smaller size.
the savings are considerable: in a two-person household, using the aqus can reduce metered water usage by 10 to 20 gallons a day, according to the manufacturer.
if you’re looking for a temporary fix, check out trimaco’s eco drop biodegradable paint tarps, which are available for $3 at many lowe’s stores.
the savings are considerable: in a two-person household, using  the aqus can reduce metered water usage by 10 to 20 gallons a day, according to  the manufacturer.
whether you hang it above your sofa or place it in your entryway, theindoor living wall planter from gardener’s supply company ($189) is quite the conversation starter.
and they  don’t play well with other plastics, making them a challenge to recycle.
or search online—there are plenty of other ways creative folks have made their own rain barrels.
bugs love feasting at picnics just as much as you.
in addition to providing housing for needy families, habitat for  humanity also owns retail outlets calledhabitat restores.
perhaps you can repurpose it back in  your renovated space, but if not, check with the following companies to see if  they’ll accept your donations.
also use it to stop smells in the fridge, trash can, and closet.
to ensure your covers pass the natural test, look for “organic” cotton, which means the fiber was produced without pesticides or genetic engineering.
if you’re in the market for a  new dining room table, consult furniture stores to see what a new version goes  for, and then check outcraigslist, ebay, or goantiques to learn the going-rate  of used pieces and see what’s available.
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by nate on december 8, 2010 in cleaning & organizing , green living | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) building a new home that is truly “green” can be far more difficult than most would imagine.
as a bonus, these films can retain up to 55 percent of your home's heat during the wintertime.
besides feeling the joy of diverting waste  from landfills, you also help those less fortunate than yourself.
so  all you have to do to understand why it’s important to paint voc-free  (and where you can find paint sans vocs) isread this post.
but if not, you don’t need to  rid your house of them—any cfl is better than a standard incandescent  bulb.
thermafleece sheep’s wool insulation is produced bysecond nature.
learn more on thegreen guide.
whether you categorize yourself as one or both (as so many folks do these days), it never hurts to have a little help on your conquest to conserve.
then immediately followthese steps.
what you'll need: firmly turn off your shower faucets—this should be a dry process from beginning to end.
bonus: watering is easier than  you think.
lucky you, today’sgreen around the house challenge shows you how to cut back on the water use, waste, and pollution that originates from this bathroom staple.
tax credit amounts vary, but can be as much as 30 percent of the cost up to $1,500.00.
watch out for synthetic scents.
not all wicks are bad, but some candlewicks contain lead and release soot and toxins into the air when they’re burned.
(it’s  sad—but true!)
happy energy saving!
until next time, the home know-it-all posted by jim stepp on december 6, 2009 in around the house , decorating , general , green living | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
there’s something for everyone in this line.
some utilities sell them too—and may even install them for you.
no curbside recycling?
place the metal washer over the pipe nipple.
sounds like the perfect green around the house challenge for you if you ask me.
some utilities sell them too—and may  even install them for you.
another option is to purchase a downspout diverter, like this one from  garden water saver.
it’s also important to remember, however, that environmental activism isn’t something that can happen once a year.
the next time you’re out and about swing by a local retail store like home depot, wal-mart, or target to drop off your dead rechargeable batteries to be recycled.
when shopping for tp, just be sure to verify the percentage of  post-consumer waste (pcw) in the product.
plus line-dried clothes smell so darn good.
for the first time ever, 20 million people stood in unison against oil spills, toxic factories, pesticides, wildlife extinction and much more.
for more information on recycling after a remodel, see what the  professional remodeler has to say.
plant your deciduous tree 10 to 20 feet away from your house, so when it reaches mature height, it'll provide a large and effective swath of shade.
a trap adaptor will secure it to the inside of the barrel.
on top of  that, you receive a tax deduction equal to the price for which the items are  sold.
look for a “3” within the plastic recycling symbol or check to see if there’s a “v” stamped in the plastic.
fortunately, there are several eco-friendly ways to combat the sweltering sun without shelling out for ac.
(online shops are often a great place to start not only because they’re informative but also because listings are typically posted by the owner, cutting out the middleman and lowering the price.)
what’s more, some of these chemicals were found in the air 28 days after a pvc shower curtain was opened and hung.
that  means that water is heated only when you need it—a big energy saver over  standard water heaters that lose energy during standby operation.
and thanks to the battery act of  1996, recycling rechargeable nicard, nimh, lithium-ion, and sealed lead-acid
but they corral several plants at once and therefore save  space.
ants for ant problems, try leaving bags of mint tea, cloves, or crushed mint leaves in high-activity areas.
for a rustic tabletop plant display, try the carved wooden cachepots from pottery barn ($24–$34.00, depending on size).
though unorthodox, you may even consider putting a small amount of clean, unscented kitty litter in the fridge as a means to absorb smells.
vanilla extract if you've got a nasty stench coming from your microwave, get rid of it by pouring vanilla extract in a bowl and microwaving it for one minute.
according to the  environmental working group (ewg), some cfls have a lower mercury content than  others, and some last longer than others, making them a better, safer lighting  option.
and that’s just for starters.
this will be at the narrow part of the barrel and is where you will start to cut off the top of the barrel with your saw.