asana is another spray that controls the balsam woolly adelgid, a european  insect that has devastated fraser firs in forest stands, flattening their tops,  swelling their joints and hardening their wood.
are they all recycled after that?"
after christmas, the city  will retrieve it and plant it in one of san francisco's tree-starved  neighborhoods.
"i'm a forest  activist, and there's a dead tree in the middle of my house," she said.
either they desecrate earth and chop down a tree or buy a  fake one that's full of landfill-clogging polyvinyl chloride, which is  kryptonite to greenies.
for a list of specific pesticides used on christmas trees, click here.
for those of us who want to be environmentally conscious but can't let go of the idea of enjoying a christmas tree, the decision must be made whether to invest in a faux tree or enjoy a real tree.
your  answer will speak to your commitment to protecting american jobs, reducing the  trade deficit, preventing environmental destruction, helping us breathe and, of  course, showing where you stand on the rev. jerry falwell's efforts to counter  what he calls the anti-christian "war on christmas.
it can be a monumental task just sorting through the information in the ongoing debate of which option is better for the earth.
if that's not possible, purchase your cut tree from a tree farm  that shuns pesticides and chemicals.
a salt  compound, roundup can irritate the eyes and is toxic when inhaled.
live trees can be found at most nurseries and some tree lots.
"i'm a forest activist, and there's a dead tree in the middle of my house," she said.
" as an alternative, sierra magazine, a sierra club publication, suggests: "for a natural look, try making your own tree of trimmed evergreen boughs, a storm-felled branch, or a piece of driftwood.
fox news commentator bill o'reilly, a field marshal for the conservative counter-campaign against the "war on christmas," will be happy to know that san francisco called this its "dreaming of a green christmas" tree program.
purchases of real trees declined from 32 million in 2002 to 23.4 million in 2004, according the national christmas tree association.
"but we're really on the same  side as the tree farmers in terms of not wanting to see american jobs  overseas.
"if one grain  gets in your boot, and your foot sweats, by the end of the day, you could be  dead" says richard boylan, an alternative agriculture agent with the north  carolina state university cooperative extension.
other pesticides used include the  organophosphates di-syston 15-g, which can cause convulsions and  unconsciousness, and dimethoate, which can cause tremors and breathing  difficulties.
yet, the holiday spirit can be  dampened by the knowledge that monocrop tree farms use pesticides such as  glyphosate (roundup), associated with chest pains and nausea in humans and  deadly to many fish and beneficial insects.
each spring and  summer, hispanic workers like alvarez handle some of the deadliest pesticides  allowed by law, potentially risking their health to help americans celebrate  life.
the decision used to be more about one's tolerance for cleaning up pine needles.
treating christmas tree fields  each spring, farm-worker felix alvarez, 43, soaks his skin with roundup, a  weedkiller linked to cancer among applicators.
"but we figured that only people who  would be celebrating christmas would want one for the most part."
though lindane is the least immediately harmful of these, the epa banned it in  2002 for its chronic effects and persistence in the environment.
instead, take your de-decorated tree to a collection center, where it will be recycled--for example, ground up as mulch for use in city parks.
by joe garofoli san francisco chronicle 16-dec-05 the cultural minefield of december has another  politically loaded question to tiptoe around: will you purchase a real tree or  an artificial one?
"later on, when i get older, i'll probably have some consequence about it because i've been getting wet all over," alvarez says.
farmers talk about how buying a real tree protects u.s. jobs.
ever since a public outcry over childhood  leukemia in the early 1990s, growers have been cutting pesticide use through a  technique called integrated pest management, which targets chemicals only where  they're really needed.
" san francisco's  department of the environment began a program this year for those averse to  stringing lights on driftwood.
farmers say buying a christmas  tree is about protecting the environment.
they recently were the subject of a favorable profile on "made in america," a travel channel program hosted by john ratzenberger, best known for his work as cliff on "cheers."
" as an alternative, sierra magazine, a sierra club publication, suggests:  "for a natural look, try making your own tree of trimmed evergreen boughs,  a storm-felled branch, or a piece of driftwood.
"the very best thing you can do is buy a live tree--not a cut tree, but a live tree, with a root ball," gangloff advises.
deciding between real and fake trees wasn't always an ethical nightmare.
as they have reduced reliance on  di-syston, growers have increased the spread of other insecticides, including  dimethoate, lindane and asana, all slightly or moderately toxic chemicals.
"it would be best to get an organic one, of course.
"but we're really on the same side as the tree farmers in terms of not wanting to see american jobs overseas.
does that mean you should hang your  ornaments on the coat rack?
" --------------------- o christmas tree, are ye real or fake?
anyway, here's some of what's written  about the issue so you can make up your own mind.
"geez, if i have a tree, why not nail the last snow leopard to the wall, too?"
"and think of all the pesticides and  fertilizers that are used to keep that (real) tree going.
the most hazardous and second-most common  pesticide in north carolina christmas tree farming is di-syston 15-g, a powder  traditionally applied with a bucket and measuring spoon.
second only to oregon, the state of north carolina produces roughly one out of five christmas trees sold in the u.s.--about five million a year, worth more than $100 million.
ask san francisco forest activist kristi chester vance.
"some people wanted to call it a 'peace tree' or a 'holiday tree,' " said mark westlund, a spokesman for the department of the environment.
after christmas, the city will retrieve it and plant it in one of san francisco's tree-starved neighborhoods.
in 1999, the american cancer society published the results of a survey of non-hodgkin's lymphoma patients showing the disease was 2.7 times more likely among those who had applied glyphosate, the herbicide sold under the "roundup" trade name.
but the city isn't offering pines.
fifty million fraser firs grow on 25,000 acres in the mountains  of north carolina, and almost every acre is treated with roundup.
so  christmas-tree growers got serious about telling their story.
when you're done with it, plant the tree in your garden.
and it's only going to be used for two weeks.
---------------------------- happier holidays: simple ways to celebrate the season in  sustainable style natural health,  dec, 2005  by janelle brown every year, roughly 35 million christmas trees are cut down and sold,  serving as a major source of holiday waste.
"some people wanted to call it a  'peace tree' or a 'holiday tree,' " said mark westlund, a spokesman for  the department of the environment.
this requires some forethought, particularly in colder climates where you'll need to break up the ground for planting before it freezes; you'll also need to keep a live tree moist, and indoors for no longer than a week.
i am exposed to the same environment they are, and we have become aware of the risks."
it will return next year.
they hired a  marketing firm that for decades had specialized in republican political  campaigns.
farmers say buying a christmas tree is about protecting the environment.
the artificial-tree industry has taken notice.
if that's not possible, purchase your cut tree from a tree farm that shuns pesticides and chemicals.
but several years ago, america's tree growers started noticing that artificial trees were steadily gaining market share.
"we  believe that the granular risks can be adequately mitigated by closed  systems," says epa spokesperson enesta jones.
but several years ago, america's tree growers started noticing that  artificial trees were steadily gaining market share.
as with dimethoate, swallowing less than two tablespoons of  asana can kill a grown man.
in 2002, that number had grown to roughly 60 percent, say growers and fake-tree makers.
either they desecrate earth and chop down a tree or buy a fake one that's full of landfill-clogging polyvinyl chloride, which is kryptonite to greenies.
overall, the artificial-tree trade  deficit last year was $145 million, according to census statistics.
they recently were the subject of a favorable profile on "made in  america," a travel channel program hosted by john ratzenberger, best known  for his work as cliff on "cheers."
the epa had threatened to ban it completely,  but north carolina's christmas tree growers worked to develop a new  closed-system applicator that enables workers to pour the granules from a  stainless-steel spout rather than scooping them from an open bucket.
in 2002, that  number had grown to roughly 60 percent, say growers and fake-tree makers.
-------------------- chemical christmas: immigrant tree farm workers face pesticide dangers
she acknowledges, though, that most christmas trees are farmed like an agricultural product.
the firm, smith and harroff, advocated reaching out to generation y (now there's an animated "attack of the mutant artificial trees" interactive game on the national christmas tree association's web site), latinos (the association's materials are being translated into spanish), first-time homebuyers and gays.
luckily, there are better choices to keep this holiday season healthy, organic and even fair-trade friendly.
they hired a marketing firm that for decades had specialized in republican political campaigns.
"sometimes i can't sleep at night because my face burns so much.
by joe garofoli san francisco chronicle 16-dec-05 the cultural minefield of december has another politically loaded question to tiptoe around: will you purchase a real tree or an artificial one?
last year, bayer  cropsciences voluntarily discontinued di-syston 15-g for all crops other than  fraser firs in north carolina and coffee in puerto rico.
a helpful place to start is theorganic consumers association's  compilation of articles assembled over the past year regarding christmas trees  and their impact on the environment.
the aphids cuff  needles and stunt growth in firs, sometimes enough to make them worthless; the  spider mites discolor evergreen needles by sucking their sap.
the firm that once  consulted for the republican national committee was cooing about landing a  pro-real-tree reference on tv's "queer eye for the straight guy" show  last year.
as they have reduced reliance on di-syston, growers have increased the spread of other insecticides, including dimethoate, lindane and asana, all slightly or moderately toxic chemicals.
your answer will speak to your commitment to protecting american jobs, reducing the trade deficit, preventing environmental destruction, helping us breathe and, of course, showing where you stand on the rev. jerry falwell's efforts to counter what he calls the anti-christian "war on christmas.
"the tree farmers have definitely been more aggressive with their marketing the past couple of years," said daniel hanley, an administrator with holiday tree and trim, which points out that it has been making artificial trees for 40 years with good ol' american workers in bayonne, n.j.
katie has  no idea what those trees might cost her father.
"the very best thing you can do is buy a live tree--not a cut tree,  but a live tree, with a root ball," gangloff advises.
"we intend for them to be heirlooms, something that is passed down from  one generation to another.
"we believe that the granular risks can be adequately mitigated by closed systems," says epa spokesperson enesta jones.
second only to oregon, the state of  north carolina produces roughly one out of five christmas trees sold in the  u.s.--about five million a year, worth more than $100 million.
between 1994 and 2000, growers reduced di-syston use  from 65 percent of total acreage to 50 percent, according to north carolina  state christmas tree specialist jill sidebottom.
instead, take your  de-decorated tree to a collection center, where it will be recycled--for  example, ground up as mulch for use in city parks.
now, as possibly only a douglas fir can do, christmas trees have bridged a cultural divide.
but i certainly wish pesticides weren't used so heavily in their production.
"if  they lost [di-syston] and didn't come up with something that would take its  place, you can put the christmas tree business out of business," one  grower told wake forest university researcher pamela rao in a paper published  in human organization.
the aphids cuff needles and stunt growth in firs, sometimes enough to make them worthless; the spider mites discolor evergreen needles by sucking their sap.
luckily, there are better choices to keep this holiday season healthy, organic  and even fair-trade friendly.
but i certainly wish pesticides  weren't used so heavily in their production.
salting a tree with pesticides and then  chopping it down for a mere two weeks of display time isn't a great option.
"many pesticides will have been removed from trees by rain and  ultraviolet light by the time they are harvested," says dr. thomas arcury,  ph.d., professor of family and community medicine at wake forest university  school of medicine.
holiday trees are grown as a sustainable crop; in fact, 1 acre of christmas trees produces enough oxygen to support 18 people, and provides habitats for birds and wildlife.
never dump your tree at the curb for the garbage collectors.
" the artificial-tree builders boast a celebrity  endorser to counter the tree farmers' new friends from "queer eye."
instead, they suggested hanging  tinsel on a primrose, a brisbane box tree or a fruitless olive tree.
purchases of real trees declined from 32 million in 2002 to 23.4 million in  2004, according the national christmas tree association.
for $90, the city will bring a live, 7- to  9-foot potted tree to your home for you to decorate.
the  artificial-tree industry has taken notice.
here is a collection of articles  assembled over the last year regarding christmas trees and their impact on the  environment" green guide  117 | november/december 2006 holiday greenery, lights and ornaments by  p.w. mcrandle decking the halls is a feat of interior design  that takes a good eye and a green thumb.
like  di-syston, dimethoate is an organophosphate that can cause numbness, tingling  sensations, headaches, dizziness, tremors, nausea, abdominal cramps, sweating,  blurred vision, difficulty breathing and slow heartbeat, experts say.
other pesticides used include the organophosphates di-syston 15-g, which can cause convulsions and unconsciousness, and dimethoate, which can cause tremors and breathing difficulties.
"i live in the same area they do and drink the same water.
"it's kind of like corn," she said.
e: the environmental magazine,  nov-dec, 2005  by jesse james deconto every christmas, little katie alvarez asks her daddy for two  trees, one for her formal living room, and one for the family room.
christmas tree debate the great christmas tree debate our family still uses cut christmas tree
fox news commentator bill o'reilly, a field  marshal for the conservative counter-campaign against the "war on  christmas," will be happy to know that san francisco called this its  "dreaming of a green christmas" tree program.
"later on, when i get  older, i'll probably have some consequence about it because i've been getting  wet all over," alvarez says.
"sometimes i  can't sleep at night because my face burns so much.
katie has no idea what those trees might cost her father.
"geez, if i have a tree, why not nail the last snow leopard to the wall,  too?"
"the industry has grown a lot," says debbie fishel, whose grouse ridge farms employ 30 to 60 hispanic workers each year.
the leading exporter of fake trees _ shipped $69 million worth of artificial pines to the united states from january through august of this year, according to u.s. census bureau statistics.
as with dimethoate, swallowing less than two tablespoons of asana can kill a grown man.
the irony is that trees are so  easy to grow with organic techniques.
and the handful of u.s. manufacturers has started to swing back.
the irony is that trees are so easy to grow with organic techniques.
it can be a monumental task just  sorting through the information in the ongoing debate of which option is better  for the earth.
and the handful of u.s.  manufacturers has started to swing back.
"if one grain gets in your boot, and your foot sweats, by the end of the day, you could be dead" says richard boylan, an alternative agriculture agent with the north carolina state university cooperative extension.
the leading exporter of fake trees _ shipped $69 million worth of  artificial pines to the united states from january through august of this year,  according to u.s. census bureau statistics.
in 1990, about half of  u.s. tree-displaying homes were putting up artificial trees.
but it's not that you'll need to wear a face mask around your  tree.
like di-syston, dimethoate is an organophosphate that can cause numbness, tingling sensations, headaches, dizziness, tremors, nausea, abdominal cramps, sweating, blurred vision, difficulty breathing and slow heartbeat, experts say.
the  program proved so popular that it sold out its stock of 100 trees in four days.
" san francisco's department of the environment began a program this year for those averse to stringing lights on driftwood.
each spring and summer, hispanic workers like alvarez handle some of the deadliest pesticides allowed by law, potentially risking their health to help americans celebrate life.
"and think of all the pesticides and fertilizers that are used to keep that (real) tree going.
for those of  us who want to be environmentally conscious but can't let go of the idea of  enjoying a christmas tree, the decision must be made whether to invest in a  faux tree or enjoy a real tree.
fifty million fraser firs grow on 25,000 acres in the mountains of north carolina, and almost every acre is treated with roundup.
i use a mask and glasses, but there are still parts of my face that aren't covered, and the spray gets on your face anyway.
and it's trying to be a do-gooder, too, donating 4,000 trees this month to u.s. military personnel.
"asana can make your skin burn for about six hours" said one christmas tree worker in 2001.
"the industry  has grown a lot," says debbie fishel, whose grouse ridge farms employ 30  to 60 hispanic workers each year.
for $90, the city will bring a live, 7- to 9-foot potted tree to your home for you to decorate.
not that there wasn't  discussion about other names.
the great christmas tree debate our family still uses cut christmas tree
------------------------------
unhappily, the vast majority of  holiday trees end up in landfills, wrapped in plastic and trailing tinsel.
"however, some will remain and, in particular, one, the systemic pesticide di-syston 15-g, may be present in the tree."
more than 100,000 americans are employed by the real-christmas-tree industry, according to its trade association.
the national christmas tree  association takes it a step further, boasting that an acre of christmas trees  produces enough oxygen for 18 people.
she acknowledges, though, that most christmas trees are  farmed like an agricultural product.
in 1990, about half of u.s. tree-displaying homes were putting up artificial trees.
live trees can be  found at most nurseries and some tree lots.
"it's kind of like corn," she  said.
u.s. farms had previously used it for food crops such as brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, peanuts and peppers.
when you're done with it, plant the  tree in your garden.
" --------------------- o christmas  tree, are ye real or fake?
ask  san francisco forest activist kristi chester vance.
more than 100,000 americans are employed by the real-christmas-tree industry,  according to its trade association.
the  decision used to be more about one's tolerance for cleaning up pine needles.
this requires some forethought, particularly in colder  climates where you'll need to break up the ground for planting before it  freezes; you'll also need to keep a live tree moist, and indoors for no longer  than a week.
and it's trying to be a do-gooder, too,  donating 4,000 trees this month to u.s. military personnel.
hanley disputed the  farmers' contention that fake trees generally end up in landfills after six to  10 years of use.
"don't feel guilty about buying a tree," says deborah gangloff, executive director of american forests, a nonprofit conservation organization.
treating christmas tree fields each spring, farm-worker felix alvarez, 43, soaks his skin with roundup, a weedkiller linked to cancer among applicators.
ever since a public outcry over childhood leukemia in the early 1990s, growers have been cutting pesticide use through a technique called integrated pest management, which targets chemicals only where they're really needed.
between 1994 and 2000, growers reduced di-syston use from 65 percent of total acreage to 50 percent, according to north carolina state christmas tree specialist jill sidebottom.
a worker poisoned with asana  could experience dizziness, burning, itching, blurred vision, tightness in the  chest, convulsions, nausea, vomiting, headache, weakness or tremors, according  to extoxnet, a network of university cooperative extension offices from across  the united states.
here is a collection of articles assembled over the last year regarding christmas trees and their impact on the environment" green guide 117 | november/december 2006 holiday greenery, lights and ornaments by p.w. mcrandle decking the halls is a feat of interior design that takes a good eye and a green thumb.
instead, they suggested hanging tinsel on a primrose, a brisbane box tree or a fruitless olive tree.
" the choice between real and not real is especially painful for some environmentalists.
"however, some will remain and, in particular, one,  the systemic pesticide di-syston 15-g, may be present in the tree."
hanley disputed the farmers' contention that fake trees generally end up in landfills after six to 10 years of use.
and it's only going  to be used for two weeks.
the firm that once consulted for the republican national committee was cooing about landing a pro-real-tree reference on tv's "queer eye for the straight guy" show last year.
unhappily, the vast majority of holiday trees end up in landfills, wrapped in plastic and trailing tinsel.
overall, the artificial-tree trade deficit last year was $145 million, according to census statistics.
asana is another spray that controls the balsam woolly adelgid, a european insect that has devastated fraser firs in forest stands, flattening their tops, swelling their joints and hardening their wood.
"asana can make your skin burn for  about six hours" said one christmas tree worker in 2001.
christmas tree  farmers use di-syston to control balsam twig aphids in the spring, and its  residues prevent spruce spider mites throughout the year.
the firm, smith and harroff, advocated reaching out to generation y  (now there's an animated "attack of the mutant artificial trees"  interactive game on the national christmas tree association's web site),  latinos (the association's materials are being translated into spanish),  first-time homebuyers and gays.
"the tree farmers have  definitely been more aggressive with their marketing the past couple of  years," said daniel hanley, an administrator with holiday tree and trim,  which points out that it has been making artificial trees for 40 years with  good ol' american workers in bayonne, n.j.
anyway, here's some of what's written about the issue so you can make up your own mind.
not that there wasn't discussion about other names.
---------------------------- happier holidays: simple ways to celebrate the season in sustainable style natural health, dec, 2005 by janelle brown every year, roughly 35 million christmas trees are cut down and sold, serving as a major source of holiday waste.
when she invited friends to a party at her place this month, she warned her environmentalist pals on the guest list: there will be a tree here.
"if they lost [di-syston] and didn't come up with something that would take its place, you can put the christmas tree business out of business," one grower told wake forest university researcher pamela rao in a paper published in human organization.
christmas tree farmers use di-syston to control balsam twig aphids in the spring, and its residues prevent spruce spider mites throughout the year.
and then, what will you call it?
u.s. farms had  previously used it for food crops such as brussels sprouts, cabbage,  cauliflower, peanuts and peppers.
i am exposed to the same environment they are, and we  have become aware of the risks."
officials said pines  don't make the best street trees.
yet, the holiday spirit can be dampened by the knowledge that monocrop tree farms use pesticides such as glyphosate (roundup), associated with chest pains and nausea in humans and deadly to many fish and beneficial insects.
but it's not that you'll need to wear a face mask around your tree.
a helpful place to start is theorganic consumers association's compilation of articles assembled over the past year regarding christmas trees and their impact on the environment.
current mooncurrent moon
when she invited friends to  a party at her place this month, she warned her environmentalist pals on the  guest list: there will be a tree here.
e: the environmental magazine, nov-dec, 2005 by jesse james deconto every christmas, little katie alvarez asks her daddy for two trees, one for her formal living room, and one for the family room.
does that mean you should hang your ornaments on the coat rack?
so christmas-tree growers got serious about telling their story.
the most hazardous and second-most common pesticide in north carolina christmas tree farming is di-syston 15-g, a powder traditionally applied with a bucket and measuring spoon.
though lindane is the least immediately harmful of these, the epa banned it in 2002 for its chronic effects and persistence in the environment.
buying an artificial tree  isn't a better choice, since most faux foliage is made from earth-toxic pvc.
" the  choice between real and not real is especially painful for some  environmentalists.
the epa had threatened to ban it completely, but north carolina's christmas tree growers worked to develop a new closed-system applicator that enables workers to pour the granules from a stainless-steel spout rather than scooping them from an open bucket.
officials said pines don't make the best street trees.
"but we figured that only people who would be celebrating christmas would want one for the most part."
to find one of the more than  3,800 centers that accept old trees (some curbside pickup), visit earth911.org  or call your city's public works department.
the program proved so popular that it sold out its stock of 100 trees in four days.
salting a tree with pesticides and then chopping it down for a mere two weeks of display time isn't a great option.
"plus, that means that a tree has not  been cut down," hanley said.
"we intend for them to be heirlooms, something that is passed down from one generation to another.
are they all recycled after that?" previous question | back | next question printable version | back to top send this website to a  friend make this website your home page copyright © 2012
to find one of the more than 3,800 centers that accept old trees (some curbside pickup), visit earth911.org or call your city's public works department.
the national christmas tree association takes it a step further, boasting that an acre of christmas trees produces enough oxygen for 18 people.
i use a mask and glasses,  but there are still parts of my face that aren't covered, and the spray gets on  your face anyway.
now, as possibly only a douglas fir  can do, christmas trees have bridged a cultural divide.
farmers talk about how buying a real tree protects u.s.  jobs.
"we offer a warranty for 50 years," he said.
holiday trees are grown as a sustainable  crop; in fact, 1 acre of christmas trees produces enough oxygen to support 18  people, and provides habitats for birds and wildlife.
in 1999, the  american cancer society published the results of a survey of non-hodgkin's  lymphoma patients showing the disease was 2.7 times more likely among those who  had applied glyphosate, the herbicide sold under the "roundup" trade  name.
a salt compound, roundup can irritate the eyes and is toxic when inhaled.
"don't feel guilty about buying a  tree," says deborah gangloff, executive director of american forests, a  nonprofit conservation organization.
buying an artificial tree isn't a better choice, since most faux foliage is made from earth-toxic pvc.
"many pesticides will have been removed from trees by rain and ultraviolet light by the time they are harvested," says dr. thomas arcury, ph.d., professor of family and community medicine at wake forest university school of medicine.
last year, bayer cropsciences voluntarily discontinued di-syston 15-g for all crops other than fraser firs in north carolina and coffee in puerto rico.
a worker poisoned with asana could experience dizziness, burning, itching, blurred vision, tightness in the chest, convulsions, nausea, vomiting, headache, weakness or tremors, according to extoxnet, a network of university cooperative extension offices from across the united states.
" the artificial-tree builders boast a celebrity endorser to counter the tree farmers' new friends from "queer eye."
"i live in the same area they do and  drink the same water.
"plus, that means that a tree has not been cut down," hanley said.