serving lawrenceville and all of gwinnett county, mr. septic is your  lawrenceville septic tank pumping expert.
- what's stuck in staci's head this week: aaron's re...
so i guess i'm an unpaid personal assistant - random tuesday thoughts: not winning, painted toes...
now the pots of cacti  are lined up next to the bathroom andkitchen sinks because i don't know what to  do with them.
posted by staci at 7:19 pm labels: decorating , home improvement , real estate every place has its decoration, and every decoration has its place, just not after christmas why is it that after christmas, once your christmas tree has been placed beside the road and the decorations have been safely stowed away in you garage, you can never return your living room to the same decorating state that it was in before?
all those "sell this house" type of shows swear that real plants show better, and i know that they're better for the environment.
call water restoration... - why am i suddenly on a plus-sized mailing list?
it's national "i can't stand ...
consequently, i painstakingly dug out the cacti and  placed them in several decorative pots wednesday morning.
- i think i'm the most boring person on earth
view the entire comment thread.
this week - wow, charlie sheen - ► february 2011 (9) - name that stench -
based in atlanta, the  personal injury attorneys andmedical malpractice lawyers at goldstein &  hayes are ready to serve you.
even if i never remember where everything went, i'm sure that i can put my art minor to good use and come up with a new configuration that's equally as pleasing.
- birthday wishes and chocolate cake dreams - great.
yes, it's still there - the atlanta snowpocalypse 2011 - finally home... - ► 2010 (168) - ► december 2010 (8) - last minute christmas gift idea:
however, if my house still hasn't sold by next christmas and i'm still living  here, i'm taking a picture before i drag out the first christmas decoration.
you see, i got another bright idea over christmas as well--repot my  cacti.
why is it that after christmas, once your christmas  tree has been placed beside the road and the decorations have been safely  stowed away in you garage, you can never return your living room to the same  decorating state that it was in before?
my dogs will chew up anything - the possum that wouldn't play possum returns - my new pity phone and a bad case of the fumble fin...
last night, i attempted to do just  that--put everything back where it belongs--and failed miserably.
the veebeam - why do all the crazy drivers come out at christmas... - from one type of cold to another... - ▼ 2009 (352) - ▼ january 2009 (82) - top entrecard droppers - top drop list may not be posted until tomorrow - i've been nominated for the who's who of the unemp... - queen of procrastination - alleviate blog envy with web hosting reports - will everyone just leave jessica simpson alone?
if you have been injured in an accident caused by a tractor trailer, we urge you to contact theatlanta truck accident attorney for a free consultation.
blog comments powered by disqus newer post older post home friends meet our friends at the law firm of fried rogers goldberg, llc.
- here we go again...
- we have to go back, kate.
in addition, i can't remember for the life of me where this one vase and  this one candlestick came from.
posted by  staci  at   7:19 pm labels:  decorating  ,  home improvement  ,  real estate every place has its decoration, and every decoration has its place, just not  after christmas why is it that after christmas, once your christmas tree has  been placed beside the road and the decorations have been safely stowed away in  you garage, you can never return your living room to the same decorating state  that it was in before?
last night, i attempted to do just that--put everything  back where it belongs--and failed miserably.
i decided over christmas that it would be more beneficial to me both health and market-wise to replace my few remaining artificial plants with real ones.
- my apathy towards my own fan fic has worsened with...
even if i  never remember where everything went, i'm sure that i can put my art minor to  good use and come up with a new configuration that's equally as pleasing.
i don't think that it would do any good.
- i really need to replace the doodads on the thinga...
you see, i got another bright idea over christmas as well--repot my cacti.
a lot of plants, like the spider one that i stole from my mom,  clean the air.
amazing this year at the uk's mya cl... - my sister, a myspace lush - does your sunroom or conservatory have the mismatc... - mark your calendars.
sort of - ► january 2012 (1) - old dogs, old joints, old bladders - ► 2011 (45) - ► october 2011 (3) - i ain't afraid of no ghosts -
i know that i had them on display.
- the humor and the cruelty of cupcake torture - long distance game play: thank goodness for voip p... - reporting for aunt duty, online style - a new job idea: maybe i can sell handmade crafts a... - a penny for my headache - i need to stop thinking about what if - i followed alex cross "cross country" to 2 a.m. - doing time on social networking drive - here we go again -
apparently, it will last longer than my memory.
- a face full of fun - i'm ready for another makeover - ► march 2011 (14) - rainy days & my dogs don't mix - i could use some prescription sunglasses - worst...mom...ever - i miss jewelry and my misplaced fashion sense - two days left on my 10% off sale -
the only thing a plastic plant does is steal its dust.
i know why; it was those stupid  plants that i brought back with me.
you would think that returning my living room to its pre-christmas glory  would be as simple as replacing the fake plants with the real ones.
serving alpharetta, johns creek, woodstock, and roswell, contact the  gynecologists &midwives at isis ob/gyn for all of your ob/gyn needs.
- i should have never taken his picture - random tuesday thoughts: dust clouds, scratchy dog... - the blogging 15 - hair color disasters run in the family
attorneys may just be having their ... - the digital transition may be delayed - is there a three-day rule for realtors?
i'm biting my nails again.
a lot of plants, like the spider one that i stole from my mom, clean the air.
all those "sell  this house" type of shows swear that real plants show better, and i know  that they're better for the environment.
i decided over  christmas that it would be more beneficial to me both health and market-wise to  replace my few remaining artificial plants with real ones.
they were formerly in a cactus rock garden, but, seeing as they haven't grown an inch since i got them, i decided that the rocks were doing more harm than good water-wise.
last night, i attempted to do just that--put everything back where it belongs--and failed miserably.
a promise to keep on fanfiction.net a promise to keep on blogger friday, january 16, 2009 every place has its decoration, and every decoration has its place, just  not after christmas
so does acobay - more frustrations on the real estate front - this couch potato is tired of being a bed potato - a word of advice for my fellow magnavox dvd-r user... - avoid falling prey to scam artists with a referral...
maybe i can use my j.d. to play a lawyer on tv - an old woman goes to the movies - fast business loans can be lifesavers in a sinking... - happy inauguration day - attention, people.
for what it's worth... - my titles are at it again - the redneck mobile could benefit from a little tlc...
so now i'm one of those people - columbus day sale - ► july 2011 (4) - here is where i beg - take a memo monday: it's been a long time - good riddance
in addition, i can't remember for the life of me where this one vase and this one candlestick came from.
lawyers are learning how to type!...
- we finally got our gsr happy ending - computer not responding?
a book is just a book, not an i... - i've had it with no-show realtors - celebrity sexy white teeth?
however, if my house still hasn't sold by next christmas and i'm still living here, i'm taking a picture before i drag out the first christmas decoration.
i just can't  remember exactly where.
i'm pretty sure that i rearranged my accessories after she took the pictures.
skip to main | skip to sidebar subscribe follow me grab my button  my listings donate my other online content - associated content articles - helium articles - a promise to keep on fanfiction.net - a promise to keep on blogger friday, january 16, 2009 every place has its decoration, and every decoration has its place, just not after christmas
if you're in the market for a fish aquarium - bella's hot spots have grown immune to malaseb - what was i thinking?
now the pots of cacti are lined up next to the bathroom andkitchen sinks because i don't know what to do with them.
i decided over christmas that it would be  more beneficial to me both health and market-wise to replace my few remaining  artificial plants with real ones.
my contacts on rainy days - i feel like the queen of bloat -
thanks you for the smell - up to your ankles in water?
- i hate valentine's day - what a way to start my birthday - why i'm staying up tonight - happy birthday to me - ► january 2011 (12) -
so i'm no longer good enough for blogcatalog - ► may 2011 (2)
the nightly news can be so depressing - r.i.p., george - netflix groupie & proud of it - just to prove i'm not paranoid & cold-hearted...
serving lawrenceville and all of gwinnett county, mr. septic is your lawrenceville septic tank pumping expert.
- sorry for today's display problems - would wooden blinds withstand the attack of the ki... - hi, my name is staci, and i'm a bad twitterer - get struck by an equestrian cupid at a new site fo... - there has to be a low fat lamb & rice food somewhe...
a lot of plants, like the spider one  that i stole from my mom, clean the air.
i've been tempted to go online and look at the pictures  that my real estate agent took of my place when she took over the listing  months ago, but i haven't done it yet.
based in atlanta, the personal injury attorneys andmedical malpractice lawyers at goldstein & hayes are ready to serve you.
if you have been injured in an accident caused by a tractor trailer, we  urge you to contact theatlanta truck accident attorney for a free consultation.
my non-celebrity, unse... -
all those "sell this house" type of  shows swear that real plants show better, and i know that they're better for  the environment.
you would think that returning my living room to its pre-christmas glory would be as simple as replacing the fake plants with the real ones.
sometimes you just need the shirt -
why is it that after christmas, once your christmas tree has been placed beside the road and the decorations have been safely stowed away in you garage, you can never return your living room to the same decorating state that it was in before?
- aunt flo may hold the key to your future health - help for stubby, the lopsided fish - a watch for my future significant senior - a tornado went through my house today - my cocker spaniel now has electrical plug-a-phobia...
i've been tempted to go online and look at the pictures that my real estate agent took of my place when she took over the listing months ago, but i haven't done it yet.
i know that i'll figure out the room's configuration eventually.
might ... - why don't they make sweaters for the non-flat-ches... - take your kid's love for magnext from his bedroom ...
i just can't remember exactly where.
the only thing a plastic plant does is  steal its dust.
search me loading... archive - ► 2012 (2) - ► march 2012 (1) - here we go again...
- puppy bowl sunday - what's stuck in staci's head this week - i finally did it - i miss
view the entire  comment thread.
- how do i avoid another soul sucking job?
- print screen for dummies: taking a screenshot of f... - tired arms and fetch-happy dogs can find common gr... - emily worshipers and mob war fallout: here we go a... - every place has its decoration, and every decorati... - i'm really too old to play with neopets - help for sleep apnea may just be a click or a phon...
this year blog design by check 'em out - testking - braindumps - motorcycle jackets - motocross gear - bike clothing - motorcycle pants - sportbike track gear - bomber jacket - leather jackets for women - mens leather jackets
consequently, i painstakingly dug out the cacti and placed them in several decorative pots wednesday morning.
- i don't eat snails - alert the media!
- yet another test post - why do we still have to wash new clothes separatel... - picky dressers will love these graphic tees - guitar hero: not for the small-handed or the fumbl... - another potential buyer runs away thanks to the de... - finally, i got a good night's sleep - my new year's resolutions
serving alpharetta, johns creek, woodstock, and roswell, contact the gynecologists &midwives at isis ob/gyn for all of your ob/gyn needs.
blog comments powered by disqus newer post  older  post  home friends meet our friends at the law firm of fried rogers goldberg,  llc.
i know why; it was those stupid plants that i brought back with me.
they were formerly in a cactus rock garden, but, seeing as they haven't  grown an inch since i got them, i decided that the rocks were doing more harm  than good water-wise.
i know why;  it was those stupid plants that i brought back with me.
- work boots are better than cowboy boots to move in... - another day, another rejection letter to add the m... - my back porch needs a makeover and a pre-spring cl... - my water company