east texas weather 52° f clear high: 86° f low: 63° f wind: s at 5 mph more weather | radar | 7 day forecast | dayplanner advertisment special features see it.
"some of these plastic trees are beautiful says tree farmer norman simpson.
comments news comments post new comment you have 500 characters left.
the same agency was behind the 'got milk' campaign, paid for with a special tax on the dairy industry.
friday, december 3, 2010 - 5:25pm related obama administration delays proposed christmas tree tax x-mas tree biz doing well need a place to take your christmas tree?
choose a username: spaces are allowed; punctuation is not allowed except for periods, hyphens, and underscores.
but they are shipped in from somewhere else we've been a nation of  consumers long enough lets try to stay producers as much as we can" it's too late to promote the real trees this year, but things might be  bright by this time next year.
city of tyler tree recycling starts day after christmas tyler:
that's how it'll work with the christmas tree growers, who want it emphasized that, unlike the artificial trees, these trees are home grown.
the same agency was behind the 'got milk' campaign, paid for with a  special tax on the dairy industry.
but even though they still far out number sales of the fake ones.
the 12-thousand christmas tree growers in the u-s are being asked to pony  up the money to finance the campaign that will actually be overseen by the us  department of agriculture.
related - obama administration delays proposed christmas tree tax - x-mas tree biz doing well - need a place to take your christmas tree?
sponsored by grant & flanery holiday vacations - san francisco & napa valley getaway ketk hdtv giveaway free cash friday!!!
but they are shipped in from somewhere else we've been a nation of consumers long enough lets try to stay producers as much as we can" it's too late to promote the real trees this year, but things might be bright by this time next year.
- east texas burn bans - sports - hs football - hs football
scoreboard - east texas live - contact east texas
"some of these plastic trees are beautiful says tree farmer norman  simpson.
password: confirm password: provide a password for the new account in both fields.
that's how it'll work with the christmas tree growers, who want it  emphasized that, unlike the artificial trees, these trees are home grown.
the e-mail address is not made public and will only be used if you wish to receive a new password or wish to receive certain news or notifications by e-mail.
special reports ketk's top stories of 2011 special report: avoid a meth house purchase special report: women of caliber pastor disaster: 1500 a month leaving ministry pastor disaster: 18,000 leaving ministry yearly top shot on target special report:
the 12-thousand christmas tree growers in the u-s are being asked to pony up the money to finance the campaign that will actually be overseen by the us department of agriculture.
real tree sales have fallen in recent years, while the artificial trees have been on the upswing.
login or register you must login or register to post this item.
e-mail address: a valid e-mail address.
christian group looking to make a difference in east texas special report: 'breaking tradition' advertisement - privacy policy - terms of service - closed captioning - public file ketk nbc 4300 richmond road tyler, texas 75703 tel: (903) 581-5656 fax: (903) 561-2459 email: info@ketknbc.com - news - weather - local news - national news - world news - neal barton's pov - east texas live - talkback - sports news - community - events - see it.
- city of tyler tree recycling starts day after christmas - tyler: christmas tree recycling starts dec. 26 naturally, at a christmas tree lot, customers have faith in fresh over fake.
password: enter the password that accompanies your username.
real tree sales have fallen in recent years, while the artificial trees  have been on the upswing.
photo galleries - tylerwatch - on tv - ketk news team - tv schedule - nbc full episodes - linked fresh vs. fake tree news nbc news share report a problem - - tweet - - share on facebook - email this page - print this page advertisment friday, december 3, 2010 - 5:25pm
so to keep the cuts in their business from going any deeper, the real tree  industry is on the verge of launching a marketing and promotional campaign.
so to keep the cuts in their business from going any deeper, the real tree industry is on the verge of launching a marketing and promotional campaign.
search - contact us - news team - jobs home connect with us: - ketk on facebook - ketk on twitter - subscribe to our rss feeds - connect with mobile devices - news - local news - tyler news - longview news - jacksonville news - lufkin news - nacogdoches news - kilgore news - henderson news - regional news - national news - world news - decision 2012 - neal barton's pov - hitting the road - talkback with garth maier - mike's mail bag - caught in the web - that's what we love about east texas - news clips - radiation q&a - weather - new interactive radar - radar - seven day forecast - dayplanner - temperatures - watches & warnings - national temperatures
i have a username & password i am a new user and would like to register username: enter your ketk username.
christmas tree recycling starts dec. 26 naturally, at a christmas tree lot, customers have faith in fresh over  fake.
photo galleries - contests - ketk on facebook - ketk on twitter - subscribe to our rss feeds - connect with mobile devices - contact us - news team - jobs copyright © 2012 comcorp of tyler, inc.
all e-mails from the system will be sent to this address.
live - one big happy table - community - contests - upcoming events - east texas holiday help - see it.