twenty-two fields of  green and amazing smells.
if you don’t find what you like, head down the road to the mungle’s other outpost, liberty christmas tree farm, open 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends.
plus santa’s workshop, a holiday train, and  more fun for the whole family).
this giant tree farm has every type of  evergreen you could want, from firs to redwoods to monterey pines.
amtrak getaways day trip: christmas tree farms in half moon bay and beyond by kaitlyn ellison, under adventure, day trips, family, half moon  bay, holiday, north bay, peninsula, sonoma county real or fake?
we’ve been embroiled in this debate for years now.
the farm is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on all weekends in december.
farm: santa’s tree farm |78 pilarcitos creek road | half moon bay | santastreefarm.com the trees: this giant tree farm has every type of evergreen you could want, from firs to redwoods to monterey pines.
they cost between $46 and $69.
the folks who run little hills christmas tree farm and liberty christmas tree farm down the road are committed to sustainability, from pesticide-free planting to recycling and mulching.
there  are also nonprofits and recycle centers that will take them as well.
the farm: rancho siempre verde |2250 cabrillo  highway | pacifica | rsvtrees.com the trees: douglas firs, monterey pines, sequoias,  incense cedars, arizona cypresses or swift silvers are all available for the  cutting.
they cost anywhere from $42 up, and fresh-cut  trees are also available.
the farm is located at 2250 cabrillo  highway (highway 1).
farm: little hills farm |961 chapman lane | petaluma | littlehillschristmastree.com the trees: choose from monterey pines, leyland  cypresses, and sierra redwoods.
cabrillo highway | pacifica | rsvtrees.com the trees: douglas firs, monterey pines, sequoias, incense cedars, arizona cypresses or swift silvers are all available for the cutting.
the trees at the “always green ranch” are coppiced or stump cultured, which means a few of the bottom branches are left when a tree is cut down, allowing another tree to grow from the same stump.
the trees at the “always green  ranch” are coppiced or stump cultured, which means a few of the bottom  branches are left when a tree is cut down, allowing another tree to grow from  the same stump.
why it’s farm-tastic: giant swings,  marshmallows, and ocean-view picnics are only a few of the fun activities on  offer at the farm (read about more of them here).
we’re talking christmas trees, of course, and which is better for the environment.
given the logistics of transporting your tree, we understand that this is a  trip where it’s best to drive.
plus, you can probably knock of some of  your gift list while you’re at it.
given the logistics of transporting your tree, we understand that this is a trip where it’s best to drive.
they’re carbon neutral, they pump  oxygen into the environment, and they won’t end up in the landfill like  your fake tree.
we dare you to get more christmas-ey than  that!
the farm is located at 78 pilarcitos  creek road in half moon bay.
farm: little hills farm |961 chapman lane | petaluma | littlehillschristmastree.com the trees: choose from monterey pines, leyland cypresses, and sierra redwoods.
when to go: little hills christmas tree farm is open  from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. on weekdays and from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends  (cut your own until 5 p.m. all days).
according to some research, artificial would need to be reused for at least 20 years to be greener than buying a fresh-cut tree, while cut trees can be recycled.
the farm offers eight varieties including firs, pines, redwoods, sequoias, and cedars.
here, a few great (and green) tree farms.
when to go: little hills christmas tree farm is open from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. on weekdays and from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends (cut your own until 5 p.m. all days).
part pottery shop, part christmas tree farm, this two-named spot has a zen quality to it.
they cost anywhere from $42 up, and fresh-cut trees are also available.
opt for a pesticide-free tree, and before  you go make sure your car is tuned and your trunk empty, which will reduce the  amount of fuel burned.
optional about | reviews | advertise | privacy and terms ©2012 offmetropolis, llc
but we’ve thrown in a few tips to  offset your footprint while you’re making merry.
they’re carbon neutral, they pump oxygen into the environment, and they won’t end up in the landfill like your fake tree.
christmas trees grown on cut-your-own-tree farms are renewable, biodegradable, and locally sourced.
plus santa’s workshop, a holiday train, and more fun for the whole family).
the farm is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m.  on all weekends in december.
when to go: the farm is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m.
with  passionate arguments on both sides, it looks like the jury is still out on this  problem.
apple cider, candy canes, and smiles all included.
if you  don’t find what you like, head down the road to the mungle’s other  outpost, liberty christmas tree farm, open 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends.
and their farm is about  family tradition, from their gorgeous trees to their barn animal friends).
the farm is located at 78 pilarcitos creek road in half moon bay.
apple cider,  candy canes, and smiles all included.
here, a few great (and  green) tree farms.
but we’ve thrown in a few tips to offset your footprint while you’re making merry.
why it’s farm-tastic: kris and carol mungle, who own and run little hills, are all about family.
a few bottom branches are left when the tree is cut, so that a new tree can grow in its place.
why it’s farm-tastic:
twenty-two fields of green and amazing smells.
the farm is located at 961 chapman  lane in petaluma.
according to some research, artificial would need to be  reused for at least 20 years to be greener than buying a fresh-cut tree, while  cut trees can be recycled.
the farm is open daily, from 9 a.m. until dark.
plus, a visit to one of the many christmas tree farms in half moon baymakes for fun, festive holiday  activity.
we dare you to get more christmas-ey than that!
keep on keepin’ green most cities will collect christmas trees curbside after the holidays.
so grab your coat, boots, and gloves, and get to some holiday  merrymaking!
photos: ottosv and joanna kwong website optionalwebsite
all trees cost $60, and the farm’s expert staff will help you tie and load your tree.
when to go: the farm is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekdays and from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends.
we’re talking christmas trees, of course, and which is better for the  environment.
a few bottom branches are left when the  tree is cut, so that a new tree can grow in its place.
the farm offers eight varieties including  firs, pines, redwoods, sequoias, and cedars.
part pottery shop, part  christmas tree farm, this two-named spot has a zen quality to it.
farm: santa’s tree farm |78 pilarcitos  creek road | half moon bay | santastreefarm.com the trees:
sonoma  highway in santa rosa.
opt for a pesticide-free tree, and before you go make sure your car is tuned and your trunk empty, which will reduce the amount of fuel burned.
more cities coming soon!
giant swings, marshmallows, and ocean-view picnics are only a few of the fun activities on offer at the farm (read about more of them here).
santa visits on weekends only.
the farm is located at 6191
shows, santa, and the  sleighbells gift shop are available on weekends only.
all trees cost $60, and the farm’s expert staff will help you  tie  and load your tree.
plus, a visit to one of the many christmas tree farms in half moon baymakes for fun, festive holiday activity.
with passionate arguments on both sides, it looks like the jury is still out on this problem.
the farm is located at 6191 sonoma highway in santa rosa.
the farm is located at 2250 cabrillo highway (highway 1).
shows, santa, and the sleighbells gift shop are available on weekends only.
is it better to cut down more of our already disappearing forests or to set up ticking time bombs of chemicals in our living rooms?
they  cost between $46 and $69.
so what’s a treehugger to do when it’s time to deck the halls?
farm: valley of the moon/north eagle | 6191
photos: ottosv and joanna kwong leave a reply click here to cancel reply.
farm: valley of the moon/north eagle | 6191  sonoma highway | santa rosa | littlehillschristmastree.com the trees:
prices range from $35 to $48.
and their farm is about family tradition, from their gorgeous trees to their barn animal friends).
we’ve been embroiled in this debate for  years now.
christmas trees grown on cut-your-own-tree farms are renewable,  biodegradable, and locally sourced.
the farm is open daily, from 9 a.m. until  dark.
plus, you can probably knock of some of your gift list while you’re at it.
why it’s farm-tastic: kris and carol mungle,  who own and run little hills, are all about family.
the folks who run little hills christmas  tree farm and liberty christmas tree farm down the road are committed to  sustainability, from pesticide-free planting to recycling and mulching.
the farm is located at 961 chapman lane in petaluma.
is it better to cut down more of our already disappearing forests  or to set up ticking time bombs of chemicals in our living rooms?
on weekdays and from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on weekends.
there are also nonprofits and recycle centers that will take them as well.
check  earth 911 for everything you need to know about “tree-cycling.”
check earth 911 for everything you need to know about “tree-cycling.”
so grab your coat, boots, and gloves, and get to some holiday merrymaking!
sonoma highway | santa rosa | littlehillschristmastree.com the trees:
the farm: rancho siempre verde |2250