the branches and trees can be ground into mulch.
and i have to admit, the latest generation of  “fake” trees don’t look that fake.
if you touch  the tree, was your hands thoroughly before touching your face or handling food.
most real tree fires are not from electrical overloads but because the tree didnt get enough water and the heat from the lights cause it to catch fire.
blue- green | 12/08/11 | 23:08 pm
happy holidays everyone!
we got ours at yuletideexpressions.com definitely more expensive than pvc, but totally worth it.
about us | contact us | rss | terms | privacy | copyright and removal | advertise with us © 2012 ion publications llc
clearly you can save money by purchasing a single artificial tree.
cnn reported on it about two years ago.
anonymous (not verified) | 12/11/11 | 23:31 pm i think the author of this article did a great job highlighting the important points for both.
you can't outperform nature.
due to their hardiness, christmas trees can be planted on barren  slopes where few other plants successfully grow, as well as fill in areas under  power lines.
so  fortunately the tree population is not reduced due to christmas tree farming;  but instead is maintained, protected, and in many instances increased.
go green get a natural holyday tree best regards and happy holidays from mexico city erik richter (not verified) | 12/04/09 | 15:36 pm i think this article was good about discussing both sides of the debate.
sorry to say in our small town you can't get any really nice trees and they cost a fortune.
what they do is deliver your potted tree, before the holidays, and pick it up after new years, and re=plant them at their farm.
unfortunately, because i'm currently living in uruguay with my family, getting a real tree isn't an option.
make a big deal of  the event, possibly stopping for hot chocolate or cider somewhere on the way  home.
bring it in for the holidays, keep it watered and then put it back out on the deck after the new year - and it smelled nice too!
but if you buy ten real trees in ten years as opposed to only one artificial tree in the same period, do the benefits of the real trees still outweigh the negatives of the fake ones?
if you  want your real tree to meet your eye level or above, be prepared to pay in the  neighborhood of $100 before you can lash the tree to your roof and drive it  home.
if disposed in a  landfill, artificial trees will never breakdown but rather permanently remain  in landfills.
- science 2.0 cool links - science 2.0 version 3 product planning - mark changizi on scriptphd
alex (not verified) | 11/25/09 | 15:45 pm do a simple youtube search for this and you will see that some artificial trees do contain lead.
in texas this is a little harder to do.
investigating the many different types of autism autism basic science and intervention through art all articles about kimberly i'm a mother of three, with an aeronautical engineering degree.
and you get a real editor toolbar to use instead of this html thing that wards off spam bots.
also the article mentions that the 'an acre of douglas fir trees can absorb 11,308.7 lbs of carbon dioxide' but fails to take into account that this fact is worthless, you need to ask the question what happens after your finished with the tree, the answer is that it breaks down and release the carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere.
a lot of suppositions.
a fake tree is nice price for multiple uses, but you also have to pay to store it.
also, if a fire does start and gets going.
it has become quite a tradition, and i don't really think we could go back to using a regular one, especially after reading this article.
blue- green | 12/08/11 | 23:17 pm
bridget r (not verified) | 12/01/09 | 14:27 pm
anonymous (not verified) | 12/17/09 | 11:09 am "each year, an acre of douglas fir trees can absorb 11,308.7 lbs of carbon dioxide.
if disposed in a landfill, artificial trees will never breakdown but rather permanently remain in landfills.
it is not just in the light fuses it is in the hunter green paint that is on the lights.
but there is nothing like a real tree.
i like how they were perfectly shaped triangles, in every color of the rainbow.
buying a real tree here is clearly not a good choice.
the children’s  health environmental coalition warns fake trees "may shed lead-laced dust,  which may cover branches or shower gifts and the floor below the tree.
anonymous (not verified) | 12/08/09 | 12:29 pm i prefer artificial because you don't have to water it or sweep up pine needles.
does anyone have any suggestions for types of indoor, potted trees that don't outgrow their pot too much, and that i can keep indoors all year?
i really like the potted idea, but like krissy i have no place to put it after the holidays.
an artificial tree may be used for 5, 10, or 15 years… but eventually it will be disposed of it in favor of something new.
the second answer, thanks to the intrinsic inaccuracy which it contains, is -to me-
but i still believe that even with the greatest of technologies, we would have a hard time creating something that is going to be more recycleable and resuable than an actual tree.
tannenbaum: (two lines to follow in any european language most welcome, provided they rhyme.)
go to a local tree farm or lot, and have a great time picking out the family christmas tree.
more - how to be creative - i think, therefore i choke - giant rats as mini livestock?
and why amish kids have less asthma - preventing wind-turbine related vulture deaths - "many sincere thanks for your response, hank, the issue is that his response is not an editorial..." - "i don't understand the issue.
androecium (not verified) | 12/13/09 | 12:34 pm i disagree with this article.
well  then… that puts a bit of a damper on the christmas cheer.
artificial trees are manufactured using a polyvinyl chloride (or  pvc), which is a petroleum-derived plastic.
hi there i think kim did a great job highlighting the important points for both ideas, big tumb up for the article and for her.
i think we usually had fake trees but now that i found out about the lead, we went with a real one this year.
all comments replies to my comment captcha if you register, you will never be bothered to prove you are human again.
robin (not verified) | 12/12/09 | 21:04 pm why does anyone have to have a tree in their house?
also, when it comes time for delivering  those trees to christmas tree lots, they must be transported by truck to the  local communities.
each year, an acre of douglas fir trees can absorb 11,308.7 lbs of carbon dioxide.
pvc are cheap to manufacture.
krissy (not verified) | 11/22/09 | 23:39 pm i work in a store that sells artificial trees and the author of this article does not have his facts straight.
they are 100% recyclable, our is very easy to assemble and last forever!
right down to the fireplace.
just like everything, it's just best to have all the information - and then make an informed decision.
i imagine there are some insect transfer issues, like boats and public access and zebra mussels.
this is another reason i don't for see a change in that way.
she's older and wiser.
do you know how much energy it takes to make aluminum?
well then… that puts a bit of a damper on the christmas cheer.
also,most christmas trees are harvested after 8-12 years and carbon sequestering occurs more rapidly in younger trees.
did you know they still make aluminum christmas trees?
— robert h. olley quondam physics department university of reading england
and i live alone (aqnd halfway around the world, so ashing to9 releatives' isn't a eavery-year sort of option).
not to mention tailings which are marginally economical but mostly just a huge waste product.
that should also be accounted for in the cost of a fake tree.
there is no shortage, yet.
natalie (not verified) | 12/14/09 | 14:10 pm thank you soo much my grade in enviornmental science just went up!!!
i'll be sharing your article with friends.
so, if we get a tree, it'll have to be an artificial one.
here is what i wrote there: what i am trying to explain is that the answer to the question, for an experimental physicist, is not "to see 100 z decays to dimuon pairs we need to acquire an integrated luminosity of l = 134/nb", but rather "to see 100 z decays to dimuon pairs we need to acquire an integrated luminosity ofabout 130 inverse nanobarns".
there were instances of tress containing lead some years ago and whilst these have been phased out, many people still have old trees that may have been connected to this scare.
it's just the norm to spray.
real or fake, i would toss an ant covered tree too.
anonymous (not verified) | 08/26/08 | 09:53 am are those like the pink ones that they show at the tree lot in "a charlie brown christmas?"
but in this age when we are all asked to be aware of the impact  we are having on the environment, is the right choice to purchase an artificial  tree and use it year after year, or go in search of the perfect living tree to  be the centerpiece of our holiday decorating?
hi - i just wanted you to know that i stumbled this and also mentioned this post on my blog: http://www.ecomeg.com/2009/12/real-versus-artificial-christmas-trees.html best regards, ecomeg ecomeg (not verified) | 12/03/09 | 12:39 pm
creating a mono-culture of balsan fir trees and inhibiting secondary succession isn't environmental friendly at all.
i'm glad i went with a real one except i don't know if i'm allergic or not.
this way your family christmas tree can enjoy a second life... as mulch to help nurture and protect the next generation of trees.
furthermore, pvc production results  in the unhealthy emission of a number of carcinogens, such as dioxin, ethylene  dichloride and vinyl chloride.
you went all this time without being around one ever before?
once your tree is home, keep it well watered… and respect the “three strand” limit on joining strings of lights together.
this will help keep some of these artificial tress out of the landfills and will lift some spirits during a holiday season that can be depressing for some.
the article (which was written by a she, alex) provides both sides of the debate, but some commenters' responses imply she came down on one side or the other.
also, china doesn't not have very high environmental standards.
amy, i think this is a fantastic idea!
jenny (not verified) | 12/01/09 | 09:01 am i agree with jenny and krissy.
homepage: notify me when new comments are posted - allowed html tags:                                      - web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.
if disposed of by incineration, the pvc in artificial trees will  emit into the atmosphere dioxins and other carcinogens into the air.
i actually like both, as when i was a ki9d we had natural some years and artificial ones other years.
(most christmas tree fires are the result of overloaded electrical circuits, not dry trees.)
of those two options, the cut tree definitely seems to have a much lower environmental impact.
we're all in this together after all.
usually because storage costs are variable, but the cost is there even if we don't think about it.
there are still proponents for both sides of the christmas tree debate.
so people really do have to check for warning labels on the back of packages before they buy.
as far as my point is i will always prefer artificial christmas tree !
vacuuming could spread lead dust through the  air in tiny particles, creating an inhalation danger.
view kimberly's profile kimberly crandell christmas trees  are appearing in homes throughout the country and families prepare for the  holiday season.
i'd like to buy a potted tree, but i live in an apartment and have no place to plant it after the holidays.
anonymous (not verified) | 12/03/11 | 18:52 pm for hank's bemusement, that's my 400 horsepower snowmobile (30 minutes directly from my back door) ...
- do not vacuum dust from under the tree, especially with a vacuum  that does not have a hepa filter.
"i always have preferred artificial christmas trees, but after reading this, i'm extra glad that our family always followed this tradition instead of using real trees.
telling your kids not to touch the tree or to wash up after being near it is just absurd.
check the national christmas tree association's website for this too.
hank campbell | 12/08/07 | 15:20 pm perhaps, but with more than a billion people worldwide harvesting trees for one day of the year.....and the fact that the article appears to forget that nutrient cycles don't work like watering a plant i.e. it takes a fair amount of time to occur.
org for ocean news - being human conference march 24th
it is true that these artifical trees would be detrimental to the environment because it isn't biodegradable but perhaps a better way around this problem would be for compaines to start creating their trees with no pvc and use other more organic ways of making christmas trees.
the raw material for fake christmas trees is both non-renewable and polluting.
do not allow them to touch the tree.
i love of course a real christmas tree.
no pvcs and 100% natural, if you ask me.
it just not in all of them.
this way your family christmas tree can enjoy a  second life... as mulch to help nurture and protect the next generation of  trees.
go outside and enjoy the trees where they belong.
i tested positive to many grass types in my allergy test as well as cats, dogs, seasonal, etc.
and when the holiday season is over, make sure your tree is disposed of  properly at a recycling center.
that’s right, the first artificial tree was pretty much a  really tall, green, toilet brush.
artificial trees do offer a long-term solution for your  christmas tree decorating needs.
doug (not verified) | 03/07/12 | 06:03 am add a comment your name: e-mail: the content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly.
seriously, the article doesn't even go into the fake snow, lights 'n tinsel.
although it's been a while since i've done any aircraft...
if the only way you can have a real tree each year is to buy one that trucked from 1000 miles away, is that better than going to buy an artificial tree that you plan to use over and over for 15 years and then dispose of (or donate) responsibly?
the answer may surprise  you.
but today, until you get close, you’d be hard pressed to distinguish the artificial trees from the real thing… except of course for the missing fresh pine smell.
the mulch provides a protective  barrier for the roots of other plants and vegetation while preventing weeds  from growing.
additionally, in order to make the pvc needles on artificial trees more malleable, the manufacturers use lead and other additives that have been linked to liver, kidney, neurological, and reproductive system damage in lab studies on animals.
what's more organic than growing a renewable tree in the ground on farms?
why compromise or make excuses?
artificial trees are manufactured using a polyvinyl chloride (or pvc), which is a petroleum-derived plastic.
don't fix that which is not broken.
just a dumb tradition.
androecium (not verified) | 12/13/09 | 12:50 pm i think a lot of people who read this article have not truly 'read' it.
so i don't see china which produces 85% of our artificial christmas trees switching over to a more environmentally friendly product when they can manufacture each tree for about 10 dollars.
and not that we’ve recently had any problems with excess lead content in items imported from china (ahem), but approximately 85% of the artificial trees imported by the united states come from china.
it has made a huge difference in our health!
though this is a small contribution to our environment, i think every little bit will help- whether you stop buying artificial or donate your existing one to a good cause.
my husband once sprayed insecticide for a farm.
home > earth sciences > environment > the science of motherhood the great debate: real vs.
and not that we’ve recently had any problems with excess lead  content in items imported from china (ahem), but approximately 85% of the  artificial trees imported by the united states come from china.
- investigating the many different types of autism - autism basic science and intervention through art about kimberly i'm a mother of three, with an aeronautical engineering degree.
and in terms of the transportation costs and impact, trees must be grown  fairly locally in order to make it into homes while still fresh.
mekhong kurt (not verified) | 06/22/09 | 15:32 pm some of the comments above seem to indicate that the writers didn't get the gist of the article.
they’ve come a long  way from the first artificial trees that were actually manufactured by a toilet  brush company.
what's happening - top articles - new comments - events - unscientific america -- denying science at our peril - japanese nuclear reactor future: another high tech sarcophagus?
and i'd rather not buy an artificial tree after reading the above article.
in full site physical sciences earth sciences life sciences medicine social sciences culture newsletter - home - physical sciences - physics - space - chemistry - applied physics - aerospace - optics - earth sciences - environment - energy - atmospheric - paleontology - geology - oceanography - life sciences - genetics & molecular biology - evolution - microbiology - ecology & zoology - immunology - neuroscience - medicine - cancer research - public health - pharmacology - clinical research - aging - vision - social sciences - anthropology - archaeology - psychology - science education & policy - science history - philosophy & ethics - culture - technology - mathematics - science & society - sports science - random thoughts - humor - video - contributors subscribe to the newsletter [x] stay in touch with the scientific world!
so, if it is so safe as some of you say, look up some of the chemicals that are used on christmas tree farms.
i know a tree farmer less than five miles from my home that logged out a beautiful forest just to plant christmas trees.
- do not vacuum dust from under the tree, especially with a vacuum that does not have a hepa filter.
the raw material for fake christmas  trees is both non-renewable and polluting.
vacuuming could spread lead dust through the air in tiny particles, creating an inhalation danger.
so some  transporting and trucking is part of the supply line… but most likely is  a much shorter trip and burns much less fuel than importing artificial trees  from china.
androecium (not verified) | 12/13/09 | 12:42 pm our family has always used artificial christmas trees.
it’s really good to know about artificial christmas trees sarah clark (not verified) | 12/12/09 | 13:37 pm life cycle assessment on artificial and natural christmas trees at: http://www.ellipsos.ca/modules/news/article.php?storyid=9&lang=english results summary: ''interestingly, to compensate for the impacts of a christmas tree, be it natural or artificial, one can offset the carbon emissions by carpooling or biking to work only one to three weeks per year, according to ellipsos.
not like nature planned.
on the other hand, when the holidays are over a real tree can be recycled.
not sure if i tested for pine.
in our area, it isn’t even necessary to transport your tree to a recycling center.
but, i'll definitely be checking the label to see if it was made in china since so many products here are.
sticker shock has become part of the annual trek out to find the family christmas tree at a local tree lot.
you’ve got to love those boy scouts!
that would be my ultimate christmas.
good info about the toxicity of some artificial trees, but this is a definite case for lifecycle assesment (lca).
nina (not verified) | 12/08/09 | 14:10 pm great article.
one of these days i would like go and cut one down and bring it home.
due to their hardiness, christmas trees can be planted on barren slopes where few other plants successfully grow, as well as fill in areas under power lines.
i will search for a cause like this in my community and if it does not exist yet, i suppose i will work towards getting one started.
check the cnn report, it will surprise you.
but there are some components of the christmas tree industry that aren’t quite as green.
but short of forgoing a tree  altogether, the real trees are the best option when considered from an  environmental perspective.
in the sentence "about 130" we make it clear that we are not serious about the last digit, and so we providemore important and accurate information than "=134"!
and  frequently, christmas tree farms are placed in areas that would otherwise be  unusable.
and in terms of the transportation costs and impact, trees must be grown fairly locally in order to make it into homes while still fresh.
the boy scouts come by each neighborhood during the two  weekends following christmas, and for a small donation will pick up any trees  left by the curbside and deliver them to a nearby recycling center.
though we miss the tradition of going to the local farm and cutting down our own tree, we're much healthier and happier with our good ole artificial one!
chrystal (not verified) | 12/11/09 | 16:31 pm
t. tommaso dorigo | 01/03/10 | 11:55 am why even have a tree at all?
there are still proponents  for both sides of the christmas tree debate.
my friend is allergic to pine trees so she has a four foot fake tree that she has had for many years.
this article was meant to compare the two options that most people currently consider around the holidays... an artificial tree or a cut real tree.
but i have a family member allergic so i see both sides its christmas dont argue enjoy merry christmas to all and thank god we have the money to buy a tree and presents to put under it and family to share it with real or fake put some ornaments on it and smile anonymous (not verified) | 11/29/11 | 20:48 pm
in  addition to watering, some christmas tree farms use pesticides and chemicals  for pest control and to speed growth.
the  branches and trees can be ground into mulch.
i love the smell of real pine so i buy fresh garland for my mantle and a fresh wreath or two to put around my house.
with that said, after reading this article i have come up with a brainstorm that i will definitely explore: an "artificial tree recycle drive".
some lightbulbs (not just christmas lights, all lights in general) contain a small amount of lead in the fuse, this is the lead that caused the myth to arise.
i didn't realize the latter are made with such materials, or i wouldn't have boughtthe small artificial tree i did a few years ago -- i bought it for then-neighbors' benefit, as they really likie chrismas
if you touch the tree, was your hands thoroughly before touching your face or handling food.
sometimes we forget the other branch of conserving resources - there is recycling, but there is also reusing.
wow, and i was actually thinking about getting a fake tree.
kimberly crandell | 08/28/08 | 16:51 pm how can you say that aluminum trees are planet safe?
in order to promote christmas trees?
richard maas, the director of the environmental studies program at the  university of north carolina-asheville, offers some tips for people who suspect  that their artificial tree may contain lead: - keep children away  from the tree.
this small amount of lead is sealed inside the fuse and cannot hurt anyone.
but it is  important to look at the environmental difference between the two options.
but i grew up with real trees and there's something about trekking out to a local tree farm, playing in the snow, picking out a tree to cut down, and having the whole house smell like christmas.
but we have a very nice artificial
related articles on science 2.0 - christmas in space and san francisco -
remember this, because it is an important lesson: the uncertainty is more important than the measurement.
to get your own column!
regardless of the chosen type of tree, the impacts on the environment are negligible if compared to other activities...''
the artificial tree will flame up just like the real trees.
the one we have now is three peices and the branchs fold out for display and up for storage - it also has 1000 led lights on it.
brandie king (not verified) | 10/20/08 | 14:08 pm
when the time comes for harvesting the trees, each tree that is cut down must be replaced.
unfortunately artificial trees are not biodegradable and cannot be recycled, so their disposal has a significant impact to the environment.
the national christmas tree association's website also has some more information on artificial trees as well as real trees.
the best tree is a potted tree that is alive but can be used for several years.
you can also look on the national christmas tree association's website to find out about information about lead being in artificial trees.
becky jungbauer | 12/01/09 | 09:41 am no one mentioned the fact that those who have allergies cannot have a real tree.
also the monoculture aspect of the whole thing troubles me...at any moment some host specific beetle or virus could destroy the entire thing and hence a whole bunch of money goes down the drain.
but it is important to look at the environmental difference between the two options.
the mulch provides a protective barrier for the roots of other plants and vegetation while preventing weeds from growing.
the boy scouts come by each neighborhood during the two weekends following christmas, and for a small donation will pick up any trees left by the curbside and deliver them to a nearby recycling center.
and frequently, christmas tree farms are placed in areas that would otherwise be unusable.
as an interior designer, i have been trying to figure out a charity that i can participate in to give back to the community, while using my talents.
he had to be covered head to toe with vinyl suit and wear a mask.
i grew up with cut trees and still miss them some time, but we are lucky enough to have them in our yard and decorate the outdoor trees and keep the inside one aluminum.
so anyone thinking this article is conclusive is mistaken.
but there are some components of the  christmas tree industry that aren’t quite as green.
kimberly crandell | 12/08/07 | 15:48 pm
if alex takes a second look at the article it should be apparent that the tips on washing hands etc are for those who own a tree they suspect contains lead, it was not an all-encompassing piece of advice.
so some transporting and trucking is part of the supply line… but most likely is a much shorter trip and burns much less fuel than importing artificial trees from china.
know science and want to write?
i don't think you really understood what the article states.
the children’s health environmental coalition warns fake trees "may shed lead-laced dust, which may cover branches or shower gifts and the floor below the tree.
" anonymous (not verified) | 12/20/10 | 23:28 pm to the tune of "ode to joy" (soon to be imposed as european union anthem, if the sprouts in brussels have their way): plastic trees don't shed their needles, wie ein echter
for example this article fails to take into account the water consumed in the growth of these 'real' trees, water consumption is massive part of the environmental problems facing the earth today, its not just about gases.
once your tree is home, keep it well watered… and respect the  “three strand” limit on joining strings of lights together.
robert h olley | 10/23/08 | 16:48 pm good article.
well, we know what they are made of… an  all natural, all renewable source.
go to a local tree farm or lot,  and have a great time picking out the family christmas tree.
while chopping down a living tree may see like the most un-environment  friendly thing you can do, in this situation it actually appears to be the  “greener” choice.
and i have to admit, the latest generation of “fake” trees don’t look that fake.
i suspect they were written by people with an ulterior motive...
so if they look the same, cost less, can be used year after  year, and can prevent living trees from being chopped down… should we  all be lining up to purchase an artificial tree this year?
and of course the christmas tree grower's associations are gonna make it look all "green".
so what about real christmas trees?
but i do agree that there be other options out there.
i thought that this article did an amazing job with outlining both points of the argument and then stating which choice seemed to have the smallest amount of environmental impact.
michelle (not verified) | 12/19/10 | 23:04 pm love this source!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
because it’s not so much about how many uses you can get from your tree… as it is about what the tree is made of, and what it does to the environment when it is created and when you dispose of it.
we really enjoy ours - its fun, unique and planet safe.
the biggest floating christmas tree in the world, is inaugurated in rio de janeiro - save your money - flame retardants on fresh cut christmas trees don't help comments i disagree with this article.
or stringing up lights on a tree already in your front yard as the family "christmas tree", while piling presents beneath a display of decorated evergreen boughs which could "stand-in" for an indoor tree... would be another way to celebrate with the look and smell of a real tree (without any trees actually being harmed!)
and how i almost got married - a tax on christmas trees
thanks, mr.  president christmas tree of bradesco seguros e previdência , the biggest  floating christmas tree in the world, is inaugurated in rio de janeiro save your money - flame retardants on fresh cut christmas trees don't help
andrew david | 12/08/07 | 14:47 pm perhaps a better way around this problem would be for compaines to start creating their trees with no pvc and use other more organic ways of making christmas trees.
if you want your real tree to meet your eye level or above, be prepared to pay in the neighborhood of $100 before you can lash the tree to your roof and drive it home.
and there is the added bonus of supporting a local businesses as opposed to buying a foreign import.
this is something i struggle with each year because i want to be environmentally friendly
anonymous (not verified) | 12/07/09 | 18:52 pm
if your tree is coming from half way across the world, there is no way that it is more environmentally friendly as a tree cut down at a local tree farm.
" some artificial trees actually come with warning labels due to their lead  content.
autism: does increased parental age mean increased risk?
i think that offering a service for people to donate their artificial trees to is a fantastic brainstorm.
furthermore, pvc production results in the unhealthy emission of a number of carcinogens, such as dioxin, ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride.
thanks for the article!
kimberly crandell | 12/07/09 | 19:09 pm interesting...this is far from scientific.
anonymous (not verified) | 11/24/10 | 19:14 pm you neglected to factor in two other points albeit minor ones: one point for artificial trees: allergies.
(not saying that is what yours looks like, i just remember lucy and her friends asking charlie brown to bring back an aluminum tree)
so most tree farms plant 1 to 3 new trees for every one that is cut, in order to to maintain a constant supply.
tiffany (not verified) | 12/16/09 | 17:01 pm if your local climate allows, consider a small to medium, potted rosemary tree.
i think it's based on the needs and situations of each individual.
they’ve come a long way from the first artificial trees that were actually manufactured by a toilet brush company.
that’s right, the first artificial tree was pretty much a really tall, green, toilet brush.
amy amy (not verified) | 12/07/09 | 13:14 pm
related articles on science 2.0 christmas in space and san francisco -
actually more accurate!!!
most trees are harvested after 8-12 years, and require maintenance over that period.
or are..." - "thor, oriention to external objects is not dependent on neurons: bacteria do it, seeking energy..." - "just had a thought:given the geographical location of germany, wasn’t pope benedict xvi previously..." - "thanks for an interesting article!from the outside (norway) this left-right divide seems artificial..." - moving targets: darpa space capture satellite challenge opens - experimental biology 2012 meetings
some years when we just didn't have the means to get a real tree we still had that little tree.
aluminum manufacturing gives off 5.5 tons of carbon dioxide and 3,300 tons of perfluorocarbons per year.
amy (not verified) | 12/14/09 | 01:13 am if you choose to use an artificial christmas tree from the standpoint of it being more environmentally friendly, i think that you should really investigate where your artificial tree is coming from, and consider the environmental impact of transporting you artificial tree to your local store.
in the past, and we have friends who grow christmas trees.
anonymous (not verified) | 12/04/09 | 12:03 pm
and this article was never meant to be the final word on which was the ultimate "best" choice.
andrew david | 12/08/07 | 18:55 pm
i personally have an artificial tree for the purpose of easy decorating, not having to spend money each year on a new tree and having a consistent shape and density with which to work with.
alex (not verified) | 12/09/11 | 21:37 pm this article appears to have been prepared with a research bias, where more research was conducted into the effects of fake trees on the environment without researching the effects of real trees on the environment.
your primary concern seems not to be with the environmental impact on but is more geared towards economical aspects as stated in your last statement.
so, half the decorating is done!
while chopping down a living tree may see like the most un-environment friendly thing you can do, in this situation it actually appears to be the “greener” choice.
economically, artificial trees can also be easier on your wallet.
san francisco more - global warming threat to coral reefs: can some species adapt?
make a big deal of the event, possibly stopping for hot chocolate or cider somewhere on the way home.
for the cost of a single large live tree, you can purchase an artificial tree that looks the same but will last for several holiday seasons.
in the conclusion the author wrote, "there are still proponents for both sides of the christmas tree debate.
science 2.0 links take a look at the best of science 2.0 pages and web applications from around the internet!
they aren't farmed here like in the states.
any tree farms here must be unsustainable, given that the natural climate is dry, dry, dry.
so fortunately the tree population is not reduced due to christmas tree farming; but instead is maintained, protected, and in many instances increased.
and there is the added bonus of supporting a local businesses as  opposed to buying a foreign import.
in our area, it isn’t even necessary to transport your tree to  a recycling center.
view kimberly's profile kimberly crandell christmas trees are appearing in homes throughout the country and families prepare for the holiday season.
it gave both sides of the debate very nicely - it is up to the reader to make a decision from the information.
and andrea kuszewski at the h+ summit - kindle ad space - want to go ad free?
as to viruses and beetles wiping out populations, that happens all the time.
there are many homeless shelters, soup kitchens, halfway houses, public health centers and less fortunate people who would be blessed by having a christmas tree each year, lit with led christmas lights of course- using 90% less energy and lasting alot longer.
and we alternate every so often.
those who have got all uppity should probably go back through and re-read it...
most trees are  harvested after 8-12 years, and require maintenance over that period.
" when i see an estimate expressed with 6 significant figures, i immediately question all measurements in the same work.
though my family strives to be as environmentally conscious as possible, we purchased an artificial tree a number of years back after several holidays spent with illness and asthma issues.
on christmas morning they discovered ants liked popcorn.
so most tree farms plant 1 to 3 new trees  for every one that is cut, in order to to maintain a constant supply.
“knowing this, the most ecological choice between the natural and the artificial christmas tree becomes anecdotal.
immerse yourself in the real deal.
be given the result of a measurement without its uncertainty, or be told the uncertainty of the measurement without the value of the measurement itself, you should choose the second!
the complete study, conducted by pe international, can be found atwww.christmastreeassociation.org.
cheers, let me stress it again (and i will make it a "say of the week" one day): given a chance to either
just a lot of allergies.
sticker shock has become part of the  annual trek out to find the family christmas tree at a local tree lot.
anonymous (not verified) | 11/07/11 | 14:14 pm
artificial christmas trees
for the 99%, it's pretty much all virtual anyways ...
the good news is, while those trees are growing they help to sequester the carbon dioxide that is produced by modern industries.
richard maas, the director of the environmental studies program at the university of north carolina-asheville, offers some tips for people who suspect that their artificial tree may contain lead: - keep children away from the tree.
in addition to watering, some christmas tree farms use pesticides and chemicals for pest control and to speed growth.
price just goes up for that year.
and when the holiday season is over, make sure your tree is disposed of properly at a recycling center.
as for potted trees, there are a couple of young men in brittish columbia who baought a tree farm, and will rent you a potted tree for the holidays.
so if they look the same, cost less, can be used year after year, and can prevent living trees from being chopped down… should we all be lining up to purchase an artificial tree this year?
we were able to use ours in vancouver quite nicely.
each year,  an acre of douglas fir trees can absorb 11,308.7 lbs of carbon dioxide.
the answer may surprise you.
also, when it comes time for delivering those trees to christmas tree lots, they must be transported by truck to the local communities.
hank campbell | 12/09/11 | 21:32 pm
although it's been a while since i've done any aircraft ...
rik smoody (not verified) | 12/24/09 | 13:29 pm
i love real tree smell
i did invest in an air-tight container to keep dust and mold out, though.
when the time comes for harvesting the trees, each tree  that is cut down must be replaced.
if you want to be environmentally responsible, just don't do it.
neither for or against: my husband has a 2 foot tree (more like your toilet brush variety) that we include as part of our regular decorating that he has had since age 16.
you shouldn't rik, the measurement is perfectly valid, since it does not carry a error estimate ;-)
storage costs are often neglected when factoring the price of an object.
when he took the tree out to the dumpster he immediately dove into the apartment complex's pool to wash the ants off.
for the cost of a single  large live tree, you can purchase an artificial tree that looks the same but  will last for several holiday seasons.
they always use insecticides, chemical fertilizers, and roundup.
my question is, what should i do when i live in southern california?
but today, until you get close, you’d  be hard pressed to distinguish the artificial trees from the real thing…  except of course for the missing fresh pine smell.
so  what about real christmas trees?
i do agree it would be great if they would find a way to create the artificial trees without the use of pvc and lead.
" some artificial trees actually come with warning labels due to their lead content.
but short of forgoing a tree altogether, the real trees are the best option when considered from an environmental perspective.
unfortunately  artificial trees are not biodegradable and cannot be recycled, so their  disposal has a significant impact to the environment.
no, actually i agree perfectly with you, and i discussed this in arecent post.
- strengthening the bond between policy and science - new study shows that in us 'hot spots,' hiv infection among african-american women is 5-times higher than national estimate - nasa's rxte captures thermonuclear behavior of unique neutron star - nasa sees cyclone irina weaker in mozambique channel books by writers here current topic: gmo foods - hot topics - links - science 2.0 news the best writers in science tackle science's hottest topics.
there is always a waste product when it comes to manufacturing something.
(most  christmas tree fires are the result of overloaded electrical circuits, not dry  trees.)
thanks, mr. president - christmas tree of bradesco seguros e previdência ,
additionally, in order to make the pvc  needles on artificial trees more malleable, the manufacturers use lead and  other additives that have been linked to liver, kidney, neurological, and  reproductive system damage in lab studies on animals.
artificial trees do offer a long-term solution for your christmas tree decorating needs.
it's a special treat to have a real tree.
- why i'm not an organ donor - turn off your electronic device who's online?
if disposed of by incineration, the pvc in artificial trees will emit into the atmosphere dioxins and other carcinogens into the air.
an artificial tree may be used for 5, 10, or 15 years… but  eventually it will be disposed of it in favor of something new.
in april - 'storytelling science' - oxford science festival march 11th, 2012 - mission-blue.
this is the only farm like this that i've heard of, but i'm sure in the years to come it will be sure to grow, and maybe you can start this up in your community.
i grew up with a real christmas tree every year and having an artificial one has just never felt right.
anonymous (not verified) | 12/09/11 | 21:21 pm i've actually never heard of anyone being allergic to a christmas tree.
by kimberly crandell | december 7th 2007 05:46 pm | 47 comments | print | e-mail | track comments tweet the science of motherhood more articles all articles - autism: does increased parental age mean increased risk?
and how i almost got married a tax on christmas trees
hi , thanks for writing such an interesting article.
can you donate potted trees to local parks?
one point against: storage cost.
but if you buy ten real trees in  ten years as opposed to only one artificial tree in the same period, do the  benefits of the real trees still outweigh the negatives of the fake ones?
the good news is, while those trees are growing they help to  sequester the carbon dioxide that is produced by modern industries.
ø ø ø faq | register now | sign
- basic intelligence and the amazing ability of neurons - a definitive fmri test for narcissism - san jose earthquakes and aurasma kick off first u.s. augmented reality sports promotion - hygiene hypothesis
, whether or not they actually "see" the insect.
first of all farmland and slopes do in fact support its own assemblage of shrubs and plants which in turn support organisms.
artifical trees do not contain lead, this is a myth.
are they online and so size of the article is irrelevant?
even if it is flame retardant.
we pull it out to decorate before we get our "official" christmas tree.
i would agree with it.
but in this age when we are all asked to be aware of the impact we are having on the environment, is the right choice to purchase an artificial tree and use it year after year, or go in search of the perfect living tree to be the centerpiece of our holiday decorating?
economically,  artificial trees can also be easier on your wallet.
maybe i can get aqn aluminum tree next time.
because it’s not so much about how many  uses you can get from your tree… as it is about what the tree is made  of, and what it does to the environment when it is created and when you dispose  of it.
a just released study, the first iso-compliant peer reviewed study of its kind comparing the environmental impact of the most common real christmas tree to the most common artificial tree found that either tree has a negligible impact on the environment.
i'm sure that there are many that go without a tree that would be happy to have an artificial tree that another household does not need/want anymore.
the mulch then decomposes, providing the nutrients plants need.
you really can't tell which is environmentally preferable without a thorough and scientific lifecycle analysis.
buying a potted tree that can be planted in your yard after the holidays would be a fantastic alternative, assuming you live in an environment that will support such a tree year-round.
funny anecdote: i helped my brother make a popcorn string for his first christmas tree with his wife.
my husband and i have both worked on christmas tree farms in southwest va.
well, we know what they are made of… an all natural, all renewable source.