"there is natural reseeding of trees in forests and permits are given out to cut down christmas trees in areas that need to be thinned."
$6m in nsf grants a coup for graduate training wsu’s recent receipt of two grants has “lifted our graduate and  research programs … to a new level,’’ according to candis  claiborn, dean of the college of engineering and architecture.
it's that time of year again, the stores are flooded with holiday decorations, the street corners are lined with christmas trees for sale and many people are torn with the decision to decorate a real or fake tree this year.
in plants, sa acts as a signal molecule that kicks off a series of reactions that help defend against external threats.
by sarah ducharme and maria ortega, wsu news service, 509-335-7209, mortega@wsu.edu, wsu news service pullman, wash. -
nationally, one million acres of land is used for christmas tree harvest.
in order to keep your cut christmas trees fresh and have the longest needle retention possible, chastagner said the "single most important thing to do is to re-cut the base of the tree and display in a water tree stand that holds one gallon of water per one inch of stem diameter."
scientists at wsus tree fruit research and extension center in wenatchee are working to learn more about these beneficial bugs in an effort to better leverage them in pest control.
" chastagner's christmas tree research focuses on disease problems that  affect the production of high quality christmas trees and how to manage them,  as well as post harvest quality.
if properly taken care of, a douglas fir can live and retain its needles  three weeks and noble fir can last for four to six weeks.
wsu's vanreken earns doe early career research grant pullman, wash. -- timothy vanreken, washington state university professor  in the department of civil & environmental engineering, has been selected  to receive funding under the american recovery and reinvestment act (arra) as  part of the department of energy office of science new early career research  program.
viking discovered  martian life in 1976 pullman, wash. – but for our limited understanding of one of our  closest planetary neighbors and our decidedly terrestrial views on biology, the  discovery of life on an alien world might well have been celebrated nearly 35  years ago.
according to research, most fake trees are only used 6 to 9 years before they're disposed.
in plants, sa acts as  a signal molecule that kicks off a series of reactions that help defend against  external threats.
one-third of the 34-36 million christmas trees harvested each year are grown in western washington and oregon.
calcium builds strong bones, good teeth—and  healthy plants, according to a new study from washington state university.
for those do-it-yourself individuals, "cut your own christmas tree month" is upon us and many families participate in the age-old tradition of chopping down their own tree.
no nuclear power plant has been built in the u.s. since the 1979 three-mile island accident.
according to the pacific northwest christmas tree association, 92 percent  of all northwest harvested christmas trees are exported out of the region and  around the world, with 47 percent going to california.
luring natural predators to protect orchards researchers and orchardists know quite a bit about the major pests in tree  fruit systems, but what about the natural enemies of those pests?
no nuclear power plant has been built in the u.s. since the 1979  three-mile island accident.
increased productivity shrinks carbon footprint of cattle pullman – discussion of the environmental impact of animal  agriculture is very different when discussed in terms of productivity instead  of individual animals, according to one of the newest members of the wsu  department of animal sciences.
in fight against pathogens, calcium helps plants make their own aspirin
gary chastagner, professor of plant pathology at washington state university's puyallup research and extension center, attributes this to the good growing sites, moderate temperatures, good rain fall and a good grower-knowledge base that produces good quality trees in the northwest.
sa is a close chemical relative of aspirin.
"there is natural  reseeding of trees in forests and permits are given out to cut down christmas  trees in areas that need to be thinned."
research news and features, po box 641040,  washington state university 99164-0932, 509-335-3581,contact us copyright © board of regents,washington state university
even if you would use one for 20 years or more, it will  eventually be thrown away and end up in a landfill, unlike real trees, which  are biodegradable and recyclable.
wsu astrobiologist’s book argues nasa’s
even if you would use one for 20 years or more, it will eventually be thrown away and end up in a landfill, unlike real trees, which are biodegradable and recyclable.
pullman discussion of the environmental impact of animal agriculture is very different when discussed in terms of productivity instead of individual animals, according to one of the newest members of the wsu department of animal sciences.
in order to keep your cut christmas trees fresh and have the longest needle  retention possible, chastagner said the "single most important thing to do  is to re-cut the base of the tree and display in a water tree stand that holds  one gallon of water per one inch of stem diameter."
pullman, wash. -- timothy vanreken, washington state university professor in the department of civil & environmental engineering, has been selected to receive funding under the american recovery and reinvestment act (arra) as part of the department of energy office of science new early career research program.
but for our limited understanding of one of our closest planetary neighbors and our decidedly terrestrial views on biology, the discovery of life on an alien world might well have been celebrated nearly 35 years ago.
by sarah ducharme and maria ortega, wsu news service, 509-335-7209,  mortega@wsu.edu, wsu news service buying a real christmas tree, not bad for the environment, wsu researcher  says pullman,
one-third of the 34-36 million christmas trees harvested each year are  grown in western washington and oregon.
however, "most christmas trees are grown as crop and replanted, so it is really no different than harvesting corn," chastagner explained.
calcium builds strong bones, good teethand healthy plants, according to a new study from washington state university.
nationally, one million  acres of land is used for christmas tree harvest.
the national christmas tree association also stresses how the use of real christmas trees is actually better for the environment than fake trees.
many people who purchase fake christmas trees do so because they believe that cutting down real trees is bad for the environment.
addressing one of the biggest challenges in the nuclear industry - the sturdiness of materials that protect the core reaction - professor hussein zbib and colleagues have received a three-year grant to better understand multiscale models and methods for nuclear materials.
pullman, wash.new research suggests the volcanic birth of the northwest's columbia plateau happened much more quickly than previously thought and with an intensity that may have changed the earths climate and caused some plants and animals to go extinct.
the national christmas tree association also stresses how the use of real  christmas trees is actually better for the environment than fake trees.
of that, oregon uses 63,000  acres and washington uses 25,000 acres.
chastagner has  conducted extensive research and found that additives that are on sale on the  market don't work, your best bet for long tree life is "plain old  water.
experiments show that calcium, when bound to a protein called calmodulin,  prompts plants to make salicylic acid (sa) when threatened by infection or  other danger.
many people who purchase fake christmas trees do so because they believe  that cutting down real trees is bad for the environment.
of that, oregon uses 63,000 acres and washington uses 25,000 acres.
scientists at  wsu’s tree fruit research and extension center in wenatchee are working to  learn more about these beneficial bugs in an effort to better leverage them in  pest control.
he can be reached at 253-445-4528 or chastag@wsu.edu.
according to research, most fake trees are only used 6 to 9 years before  they're disposed.
related news wsu anthropology graduate students receive nsf graduate research  fellowships pullman, wash. —two graduate students made washington state  university history on april 5 when they became the first recipients of national  science foundation graduate research fellowships in the anthropology department.
addressing one of the biggest challenges in the nuclear industry - the  sturdiness of materials that protect the core reaction - professor hussein zbib  and colleagues have received a three-year grant to better understand multiscale  models and methods for nuclear materials.
researchers and orchardists know quite a bit about the major pests in tree fruit systems, but what about the natural enemies of those pests?
wsus recent receipt of two grants has lifted our graduate and research programs to a new level, according to candis claiborn, dean of the college of engineering and architecture.
while many other countries have expanded their use of nuclear power, u.s. programs have been stymied by safety concerns.
experiments show that calcium, when bound to a protein called calmodulin, prompts plants to make salicylic acid (sa) when threatened by infection or other danger.
gary chastagner, professor of plant  pathology at washington state university's puyallup research and extension  center, attributes this to the good growing sites, moderate temperatures, good  rain fall and a good grower-knowledge base that produces good quality trees in  the northwest.
for those do-it-yourself individuals, "cut your own christmas tree  month" is upon us and many families participate in the age-old tradition  of chopping down their own tree.
however, "most  christmas trees are grown as crop and replanted, so it is really no different  than harvesting corn," chastagner explained.
according to the pacific northwest christmas tree association, 92 percent of all northwest harvested christmas trees are exported out of the region and around the world, with 47 percent going to california.
if properly taken care of, a douglas fir can live and retain its needles three weeks and noble fir can last for four to six weeks.
chastagner has conducted extensive research and found that additives that are on sale on the market don't work, your best bet for long tree life is "plain old water.
tackling 'mother of all multi-scale modeling problems’
" chastagner's christmas tree research focuses on disease problems that affect the production of high quality christmas trees and how to manage them, as well as post harvest quality.
two graduate students made washington state university history on april 5 when they became the first recipients of national science foundation graduate research fellowships in the anthropology department.
while many other countries have  expanded their use of nuclear power, u.s. programs have been stymied by safety  concerns.
it's that time of year again, the stores are flooded with  holiday decorations, the street corners are lined with christmas trees for sale  and many people are torn with the decision to decorate a real or fake tree this  year.
new evidence suggests northwest lava flows could have altered earth's  climate, wiped out species pullman, wash.—new research suggests the volcanic birth of the  northwest's columbia plateau happened much more quickly than previously thought  and with an intensity that may have changed the earth’s climate and caused  some plants and animals to go extinct.