fake plastic trees, on the other hand, are not biodegradable, and harmful greenhouse gases are released during their production.
- boosting your family's immune systems - spring break activities - stress management for children free school-age children newsletter!
fake plastic trees, on the other hand, are not biodegradable, and harmful  greenhouse gases are released during their production.
among the reasons: live trees remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as they grow, can be  broken down into mulch after christmas season is over, and can decompose.
the most environmentally-friendly option would be a tree grown locally that  still has its roots intact so that it can be re-planted after the holidays.
leave a comment - comments (1) - see all posts - share comments leave a comment - december 14, 2009 at 4:59 pm (1) lynn : - the main reason we use an artifical tree is due to allergies in our house.
some html allowed: , , ,  say it!
if that isn't possible, and you are facing a choice between going plastic or natural, pick the live tree for a greener choice.
planting a live christmas tree related searches christmas tree christmas explore school-age children must reads most popular - 8 fun winter activities for families - is your child getting enough sleep?
by katherine lee, about.com guide   december 12, 2009
free school-age children newsletter!
this christmas - christmas tree farms near toronto - select... - grow a living christmas tree |
sign up discuss in my forum which christmas tree is greener - fake or real?
related articles - christmas trees - real vs fake christmas trees - choosing a christmas tree - taking down the christmas trees - storing christmas trees - try a real tree
a part of the new york times company.
sign up - child parenting - school - family life - health & development discuss in my forum which christmas tree is greener - fake or real?
by category - behavior & discipline - family & home - fun & celebrations - health & safety - nutrition - physical & emotional growth - school & learning - social development - sports & fitness - technology & entertainment - time for you school-age children - about.com - parenting & family - school-age children - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
it'll certainly smell better than the fake christmas tree!
real trees seem to set this off worse.
farmers replace cut trees with saplings.
by katherine lee, about.com guide december 12, 2009 - my bio - headlines - forum - rss follow me on: if you've ever wondered which type of christmas trees are better for the environment like i have, here is your answer:real christmas trees are greener, according to the latest research from global warming experts at st. joseph's university in philadelphia.
it'll certainly smell  better than the fake christmas tree!
live trees are also usually grown on tree farms, which grow trees  specifically to cut them down for christmastime, which means that most of the  real trees sold today are not depleting natural forests.
my bio facebook twitter
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
leave a comment name* email: (never displayed)* url your comment* line and paragraph breaks are automatic.
- about.com - parenting & family - school-age children school-age children search free school-age children newsletter!
sign up - the pros and cons of year round school - your five-year-old child - your six year old child - nine year old child development - your eight year old child
live trees are also usually grown on tree farms, which grow trees specifically to cut them down for christmastime, which means that most of the real trees sold today are not depleting natural forests.
if  that isn't possible, and you are facing a choice between going plastic or  natural, pick the live tree for a greener choice.
among the reasons: live trees remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere as they grow, can be broken down into mulch after christmas season is over, and can decompose.
if you've ever wondered which type of christmas trees are better for the  environment like i have, here is your answer:real christmas trees are greener,  according to the latest research from global warming experts at st. joseph's  university in philadelphia.
the most environmentally-friendly option would be a tree grown locally that still has its roots intact so that it can be re-planted after the holidays.