a favorite as soon as i saw it!
if living in a cold zone, how do you get your gardening fix or keep your gardening fascination?
another favorite was colin mccrate’s “the peak of perfection” which put forth a key concept that can help any edible garden grower.
throughout this month i like to reflect on the events and experiences of the previous year while thinking forward about changes to cultivate and experiences to be had in the new year.
tags: garden reflections, natural beauty, natural world, new year holidays, well-being to those that celebrate christmas, do you still whole-heartedly stand by a “real” christmas tree, say a doug, grand, frazier or noble fir?
some type of tree grows most everywhere around the world and they have been around since pre-historic times so i feel they connect us to the earth and to time gone by thousands of years ago.
the people’s choice award was awarded to sublime garden design for  their holistic garden “resonating sounds of nature ~ finding peace and  solace in the garden.”
i will admit to having had thoughts of getting a make-believe tree in recent years.
the message, “every plant’s single goal is to flower
and then there are those that wait….and make you wait … for their most splendid display of abundance and beauty!
i am resting because of all the fun social celebrations that took place, because this is the month with the least garden activities and because i feel a need to gather soulful, creative energy.
so i’m trying baker creek heirloom seeds for my beet seeds (‘bulls blood’ and ‘golden’).
thankful to have witnessed such genuine beauty…
they offer many advantages when growing ‘green goods’ such as vegetables, herbs or flowers.
or, are you in the camp that faux is where it’s at – fake it baby, just don’t break it!
in fact not just a single dose, but a double dose!
tags: blueberries, cherries, february edible garden, harvesting the garden, winter edibles it’s time.
we walked the isles ‘oohing’ and ‘ahhing’ over some  fantastic items: love this table!
anything a gardener would imagine or  want could be found here.
little bags of frozen berries were stuffed everywhere in our freezer.
remove bay leaves and season with salt and pepper to taste.
are you planning to grow more with heirloom and organic seeds this year?
prior to harvest farmed christmas trees are a carbon sink, harnessing bad greenhouse gasses while producing oxygen at the same time.
the activity around it is grounded in using seasonable food to share a special meal with loved ones.
this company focuses primarily on fragrant plants, as the name reveals and has a nice selection of annuals, perennials, grasses and herbs.
the cold temperatures made sure all lingering warm-season edibles have bit the dust and the few cool-season edibles are no longer showing much growth.
what do you do in the fall to enhance your spring-time delight?
it is quite simple and i really prefer its flavor over other recipes that call for red wine, sausage/bacon fat or other ingredients that are supposed to add extra flavor.
but even if i wasn’t, i can’t see putting up a faux tree.
i ended my spree on a pleasant note  settling on an amazing wicker basket for harvest gathering.
thankfully mother nature has taken care of this before i had to go out and find a hose and sprinkler, get a faucet turned on, water and then drain the hose before the temps fell back to freezing.
i brought many inside, ripened them in a south facing window and into the marinara sauce they went.
i  found this helpful because oftentimes i find myself distracted with other  things during what is most likely the prime harvest window of some crops  because i’m thinking they can “keep” awhile longer since they  are still in the ground/growing.
furthermore even the ‘cut and come again’ varieties will burn themselves out after two cycles and begin to just throw up flower stalks instead of continuing to produce leaves.
i’m so excited to go to this show again!
getting the first tulips in the ground makes a gardener feel good.
add celery, carrots, thyme, salt and pepper.
tags: garden show fun, growing food in your backyard, northwest flower and garden show i was lucky enough to be the receiver of some orchid amore today!
another new-to-me supplier with very reasonable prices is the fragrant path from nebraska.
too philosophical, o.k. a simpler take – the genuine smell of a real christmas tree cannot be replaced with artificial air fresheners or potpourri.
i had gotten away from growing with seed but went back to it last year and although it is inexpensive, gives you more control over what you grow and is very rewarding, those little guys can be time-consuming when it comes time to pot up, harden off and plant out.
i just mean a connection that makes me feel incredibly motivated, inspired, hopeful, incredulous and sometimes even fearful (certain creatures, you know… ).
who are some of your favorite seed suppliers?
they are 100% biodegradable, recyclable.
my rosa ‘glauca’ went from this to this…
remember the 50 lbs of blueberries i picked in the pacific northwestlast summer?
now this is not to say that if i offer something different they wouldn’t snatch it up in a heartbeat with their little sweet-tooths.
seeds of change, rene’s gardens, territorial seed co., and botanical interests are other wonderful seed companies that i always purchase a packet or two from.
for gardening in particular, the new year means a new growing season and for garden-crazies like me a new-found sense of excitement and hope.
in large pot, heat oil over medium heat.
yes, i am a gardener and therefore have the tendency to think fresh is always best.
are you growing a new vegetable or fruit this year?
yellowstone national park payette lake, idaho bryce canyon national park monteverde, costa rica wallowa mountain-whitman national forest, oregon wailua falls, maui zion national park corcovado national park hana, maui grand teton national park sequoia & kings canyon national park grand canyon national park yellowstone national park yellowstone national park big sur, ca torres del paine, national park torres del paine national park the matterhorn, switzerland u.s. virgin islands monteverde cloud forest reserve, costa rica bryce canyon national park rocky mountain national park yosemite national park yosemite national park lake tahoe, california bryce canyon national park owyhee mountains, idaho tags: thankfulness, thanksgiving, simple thanksgiving, natural world, national parks, natural world beauty november has brought a swift wrap-up to much of the garden.
to the best of my knowledge fake christmas trees are not made out of recyclable plastic so there is no repurposing.
but look for a post next week on general orchid care for the types most commonly available.
do you spend time preserving your harvest and then find yourself forgetting to eat it during the winter months?
i love  how they used classic design principles and embraced natural sound in the  garden via water droplets rhythmically falling on drums.
or, maybe you are really hard-core – part of the ‘live tree party movement’ – that goes potted and takes it all the way by finding a permanent outdoor home?
feb last weekend i visited the northwest flower and garden show and it was a  trip to a gardeners’ promise land!
i have never tried this grower before but have read good things about them.
you may be thinking, “o.k., some tomatoes from the garden”…but there are onions, carrots and lots of herbs in it as well.
in other words, i have to garner up some self-discipline and make sure my seedy ideas are not out of control before i place my order.
it is so routine for them that they don’t even ask about dessert anymore, they just know they’ll get blueberries if they eat a good dinner.
the shopping craze reached its crescendo when i was in a discussion about a very cool solar green house (retailing for a couple of thousand dollars) and whether i should order one since two others were being delivered to the boise area next month.
for me, the essence of the whole tradition is bringing an awesome organism from the natural world to your indoor environment to connect to the world at large and ancient times.
they have become more appealing – especially when many of my friends have their plastic wann-a-bee-trees up by december 1 and are on to other parts of the busy holiday season while say on dec. 10th, i’m still considering where we are going to get our real tree.
time to start the forward motion for a gorgeous and productive garden in 2012.
but last week, during one of the rainy-windy afternoons, i decided to prolong my garden shut-down “to-dos” a bit longer and use the last of my san marzano tomatoes that have been ripening in the window sill over the last couple of weeks.
(that’s once you get it and have it in the house. )
of course, it was too big for the plane so my friend is keeping it for me until the next time i get to portland.
how do you feel at the beginning of the new year?
if all is timed correctly i should have a cheery vignette of bright yellow, bright blue and carrot orange with a variety of green foliage come spring.
through the process of looking around in the freezer i found some packages of my homemade spaghetti sauce.
one of my new veggie choices for this year is beets.
the book looks to be quite a resource for learning about gardening with heirloom varieties.
yes, in many ways it is a holiday that is being eclipsed by christmas and other fall/winter celebrations but maybe it’s all a matter of perspective.
besides, i’ve been able to germinate seeds from johnny’s that were many years old and had not been stored properly so i think they have quality seeds.
i’ve never purchased from them before but they have an excellent reputation (only selling non-gmo seeds), very reasonable prices and the largest selection of heirloom seeds available in the u.s.
thinking forward to the new year in a reflective state of mind might sound contradictory but somehow it’s oddly satisfying.
what is more essential and represents human celebration and tradition more than that?
i ended my spree on a pleasant note settling on an amazing wicker basket for harvest gathering.
so it can reproduce and spread itself.”
this is where i see a faux tree as more fraudulent than ever… who actually believes a faux tree is better for the environment than a real tree?
by keenness, i don’t mean a special talent, skill or understanding.
the  realization that edible crops have a harvest window based on the rate of their  growth and that these plants find a way to get to the flowering stage no matter  what, helps understand when it is time to harvest.
and my third choice for the week was a sour-cherry pistachio crisp.
for example, a short season, fast-growing crop such as lettuce has a short window of prime harvesting.
and yes, real trees are trucked all over the country each year and these factors give them some undeniable marks in the ‘environmental unfriendliness’ column.
love the "raised" seating with fragrant blooms underneath... ground-level, "comfy" seating many gardens featured panels for privacy, structure and ambience after picking up some lily bulbs and black-foliage dahlia tubers, (items easily packed in my suitcase)
i spent valuable time in-doors last season carefully preparing and freezing various items.
love the "raised" seating with fragrant blooms underneath... ground-level, "comfy" seating many gardens featured panels for privacy, structure and ambience garden must-haves after picking up some lily bulbs and black-foliage dahlia tubers, (items  easily packed in my suitcase)
it’s then shipped thousands of miles (mostly likely by boat) across an ocean, then trucked to a retail outlet, purchased and then used (hopefully) at least 10-15 years (maybe more).
i have always been a die-hard fan of summer but over the last several years i must admit a great growing affection for fall.
i’ve tried this year.
…next task is to get the rake out and capture them into the composter.
they recently put out a book titled, ‘ the heirloom life gardener’ that i first heard about on npr’s morning edition this fall.
considered fairly, an artificial tree is made one time so one batch of chemicals and one batch of by-product.
i had already received some motivation tulips frombrent and becky’s bulbs!
i planted the tulip ‘orange emperor’ amidst euphorbia polychroma, calamagrostis x acutiflora ‘overdam’ and veronica peduncularis ‘georgia blue’.
euphorbia and reed grass 'overdam' veronica 'georgia blue' when planting tulips, (see tips for tulips for more info) i try to always dig at least a 6 inch deep hole (deeper if possible, although that can be hard when planting under a tree) and put a little bone meal and compost/peat moss in the bottom before placing the bulb in the hole.
theme: bueno by woothemes.
i found myself in the steady rhythm of a  full-blown shopping spree.
again, while searching the freezer i found several containers of wonderful sour-cherries that i picked from my mom and grandma’s trees.
i have thought about this quite a lot
to start, blueberries.
if so, hopefully this will be a reminder to go to your freezer or pantry to find your february edible garden!
stocked to the max with  superlative seminars, overflowing with fantastic display gardens and awash with  wondrous plants, garden art, containers, decor, bulbs, etc….made me  think…”why did i fly here?
this was not helpful…plus, she had a car to put everything in…(a little garden envy here )
yes, real christmas trees may be sprayed with pesticides but don’t forget artificial trees put out toxic fumes from the plastic production.
to read more of colin mccrate’s work check out www.seattleurbanfarmco.com after many good seminars on friday, saturday was left to enjoy a leisurely cadence exploring the display gardens and finding some “garden must-haves”.
lots of opportunities to learn about new ideas combined with creative, positive people makes for a great gig!
i believe this is what motivates gardeners far and wide to plant once again at the close of a growing season.
i looked in the freezerbefore i went to the grocer.
a real beaut... tags: environmentally friendly trees, fake christmas tree, holidays, real christmas tree, real christmas tree vs. fake christmas tree
another favorite was colin mccrate’s
once cooled i purée via the food processor.
and if they were  already bringing some to my area… thankfully, there was a ‘ritardando’ written into my shopping symphony and it arrived just in time to keep me from  going through with that purchase!
to read more of colin mccrate’s
since they are full of fiber, magnesium and potassium not to mention beta-carotene, calcium and iron and are easy to prepare there is a lot to like about beets!
spaghetti is always easy but having the homemade sauce with deliciousness from the garden and a different flavor than store-bought sauces makes it seem special.
how did this happen?
the first is a fosteriana tulip and the latter a greigii tulip.
thank you all for being in my life.
oh…good for the environment?
my san marzano tomato was very prolific this year and of course there were many, many tomatoes yet to ripen when the frosty night-time lows hit.
in addition, american christmas tree farms provide over 500,000 acres of wild life habitat and green space.
but something strikes through this imaginative state and i think about my edible garden from last year that is in the freezer?
you get the idea, right?
fresh ‘green goods’ from my garden no longer seem like a pipe dream as i look out onto the bland back yard.
so, it can seem like a reasonably “green” purchase, but then its ultimate destination is the landfill where it lies for another million or trillion years putting out toxic fumes and taking up space.
think how relaxing it would be to sit in this garden on a rainy day when you can’t be out working in the dirt anyway!
i looked for some recipes with a healthy bent and came up with this one frommartha stewart.
this one made form a wood pallet i believe
do you have a special flower you are trying from seed?
and so many others have changed into fall ‘attire’… the fall garden is savory with ripe vegetables and fruits filled with goodness, all-ready for consumption.
and with so much garden speak and garden  variety brimming about it was more than a little hard to be disciplined.
so good to remember the old saying, your eyes can be bigger than…your available garden time!
a little winter haiku for me today after awaking to the first snowfall in the boise area.
what is your favorite season in the garden?
you know, the ‘charlie brown’ factor of a having a real christmas tree.
i can’t let myself forget about them even though i’m currently focused on going to grocers that offer high-quality fruits and vegetables so that we can continue eating fresh during the winter.
saute’ another 10 min.
have you ever decided against purchasing an orchid due to the fear of not being able to get it to rebloom?
i love how they used classic design principles and embraced natural sound in the garden via water droplets rhythmically falling on drums.
but seriously, the shorter days with less light put me in a restful mood.
share your orchid tales here… tags: indoor flowers, indoor gardening, orchid care, orchids, valentine's day orchids february is here and i’m getting excited as my seeds arrive, the 2012 growing season is about to begin.
if you’ve not taken in a garden show for a few years or perhaps ever, i highly recommend it.
how do you motivate yourself to shut-down the garden if living in zone 7 and colder?
the people’s choice award was awarded to sublime garden design for their holistic garden “resonating sounds of nature ~ finding peace and solace in the garden.”
i made my last batch of marinara sauce with them and used my friend shauney’s recipe that has turned into my favorite of the homemade marinara’s
i found myself in the steady rhythm of a full-blown shopping spree.
tags: fall gardens, planting tulips, shutting down the garden, spring flowers fall is glorious!
with a new growing season on the horizon have i forgotten about some fresh, admittedly frozen, ‘goodness’ from last year’s garden?
the display gardens were exceedingly creative  embracing this year’s theme, “a floral symphony,” in many  different ways ranging from incorporating musical instruments such as pianos  and harps to including subtle sounds found only in nature.
i’m thankful – thanksgiving is simple.
lots of cherry flavor combined with an earthy-nuttiness, just enough sweet and easy to make!
if interested in attending check out the website where you will find descriptions of display gardens, a seminar schedule, travel packages and more.
as elementary as that sounds, it plays a key role in knowing when to harvest edibles.
last weekend i visited the northwest flower and garden show and it was a trip to a gardeners’ promise land!
so really, lots of fresh produce straight from the garden, with a stop in the freezer, to the table.
maybe you are wondering about the last line of my haiku.. .it is in reference to my upcoming getaway to thenorthwest flower and garden show in seattle during february.
in other words, not a lot of irrigation required.
courtesy of one of my local garden centers - zamzows and the topper, making them hands down the most environmentally friendly choice, their final resting place is right where they started – the earth.
tags: edibles with ornamentals, fall garden, fall garden colors, harvesting the garden, vegetable gardens enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
do you have any tips for growing tulips?
does january bring any changes to your behavior or lifestyle?
and, i simply can’t sign out today without expressing thanks to my loving family and friends.
really…the airline only lets you bring two carry-ons!”
[...] i’ve been out of the garden again to enjoy some of the other fine things in life… like traveling abroad with my spouse celebrating the opportunity to spend time alone together as well as the years we’ve been together (16).
this one  made form a wood pallet i believe the fine seating areas in the display gardens are always a draw for me.
the display gardens and seminars are fantastic and there is a plethora of new ideas and information to absorb.
additionally, the ornamental garden has reached its peak color and is now fading to muted form and color and will soon give way to the all engulfing cold of winter.
“the peak of  perfection” which put forth a key concept that can help any edible garden  grower.
also, i have come across more and more simple recipes (today food, well-ny times blog, eighty twenty ) that include beets and this is probably because they are known to contain antioxidantsand anti-inflamtory and detoxification support.
everyone enjoy a simple day of giving thanks!
i’ve not grown either of these types of tulips before and am excited for more interesting foliage (mottled/striped leaves) as well as the luscious blooms.
so much so, that just last week one of the local nurseries,franz witte, put out a notice letting customers know they should start winter watering all evergreens and deciduous plants that were recently planted (1-2 years).
the display gardens were exceedingly creative embracing this year’s theme, “a floral symphony,” in many different ways ranging from incorporating musical instruments such as pianos and harps to including subtle sounds found only in nature.
just go to any garden store, nursery or even grocery/big box stores and see the beautiful spikes l0aded with intricately designed blooms.
the message, “every plant’s single goal is to flower so it can reproduce and spread itself.”
in keeping with simple gratitude i’m thankful to be a daily gardener possessing a special keenness towards the natural world.
lots of  opportunities to learn about new ideas combined with creative, positive people  makes for a great gig!
i’ve got a few things from them already but have not finished my selections just yet.
here are a couple of photos of other display gardens that offered unique beats… the "green" or floral wall displays were all the rage...
i managed to stay quite focused and calm during the seminars and my favorite ones were joe lamp’l's “growing a greener world – gardening to make a difference,” and graham kerr’s (formerly known as the ‘galloping gourmet’)
whew, thanks again mother n!
when temps are below freezing every night and the air is very dry with little moistureanywhere, it is really tough on tree/plant health.
and voila...you see?
so the first “to do” – get the new tulips in the ground!
as elementary as that  sounds, it plays a key role in knowing when to harvest edibles.
however, most christmas tree farms are located in areas like the pacific northwest, pennsylvania, north carolina and michigan where there is ample natural moisture.
plus they are very easy to dig in and plant!
to express my gratitude of the natural world, i’m sharing some shots of the places and moments i’ve been lucky enough to experience over the years.
the two key advantages raised beds offer are 1) they can be filled with perfect soil and 2) they provide ideal soil drainage.
these two beauties opened their first blossom on the same day.
the realization that edible crops have a harvest window based on the rate of their growth and that these plants find a way to get to the flowering stage no matter what, helps understand when it is time to harvest.
i find myself looking through photos of the natural world from trips we’ve taken the previous year and thinking about how i can incorporate some elements of the natural world’s beauty into my controlled, man-made environment.
and with so much garden speak and garden variety brimming about it was more than a little hard to be disciplined.
i love to take photos of the places we visit and use them as potential inspiration…the colors, textures, forms… so with a cup of hot tea, some books and some photos it’s a good time to do as the old adage says - ‘stop and smell the roses.’
no, i have not gone wild adding a bit of blueberry to every dish no matter what it is.
tags: garden show fun, growing food in your backyard, northwest flower and  garden show
anything a gardener would imagine or want could be found here.
now look at the difference when comparing a real christmas tree.
i knowthere is quite an upside to these counterfeit creations like… fake $350 costco tree looking pretty perfect
tags: growing from seed, seed companies, seeds, the heirloom life gardener first winter snow falls dry trees breathe deeply with smile a joyous trip to seattle is my tea
the weather is at its finest in most places across our country and the garden changes into a new palette of colorful beauty.
i had no one to help me resist temptations.
for example, you can not only eat the beets but also the beet ‘greens’ a.k.a.
i’ve been browsing the offerings from my favorite suppliers as well as some ‘new-to-me’ suppliers to determine my projects for this year.
i’ve never done much with them but i have become more interested since learning about all they have to offer.
so i made a dent in my february edible garden and still have some ‘garden goodness’ to pull out.
i don’t actually know…maybe it’s one of the positives that can happen from taking your children u-picking and forging a real connection about where their food comes from along with its beauty and taste… back to my february edibles…with only a moderate amount of blueberries left i decided to try one new recipe that would be healthy in nature and offer my family something beyond “blueberries straight-up!”
as i quietly think of all the activities i get to engage in during the coming months there is a realization that now is the time to take deep breaths and focus on my well-being as a whole.
i like to think of them as pulling me through the last few cold weeks of winter with their amazing blooms promising that spring will arrive soon.
i amend the unearthed soil with compost and then gently cover the bulbs to the surface level.
i’ve been meaning to write a post on orchids but have not gotten around to it just yet.
i ordered tulipa ‘orange emperor’ and tulipa ‘fur elise’.
whether it  be to improve personal health, build a sense of community amongst neighbors, be  more resource-efficient and earth-friendly or to help feed those that are  hungry, it is amazing how growing food can have a positive impact!
of course, there are just too many temptations from a company like johnny’s selected seeds to not place an order.
in case you are still harvesting or ripening tomatoes inside and are interested in a marinara the recipe is below.
really…the airline only  lets you bring two carry-ons!”
they are so inviting and offer different ways to relax in your garden.
our trip to france was fabulous and i was inspired by many of the simple [...] another cool, blustery spring day makes one wonder when the “normal” temps are going to start for this year!
many perennials are getting off to a slow start but the cool weather hasn’t hindered my apple espalier (pronounced es-pal-yay) one bit.
you can always count on johnny’s to find something you like and for me this year, it’s arugula, kale, lettuces, gold rave tomato, baby bear pumpkins and buttercream and chocolate sunflowers.
and i’m resting…sort of… (although i am still bumping-up the workouts to bump-off the extra bumps resulting from the holidays )
both of these talks were entertaining and more  importantly focused on amazing people and projects currently underway helping  people across america to get growing some of their own food.
the only downside is that this weekend full of spring makes it hard to come back to zone 6 and eight more weeks of winter weather!
i found this helpful because oftentimes i find myself distracted with other things during what is most likely the prime harvest window of some crops because i’m thinking they can “keep” awhile longer since they are still in the ground/growing.
the nwfg show was a true hit!
but as valentine’s day approaches it seems like orchid-mania has kicked in once again.
doesn’t that sound fun?!
drop me a line if you decide to attend, maybe we’ll run onto each when rushing for a new, ‘must-have’ garden delight!
the fuji apple tree has doubled, maybe tripled its blossoms this year making a [...] raised beds…consider them for this garden season.
making time to give thought and thanks to the elements (human and otherwise) in one’s life that contribute to well-being and happiness.
some from years ago and others recent but all in my memory and thankful thoughts.
the swift changes mean many tasks for the head gardener, me!
have you heard of it?
of course, it  was too big for the plane so my friend is keeping it for me until the next time  i get to portland.
work check out www.seattleurbanfarmco.com exquisite displays: after many good seminars on friday, saturday was left to enjoy a leisurely  cadence exploring the display gardens and finding some “garden  must-haves”.
when people ask over the new year holidays about my resolutions i answer by saying, “i don’t know yet, i’ll figure them out in january.”
a friendly marinara 1/2 c. extra virgin olive oil 2 small onions, finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 2 celery stalks, finely chopped 2 carrots peeled and finely chopped 1 – 2 tablespoons fresh thyme 1/2 tsp sea salt, 1/2 tsp pepper 32oz fresh tomatoes chopped - i use san marzanos 2 dried bay leaves
stocked to the max with superlative seminars, overflowing with fantastic display gardens and awash with wondrous plants, garden art, containers, decor, bulbs, etc….made me think…”why did i fly here?
do you already enjoy growing orchids?
the crisp was a hit with my family !
later, i throw a couple of inches of mulch over the top of all of the planted areas.
now i need to get the rest of the spring promises in the ground… and see all these lovely leaves?
northwest flower and garden show is a gardener’s ultimate gig!
the fine seating areas in the display gardens are always a draw for me.
of course you can skip this step if you like a chunkier marinara.
tags: boise area, dry winter, first snowfall, northwest flower and garden show, winter haiku, winter watering this is the time of year i am most reflective.
as the years go by i appreciate the subtleness of thanksgiving more and more.
however, the whole purpose of preserving the harvest is to enjoy it once production has stopped, so last week i decided to break my current routine.
note the hole in the upper left side...
falling for the fall garden is easy to do!
we americans need some simplicity in our lives to keep us grounded, right?
did you notice some key words…american farms…real christmas trees are actually “made” i.e., “manufactured” here in america.
as last week progressed, the weather stabilized and i progressed into a state of mind of tackling garden shut-down “to-dos” though temps were cool.
the shopping craze reached its crescendo when i was in a discussion about a  very cool solar green house (retailing for a couple of thousand dollars) and  whether i should order one since two others were being delivered to the boise  area next month.
add onions and garlic and saute’ until the onions are translucent, about 10 min.
and what about the fun of taking a natural, imperfect anatomy and turning it into a head-turning beaut of a tree.
i was intrigued with combining these intricately flavored cherries with pistachios, a favorite nut around our house.
and i just don’t see how someone can place this “spin” on a faux tree.
but that’s another topic for another time… how about you?
i’m orderingdatura metel or angel’s trumpet as an ornamental for my back patio.
we walked the isles ‘oohing’ and ‘ahhing’ over some fantastic items: love this table!
my friend showing no restraint and just plain 'giddiness' over her new  garden must-have!
here’s therecipe if you want to try it.
if you’ve not taken in a garden show  for a few years or perhaps ever, i highly recommend it.
i made food from myfebruary edible garden !
for example, a short season, fast-growing crop such as lettuce has a short  window of prime harvesting.
they are continually replenished with two or three seedlings for every one tree that is harvested for the holiday.
my friend that was with me shares a passion for beautiful plants and garden art and was picking up things at a tempo faster than the song“walking on sunshine“.
recently, i heard a well-known, wildly successful, public spokes-lady make a comment about, “trying to save thanksgiving.”
and if they were already bringing some to my area… thankfully, there was a ‘ritardando’ written into my shopping symphony and it arrived just in time to keep me from going through with that purchase!
a raised [...] rss - posts blog at wordpress.com.
instead, my daughters (also sometimes referred to as ‘garden mates’ ) have developed a wonderful habit of eating a bowlful of frozen blueberries each night before they go to bed.
my friend showing no restraint and just plain 'giddiness' over her new garden must-have!
keep perspective, keep thanksgiving simple.
the intellectual component is just as authentic.
this show is a great place to spend time with gardening friends, learn from the pros and buy some fantastic plants!
sure, farmed christmas trees consume some resources while growing…water for one.
furthermore even the ‘cut and come  again’ varieties will burn themselves out after two cycles and begin to  just throw up flower stalks instead of continuing to produce leaves.
think how  relaxing it would be to sit in this garden on a rainy day when you can’t  be out working in the dirt anyway!
and yes, the trees and other plants in the garden are happy today because it has been such a dry winter.
there’s a chance that someday soon fall may be my ‘favorite’ season!
(i know this is not the historic legend behind the christmas tree but it is what it means to me.)
here are a few pics of ones that struck a chord with me.
new info: i managed to stay quite focused and calm during the seminars and my  favorite ones were joe lamp’l's “growing a greener world –  gardening to make a difference,”  and graham kerr’s (formerly  known as the ‘galloping gourmet’)
i chose ‘best blueberry muffins’ from eighty-twenty, a food blog that i like.
to  learn more about joe lamp’l's work go towww.growingagreenerworld.com  and to consider becoming a part of graham kerr’s proposed food  initiative got toeggscartonclub.com.
and i’m thinking for me it means the roses of life and the year to come… since it is still january you know!
it’s time for an update on the apple espalier as the fall season gets underway.
for now, i’m off to see many gorgeous specimens at the northwest flower and garden show in seattle.
but they are completely content having a snack of blueberries as their dessert.
my thought was, “hopefully not with a lot of trimmings, trinkets and extra traditions that lead to commercialism with a capital c and blow away the easy beauty and richness of simple celebrations.
here are a couple of photos of other display gardens that offered unique  beats… the "green" or floral wall displays were all the rage...
both of these talks were entertaining and more importantly focused on amazing people and projects currently underway helping people across america to get growing some of their own food.
to learn more about joe lamp’l's work go towww.growingagreenerworld.com and to consider becoming a part of graham kerr’s proposed food initiative got toeggscartonclub.com.
this was not helpful…plus,  she  had a car to put everything in…(a little garden envy here )
add tomatoes and bay leaves and simmer uncovered over low heat for about an hour.
you may be surprised to hear that only 4 bags are left!
so if cupid’s arrow delivers some orchid amore to you this week, fear not and look forward to enjoying their beauty for years to come.
i’m imagining how wonderful they will look and taste in just a another couple of months.
my  friend that was with me shares a passion for beautiful plants and garden art  and was picking up things at a tempo faster than the song“walking on  sunshine“.
first up, is selecting seeds.
whether it be to improve personal health, build a sense of community amongst neighbors, be more resource-efficient and earth-friendly or to help feed those that are hungry, it is amazing how growing food can have a positive impact!
they are symbolic of the next spring that is sure to come and they promise new-found life and beauty in the days to come.
these were easy to make and quite a good little ‘starter’ in the mornings as they include rolled oats, yogurt, blueberries, etc… with just a modest amount of sugar.
the fall garden is sumptuous with all plant life showing off its final size and hues of the year.
as much as i hate to acknowledge there’s limited time to celebrate the last hurrahs of the growing season in my zone 6 garden i must start somewhere…and what could be better than starting with the kings of fall -apples!
when composted, they actually even improve the earth adding nutrients back into the soil!