there were  no more safety pins and it wasn’t necessary to close your eyes and hope  for the best anymore!
approximately 9,500 babies are born throughout edinburgh and the lothians every year which means there are lots of new parents who every day are keen to find out about real nappies, a real alternative to disposable nappies.
every parent who comes to the project is at the start of their ‘nappy journey’ and it is so lovely to be part of that.
today is a day for remembering what’s important, what we care about and the things we can do that make a difference.
join 357 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
different types of nappies are available to see and parents can apply  for, and collect, trial packs and lending kits.
parents most frequently come to the real nappy project at the beginning of  their ‘nappy journey’, often overwhelmed by the information online.
wishing you and yours a merry festive season.
take a look at changeworks edinburgh charity shop and reuse map or look up your local charity  shops.
visit our website or call 0131 555 4010 for more composting info.
to give a little context, i truly hate clothes shopping especially for dresses – i don’t conform to conventional dress-sizing (who does these days?
during the event transport and housing minister, keith brown, received a letter from stop climate chaos scotland backing the “social, environmental and economic benefits” that emissions reduction targets would bring.
the new, improved nappuccino will continue to offer parents free advice and information from parents who have experience of using real nappies.
they look great, appeal to the  (possible) tech geek in all of us and use less energy than traditional  christmas lights.
you could also invest in some light emitting diode (led)  lights to decorate your tree and your home.
- al posted in general  | leave a reply nappy chat posted on january 20, 2012 reply i was first introduced to flat nappies when my sister used them on my  niece, who is now twenty-six years old.
lending kits are available to borrow for three weeks.
charity shops can be superb places to find an  unusual or individual gift for that special someone … for those of you  living or visiting edinburgh, there’s the handyedinburgh charity shop and  reuse map.
as a result, we tend to use a lot more energy – and we don’t mean during those last-minute trips to the shops – and produce a lot more waste than usual.
secondly, how big is it going to get?
from considering carefully how we use our energy for heat and water to whether or not we cycle to work, waste too much food, or buy local organically grown produce; the decisions we make can really make a difference.
the aim of the trial pack is to provide parents with a sample of good quality, reliable nappies, a wrap and accessories to help parents make an informed decision when choosing reusable nappies.
we have two project incentivestrial packs and lending kits.
as we wheeled along a pedestrianised princes street, it was hard not imagine we were living in some futuristic version of scotland, where people greeted one another when the traffic paused, with smiles rather than scowls.
of course they last longer too, so you’ve really no excuse.
so if you have a baby or are about to have a baby and are interested in  finding out about real nappies why not get in touch ortake a look online?
my partner and i enjoyed using the nappies, two part, birth to potty and found them pretty straight forward.
it  also makes me want to look at what else would be better if i bought it locally.
we couldn’t have lived through another winter without heating.
if they’re your kind of thing, why not make a new year’s resolution to lead a more sustainable life?
chances are there’s alandfill site near your home or perhaps even the school that your kids go to.
we offer a wide-range of services, advice and inspiration that might be just what you are looking for.
lots of digging, and we all love doing outdoorsy things like that when its -11°c.
this time though,  with a wonderful wee invention called the ‘nappy nippa’.
we send our thanks and appreciation for all the care and concern shown  to us by yourself and all the staff at changeworks.”
is the optimum answer to go veggie and eat locally and seasonally, maybe  even grow your own?
of course there’s help and support to inform businesses about the  changes to legislation.
take food, for example, there’s lots to think about and there isn’t one definitive answer when it comes to life’s most fundamental purchases: what about when it comes to the more luxurious purchases?
compost your vegetable peelings, and by next christmas,  you’ll have free nutritious compost – black gold! – to help  make your garden grow.
changeworks’ affordable warmth team provides a free service to  vulnerable people.
but twenty years later i didn’t ever think cloth nappies were an option until i went to visit a friend in cumbria who again was using flat nappies.
the duncan place nappuccino on thursday 26 january at duncan place resource centre, duncan place (just off duke street) from 10-11.30am is ‘new & improved’.
we encourage  people to be tactile with the nappies themselves and fact-ile with the real  nappy users who will answer as many questions as you can ask.
hand-made gifts are personal and show you’ve invested your energy in the giftee – checkremadeinedinburgh and other sites for inspiration and techniques.
many real  nappies are shaped to fit, fasten with velcro or poppers and are covered with a  breathable waterproof wrap.
as we wheeled along a pedestrianised princes street, it was hard not  imagine we were living in some futuristic version of scotland, where people  greeted one another when the traffic paused, with smiles rather than scowls.
whatever you  fancy… start home composting, cut down on your food waste and booking at  least one holiday in your home country rather than flying abroad are all great  sustainable ideas.
there are different motivations for it too, from cutting the carbon associated from transporting goods to supporting your local economy.
for me, this local purchase was definitely a cost-effective and positive experience that i plan to repeat.
there are loads of solar-powered toys and cool wind-up gadgets around, so  why not think about these as presents for kids – of all ages!
according to one source, an acre of douglas fir trees can absorb 11,308.7 lbs of carbon dioxide each year.
as a result, we tend to use a lot more  energy – and we don’t mean during those last-minute trips to the  shops – and produce a lot more waste than usual.
cyclists ruling the roads!
do you want to make start making those changes in your life to benefit  people and the environment?
there was reportedly over 350 people taking part in wednesday’s rally outside st. andrews’ house, and sporting a funky changeworks cycling jacket, i was getting in on the action along with a whole host of other environmental groups, cyclists and a plethora of people concerned with cuts to sustainable transport.
so when i was expecting my baby i knew real nappies were an option, and
if they warm up too much they could ‘wake up’ early and start to grow – this means they’re unlikely to survive once they’re back in the cold outdoors.
are you following a local diet or do you have great tips for where to get  high quality local goods?
approximately 9,500 babies are born throughout edinburgh and the lothians  every year which means there are lots of new parents who every day are keen to find out about real nappies, a real alternative to disposable nappies.
so it was a long time ago, i was a teenager, and babies were the last thing on my mind.
production is largely sustainable as the industry is maintained through replanting – wood is, after all, renewable.
buying a real tree – potted or not – supports scottish producers and suppliers.
so there is still  an opportunity to influence what is and what isn’t funded.”
in fact trying out the different folds was fun.
gone are the days of pins and complicated folding!
when it comes to the age-old debate –real vs fake – real’s the winner for me every time.
to recycle your trees, check with your local community recycling centre about their garden waste/green waste containers.
we offer a wide-range of services, advice and  inspiration that might be just what you are looking for.
i feel good when i wear it and an added bonus is that i’ll never bump into someone wearing the same thing.
recycle any cards you receive with your other cardboard via your kerbside recycling scheme, local recycling facility or community recycling centre.
but it just doesn’t feel the same(like many other fake, er… things)
to recycle your trees, check with your local community recycling centre  about their garden waste/green waste containers.
so it was a long time ago, i was a  teenager, and babies were the last thing on my mind.
for a hand-made traditional feel and a great way to spend a wet afternoon, there are a whole stack oftutorials online.
i certainly changed a few of those nappies and didn’t think it was so difficult.
the tree and decorations choose a living tree that can be planted out after the festive season and used again.
for example,zero waste scotland is hosting a series of workshops.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
we do talks, we hold  events and we can give parents the opportunity to try some of the nappies  currently available without spending lots of money.
then, of course, there are clothes to consider.
if you’re loath to believe me, stop and check  one out next time you’re passing.
visit our website or call 0131 555 4010 for more  composting info.
we also can give advice over the phone and by email.
if you are a small to medium size enterprise,you can  book your place to their next workshop held on 21 march at the apex  international in edinburgh.
the project has twenty fantastic volunteers who are all parents who have used real nappies so between us we are able to answer all queries.
but the way to find out is probably just to give it a try.
why?  let’s  face it, nobody wants to be on the receiving end of those rolling eyes or that  glazed gaze of boredom.
also businesses will be required to source-segregate  recyclable materials like paper, cans, plastic, cardboard, glass and so on.
tie up presents with  funky ribbon, minimalist string or natural raffia – no sticky tape means  you can save the paper and use it again.
put leftovers in reusable containers, rather than wrapping them in foil or plastic film, and recycle your empty bottles and jars.
if you’re facing the same dilemma, here are a few factors to consider.
earlier that day, a few of us had set off from the office, gathering more  members as we ascended to the top of one of edinburgh’s many hills,  where the feeling of excitement was palpable.
if you fancy giving that a try, it would be worth  researching some local food projects like the fife diet for some  inspiration as hearing ‘pass the turnip’ one time too often might  weaken your resolve.
changeworks is here to provide  you with impartial advice about how you can make the changes that matter.
- angela email digg posted in general, sustainability everyday  | tagged eco,  environmental, low carbon lifestyle, sustainable living  | leave a reply the gift that keeps on giving: tips for a sustainable season posted on december 23, 2011 reply the festive season is a time for celebration for many people and, almost  inevitably, a spot of overindulgence.
go to our website or call us on 0800 512 012 to see how we can help you  start making the changes that matter.
it could well be any of  these
using  re-chargeable batteries will help to reduce the number of single use batteries  going to landfill and could save you money in the long-term.
real waste reduction: by choosing real nappies you could reduce your household waste by half and reduce the 8 million disposable nappies that go to landfill everyday in the uk.
there are eight kinds of nappies in the kits: we supply nappy buckets, laundry meshes, reusable wipes, paper and fleece liners, and waterproof wraps - everything you need!
or just do it anyway.
take a look at changeworks edinburgh charity shop and reuse map or look up your local charity shops.
check out  sustainable gift options online.
this can be through loads of specific activities but it all centres around one main concept –minimising waste.
or why not recommend it to a friend that’s pregnant?
leave a comment and let us know… and have a happy holiday season!
a  friend recommended a particular make and we used them the majority of the time  until my son was toilet trained.
go to our website or call us on 0800 512 012 to see how we can help you start making the changes that matter.
why buy a pre-cut real tree?
thank you to everyone who has worked with us over the past year to make differences that will improve their lives and help save the environment.
my friend told me about the real nappy project coordinators role, i  applied, and the rest is history.
through our experience of talking to parents we have found they are often looking for:impartial information that is free from confusing jargon; the opportunity to try the nappies, to see and feel them without spending large sums of money and talk to areal person who has used real nappies.
we wanted to share with youa special story of how our  advisors were able to make an impact for the people who need it most.
we encourage people to be tactile with the nappies themselves and fact-ile with the real nappy users who will answer as many questions as you can ask.
of course there’s help and support to inform businesses about the changes to legislation.
firstly, landfill sites don’t exist in some vacuous other-worldly place.
if you are a small to medium size enterprise,you can book your place to their next workshop held on 21 march at the apex international in edinburgh.
the lunch cook with lids on pans and match ring size
changeworks recycling excels at helping businesses to get serious about reducing their waste, cutting their costs and complying with zero waste legislation.
so what are the benefits of using real nappies?
every parent who comes to the project is at  the start of their ‘nappy journey’ and it is so lovely to be part  of that.
next week is an exciting time for the changeworks real nappy project.
parents most frequently come to the real nappy project at the beginning of their ‘nappy journey’, often overwhelmed by the information online.
the wrapping you’ve got the presents, so why not wrap them using reusable paper gift bags or recycled wrapping paper, newspapers or magazines you’ve finished reading rather than the shiny, metallic variety?
- al sourcing things, stuff and all sorts locally is becoming more of a hot topic these days.
the cards and gift tags
and if you’re still left unsure whether your business is comfortably on the road to zero waste compliance,get in touch with the team at changeworks recycling today and find out how we can help.
so if you have a baby or are about to have a baby and are interested in finding out about real nappies why not get in touch ortake a look online?
there’s nothing quite like the real thing buying a real tree in a pot and tending to it year after year sounds like a lovely green-fingered, green-minded approach.
the  aim of the trial pack is to provide parents with a sample of good quality,  reliable nappies, a wrap and accessories to help parents make an informed  decision when choosing reusable nappies.
we send our thanks and appreciation for all the care and concern shown to us by yourself and all the staff at changeworks.”
nikki and her story is only one part of what changeworks do for people  every day.
representatives from major environmental organisations such asfriends of the earth, the world wildlife fund and even local businesses such as tollcross’ soul cycles came along, having closed the shop for lunch.
firstly you need to have room for it, i.e. a garden or at least a balcony (i have neither).
cost savings: real nappies could save you £500  compared to disposable nappies even when the cost of washing  them is taken into account.
after  it was over, in an entourage of some fifty bikes, i cycled my way past  kowtowing buses and courteous car drivers while deep in conversation with a  green consultant whom i had just met at a set of traffic lights.
still  got your cards from last year?
reliable: real nappies are absorbent.
the manufacturing process (often in countries with little or no staff safety legislation) produces carcinogens – cancer-causing particles.
your money’s going to local businesses rather than supermarkets and far-flung cancer factories.
- ruth ps fancy something canny to put under your tree (fake, real, or home-made)?
if you’re loath to believe me, stop and check one out next time you’re passing.
i have been involved with the project for two years and it is still brilliant.
the newkitchen canny kit can help your kitchen run like a well oiled machine!
- al i was first introduced to flat nappies when my sister used them on my niece, who is now twenty-six years old.
if you’re in or near edinburgh, you’re lucky.
the stop climate chaos organisers explained that despite the success of the  rally, the campaign is ongoing: “thanks to your help, our recent e-actions have helped influence key  msps in the scottish parliament to call for proper funding for action on  climate change, but we still have to convince ministers to amend their  budget plans accordingly.
got any ideas for alternatives to having a christmas tree?
every business in scotland should be asking the question, ‘what is my  waste management provider doingright now to ensure i will comply with  the upcoming legislation?’
whatever you fancy… start home composting, cut down on your food waste and booking at least one holiday in your home country rather than flying abroad are all great sustainable ideas.
lending kits are available to borrow for  three weeks.
what about when it comes to the more luxurious purchases?
then there are the various counter-arguments that can really make your  mind boggle, especially if you really care about what and where you buy.
or you could buy one at the size you want and hope that it lasts – not likely if you buy it pre-cultivated.
this can be through loads of specific activities but it all centres around one  main concept –minimising waste.
it’s the perfect solution if you are willing and able to manage it.
landfill sites are – at their worst – exuding unfriendly gases and ridden with rats.
new laws and regulations will seriously alter the way scottish businesses manage their waste and they are coming into effect next year.
that i should buy a fake one because it will last a long time and produce less waste, i should buy one in a pot and keep it alive, or that i should abandon all vestiges of consumerism and spend christmas in a cave wrapped in discarded newspaper.
many trees are sprayed with pesticides too.
landfill sites are – at their worst – exuding unfriendly gases  and ridden with rats.
but we’ve still got to live our lives, togo forth and multiply, to develop as society … right?
and i find it a thoroughly depressing and usually fruitless task.
we care about people and the environment and we love you for caring too.
local products tend to have less packaging and are not transported long distances.
cost savings: real nappies could save you £500 compared to disposable nappies even when the cost of washing them is taken into account.
we asked angela dolan, our very own business recycling expert, to explain the landscape that zero waste solutions function in… when spending time with people of a lesser environmentally-conscious disposition, it pains me to admit i normally shy away from eulogising about being canny when it comes to waste and recycling.
but more than that, landfill capacity is neither limitless, nor are our natural resources.
it’s what makes all of us at changeworks smile
i feel good when i wear it and an added bonus is that i’ll  never bump into someone wearing the same thing.
in partnership with little froggie (an independent nappy retailer run by  ingrid leloup), the real nappy project will now be able to offer parents the  opportunity to place orders and buy new nappies from the following  manufactures: lollipop; little lambs; tots bots; blueberry; nature babies;  bright bots; wonderoos and geny. great value second hand nappies will also be available to buy, in addition  to nappy accessories such as liners, nappy nippas and meshes.
call 0800 512 012 for energy  efficiency advice.
the unwanted gift take any unwanted presents to your local charity shop, organise a swap party, sell online or offer up to anyone who’s interested on sites such as freecycle.
we care about our customers and we hope you care about working with us as much as you care about saving the environment and living a sustainable life.
over £1 billion worth of food is wasted by consumers in scotlandeach  year.
new laws and regulations will seriously alter the way scottish  businesses manage their waste and they are coming into effect next year.
if  only for a brief moment, it was easy to entertain the fantasy that edinburgh  could someday follow cities like amsterdam, where in the transport triangle it  is the car that comes bottom of the heap.
one day when i have a garden i’ll give it a go, but the poor thing will probably meet the same fate as most of the plants i’ve ever owned – an untimely demise.
trees will be shredded then  composted.
- leslie posted in general  | tagged babies, edinburgh, green, mothers,  nappies, real nappies, sustainable  | leave a reply this wheel’s on fire posted on january 12, 2012 reply on yer bike makes moves to keep sustainable transport spinning there was reportedly over 350 people taking part in wednesday’s rally  outside st. andrews’ house, and sporting a funky changeworks cycling  jacket, i was getting in on the action along with a whole host of other  environmental groups, cyclists and a plethora of people concerned with cuts to  sustainable transport.
we couldn’t have lived through another winter without  heating.
firstly, landfill sites don’t exist in some vacuous other-worldly  place.
thank you to everyone who has worked with us over the past year to make  differences that will improve their lives and help save the environment.
i certainly changed a few of those nappies and didn’t think it was so  difficult.
here are a few tips,  helping you to have a great time over the festive period while doing your bit  for the environment.
and so this poses the question – does it really matter if we chuck all our rubbish in the bin, sending it off to some landfill-land far, far away?
parents will also be able to drop off donated nappies at the event or thereafter at the changeworks offices, in the knowledge that their resale will be of benefit to the project.
the new, improved nappuccino will continue to offer parents free advice and information from parents who have experience of using real  nappies.
they look great, appeal to the (possible) tech geek in all of us and use less energy than traditional christmas lights.
providing people with the inspiration and resources that they need to make the important changes in their life is something that makes our hearts swell.
the grub support your  local economy by shopping for your festive food at your nearest farmers’  market.
recycle any cards you receive with your other cardboard via your kerbside  recycling scheme, local recycling facility or community recycling centre.
alsocheck your local council’s website for more on real, fake or home-made ‘trees’, check out our ruth’s recent blog.
funky: real nappies come in a variety of styles, colours  and patterns, to suit you, your baby and your budget.
still got your cards from last year?
scotland’s future could look a little something like this.
there are eight kinds of nappies in the kits: we supply nappy  buckets, laundry meshes, reusable wipes, paper and fleece liners, and  waterproof wraps - everything you need!
- jo i’m fed up hearing about how dreadful it is to have a real christmas tree.
- leslie on yer bike makes moves to keep sustainable transport spinning
that’s an average of £430 per household, £550 for the average scottish family with kids.
you could also invest in some light emitting diode (led) lights to decorate your tree and your home.
why not get in touch, and start doing as little or as much as you can manage to make the changes that matter?
for people in edinburgh, the lothians and the scottish borders check out  our onlinetoo good to waste –the a-z guide of practical ways to reduce,  reuse, repair and recycle.
one of the things that’ll enable us to continue successfully evolving  is to make best use of the resources we’ve got,for example, energy.
it could well be any of these but the way to find out is probably just to give it a try.
earlier that day, a few of us had set off from the office, gathering more members as we ascended to the top of one of edinburgh’s many hills, where the feeling of excitement was palpable.
in partnership with little froggie (an independent nappy retailer run by ingrid leloup), the real nappy project will now be able to offer parents the opportunity to place orders and buy new nappies from the following manufactures: lollipop; little lambs; tots bots; blueberry; nature babies; bright bots; wonderoos and geny. great value second hand nappies will also be available to buy, in addition to nappy accessories such as liners, nappy nippas and meshes.
are we all agreed that this cancels out any merit implied by their long life – so long, in fact, that they’ll outlive your great-great-grandchildren on a landfill tip somewhere?
changeworks is here to provide you with impartial advice about how you can make the changes that matter.
if your fingers are all thumbs, then cooking up a chutney or infusing a booze, might be more your avenue of choice.
local meat or exotic vegetables?
the cards and gift tags if you have access to a computer, why not send an electronic card to friends and family?
and we couldn’t think of a better day to spread that message to you.
the tree and decorations choose a  living tree that can be planted out after the festive season and used again.
do you think scotland will make it’s 42% emissions reduction  target by 2020?
we do talks, we hold events and we can give parents the opportunity to try some of the nappies currently available without spending lots of money.
thank you, and on behalf of everyone at changeworks: have a wonderful valentine’s day.
think of it as our gift to you.
but more than that, landfill capacity is neither limitless, nor are our natural  resources.
are you following a local diet or do you have great tips for where to get high quality local goods?
“i just cannot thank you enough – this has changed our  lives.
spokes, a local cycling campaign group, were in attendance along with transition town linlithgow.
changeworks’ affordable warmth team provides a free service to vulnerable people.
after it was over, in an entourage of some fifty bikes, i cycled my way past kowtowing buses and courteous car drivers while deep in conversation with a green consultant whom i had just met at a set of traffic lights.
some charities even sell trees to raise money for their causes too – it’s worth doing a bit of research to inform your choice of holiday horticulture.
there are four types of nappies in the  pack, each pack also includes a wrap.
providing people with the inspiration and resources that they need to make  the important changes in their life is something that makes our hearts swell.
and i find it a  thoroughly depressing and usually fruitless task.
kitchen canny is here to help you gain those  savings,eat better, live smarter, love the heart of your home.
we care about our customers and we hope you care about working with us as  much as you care about saving the environment and living a sustainable life.
there were no more safety pins and it wasn’t necessary to close your eyes and hope for the best anymore!
from considering carefully how we use  our energy for heat and water to whether or not we cycle to work, waste too  much food, or buy local organically grown produce; the decisions we make can  really make a difference.
some people grumbled, but the overwhelming mood  was one of optimism.
there are different motivations for it too, from  cutting the carbon associated from transporting goods to supporting your local  economy.
nikki and her story is only one part of what changeworks do for people every day.
funky: real nappies come in a variety of styles, colours and patterns, to suit you, your baby and your budget.
“i just cannot thank you enough – this has changed our lives.
charity shops can be superb places to find an unusual or individual gift for that special someone … for those of you living or visiting edinburgh, there’s the handyedinburgh charity shop and reuse map.
if you want it to grow into a nice big healthy looking tree you could be waiting a while – and you’ll have to re-pot it like any other plant, or even plant it in the ground.
chances are there’s alandfill site near your home or perhaps  even the school that your kids go to.
the project has twenty  fantastic volunteers who are all parents who have used real nappies so between  us we are able to answer all queries.
the grub support your local economy by shopping for your festive food at your nearest farmers’ market.
scottish business waste generated from the following industries: 43% from construction and demolition; 39% from commercial and industrial; 3% from agriculture and forestry.
it also makes me want to look at what else would be better if i bought it locally.
closer to home, it’s alsobeen said that some plastic trees give off a lead-based dust that, if inhaled, can lead to liver or kidney diseases or even fertility problems.
they also cause problems for councils that don’t use discarded trees for things like compost or biomass fuel.
for example,zero waste scotland is hosting a  series of workshops.
we’d also like to share with you the story of how we were able to  engage our expertise to help people reduce the amount of energy they use on a  long-term basis.
if they’re your kind of thing, why not make a new year’s  resolution to lead a more sustainable life?
compost your vegetable peelings, and by next christmas, you’ll have free nutritious compost – black gold! – to help make your garden grow.
many supermarkets now have plastic bag recycling facilities, so you can recycle bags when they are no longer fit for use.
fake trees are manufactured using materials like pvc (polyvinyl chloride – very un-green petroleum-derived plastic) and often travel thousands of miles from the factory to their destination markets.
hand-made gifts are personal and show you’ve invested your energy in  the giftee – checkremadeinedinburgh and other sites for inspiration and  techniques.
you can see what they had to say over atstv local.
to give a little context, i truly hate clothes shopping  especially for dresses – i don’t conform to conventional  dress-sizing (who does these days?
of course they last longer too, so you’ve really no  excuse.
do you want to make start making those changes in your life to benefit people and the environment?
we’d love to help you find out  how you can live a more sustainable life, save money on your fuel bills, cut  your food waste or learn how to educate others in your community.
we  have extended what we do in order to offer a more comprehensive service to  parents living in edinburgh and the lothians and also generate some income for  the project.
perhaps – but demands will be upon us before we know it and this is especially true for businesses who happen to produce 85% of our country’s waste*.
and if you’re still left unsure whether your business is comfortably  on the road to zero waste compliance,get in touch with the team at changeworks  recycling today and find out how we can help.
will buying locally be better or worse, cheaper or more expensive?
spokes, a local cycling campaign group, were in attendance along with  transition town linlithgow.
we asked angela dolan, our very own business recycling  expert, to explain the landscape that zero waste solutions function  in… when spending time with people of a lesser environmentally-conscious  disposition, it pains me to admit i normally shy away from eulogising about  being canny when it comes to waste and recycling.
we’d love to help you find out how you can live a more sustainable life, save money on your fuel bills, cut your food waste or learn how to educate others in your community.
we have extended what we do in order to offer a more comprehensive service to parents living in edinburgh and the lothians and also generate some income for the project.
if your tree doesn’t have roots, you will be able to recycle it, in most areas, using your kerbside recycling service or you can take it to a community recycling centre.
why not get in touch, and start doing as little or as much as you can  manage to make the changes that matter?
my partner and i enjoyed using the nappies,  two part, birth to potty and found them pretty straight forward.
the lunch cook with lids on pans and  match ring size to saucepan size to save energy.
it was genuinely my best dress-buying experience ever.
minimising waste is fundamental to the scottish government’s zero  waste plan which has set ambitious targets to secure scotland’s future in  becoming a zero waste nation come 2025.
cutting out pictures from old christmas cards is  a neat way to make home-made gift tags.
i recently had a  dress made by a local tailor/dressmaker.
you can get hold of oneonline.
the party avoid disposable plates, cutlery and napkins and use real ones instead, which reduce waste and look smart.
trees will be shredded then composted.
we have two project  incentivestrial packs and lending kits.
the sales remember to take reusable bags or reuse old plastic bags, when you venture out to the shops.
this really could have been a glimpse of the future, and it’s a  future i’d be happy to live in.
minimising waste is fundamental to the scottish government’s zero waste plan which has set ambitious targets to secure scotland’s future in becoming a zero waste nation come 2025.
but like the flowers (not so much the limp radicchio) a real christmas tree brings delight and enjoyment to families, especially children – and cats.
the party avoid disposable plates,  cutlery and napkins and use real ones instead, which reduce waste and look  smart.
for example, businesses producing or serving food will be required to remove it  from their general waste stream for recycling so that heat and energy can be  extracted.
the sales remember to take reusable  bags or reuse old plastic bags, when you venture out to the shops.
for people in edinburgh, the lothians and the scottish borders check out our onlinetoo good to waste –the a-z guide of practical ways to reduce, reuse, repair and recycle.
advice given is that trees are dormant in winter and shouldn’t be indoors for more than a week.
but we’ve still got to live our lives, togo forth and  multiply, to develop as society … right?
it is a shame that these trees are ‘killed’ just to stand looking glamorous in a corner for a matter of days.
over £1 billion worth of food is wasted by consumers in scotlandeach year.
you can follow what people were saying throughout the event on twitter , and if you want to keep up with green issues be sure to find changeworks there and on facebook.
posted on march 13, 2012 reply changeworks recycling excels at helping businesses to get  serious about reducing their waste, cutting their costs and complying  with zero waste legislation.
parents will  also be able to drop off donated nappies at the event or thereafter at the  changeworks offices, in the knowledge that their resale will be of benefit to  the project.
tie up presents with funky ribbon, minimalist string or natural raffia – no sticky tape means you can save the paper and use it again.
oisín murphy-lawless and baby orla (pictured right) were among a diverse group of all ages (and cycling skills) who joined the crowd that had gathered to help keep the scottish government’s climate change targets on track.
some people grumbled, but the overwhelming mood was one of optimism.
call 0800 512 012 for energy efficiency advice.
this alone is a strong case to minimise our waste sent to landfill.
you can follow what people were saying throughout the event on twitter , and if you want to keep up with green issues be sure to find changeworks  there and on facebook.
the budget bill will be laid before parliament next  week and will be finalised and voted on before mid-february.
one  i wanted to pursue because of cost and definitely because of the environment.
representatives from major environmental  organisations such asfriends of the earth, the world wildlife fund and even  local businesses such as tollcross’ soul cycles came along, having closed  the shop for lunch.
locally sourced organic meat sounds like  a good idea but what if you stopped worrying about the local aspect and became  vegetarian, wouldn’t that have a bigger impact on your carbon footprint?
it cost me £70 to have a dress designed and made to fit and flatter my shape.
so when i was expecting my baby i knew real nappies were an option, and one i wanted to pursue because of cost and definitely because of the environment.
this time though, with a wonderful wee invention called the ‘nappy nippa’.
for example, businesses producing or serving food will be required to remove it from their general waste stream for recycling so that heat and energy can be extracted.
through our experience of talking to parents we have found they are often  looking for:impartial information that is free from confusing jargon; the  opportunity to try the nappies, to see and feel them without spending large  sums of money and talk to areal person who has used real nappies.
we think it’s important to remember that we are visitors on a very  old planet for a short space of time and all the efforts we can make to reduce  our carbon footprint really do matter.
they are cultivated on a large-scale to meet the needs of the timber industry.
seems like a long way away?
put leftovers in  reusable containers, rather than wrapping them in foil or plastic film, and  recycle your empty bottles and jars.
the new year (it’s a new dawn, it’s a new day)
wait until you have a full load before  using your dish washer: full load, eco cycle and whoever didn’t cook  cleans up.
inspiring change for people and the environment search are you on the fast track to zero waste?
it was genuinely my best dress-buying  experience ever.
maybe set yourself a resolution to make all your gifts hand-made  next year, by making use of the free drop-in sessions and the training –  appliqué patchwork anyone?
using re-chargeable batteries will help to reduce the number of single use batteries going to landfill and could save you money in the long-term.
better for the environment and, if you decide to have a wee glass of festive fizz, it’s no problem getting back home.
better for the environment and, if you  decide to have a wee glass of festive fizz, it’s no problem getting back  home.
share this: email digg posted in general  | tagged business, business waste,  changeworks, changeworks recycling, green, landfill, legislation, recycling,  scotland, waste solutions, zero waste  | leave a reply from the heart… posted on february 14, 2012 reply we care about people and the environment and we love you for caring  too.
but twenty years  later i didn’t ever think cloth nappies were an option until i went to  visit a friend in cumbria who again was using flat nappies.
a friend recommended a particular make and we used them the majority of the time until my son was toilet trained.
got a lot of cars through the post, why not help outone of these charities by donating your old stamps.
that’s an average of £430 per household, £550 for the  average scottish family with kids.
hire extra glasses, rather than buying new ones.
then there are the various counter-arguments that can really make your mind boggle, especially if you really care about what and where you buy.
many real nappies are shaped to fit, fasten with velcro or poppers and are covered with a breathable waterproof wrap.
if  your tree doesn’t have roots, you will be able to recycle it, in most  areas, using your kerbside recycling service or you can take it to a community  recycling centre.
real waste reduction: by choosing real nappies you could  reduce your household waste by half and reduce the 8 million disposable nappies  that go to landfill everyday in the uk.
today is a day for remembering what’s important, what we care about  and the things we can do that make a difference.
cutting out pictures from old christmas cards is a neat way to make home-made gift tags.
it cost me £70 to have a dress designed and made to fit and flatter  my shape.
if only for a brief moment, it was easy to entertain the fantasy that edinburgh could someday follow cities like amsterdam, where in the transport triangle it is the car that comes bottom of the heap.
maybe set yourself a resolution to make all your gifts hand-made next year, by making use of the free drop-in sessions and the training – appliqué patchwork anyone?
join 357 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
local products tend to have less packaging and are not transported long  distances.
for  a hand-made traditional feel and a great way to spend a wet afternoon, there  are a whole stack oftutorials online.
back to the sparkly stuff.
the wrapping you’ve got the presents, so why not wrap them using reusable paper  gift bags or recycled wrapping paper, newspapers or magazines you’ve  finished reading rather than the shiny, metallic variety?
some producers do make sure the environmental impact is kept to a minimum, so if there’s an ethical supplier near you (and you don’t mind paying a few quid extra) that’s an option that might shrink your tree-guilt.
all of these things the real nappy project can offer.
it’s like buying someone a bunch of flowers or worse still, letting a bag of salad go off in the fridge.
there are loads of solar-powered toys and cool wind-up gadgets around, so why not think about these as presents for kids – of all ages!
also businesses will be required to source-segregate recyclable materials like paper, cans, plastic, cardboard, glass and so on.
we wanted to share with youa special story of how our advisors were able to make an impact for the people who need it most.
gone are the days of pins and complicated  folding!
during the event transport and housing minister, keith brown, received a  letter from stop climate chaos scotland backing the “social,  environmental and economic benefits” that emissions reduction targets  would bring.
- al email digg posted in general, sustainability in communities and schools  | tagged action, bikes, climate change, co2 emissions, cycling, edinburgh, local,  sustainable transport  | leave a reply shop local, buy local posted on january 4, 2012 reply sourcing things, stuff and all sorts locally is becoming more of a hot  topic these days.
there are four types of nappies in the pack, each pack also includes a wrap.
shaped nappies are elasticated around the waist and legs and  offer excellent containment particularly for new born babies.
every business in scotland should be asking the question, ‘what is my waste management provider doingright now to ensure i will comply with the upcoming legislation?’
take food, for example, there’s lots to think about and there  isn’t one definitive answer when it comes to life’s most  fundamental purchases: a humble tomato – which is better, one grown locally in a heated  greenhouse or one grown outdoors in a faraway land that had to make a very long  trip to get here?
let’s face it, nobody wants to be on the receiving end of those rolling eyes or that glazed gaze of boredom.
we think it’s important to remember that we are visitors on a very old planet for a short space of time and all the efforts we can make to reduce our carbon footprint really do matter.
there’s no need to cancel christmas – for me, spending money on a real tree is better for the economy and the environment.
try to choose unwrapped fruit and vegetables, to cut down on  unnecessary packaging.
i recently had a dress made by a local tailor/dressmaker.
if your fingers are all thumbs, then cooking up a chutney or infusing a  booze, might be more your avenue of choice.
perhaps – but demands will be upon us before we know it and this is  especially true for businesses who happen to produce 85% of our country’s  waste*.
take any unwanted  presents to your local charity shop, organise a swap party, sell online or  offer up to anyone who’s interested on sites such as freecycle.
wait until you have a full load before using your dish washer: full load, eco cycle and whoever didn’t cook cleans up.
many  supermarkets now have plastic bag recycling facilities, so you can recycle bags  when they are no longer fit for use.
alsocheck your local council’s website for more on real, fake or home-made ‘trees’, check out our  ruth’s recent blog.
my friend told me about the real nappy project coordinators role, i applied, and the rest is history.
the budget bill will be laid before parliament next week and will be finalised and voted on before mid-february.
oisín murphy-lawless and baby orla (pictured right) were among  a diverse group of all ages (and cycling skills) who joined the crowd that had  gathered to help keep the scottish government’s climate  change targets on track.
do you think scotland will make it’s 42% emissions reduction target by 2020?
thank you, and on behalf of everyone at changeworks: have a wonderful  valentine’s day.
check out sustainable gift options online.
i have been involved with the project for two  years and it is still brilliant.
for me, this local purchase was  definitely a cost-effective and positive experience that i plan to repeat.
to saucepan size to save energy.
the travel try to use public transport, where  possible, during the festive season.
you can make decorations from re-used paper.
we’d also like to share with you the story of how we were able to engage our expertise to help people reduce the amount of energy they use on a long-term basis.
one of the things that’ll enable us to continue successfully evolving is to make best use of the resources we’ve got,for example, energy.
so there is still an opportunity to influence what is and what isn’t funded.”
then, of course, there are clothes to consider.
tell us about your experiences.
it’s what makes all of us at changeworks smile and we couldn’t  think of a better day to spread that message to you.
we do have a choice, and what we decide to do (not just at christmas but every day) has an impact on the world around us – so itis worth considering what’s right for you and what reflects your values
or  why not recommend it to a friend that’s pregnant?
a pretty good way to start the new year.
the festive season is a time for celebration for many people and, almost inevitably, a spot of overindulgence.
kitchen canny is here to help you gain those savings,eat better, live smarter, love the heart of your home.
and the experience of picking one out from the yard and watching it get wrapped up so you can manhandle it back home.
the travel try to use public transport, where possible, during the festive season.
think global, act local coniferous trees are grown in (but not native to) scotland.
this really could have been a glimpse of the future, and it’s a future i’d be happy to live in.
there’s something so nostalgic and cheering about the smell of the sap, the ordeal of getting it home (this year we borrowed a shopping trolley, which we returned of course!)
the duncan place nappuccino on thursday 26 january at duncan place resource centre, duncan place (just off duke  street) from 10-11.30am is ‘new & improved’.
fake ones – nice to look at
shaped nappies are elasticated around the waist and legs and offer excellent containment particularly for new born babies.
and so this poses the question – does it really matter if we  chuck all our rubbish in the bin, sending it off to some landfill-land far, far  away?
if  you’re in or near edinburgh, you’re lucky.
the stop climate chaos organisers explained that despite the success of the rally, the campaign is ongoing: “thanks to your help, our recent e-actions have helped influence key msps in the scottish parliament to call for proper funding for action on climate change, but we still have to convince ministers to amend their budget plans accordingly.
will buying  locally be better or worse, cheaper or more expensive?
different types of nappies are available to see and parents can apply for, and collect, trial packs and lending kits.
if you have  access to a computer, why not send an electronic card to friends and family?
well, okay, no one’s suggested that last one yet but it’s only a matter of time.
also handy to check local press and council websites for details.
here are a few tips, helping you to have a great time over the festive period while doing your bit for the environment.
got a lot of cars through the post, why  not help outone of these charities by donating your old stamps.
they don’t just come with a high carbon footprint, they can cause health problems too.
try to choose unwrapped fruit and vegetables, to cut down on unnecessary packaging.
waterproof wraps offer a second layer to protect against leaks.