if you want to just point and click and have your  tree delivered to your front door, then buy one online.
the bottom line is, you can spend $15 to over $200 on a tree in many places.
myth #8: real christmas trees have pesticides and chemicals on them.
and each year, growers plant one to three seedlings for each tree harvested.
there has never been a scientific research article suggesting that harmful  levels of chemical residue exists on christmas trees, and in fact there have  been studies looking for it.
so what if the  tree drops some needles - you’re going to vacuum anyway right?....
it all depends on what you’re looking for in a tree.
they're waiting to be put  into the recycling program.
we know  there are some crazy things that people have been told about real christmas  trees over the years.
the really ironic part of the ad for the fake tree is one of the selling points is that it comes in a sturdy cardboard box.
while many of these myths can be traced back to the fake tree industry, many  are like urban legends ...
there are many different styles and types of tree stands...pick one that's easy for you, as long as it holds enough water.
they catch on fire every year.
and unlike real trees,  which are biodegradable and recyclable, fake trees are always a burden to the  environment.
second, who says it has to be a hassle?
as for pollens, which certainly can be an allergen to people, a real tree itself is unlikely to produce pollen during december, and even if it did, pollens from pines are not a known allergen.
if you want a huge variety of trees, both species and sizes, go to a specialty lot.
each year, many of them show a dramatic image of a tree bursting into flames, intending to scare people into watching the news.
busted: christmas tree recycling programs are available nationwide, and many are quite creative.
sources include the national institute of environmental health science (niehs) and the american academy of allergy, asthma & immunology (aaaai).
we’ve got copies of ads for fake trees that say exactly that: “save a tree."
each year, ncta receives more than 2,000 inquiries  from the public, so we have a pretty good feel for what people think about  christmas trees.
that's not a hassle, that's a blessing.
resources we have found pertaining to holiday allergy prevention include: www.aaaai.org/media/news_releases/2004/11/111204.stm www.hoptechno.com/book46.htm myth #4: it's better to use a fake tree because you can re-use it each year.
so what if the tree drops some needles - you’re going to vacuum anyway right?....
sheesh, get real, no  pun intended.
i have a round mat with  a waterproof backing to put under my stand so any water drops don't stain my  floor ...it cost me like four bucks or something.
myth #10: real christmas trees are a hassle and a mess.
they would not engage in an activity that would put their families, employees or the people they sell their product to in harms way.
the time invested in buying and maintaining a farm-grown christmas tree is nothing compared to what you get out of it.
and the anchor/reporter will say, “if you get a  christmas tree, this could happen to you ...”
home | about | contact | tree search | site search
learn more --> © 1996 - 2005 national christmas tree association, inc. produced by: legal notices 10 biggest myths about christmas trees myths, urban legends, misperceptions and sometimes outright lies.
but it’s a very tiny percentage of all trees used.
busted: like anything  else, you can find a wide range of prices, and spend what you want to spend.
myth #3: real christmas trees aggravate allergies.
they are planted by farmers to be used specifically as christmas trees.
we’ve collected sources of information both about trees and allergies and  share these with people.
they're not "being  thrown in the trash" or ending up in landfills.
the top 10 list is culled from emails received by consumers, plus questions by news media and messages on blogs and such.
let it dry completely before bringing indoors.
while many of these myths can be traced back to the fake tree industry, many are like urban legends ...
each year, ncta receives more than 2,000 inquiries from the public, so we have a pretty good feel for what people think about christmas trees.
most trees come from a  farm where someone plants them.
the reality is, a tree being accidentally ignited is extremely rare.
busted: like anything else, you can find a wide range of prices, and spend what you want to spend.
busted: this is obviously tied to myth #1, and also directly attributable to the fake  tree industry.
don’t believe it?just watch this... myth #6: real trees cost too much.
whether you use a fresh christmas tree from a farm, or an artificial tree stored in a box, if you have sensitive allergies to dust, molds, etc., aaaai recommends you spray the tree down in the yard with a hose before putting up.
the state of california requires a warning label on fake trees and wreaths.
according to a report from  the national fire protection association, 28% of home fires involving a  christmas tree were a fake one.
according to the niehs of the  50,000 different kinds of trees, less than 100 have been shown to cause  allergies.
if you just want a tree quick and easy, then go to a lot designed for that.
so it’s not just “the christmas tree people” saying that the  farm-grown tree itself is not the culprit.
a farm-grown christmas tree is 100% biodegradable, so it can be used for all kinds of things in nature, from mulch to erosion control.
seriously, do people still believe this?
but being outdoors for years in the field, a christmas tree can collect pollens, dust, mold or other allergens.
most trees come from a farm where someone plants them.
close to half a billion trees are currently growing on tree farms in the u.s.  alone.
so it’s not just “the christmas tree people” saying that the farm-grown tree itself is not the culprit.
home | about | contact | tree search | site searchhome | about | contact | tree search | site search
it  all depends on what you’re looking for in a tree.
they just sort of exist and nobody really knows how they started.
on the flip side, there have been studies showing  a potential health danger of lead dust coming from plastic trees.
busted: you’d certainly think so by watching the local “action news” team on tv.
people often lament the sight of christmas trees at the curb after christmas...but they don't realize that many communities have curb-side pick up as part of their recycling program.
bottom line,  don’t let someone tell you it’s a hassle, because you can decide  how much time to spend getting a tree.
according to a report from the national fire protection association, 28% of home fires involving a christmas tree were a fake one.
the reality is, a tree  being accidentally ignited is extremely rare.
chemicals are  used only when needed and only according to the specified instructions and  regulations of the epa, the usda and the fda.
if you want to just point and click and have your tree delivered to your front door, then buy one online.
there are funnels, cleverly designed  to blend into the tree, that make adding water easier.
that's not a hassle, that's a  blessing.
to be completely accurate,  in a few locations around north america, the forest service sells permits for  people to harvest wild trees.
often, we get emails and inquiries from news media asking if there is a type of christmas tree that won’t bother a person’s allergies.
the top 10 list  is culled from emails received by consumers, plus questions by news media and  messages on blogs and such.
a farm-grown christmas tree is 100% biodegradable, so it can be  used for all kinds of things in nature, from mulch to erosion control.
people often lament the sight of christmas trees  at the curb after christmas...but they don't realize that many communities have  curb-side pick up as part of their recycling program.
there are many places to buy a tree and all offer something a little different.
and those images of trees burning?
but being outdoors for years in the field, a christmas tree can collect  pollens, dust, mold or other allergens.
christmas tree farmers live on  their land and raise their families there.
as for pollens, which certainly can be an allergen to people, a real tree  itself is unlikely to produce pollen during december, and even if it did,  pollens from pines are not a known allergen.
now, ncta is launching the “great de-myth-ification campaign”  with its 10 biggest myths about christmas trees, designed to provide  straight-forward answers and facts in a simple, compiled list.
if you want to spend a lot of time with family or friends getting your tree and  have some entertainment, go to a choose & cut farm.
each year, many of them show a  dramatic image of a tree bursting into flames, intending to scare people into  watching the news.
trees absorb carbon dioxide and produce  oxygen while growing.
here are the 10 biggest myths, in no specific order: myth #1: real christmas trees are cut down from forests.
prices vary by many  variables including: location of retail lot, where the tree was harvested,  species, size, grade, who’s selling it and even sometimes day of the  week.
if you just want a tree quick and easy, then go  to a lot designed for that.
even if you would use one for 20 years or more, it will  eventually be thrown away and end up in a landfill.
most allergies are specific to one type of tree.
close to half a billion trees are currently growing on tree farms in the u.s. alone.
chemicals are used only when needed and only according to the specified instructions and regulations of the epa, the usda and the fda.
busted: myths such as this often get a foothold due to the disconnect that most people have with agricultural practices.
there has never been a scientific research article suggesting that harmful levels of chemical residue exists on christmas trees, and in fact there have been studies looking for it.
to suggest otherwise is at best uninformed, and at worst,  offensive.
ummm, how exactly is that  saving a tree?
busted: um, no,  they’re not.
the first thing to ask someone if they say  “i don’t want a real tree because i might have to vacuum up  needles” is this: does that mean you don’t vacuum normally?
if you want to spend a lot of time with family or friends getting your tree and have some entertainment, go to a choose & cut farm.
myth #2: you save a tree by using a fake tree.
watch this clip myth #9: real christmas trees end up in landfills.
i spend more time than that making my picks in the weekly office football pool.
they do this in places to create fire breaks.
they're not "being thrown in the trash" or ending up in landfills.
there are funnels, cleverly designed to blend into the tree, that make adding water easier.
according to research, most fake trees are only used 6 to 9 years before  they’re disposed.
if i spend $20 on a christmas tree from a farm each year and you spend $300 on a fake tree, you’d have to use it for 15 years (way past the average) before i will have spent the same amount as you.
they’re often aided by gasoline or lighter fluid.
“you can get your investment in a fake tree back in as little as 3 years...
of course, this is false, because trees are a crop.
i have a round mat with a waterproof backing to put under my stand so any water drops don't stain my floor ...it cost me like four bucks or something.
we’ve collected sources of information both about trees and allergies and share these with people.
a quick summary of the sources we have found are that while it’s possible that a person may be allergic to tree pollen or even tree sap, it’s not as widespread as many believe.
myth #5: christmas trees are a fire safety hazard and frequently catch on fire.
christmas tree farmers do not use chemicals in a "harmful" manner.
there are many different styles and types of tree stands...pick one that's easy  for you, as long as it holds enough water.
busted: myths such as this often get a foothold due to the  disconnect that most people have with agricultural practices.
whether you use a fresh christmas tree from a  farm, or an artificial tree stored in a box, if you have sensitive allergies to  dust, molds, etc., aaaai recommends you spray the tree down in the yard with a  hose before putting up.
prices vary by many variables including: location of retail lot, where the tree was harvested, species, size, grade, who’s selling it and even sometimes day of the week.
that takes, what...an extra 25 seconds per day?
to suggest otherwise is at best uninformed, and at worst, offensive.
we know there are some crazy things that people have been told about real christmas trees over the years.
busted: it's all relative.
if i spend $20 on a christmas tree from a farm each year and  you spend $300 on a fake tree, you’d have to use it for 15 years (way  past the average) before i will have spent the same amount as you.
on the flip side, there have been studies showing a potential health danger of lead dust coming from plastic trees.
and unlike real trees, which are biodegradable and recyclable, fake trees are always a burden to the environment.
i spend more time than that making my picks in the weekly office  football pool.
to be completely accurate, in a few locations around north america, the forest service sells permits for people to harvest wild trees.
if you want to  support your community organizations in the process, buy one from a nonprofit  selling them as a fundraiser.
and this has led to a large number of confused consumers.
the state of  california requires a warning label on fake trees and wreaths.
and the anchor/reporter will say, “if you get a christmas tree, this could happen to you ...”
according to research, most fake trees are only used 6 to 9 years before they’re disposed.
they just sort of exist and nobody really knows how  they started.
(hint: the fake tree people.)
that’s called “funny math” where i’m from.
busted: this is obviously tied to myth #1, and also directly attributable to the fake tree industry.
ummm, how exactly is that saving a tree?
bottom line, don’t let someone tell you it’s a hassle, because you can decide how much time to spend getting a tree.
you may often hear it's a hassle to water a farm-grown tree every day.
of course, so can the artificial tree  stored in the attic or basement.
they would not engage in an activity  that would put their families, employees or the people they sell their product  to in harms way.
according to the niehs of the 50,000 different kinds of trees, less than 100 have been shown to cause allergies.
they're waiting to be put into the recycling program.
sources include the national institute of environmental health science  (niehs) and the american academy of allergy, asthma & immunology (aaaai).
the bottom line is, you can spend $15 to over $200 on a tree in many  places.
the really ironic part of the ad for the fake tree is one of the selling  points is that it comes in a sturdy cardboard box.
we have read that in rare cases, people can have an allergy to certain species of tree sap.
a quick summary of the sources we have found are that while it’s  possible that a person may be allergic to tree pollen or even tree sap,  it’s not as widespread as many believe.
home | trees | members | news/media | teachers | kids & fun | recycling produced by: web developers, inc. legal notices myths, urban legends, misperceptions and sometimes outright lies.
busted: that’s a very short-sighted perspective.
the first thing to ask someone if they say “i don’t want a real tree because i might have to vacuum up needles” is this: does that mean you don’t vacuum normally?
third, the hard goods used with a farm-grown tree have come a long way.
even if you would use one for 20 years or more, it will eventually be thrown away and end up in a landfill.
my favorite part is when fake tree people try to use this as a selling point.
fake trees?....see myth #4 above.
i mean, vacuuming should be a regular household chore all year long.
and those images  of trees burning?
and each year, growers plant one to three  seedlings for each tree harvested.
myth #7: fake trees are fireproof.
i mean,  vacuuming should be a regular household chore all year long.
christmas tree  farmers do not use chemicals in a "harmful" manner.
resources we have found pertaining to holiday allergy prevention include:  www.aaaai.org/media/news_releases/2004/11/111204.stm www.hoptechno.com/book46.htm myth #4: it's better to use a fake tree because you can re-use it each  year.
of course, this is false, because trees are a  crop.
a home that “smells” like christmas.
my favorite part is when fake tree people try to use this as a selling  point.
but  it’s a very tiny percentage of all trees used.
of course, so can the artificial tree stored in the attic or basement.
christmas tree farmers live on their land and raise their families there.
we’ve got copies of ads for fake trees that say exactly  that: “save a tree."
often, we get emails and inquiries from news media asking if there is a  type of christmas tree that won’t bother a person’s allergies.
the time invested in buying and maintaining a  farm-grown christmas tree is nothing compared to what you get out of it.
we have read that in rare cases,  people can have an allergy to certain species of tree sap.
if you want to support your community organizations in the process, buy one from a nonprofit selling them as a fundraiser.
busted: you’d certainly think so by watching the  local “action news” team on tv.
now, ncta is launching the “great de-myth-ification campaign” with its 10 biggest myths about christmas trees, designed to provide straight-forward answers and facts in a simple, compiled list.
knowledge that you made a good environmental choice.
if you want a huge  variety of trees, both species and sizes, go to a specialty lot.
knowledge  that you made a good environmental choice.
“you can get your investment in a fake tree back in as little as 3  years...
busted: christmas tree recycling programs are available nationwide, and many are  quite creative.
myth #5: christmas trees are a fire safety hazard and frequently catch  on fire.
busted: um, no, they’re not.
that’s called “funny math” where  i’m from.
sheesh, get real, no pun intended.