last weekend i visited the northwest flower and garden show and it was a trip to a gardeners’ promise land!
when temps are below freezing every night and the air is very dry with little moistureanywhere, it is really tough on tree/plant health.
here are a couple of photos of other display gardens that offered unique beats… the "green" or floral wall displays were all the rage...
i looked for some recipes with a healthy bent and came up with this one frommartha stewart.
i find myself looking through photos of the natural world from trips we’ve taken the previous year and thinking about how i can incorporate some elements of the natural world’s beauty into my controlled, man-made environment.
and with so much garden speak and garden  variety brimming about it was more than a little hard to be disciplined.
later, i throw a couple of inches of mulch over the top of all of the planted areas.
whew, thanks again mother n!
but last week, during one of the rainy-windy afternoons, i decided to prolong my garden shut-down “to-dos” a bit longer and use the last of my san marzano tomatoes that have been ripening in the window sill over the last couple of weeks.
as the years go by i appreciate the subtleness of thanksgiving more and more.
so i’m trying baker creek heirloom seeds for my beet seeds (‘bulls blood’ and ‘golden’).
the activity around it is grounded in using seasonable food to share a special meal with loved ones.
a real beaut... tags: environmentally friendly trees, fake christmas tree, holidays, real christmas tree, real christmas tree vs. fake christmas tree
here are a couple of photos of other display gardens that offered unique  beats… the "green" or floral wall displays were all the rage...
or, maybe you are really hard-core – part of the ‘live tree party movement’ – that goes potted and takes it all the way by finding a permanent outdoor home?
i knowthere is quite an upside to these counterfeit creations like… fake $350 costco tree looking pretty perfect
the display gardens and seminars are fantastic and there is a plethora of new ideas and information to absorb.
as elementary as that sounds, it plays a key role in knowing when to harvest edibles.
i’ve never purchased from them before but they have an excellent reputation (only selling non-gmo seeds), very reasonable prices and the largest selection of heirloom seeds available in the u.s.
some type of tree grows most everywhere around the world and they have been around since pre-historic times so i feel they connect us to the earth and to time gone by thousands of years ago.
i found myself in the steady rhythm of a full-blown shopping spree.
but look for a post next week on general orchid care for the types most commonly available.
my san marzano tomato was very prolific this year and of course there were many, many tomatoes yet to ripen when the frosty night-time lows hit.
i had no one to help me resist temptations.
i am resting because of all the fun social celebrations that took place, because this is the month with the least garden activities and because i feel a need to gather soulful, creative energy.
and voila...you see?
i made food from myfebruary edible garden !
some from years ago and others recent but all in my memory and thankful thoughts.
the crisp was a hit with my family !
and so many others have changed into fall ‘attire’… the fall garden is savory with ripe vegetables and fruits filled with goodness, all-ready for consumption.
i’ve got a few things from them already but have not finished my selections just yet.
my friend showing no restraint and just plain 'giddiness' over her new garden must-have!
i’m imagining how wonderful they will look and taste in just a another couple of months.
in case you are still harvesting or ripening tomatoes inside and are interested in a marinara the recipe is below.
in large pot, heat oil over medium heat.
…next task is to get the rake out and capture them into the composter.
i made my last batch of marinara sauce with them and used my friend shauney’s recipe that has turned into my favorite of the homemade marinara’s
i chose ‘best blueberry muffins’ from eighty-twenty, a food blog that i like.
i’m so excited to go to this show again!
this company focuses primarily on fragrant plants, as the name reveals and has a nice selection of annuals, perennials, grasses and herbs.
it’s time for an update on the apple espalier as the fall season gets underway.
have you ever decided against purchasing an orchid due to the fear of not being able to get it to rebloom?
and i just don’t see how someone can place this “spin” on a faux tree.
they are symbolic of the next spring that is sure to come and they promise new-found life and beauty in the days to come.
of course, it was too big for the plane so my friend is keeping it for me until the next time i get to portland.
i have always been a die-hard fan of summer but over the last several years i must admit a great growing affection for fall.
they offer many advantages when growing ‘green goods’ such as vegetables, herbs or flowers.
if you’ve not taken in a garden show  for a few years or perhaps ever, i highly recommend it.
i’ve tried this year.
really…the airline only  lets you bring two carry-ons!”
the book looks to be quite a resource for learning about gardening with heirloom varieties.
lots of  opportunities to learn about new ideas combined with creative, positive people  makes for a great gig!
now i need to get the rest of the spring promises in the ground… and see all these lovely leaves?
(that’s once you get it and have it in the house. )
in fact not just a single dose, but a double dose!
my friend showing no restraint and just plain 'giddiness' over her new  garden must-have!
i ended my spree on a pleasant note settling on an amazing wicker basket for harvest gathering.
the message, “every plant’s single goal is to flower so it can reproduce and spread itself.”
i’ve not grown either of these types of tulips before and am excited for more interesting foliage (mottled/striped leaves) as well as the luscious blooms.
as elementary as that  sounds, it plays a key role in knowing when to harvest edibles.
both of these talks were entertaining and more importantly focused on amazing people and projects currently underway helping people across america to get growing some of their own food.
since they are full of fiber, magnesium and potassium not to mention beta-carotene, calcium and iron and are easy to prepare there is a lot to like about beets!
how do you motivate yourself to shut-down the garden if living in zone 7 and colder?
first up, is selecting seeds.
time to start the forward motion for a gorgeous and productive garden in 2012.
one of my new veggie choices for this year is beets.
so the first “to do” – get the new tulips in the ground!
feb last weekend i visited the northwest flower and garden show and it was a  trip to a gardeners’ promise land!
these two beauties opened their first blossom on the same day.
when composted, they actually even improve the earth adding nutrients back into the soil!
of course you can skip this step if you like a chunkier marinara.
i had already received some motivation tulips frombrent and becky’s bulbs!
add celery, carrots, thyme, salt and pepper.
i was intrigued with combining these intricately flavored cherries with pistachios, a favorite nut around our house.
so if cupid’s arrow delivers some orchid amore to you this week, fear not and look forward to enjoying their beauty for years to come.
the two key advantages raised beds offer are 1) they can be filled with perfect soil and 2) they provide ideal soil drainage.
this show is a great place to spend time with gardening friends, learn from the pros and buy some fantastic plants!
but something strikes through this imaginative state and i think about my edible garden from last year that is in the freezer?
love the "raised" seating with fragrant blooms underneath... ground-level, "comfy" seating many gardens featured panels for privacy, structure and ambience after picking up some lily bulbs and black-foliage dahlia tubers, (items easily packed in my suitcase)
seeds of change, rene’s gardens, territorial seed co., and botanical interests are other wonderful seed companies that i always purchase a packet or two from.
so it can reproduce and spread itself.”
little bags of frozen berries were stuffed everywhere in our freezer.
the swift changes mean many tasks for the head gardener, me!
instead, my daughters (also sometimes referred to as ‘garden mates’ ) have developed a wonderful habit of eating a bowlful of frozen blueberries each night before they go to bed.
i  found this helpful because oftentimes i find myself distracted with other  things during what is most likely the prime harvest window of some crops  because i’m thinking they can “keep” awhile longer since they  are still in the ground/growing.
remove bay leaves and season with salt and pepper to taste.
for gardening in particular, the new year means a new growing season and for garden-crazies like me a new-found sense of excitement and hope.
both of these talks were entertaining and more  importantly focused on amazing people and projects currently underway helping  people across america to get growing some of their own food.
spaghetti is always easy but having the homemade sauce with deliciousness from the garden and a different flavor than store-bought sauces makes it seem special.
thank you all for being in my life.
it is so routine for them that they don’t even ask about dessert anymore, they just know they’ll get blueberries if they eat a good dinner.
new info: i managed to stay quite focused and calm during the seminars and my  favorite ones were joe lamp’l's “growing a greener world –  gardening to make a difference,”  and graham kerr’s (formerly  known as the ‘galloping gourmet’)
anything a gardener would imagine or  want could be found here.
just go to any garden store, nursery or even grocery/big box stores and see the beautiful spikes l0aded with intricately designed blooms.
if you’ve not taken in a garden show for a few years or perhaps ever, i highly recommend it.
however, the whole purpose of preserving the harvest is to enjoy it once production has stopped, so last week i decided to break my current routine.
theme: bueno by woothemes.
in other words, i have to garner up some self-discipline and make sure my seedy ideas are not out of control before i place my order.
i looked in the freezerbefore i went to the grocer.
and yes, real trees are trucked all over the country each year and these factors give them some undeniable marks in the ‘environmental unfriendliness’ column.
by keenness, i don’t mean a special talent, skill or understanding.
so i made a dent in my february edible garden and still have some ‘garden goodness’ to pull out.
drop me a line if you decide to attend, maybe we’ll run onto each when rushing for a new, ‘must-have’ garden delight!
they are 100% biodegradable, recyclable.
i found this helpful because oftentimes i find myself distracted with other things during what is most likely the prime harvest window of some crops because i’m thinking they can “keep” awhile longer since they are still in the ground/growing.
it is quite simple and i really prefer its flavor over other recipes that call for red wine, sausage/bacon fat or other ingredients that are supposed to add extra flavor.
in addition, american christmas tree farms provide over 500,000 acres of wild life habitat and green space.
to read more of colin mccrate’s work check out www.seattleurbanfarmco.com after many good seminars on friday, saturday was left to enjoy a leisurely cadence exploring the display gardens and finding some “garden must-haves”.
oh…good for the environment?
and then there are those that wait….and make you wait … for their most splendid display of abundance and beauty!
really…the airline only lets you bring two carry-ons!”
saute’ another 10 min.
you may be thinking, “o.k., some tomatoes from the garden”…but there are onions, carrots and lots of herbs in it as well.
and i’m thinking for me it means the roses of life and the year to come… since it is still january you know!
i love to take photos of the places we visit and use them as potential inspiration…the colors, textures, forms… so with a cup of hot tea, some books and some photos it’s a good time to do as the old adage says - ‘stop and smell the roses.’
the fall garden is sumptuous with all plant life showing off its final size and hues of the year.
yellowstone national park payette lake, idaho bryce canyon national park monteverde, costa rica wallowa mountain-whitman national forest, oregon wailua falls, maui zion national park corcovado national park hana, maui grand teton national park sequoia & kings canyon national park grand canyon national park yellowstone national park yellowstone national park big sur, ca torres del paine, national park torres del paine national park the matterhorn, switzerland u.s. virgin islands monteverde cloud forest reserve, costa rica bryce canyon national park rocky mountain national park yosemite national park yosemite national park lake tahoe, california bryce canyon national park owyhee mountains, idaho tags: thankfulness, thanksgiving, simple thanksgiving, natural world, national parks, natural world beauty november has brought a swift wrap-up to much of the garden.
they are continually replenished with two or three seedlings for every one tree that is harvested for the holiday.
do you already enjoy growing orchids?
i had gotten away from growing with seed but went back to it last year and although it is inexpensive, gives you more control over what you grow and is very rewarding, those little guys can be time-consuming when it comes time to pot up, harden off and plant out.
to read more of colin mccrate’s
what is more essential and represents human celebration and tradition more than that?
think how  relaxing it would be to sit in this garden on a rainy day when you can’t  be out working in the dirt anyway!
northwest flower and garden show is a gardener’s ultimate gig!
you can always count on johnny’s to find something you like and for me this year, it’s arugula, kale, lettuces, gold rave tomato, baby bear pumpkins and buttercream and chocolate sunflowers.
do you have any tips for growing tulips?
but as valentine’s day approaches it seems like orchid-mania has kicked in once again.
now this is not to say that if i offer something different they wouldn’t snatch it up in a heartbeat with their little sweet-tooths.
no, i have not gone wild adding a bit of blueberry to every dish no matter what it is.
i just mean a connection that makes me feel incredibly motivated, inspired, hopeful, incredulous and sometimes even fearful (certain creatures, you know… ).
as last week progressed, the weather stabilized and i progressed into a state of mind of tackling garden shut-down “to-dos” though temps were cool.
anything a gardener would imagine or want could be found here.
additionally, the ornamental garden has reached its peak color and is now fading to muted form and color and will soon give way to the all engulfing cold of winter.
i managed to stay quite focused and calm during the seminars and my favorite ones were joe lamp’l's “growing a greener world – gardening to make a difference,” and graham kerr’s (formerly known as the ‘galloping gourmet’)
euphorbia and reed grass 'overdam' veronica 'georgia blue' when planting tulips, (see tips for tulips for more info) i try to always dig at least a 6 inch deep hole (deeper if possible, although that can be hard when planting under a tree) and put a little bone meal and compost/peat moss in the bottom before placing the bulb in the hole.
i ordered tulipa ‘orange emperor’ and tulipa ‘fur elise’.
i ended my spree on a pleasant note  settling on an amazing wicker basket for harvest gathering.
if interested in attending check out the website where you will find descriptions of display gardens, a seminar schedule, travel packages and more.
what is your favorite season in the garden?
we walked the isles ‘oohing’ and ‘ahhing’ over some  fantastic items: love this table!
the fuji apple tree has doubled, maybe tripled its blossoms this year making a [...] raised beds…consider them for this garden season.
so, it can seem like a reasonably “green” purchase, but then its ultimate destination is the landfill where it lies for another million or trillion years putting out toxic fumes and taking up space.
for now, i’m off to see many gorgeous specimens at the northwest flower and garden show in seattle.
i spent valuable time in-doors last season carefully preparing and freezing various items.
tags: edibles with ornamentals, fall garden, fall garden colors, harvesting the garden, vegetable gardens enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
tags: growing from seed, seed companies, seeds, the heirloom life gardener first winter snow falls dry trees breathe deeply with smile a joyous trip to seattle is my tea
tags: garden show fun, growing food in your backyard, northwest flower and  garden show
for example, you can not only eat the beets but also the beet ‘greens’ a.k.a.
to the best of my knowledge fake christmas trees are not made out of recyclable plastic so there is no repurposing.
are you planning to grow more with heirloom and organic seeds this year?
the display gardens were exceedingly creative embracing this year’s theme, “a floral symphony,” in many different ways ranging from incorporating musical instruments such as pianos and harps to including subtle sounds found only in nature.
i have thought about this quite a lot
what do you do in the fall to enhance your spring-time delight?
to learn more about joe lamp’l's work go towww.growingagreenerworld.com and to consider becoming a part of graham kerr’s proposed food initiative got toeggscartonclub.com.
thankful to have witnessed such genuine beauty…
also, i have come across more and more simple recipes (today food, well-ny times blog, eighty twenty ) that include beets and this is probably because they are known to contain antioxidantsand anti-inflamtory and detoxification support.
a friendly marinara 1/2 c. extra virgin olive oil 2 small onions, finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped 2 celery stalks, finely chopped 2 carrots peeled and finely chopped 1 – 2 tablespoons fresh thyme 1/2 tsp sea salt, 1/2 tsp pepper 32oz fresh tomatoes chopped - i use san marzanos 2 dried bay leaves
as much as i hate to acknowledge there’s limited time to celebrate the last hurrahs of the growing season in my zone 6 garden i must start somewhere…and what could be better than starting with the kings of fall -apples!
a raised [...] rss - posts blog at wordpress.com.
the shopping craze reached its crescendo when i was in a discussion about a  very cool solar green house (retailing for a couple of thousand dollars) and  whether i should order one since two others were being delivered to the boise  area next month.
my thought was, “hopefully not with a lot of trimmings, trinkets and extra traditions that lead to commercialism with a capital c and blow away the easy beauty and richness of simple celebrations.
lots of cherry flavor combined with an earthy-nuttiness, just enough sweet and easy to make!
of course, it  was too big for the plane so my friend is keeping it for me until the next time  i get to portland.
another new-to-me supplier with very reasonable prices is the fragrant path from nebraska.
how do you feel at the beginning of the new year?
this one  made form a wood pallet i believe the fine seating areas in the display gardens are always a draw for me.
if living in a cold zone, how do you get your gardening fix or keep your gardening fascination?
i love how they used classic design principles and embraced natural sound in the garden via water droplets rhythmically falling on drums.
this was not helpful…plus, she had a car to put everything in…(a little garden envy here )
they have become more appealing – especially when many of my friends have their plastic wann-a-bee-trees up by december 1 and are on to other parts of the busy holiday season while say on dec. 10th, i’m still considering where we are going to get our real tree.
have you heard of it?
sure, farmed christmas trees consume some resources while growing…water for one.
yes, i am a gardener and therefore have the tendency to think fresh is always best.
plus they are very easy to dig in and plant!
doesn’t that sound fun?!
throughout this month i like to reflect on the events and experiences of the previous year while thinking forward about changes to cultivate and experiences to be had in the new year.
of course, there are just too many temptations from a company like johnny’s selected seeds to not place an order.
i’ve been meaning to write a post on orchids but have not gotten around to it just yet.
but that’s another topic for another time… how about you?
i brought many inside, ripened them in a south facing window and into the marinara sauce they went.
these were easy to make and quite a good little ‘starter’ in the mornings as they include rolled oats, yogurt, blueberries, etc… with just a modest amount of sugar.
the first is a fosteriana tulip and the latter a greigii tulip.
tags: garden reflections, natural beauty, natural world, new year holidays, well-being to those that celebrate christmas, do you still whole-heartedly stand by a “real” christmas tree, say a doug, grand, frazier or noble fir?
lots of opportunities to learn about new ideas combined with creative, positive people makes for a great gig!
(i know this is not the historic legend behind the christmas tree but it is what it means to me.)
i’ve never done much with them but i have become more interested since learning about all they have to offer.
[...] i’ve been out of the garden again to enjoy some of the other fine things in life… like traveling abroad with my spouse celebrating the opportunity to spend time alone together as well as the years we’ve been together (16).
and with so much garden speak and garden variety brimming about it was more than a little hard to be disciplined.
recently, i heard a well-known, wildly successful, public spokes-lady make a comment about, “trying to save thanksgiving.”
too philosophical, o.k. a simpler take – the genuine smell of a real christmas tree cannot be replaced with artificial air fresheners or potpourri.
i’m thankful – thanksgiving is simple.
whether it be to improve personal health, build a sense of community amongst neighbors, be more resource-efficient and earth-friendly or to help feed those that are hungry, it is amazing how growing food can have a positive impact!
stocked to the max with superlative seminars, overflowing with fantastic display gardens and awash with wondrous plants, garden art, containers, decor, bulbs, etc….made me think…”why did i fly here?
and what about the fun of taking a natural, imperfect anatomy and turning it into a head-turning beaut of a tree.
now look at the difference when comparing a real christmas tree.
if all is timed correctly i should have a cheery vignette of bright yellow, bright blue and carrot orange with a variety of green foliage come spring.
through the process of looking around in the freezer i found some packages of my homemade spaghetti sauce.
the people’s choice award was awarded to sublime garden design for their holistic garden “resonating sounds of nature ~ finding peace and solace in the garden.”
there’s a chance that someday soon fall may be my ‘favorite’ season!
i love  how they used classic design principles and embraced natural sound in the  garden via water droplets rhythmically falling on drums.
a little winter haiku for me today after awaking to the first snowfall in the boise area.
and, i simply can’t sign out today without expressing thanks to my loving family and friends.
i like to think of them as pulling me through the last few cold weeks of winter with their amazing blooms promising that spring will arrive soon.
work check out www.seattleurbanfarmco.com exquisite displays: after many good seminars on friday, saturday was left to enjoy a leisurely  cadence exploring the display gardens and finding some “garden  must-haves”.
this one made form a wood pallet i believe
maybe you are wondering about the last line of my haiku.. .it is in reference to my upcoming getaway to thenorthwest flower and garden show in seattle during february.
or, are you in the camp that faux is where it’s at – fake it baby, just don’t break it!
keep perspective, keep thanksgiving simple.
another favorite was colin mccrate’s
the fine seating areas in the display gardens are always a draw for me.
but they are completely content having a snack of blueberries as their dessert.
so good to remember the old saying, your eyes can be bigger than…your available garden time!
share your orchid tales here… tags: indoor flowers, indoor gardening, orchid care, orchids, valentine's day orchids february is here and i’m getting excited as my seeds arrive, the 2012 growing season is about to begin.
everyone enjoy a simple day of giving thanks!
whether it  be to improve personal health, build a sense of community amongst neighbors, be  more resource-efficient and earth-friendly or to help feed those that are  hungry, it is amazing how growing food can have a positive impact!
my  friend that was with me shares a passion for beautiful plants and garden art  and was picking up things at a tempo faster than the song“walking on  sunshine“.
my rosa ‘glauca’ went from this to this…
the only downside is that this weekend full of spring makes it hard to come back to zone 6 and eight more weeks of winter weather!
yes, in many ways it is a holiday that is being eclipsed by christmas and other fall/winter celebrations but maybe it’s all a matter of perspective.
do you spend time preserving your harvest and then find yourself forgetting to eat it during the winter months?
but even if i wasn’t, i can’t see putting up a faux tree.
remember the 50 lbs of blueberries i picked in the pacific northwestlast summer?
prior to harvest farmed christmas trees are a carbon sink, harnessing bad greenhouse gasses while producing oxygen at the same time.
another favorite was colin mccrate’s “the peak of perfection” which put forth a key concept that can help any edible garden grower.
the shopping craze reached its crescendo when i was in a discussion about a very cool solar green house (retailing for a couple of thousand dollars) and whether i should order one since two others were being delivered to the boise area next month.
again, while searching the freezer i found several containers of wonderful sour-cherries that i picked from my mom and grandma’s trees.
thankfully mother nature has taken care of this before i had to go out and find a hose and sprinkler, get a faucet turned on, water and then drain the hose before the temps fell back to freezing.
note the hole in the upper left side...
and i’m resting…sort of… (although i am still bumping-up the workouts to bump-off the extra bumps resulting from the holidays )
the people’s choice award was awarded to sublime garden design for  their holistic garden “resonating sounds of nature ~ finding peace and  solace in the garden.”
the cold temperatures made sure all lingering warm-season edibles have bit the dust and the few cool-season edibles are no longer showing much growth.
does january bring any changes to your behavior or lifestyle?
furthermore even the ‘cut and come  again’ varieties will burn themselves out after two cycles and begin to  just throw up flower stalks instead of continuing to produce leaves.
tags: boise area, dry winter, first snowfall, northwest flower and garden show, winter haiku, winter watering this is the time of year i am most reflective.
furthermore even the ‘cut and come again’ varieties will burn themselves out after two cycles and begin to just throw up flower stalks instead of continuing to produce leaves.
the message, “every plant’s single goal is to flower
who are some of your favorite seed suppliers?
i amend the unearthed soil with compost and then gently cover the bulbs to the surface level.
they are so inviting and offer different ways to relax in your garden.
this was not helpful…plus,  she  had a car to put everything in…(a little garden envy here )
add tomatoes and bay leaves and simmer uncovered over low heat for about an hour.
they recently put out a book titled, ‘ the heirloom life gardener’ that i first heard about on npr’s morning edition this fall.
the realization that edible crops have a harvest window based on the rate of their growth and that these plants find a way to get to the flowering stage no matter what, helps understand when it is time to harvest.
here are a few pics of ones that struck a chord with me.
when people ask over the new year holidays about my resolutions i answer by saying, “i don’t know yet, i’ll figure them out in january.”
so really, lots of fresh produce straight from the garden, with a stop in the freezer, to the table.
tags: blueberries, cherries, february edible garden, harvesting the garden, winter edibles it’s time.
tags: garden show fun, growing food in your backyard, northwest flower and garden show i was lucky enough to be the receiver of some orchid amore today!
how did this happen?
we walked the isles ‘oohing’ and ‘ahhing’ over some fantastic items: love this table!
i don’t actually know…maybe it’s one of the positives that can happen from taking your children u-picking and forging a real connection about where their food comes from along with its beauty and taste… back to my february edibles…with only a moderate amount of blueberries left i decided to try one new recipe that would be healthy in nature and offer my family something beyond “blueberries straight-up!”
to express my gratitude of the natural world, i’m sharing some shots of the places and moments i’ve been lucky enough to experience over the years.
our trip to france was fabulous and i was inspired by many of the simple [...] another cool, blustery spring day makes one wonder when the “normal” temps are going to start for this year!
love the "raised" seating with fragrant blooms underneath... ground-level, "comfy" seating many gardens featured panels for privacy, structure and ambience garden must-haves after picking up some lily bulbs and black-foliage dahlia tubers, (items  easily packed in my suitcase)
it’s then shipped thousands of miles (mostly likely by boat) across an ocean, then trucked to a retail outlet, purchased and then used (hopefully) at least 10-15 years (maybe more).
for me, the essence of the whole tradition is bringing an awesome organism from the natural world to your indoor environment to connect to the world at large and ancient times.
i will admit to having had thoughts of getting a make-believe tree in recent years.
in other words, not a lot of irrigation required.
in keeping with simple gratitude i’m thankful to be a daily gardener possessing a special keenness towards the natural world.
the nwfg show was a true hit!
“the peak of  perfection” which put forth a key concept that can help any edible garden  grower.
falling for the fall garden is easy to do!
and if they were  already bringing some to my area… thankfully, there was a ‘ritardando’ written into my shopping symphony and it arrived just in time to keep me from  going through with that purchase!
for example, a short season, fast-growing crop such as lettuce has a short  window of prime harvesting.
so much so, that just last week one of the local nurseries,franz witte, put out a notice letting customers know they should start winter watering all evergreens and deciduous plants that were recently planted (1-2 years).
i can’t let myself forget about them even though i’m currently focused on going to grocers that offer high-quality fruits and vegetables so that we can continue eating fresh during the winter.
to  learn more about joe lamp’l's work go towww.growingagreenerworld.com  and to consider becoming a part of graham kerr’s proposed food  initiative got toeggscartonclub.com.
add onions and garlic and saute’ until the onions are translucent, about 10 min.
thinking forward to the new year in a reflective state of mind might sound contradictory but somehow it’s oddly satisfying.
however, most christmas tree farms are located in areas like the pacific northwest, pennsylvania, north carolina and michigan where there is ample natural moisture.
besides, i’ve been able to germinate seeds from johnny’s that were many years old and had not been stored properly so i think they have quality seeds.
tags: fall gardens, planting tulips, shutting down the garden, spring flowers fall is glorious!
this is where i see a faux tree as more fraudulent than ever… who actually believes a faux tree is better for the environment than a real tree?
i planted the tulip ‘orange emperor’ amidst euphorbia polychroma, calamagrostis x acutiflora ‘overdam’ and veronica peduncularis ‘georgia blue’.
fresh ‘green goods’ from my garden no longer seem like a pipe dream as i look out onto the bland back yard.
courtesy of one of my local garden centers - zamzows and the topper, making them hands down the most environmentally friendly choice, their final resting place is right where they started – the earth.
getting the first tulips in the ground makes a gardener feel good.
with a new growing season on the horizon have i forgotten about some fresh, admittedly frozen, ‘goodness’ from last year’s garden?
i’ve been browsing the offerings from my favorite suppliers as well as some ‘new-to-me’ suppliers to determine my projects for this year.
a favorite as soon as i saw it!
and my third choice for the week was a sour-cherry pistachio crisp.
we americans need some simplicity in our lives to keep us grounded, right?
stocked to the max with  superlative seminars, overflowing with fantastic display gardens and awash with  wondrous plants, garden art, containers, decor, bulbs, etc….made me  think…”why did i fly here?
for example, a short season, fast-growing crop such as lettuce has a short window of prime harvesting.
and if they were already bringing some to my area… thankfully, there was a ‘ritardando’ written into my shopping symphony and it arrived just in time to keep me from going through with that purchase!
the display gardens were exceedingly creative  embracing this year’s theme, “a floral symphony,” in many  different ways ranging from incorporating musical instruments such as pianos  and harps to including subtle sounds found only in nature.
many perennials are getting off to a slow start but the cool weather hasn’t hindered my apple espalier (pronounced es-pal-yay) one bit.
once cooled i purée via the food processor.
i believe this is what motivates gardeners far and wide to plant once again at the close of a growing season.
are you growing a new vegetable or fruit this year?
you may be surprised to hear that only 4 bags are left!
as i quietly think of all the activities i get to engage in during the coming months there is a realization that now is the time to take deep breaths and focus on my well-being as a whole.
do you have a special flower you are trying from seed?
the weather is at its finest in most places across our country and the garden changes into a new palette of colorful beauty.
my friend that was with me shares a passion for beautiful plants and garden art and was picking up things at a tempo faster than the song“walking on sunshine“.
did you notice some key words…american farms…real christmas trees are actually “made” i.e., “manufactured” here in america.
i’m orderingdatura metel or angel’s trumpet as an ornamental for my back patio.
but seriously, the shorter days with less light put me in a restful mood.
the  realization that edible crops have a harvest window based on the rate of their  growth and that these plants find a way to get to the flowering stage no matter  what, helps understand when it is time to harvest.
i found myself in the steady rhythm of a  full-blown shopping spree.
think how relaxing it would be to sit in this garden on a rainy day when you can’t be out working in the dirt anyway!
the intellectual component is just as authentic.
to start, blueberries.
if so, hopefully this will be a reminder to go to your freezer or pantry to find your february edible garden!
you get the idea, right?
you know, the ‘charlie brown’ factor of a having a real christmas tree.
considered fairly, an artificial tree is made one time so one batch of chemicals and one batch of by-product.
i have never tried this grower before but have read good things about them.
and yes, the trees and other plants in the garden are happy today because it has been such a dry winter.
here’s therecipe if you want to try it.
yes, real christmas trees may be sprayed with pesticides but don’t forget artificial trees put out toxic fumes from the plastic production.
making time to give thought and thanks to the elements (human and otherwise) in one’s life that contribute to well-being and happiness.