it found that an artificial tree used for eight years is environmentally friendlier than buying a live cut tree year after year.
it raises a good question: which is better for the environment, a real tree or fake one?
tea district - buy team gear new england patriots critical victory v t-shirt - ash - events pat benatar - home - news - sports - health - boston’s best - events - watch + listen - traffic - weather - directory - deals - autos - local - politics - business - health - consumer news - tech - entertainment - blogs - national - world local real or fake christmas trees:
facebook twitter follow us - daily deals 50% off
wbz-tv’s joe joyce reports jeff weigl of the nature conservancy says although 30 million trees are  harvested every year at christmas, it’s not as bad as it sounds.
buying real trees keeps tree farms in business, and their lands covered in forests instead of development.
wbz-tv’s joe joyce reports jeff weigl of the nature conservancy says although 30 million trees are harvested every year at christmas, it’s not as bad as it sounds.
but environmentalists say there are other benefits to real trees, like generating new growth in forests.
summer beers made in... 98.5
now maybe you just like the convenience of an artificial tree with less  mess and no driving a real tree home.
hollywood tattoos - news - local - politics - business - health - tech - entertainment - traffic - weather - sports - bruins - celtics - patriots - red sox - 98.5
real or fake christmas trees:
now maybe you just like the convenience of an artificial tree with less mess and no driving a real tree home.
some  like the convenience of a fake tree, while others prefer the smell of the real  ones.
a festive christmas tree is a big part of the holiday tradition.
this year,  kaylee johnson is going back to a real tree.
notify me of new posts via email.
and many communities now recycle and compost  your tree at the end of the season.
share this 2 comments 2 comments pingback: real or fake christmas trees: what's better for the environment … | christmas tree south shore transplant i just watched this report and had a good laugh.
true story :-) december 11, 2011 at 7:30 am | reply | report comment leave a comment below cancel reply name email notify me of follow-up comments via email.
i hated cleaning the needles.
the sports hub's fifth...
the sports hub - boston’s best - events - arts & culture - family & pets - food & drink - nightlife & music - shopping & style - travel & outdoors - watch + listen - wbz newsradio 1030 - 98.5
the sports hub - wbz-tv - mytv38 - other - deal of the day - contests & promotions - wbz-tv & mytv38 on-air schedule - call for action - wbz newsradio contest rules - 98.5
zdeno chara's 1,000-plus game... police manhunt for neponset...
as for artificial trees, 90 percent of them are imported from china so  overseas shipping adds to the carbon foot print — and they can’t be  recycled.
it found that an artificial tree used for eight years is environmentally  friendlier than buying a live cut tree year after year.
the sports hub - corporate - about us - advertise - contact us - connect - mobile - business development boston business listings restaurants bars & clubs shopping professional services search listings powered by wordpress.com vip - privacy policy - terms of use - eeo reports facebook twitter rss other cbs local cities ‣ - cbs atlanta - cbs baltimore - cbs boston - cbs charlotte - cbs chicago - cbs cleveland - cbs connecticut - cbs dallas - cbs denver - cbs detroit - cbs houston - cbs las vegas - cbs los angeles - cbs miami - cbs minnesota - cbs new york - cbs philadelphia - cbs pittsburgh - cbs riverside - cbs sacramento - cbs san francisco - cbs seattle - cbs st. louis - cbs tampa - cbs washington ©2012 cbs local media, a division of cbs radio inc.
experts say you have to keep a fake tree  for a pretty long time to lessen its impact on the environment.
in photos: malden shootout... photos: coyote captured in...
but environmentalists say there are other benefits to real trees, like  generating new growth in forests.
some like the convenience of a fake tree, while others prefer the smell of the real ones.
in boston - page 0 - page 1 - page 2 - page 3 local summer beers boston adventure app great contests every day!
it raises a good question: which is better for the environment, a real tree  or fake one?
what’s better for the environment? december 9, 2011 5:44 pm share this (photo by andreas rentz/getty images) reporting joe joyce local, news, seen on wbz-tv, syndicated local, watch +  listen related tags carbon footprint, christmas trees, environment, joe joyce ,trees boston (cbs) – many families will spend the weekend decorating the  tree.
this year, kaylee johnson is going back to a real tree.
just last week, the american christmas tree association, which represents  retailers of both artificial and real trees posted another study.
but she cares about the environment and worries that buying a real tree isn’t the right thing to do, but guess what; she’s wrong.
cbs boston weather wbz afternoon forecast for april 6 more videos follow cbs boston follow @cbsboston latest galleries previous next red sox 2012 opening day 2012 new york auto show wbz-tv's walt sanders... tax havens for when you win...
buy tickets order food more channels buy tickets order food your home - daily deals 50% off tea district - buy team gear new england patriots critical victory v t-shirt - ash - events pat benatar follow us facebook twitter select a live stream news, sports and talk radio - click to listen to wbz newsradio 1030 - click to listen to 98.5 the sports hub music radio - click to listen to wbmx-fm - click to listen to wods-fm - click to listen to wzlx-fm - click to listen to last.fm - click to listen to radio.com - click to listen to mp3.com
for most people, this debate has nothing to do with the environment.
just last week, the american christmas tree association, which represents retailers of both artificial and real trees posted another study.
buying real trees keeps tree farms in business, and their lands covered in  forests instead of development.
but she cares about the environment and worries that buying a real tree  isn’t the right thing to do, but guess what; she’s wrong.
what’s better for the environment? december 9, 2011 5:44 pm share this 2 comments (photo by andreas rentz/getty images) reporting joe joyce filed under local, news, seen on wbz-tv, syndicated local, watch + listen related tags carbon footprint, christmas trees, environment, joe joyce ,trees boston (cbs) – many families will spend the weekend decorating the tree.
51° buy tickets order food more channels buy tickets order food your home
i raised my children on a christmas tree farm in western ma but we had a fake tree in the house.
on the red carpet best flowers for your new... patriots free agent signings the many looks of kaley... st. patrick's day
and many communities now recycle and compost your tree at the end of the season.
in photos: beach plunge...
one scientific study concluded it might take up to 20 years.
experts say you have to keep a fake tree for a pretty long time to lessen its impact on the environment.
a personal choice that can impact the world around us.
the sports hub contest rules - advertise with us - cbs boston job and internships - school closings - contact us - wbz-tv - mytv38 - wbz newsradio 1030 - 98.5
as for artificial trees, 90 percent of them are imported from china so overseas shipping adds to the carbon foot print — and they can’t be recycled.