in the green corner, weighing in at four-hundred and seventy-eight different uniform combinations and led by that most lambent lammergeier, lamichael, we have the josephs of the amazing technicolor dreamcoats, the keen keystones of kelly, the euphonious euphoriants of eugene—the oregon.
duuuuuuccckkkkkssss!
mr. andrew “i don’t need” luck himself—i give you your indestructable, indefatigable, indomitable.
yet they all lacked that certain something that defined the match up this weekend, mighty oregon versus fearsome stanford.
party with leland corso
for the first time in stanford’s history,espn’s preeminent college football program, college gameday, is coming to campus .
there are pac-12 championship  and—dare i say—national title implications.
for the first time in stanford’s history,espn’s  preeminent college football program, college gameday, is coming to campus .
stanford’s prowess in logical reason  and philosophical debate definitely lent itself towards the idea ofduck season .
if stanford finds itself standing over oregon at the end of the bout, we’re suddenly king of the world.
that’s what makes a good fight into a great fight—and what makes a stanford-oregon football game intothe stanford-oregon football game.
smokin’ joe was a phenomenal boxer and athlete, graced with the coveted undisputed-heavyweight-champion-of-the-world title for several years until he lost it in a terrific battle with a man named after a fat-draining hamburger grill.
the fight of the century lived up to its hype.
frazier walked into that fight with a record of 26 wins (23 by knock out) to 0 losses; ali had 31 wins (25 kos) and 0 losses.
such a historic game mandates historic stanford football fervor.
narrate all the fight scenes as if i were a sports announcer [...]# 22 november 2011 at 7:56 pm [...] narrate all the fight scenes as if i were a sports announcer [...]# 23 november 2011 at 9:16 pm add your comment below, or trackback from your own site.
in the red corner, weighing in at sixteen current nobel laureates, one-hundred and thirty-seven members of the national academy of sciences, and no less than seven different coupa cafés or coupa café branded vending machines, we have the valiant valedictorians of the valley, the sigil of silicon simchas, the cachinnating cavaliers of california—led by the probable laudable audible, that accretion of pass completion, the baronet of dual-threat,
and suddenly, frazier was king of the world.
the nation is watching.
the trick, however, is to make it all fifteen rounds.
so we don’t really need a promoter, but what would any boxing match be without one?
if stanford finds itself standing over oregon at the end of the bout,  we’re suddenly king of the world.
in the green corner, weighing in at four-hundred and  seventy-eight different uniform combinations and led by that most lambent  lammergeier, lamichael, we have the josephs of the amazing technicolor  dreamcoats, the keen keystones of kelly, the euphonious euphoriants of  eugene—the oregon.
luckily, most of this fight’s promoting has already been done for  us.
website (optional) you can use these tags:              this is a gravatar-enabled weblog.
ladies and gentlefolk: welcome to the game of the century.
but the death of this icon reminded me of his most iconic fight:  the fight of the century between frazier and another boxer named muhammad ali  (maybe you’ve heard of him).
that’s what makes a good fight into a great  fight—and what makes a stanford-oregon football game intothe stanford-oregon football game.
the greatest was now second best.
luckily, most of this fight’s promoting has already been done for us.
you can also subscribe to these comments via rss.
there, at last, was the metaphor.
allow me to put on my don king hat/wig for a  minute.
the pomp rapidly expanding around the game reminded me ofduck
when the dust (and  blood and sweat and spit and whatever else gets sprayed into the ring) settled  after fifteen grueling rounds, muhammad ali had lost for the first time in his  professional career.
finally, a look at some rhetoric from around the internet: [...]
it’s pretty similar to my crazy homeless person hat/wig.
we’re in for the pac-12 game of the century.
and then something  wonderful happened: joe frazier passed away.
so we don’t really need a promoter, but what would any  boxing match be without one?
there are pac-12 championship and—dare i say—national title implications.
but the death of this icon reminded me of his most iconic fight: the fight of the century between frazier and another boxer named muhammad ali (maybe you’ve heard of him).
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
caaaaarrrddddinaaaaaaalllll!
finally, a look at some rhetoric from around the internet: oregon not awed by andrew luck—and kelly tries to  use aporia stanford qb andrew luck’s biggest game —hyperbole no longer week 11’s college football schedule filled with vital games —stanford and oregon as each other’s antithesis catching up with the tight end trio—get it?
we’re in for the pac-12 game of the  century.
please direct your attention to the ring, where i present to you today’s fighters, those colossal collegiate combatants, the pugnacious polytechnic pugilists, our studly studying scrappers!
joe was a phenomenal boxer and athlete, graced with the coveted  undisputed-heavyweight-champion-of-the-world title for several years until he  lost it in a terrific battle with a man named after a fat-draining hamburger  grill.
the pomp rapidly expanding around the game reminded me ofduck soup .
stanford walks into our fight on saturday with 17 straight wins  (3 shutouts) and 0 losses in over a year; oregon has 18 straight conference  wins (2 shutouts) and 0 conference losses in two years.
ladies and gentlepeople, i present to you this night
hell, i even thought the idea of two top-ten teams warranted a clash of the titansreference (andrew luck would be, of course, the kraken).
stanford’s prowess in logical reason and philosophical debate definitely lent itself towards the idea ofduck season .
this is, objectively and obviously, a terrible thing.
and ladies and gentlecitizenry, i present to you their opponents, the currently undisputed champions of the pacific twelve.
in the red corner,  weighing in at sixteen current nobel laureates, one-hundred and thirty-seven  members of the national academy of sciences, and no less than seven different  coupa cafés or coupa café branded vending machines, we have the  valiant valedictorians of the valley, the sigil of silicon simchas, the  cachinnating cavaliers of california—led by the probable laudable  audible, that accretion of pass completion, the baronet of dual-threat, mr.
“i don’t need” luck himself—i give you your  indestructable, indefatigable, indomitable.
frazier walked into that fight with  a record of 26 wins (23 by knock out) to 0 losses; ali had 31 wins (25 kos) and  0 losses.
tags: gridiron rhetoric, seth winger (no ratings yet)
and then something wonderful happened: joe frazier passed away.
when the dust (and blood and sweat and spit and whatever else gets sprayed into the ring) settled after fifteen grueling rounds, muhammad ali had lost for the first time in his professional career.
notify me of follow-up comments by email.
the trick, however, is to make it  all fifteen rounds.
to get your own globally-recognized-avatar, please register atgravatar.
and ladies and gentlecitizenry, i present to you their opponents, the  currently undisputed champions of the pacific twelve.
stanford walks into our fight on saturday with 17 straight wins (3 shutouts) and 0 losses in over a year; oregon has 18 straight conference wins (2 shutouts) and 0 conference losses in two years.
our mouth guards are better, though.
10 november 2011 537 views 2 comments by seth winger when i was looking for the metaphor to describe this week’s game, i  went through a lot of options.
notify me of new posts by email.
and  suddenly, frazier was king of the world.
yet they all lacked that certain something that defined the match up this  weekend, mighty oregon versus fearsome stanford.
buckle your seatbelts.
allow me to put on my don king hat/wig for a minute.
in short?  get excited.
by seth winger when i was looking for the metaphor to describe this week’s game, i went through a lot of options.
please direct your attention  to the ring, where i present to you today’s fighters, those colossal  collegiate combatants, the pugnacious polytechnic pugilists, our studly  studying scrappers!